
Telephone No.:
4438, Museum, London.
Telegraphic Address:
“Natunishop, Holb., London.”

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.

Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members, the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NATIONAL UNION OF
Boot and Shoe Operatives.

MONTHLY REPORT.

Nearest Post Office:
34, GUILFORD STREET,
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
LONDON, W.C. 1,
Nearest Telegraph Office:
26TH JANUARY, 1920.
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
THE STATE OF TRADE
continues good in all parts of the Kingdom, the figures recorded in the Gazette being as follows :-
At Leicester and the surrounding district employment showed little change compared with the previous month; some short time was reported owing to shortage of machinists and scarcity of material. At Northampton there was a slight decline compared with a month ago. At Norwich some overtime was reported among the women workers, but some short time was worked by the male operatives owing to the shortage of women in the closing department. At Leeds employment continued fairly good; at Stafford it was good. In Scotland generally there was little change as compared with November, and employment on the whole was good.

DISPUTES.

Disputes are still practically non-existent, and at Evam a number of the female operatives have been secured employment in the factory started by the operatives. The other members are remaining loyal.

ADVANCES.

During the month Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., J.P., has given his Award for the County of Leicestershire so far as clickers are concerned, the following being a copy thereof:
December 22nd, 1919.
Having been appointed Umpire to determine the extent and method of adjustment of the Statement of Prices for Clickers in the County of Leicestershire, and having heard the evidence submitted by both sides, and after careful consideration of the respective claims, and with due regard to Clauses one, twelve and twenty-one of the Terms of Settlement, dated February 13th, 1919, I hereby determine that the increase upon the said Clickers' Statement shall be 85 per cent.

Belle Vue,
(Signed), WALTER R. SMITH,
Old Catton, Norwich.
Umpire.
22nd December, 1919.


---
Here is the text from the image:

4
MR. FRANK SHEPPARD'S AWARD.
Wigston and District Board of Arbitration for the Boot Trade.
Differences having arisen between the Manufacturers and their employees repre
sented on the Boot Trade Arbitration Board of Wigston and District in the County of
Leicestershire, and they having failed to agree, I was appointed by the Ministry of
Labour under the Industrial Courts Acts 1919, to act as Umpire to decide between
the parties concerned.
The terms of reference in the case were:
"Claim by the Workmen for the adoption of the Leicester Statements
and prices to apply on all firms in Wigston and Wigston Magna."
The hearing was fixed for January 6th, 1920, at 2.30 p.m., place of meeting,
Town Hall, City of Leicester. I therefore attended the meeting on that date, have
heard the evidence submitted to me from each side respectively, and hereby decide that
the Leicester Statements of Prices shall apply to all firms in Wigston and Wigston
Magna.
Dated, January roth, 1920.
(Signed), FRANK SHEPPARD,
ADDENDUM TO AWARD.
35, PARK STREET, BRISTOL.
The main objection urged by the Manufacturers was that prices were arranged
and agreed to in Leicester and, they "the Wigston Manufacturers never had a voice
in fixing these prices," but as soon as these prices were fixed they were imposed upon
them. I would therefore suggest that in future representations should be permitted
from Wigston and District to sit on the Leicester Board: so that the District covered
by same wages and conditions should have an equal opportunity of their point of
view being stated and discussed when any alteration is being made.
(Signed) F. SHEPPARD.
The London Board of Arbitration have completed their Clicking
Statement, the same now being in operation.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
During the month an extension of the Workmen's Compensation Acts
(War Addition) has come into operation, by which the compensation is increased
up to a maximum of 35s. per week, as and from the 1st January, 1920, and
according to the Act passed in August, 1917, it will remain in force for six
months after the "termination of the war." This point as to when the war
officially ends will undoubtedly have to be decided later. A copy of the new
Act appears on page 132.
In connection with Workmen's Compensation cases, we would once more
remind Secretaries that if it is necessary for any case to be dealt with by a
Solicitor, and payment desired from the Central Office, the consent of the
Central Office must be secured before remitting any cases to a Solicitor.
This is necessary from a financial standpoint, and also to let the General
Secretary have the full facts before legal obligations are entered into
BOOT REPAIRING BOARD.
The full Committee of the above Board has not met during the month.
A Sub-Committee has been dealing with various points which have to be finally
settled at a full meeting. Our representatives on such Board are:-Messrs.
T. F. Richards (General President), A. J. Dobbs and C. Bleakley (Council
Members), J. Buckle (Organiser), J. Osborne (Bristol No. 1 Secretary), and
W. J. Smith (Great Yarmouth Secretary).


---
Here is the text from the image:

5
NOMINATIONS FOR THE EDINBURGH CONFERENCE
must be taken at the February meeting nights. The Basis of Representation,
copy of which was sent to the branches more than a fortnight ago, will be
found on page 111. The suggested alterations and amendments to rules will
also be found on pps. 112-121. Owing to the position in which we find
ourselves, so far as contributions are concerned, due to the fact that the
Government is bringing in a new insurance Bill, we have not at present made
any proposals regarding any alterations either in contributions or benefits.
We propose dealing with the question as soon as possible when we know the
exact position regarding this Bill, which we feel sure the members will
recognise must make a great deal of difference to the above, especially
regarding unemployment benefit. It will also be noted that we suggest in
view of the large growth of membership of the Union, that the Council members
be increased to TWELVE. This however, really means only an extension of
two members because under new conditions which we suggest, the position of
Treasurer will be abolished, and unless therefore, an alteration was made it
would reduce the number of Council members to nine as stated in the existing
rules, with the Treasurer making ten in all. The grouping for the new
districts will appear in the February Report.
WOMEN DELEGATES.
Whilst it is not within the power of ourselves to allocate seats for women
delegates for the conference, we hope the branches will take into full con-
sideration the women membership of the Union and their claims for represen-
tation, it being important that the women members should be fully represented
so that their personal views on matters directly affecting women can be heard
at first hand from the women delegates so appointed.
ALDERMAN ALFRED HILL.
We feel sure our members will congratulate our colleague Mr. Hill, who
was appointed by a unanimous vote to the position of Alderman for the city
of Leicester. This appointment became vacant owing to the lamented death
of our late colleague, Alderman Thos. Smith, O.B.E., J.P. It seems to us very
appropriate that another boot operative should be chosen to fill the vacancy
which for so many years was so ably filled by our late comrade, and we wish
Alderman Hill good health and trust he may long be sparèd to enjoy his new
honour.
1
RETURNS!!!
Some Branches persistently send in their returns after the 15th, and this
month 19 Branches were late. We have several times appealed to Secretaries
to send along their returns in time, and unless it is done in future we shall
have no option but to fine the delinquents in accordance with rule.
Moreover, lateness in sending in the Monthly Returns
makes it increasingly difficult to get out the Report in
time for the Monthly Meetings.
1

---
Here is the text from the image:

8
GAINS ON THE HALF-YEAR.
Total Funds in hand of Central Office, now
last half-year
Net Gain on Half-year
Total Funds in hands of Branches, now
"
11
دو
دو
دو
دو
دو
دو
دو
دو
"
رو
"
last Half-year
Net Gain on Half-year
Funds in hands of Central Office and Branches, now
last Half-year
Total Gain on the Half-year
GAINS ON THE DIFFERENT FUNDS.
Gain on the Sick Fund
Trade Fund
Fidelity Fund
Political Fund
Branch Funds
Net Gain on the Half-year
£
s. (l.
268714 13 9
237301
2 9
84378 11 9
82149 11 10
353093 5
last Half-year 319450 1.4
6
7
13440 15 3
17613
8
0
2
50
359 8. 1
2228 19 11
£
s. d.
31413 11 Ο
2228 19 11
133,642 10 11
33642 10 11
£33642 10 II
MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNION.
Financial Members-
Males
Female
Probationary
58874
26075
84949
12748
GRAND TOTAL
97697
DEC.
JUNE.
1919.
1919.
1918.
1917.
1916.
1915.
Financial
Probationary
84949
77483
::
68548
60452
54200
45347
12748
12598
9043
8229
5679
8209-
Totals
97697 77591
68681
59879
53943
49155
AUSTRIAN TRADE UNIONISTS.
On page 133 will be found an appeal issued jointly by the Parlia-
mentary Committee of the Trade Union Congress and the Management Com-
mittee of the General Federation of Trade Unions, for funds to assist the
Austrian trade unionists in the deplorable state in which they find themselves.
owing to circumstances brought about by the war.
along in answer to the appeal ONE HUNDRED POUNDS, and we ask for the
endorsement of the branches that this sum be increased to FIVE HUNDRED
We have already sent
POUNDS. Owing to the urgency of the case we ask that this vote be taken
by a show of hands, in accordance with the discretionary powers given in Rule
110. We appeal with confidence to the members to vote in favour of such sum
being granted, believing this will be one of the most practical ways of shewing
the sincerity of our desire to bring about such an understanding between the
various nations as will make it for ever impossible in the future for wars to
take place between nations, and thereby back up the manifestoes which in the
name of Labour have been sent out from time to time advocating the setting
up of such machinery whereby should any differences arise between the nations
such difficulties will be settled in future by the arbitrament of reason rather
0


---
Here is the text from the image:

9
than by force. In this connection we would remind the members of the
necessity of doing all possible not only to support the League of Nations by
passing resolutions, but to make it a very real and powerful organisation, and
thereby defeat any attempts and already attempts are being made- to pro-
vide for the next war.

"DAILY HERALD."
We propose asking for a vote of the Union at the March meeting when
voting for the delegates to conference takes place, for power to invest the sum
of ONE THOUSAND POUNDS in the Daily Herald as debenture shares. In view
of the generally agreed opinion that the times call for a paper to be run in the
interests of Labour, we feel sure we shall not appeal in vain to our members
to record their vote in favour, and allow us to invest the above-named sum
in the Herald.

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS.
During the past few months letters have passed between ourselves and the
Secretary, H. Simon, of the German Boot Workers, as to meetings being resumed
and thereby trying to better understand the position of boot operatives gener-
ally. The German Union has also invited us to send a delegate to their Con-
ference in April of this year. After fully discussing the matter we have decided
to send Mr. J. Buckle, J.P., Union Organiser, to such Conference. We have
also decided to invite both the German and American Unions to send fraternal
delegates to our Conference at Whitsuntide. Regarding the International
Unions, this matter is to be further enquired into by Mr. Buckle when he goes
to the Conference named above. There may be some differences of opinion
about the above, we feel however that the balance of opinion is decidedly in
favour of resumption of meetings between the workers of the nations, and
thereby strive to so build up a position that will bring about such understand-
ings as to ensure that goodwill, equity and harmony will be so strong as to pre-
vent in the future any military operations one against the other.

ANNUAL RETURN PRESCRIBED BY THE REGISTRAR FOR A
REGISTERED TRADE UNION.
Having to send in a full return of Income and Expenditure for the Union
(Council and Branch combined) to the Registrar, in compliance with the different
Acts of Parliament covering Trade Unions, we shall be pleased if you will help
the Central Office by completely filling in the Form sent along, and send it
back to the General Secretary ON OR BEFORE FEBRUARY 1ST, 1920, certain.

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note when ordering buttons or brooches cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

II
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Your representatives on the Trade Board are as follows: -T. F. Richards, General
President, J. Buckle, Organiser, A. J. Dobbs and C. Bleakley, Council Members, and
J. Osborne, Bristol, Secretary.
The important feature of the month's work is the organised virulent opposition of
the boot repairing employers, whose premier officials have been stumping the country
to get up opposition to the Trade Board Statement of Prices with 334 per cent. added,
or in other words a ród. sole and heel, which comes out in actual cash to 1s. old. They
are afraid the men are going to earn a living, which has never, speaking generally, been
the case in the past. They have been successful in preventing a week's holiday with pay
being granted, and have also been successful in preventing a statement price for machinery
finishing being drawn up, and the Government official voted with them in their statements
in which they try to lead the public to believe they pay. They always quote hand finishing
prices which they never pay if they can help it, and then only in about 5 per cent. of their
output. As usual the Trade papers are opposed to the operatives, and try by influence
and innuendo to misrepresent the men's representatives, who do not look for or seek Press
patronage, but even they failed to prevent the 65s. minimum, and they would if they could
prevent the Sos. agreed to by the Committee for stitchers and the 75s. per week for Blake
sewers. These matters are very important because they have a bearing on the claims
we make upon our employers in the wholesale trade, who have not yet, in spite of the
suggestions of a minority of them, made proper provision for men who are at the beck
and call of certain firms. It is a strange corollary of human life that raw material, machi-
nery, finance has to be provided in abundance. The raw material may depreciate, the
machinery must be paid for whether it is running or not, even new machines may be
standing idle in case of breakdown, and money is never lent without a substantial charge
being made for interest alone, and yet the only commodity which is always available
without extra charge is human labour. The time is coming when Labour will have an
income first and foremost, regular and without stint; as an instance some firms pay more
holidays than the Holiday Scheme provides. We must see to it that our Unemployment
Scheme shall be for the whole trade, and not a portion of it, and we can do better for our
members than the Government can ever do with their present puny scheme. No Un-
employment scheme can be satisfactory unless such amounts are paid that will keep the
recipient from running into debt.
LEICESTER COUNTY BOARD.-The Umpire's Award has been received, and although
we asked for enough, Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., Norwich, has given his award for Clicking,
and the difference has been lessened by 15 per cent than prevailed before, and the difference
now is from 6 per cent. to 16 per cent., or a dead II per cent. average.
We have had several meetings for Closing, Finishing and Lasting, but up to the present
the Sub-Committee's reports are not complete, but we have already agreed that the state-
ments, if not ready before, must become operative the last week in January.
WIGSTON is not included in the County Board. We refused to allow this as they are
only 3 miles from Leicester. The Board appealed to the Umpire, Alderman F. Sheppard,
and he gave Leicester statements as the controlling force for Wigston factories.
STAFFORD. As members of the Sub-Committee, with a Home Office official, we
visited Stafford on the 19th for the purpose of further studying ventilation and dust con-
ditions in boot and shoe factories. We find little to complain of with the modern, up-to-
date factories, but with the old firms much requires to be done. Our members would
be better if they would only insist on their share of ventilation, and although no one can
be expected to work in a draught, every man and every woman ought to agitate, agitate,
agitate, until the employers granted a scheme of ventilation without draughts. Further,
our women ought to have a back to the stools in the machine rooms, and a better or natural
shaped stool for those who sit all the time they are working. Comfort ought to be part
of the study of the firm, or ourselves, or both.
STONE. I had to visit Stone on this occasion owing to men being demobilised and the
firm getting disorganised. The loss in wages was more than the men were satisfied with,
and after an interview lasting six hours, we think we have made a settlement that will
be permanent. The firm had not fully realised that the 70s. was an adamant amount
not to be lessened only by permit, and we are convinced that the spirit and practice of
this company is very good indeed.
MELTON. I had a very good meeting of this Branch on the question of the work
of the County Board, and after fully explaining the work done the members expressed
themselves pleased with the prospects of an improved future. This brings me again to
the position of our Union, with its few Union Officers to do the desirable work needed.
Some of the branches, through illness and other causes, have, as yet, eleven months after
the National Agreement, no piecework statement, and a postponement of the 70s. we had
obtained.


---
Here is the text from the image:

123
DERBY.—It is with the deepest regret that we have to report the death
of our esteemed President, Mr. H. Murby, after a very painful and distressing
illness (consumption of lungs). It has seemed to rebound very heavy after
the loss of Mr. J. Baker, the secretary, who passed away just 12 months ago.
Mr. Murby just survived to see some efforts in Derby of his exertions, he having
worked in a quiet and reserved manner to make the Branch a success, and his
loss will be severely felt by those with whom he worked. We are pleased to
report that the membership of the Branch is still increasing, and at the present
there is only one firm in Derby who cannot claim any members of our Branch.
Another effort is being attempted to organise Melbourne where the wages are
disgraceful, and the workers seem afraid to help themselves. However, by
the help of the South Derbyshire Labour Party, we intend to once more try
our hand to get the employers to realise their workers are Englishmen. Some
of them have fought for these masters and bear wounds on their behalf, and yet
they (the masters) do not wish to recognise these comrades, but just go on
paying them the old starvation wage. In fact there are cases where they have
generously increased their wages by one shilling per week. Another firm
adopted the 48 hours scheme, but finding the hands could not earn the original
wage they graciously allowed them to work overtime to enable them to do it.
And they did it! We sometimes think the workers of Melbourne have got the
impression that if the masters have to pay more wages it will turn them bank-
rupt, and their livelihood would be gone, and yet one of the largest employers
of labour in Melbourne has accepted the Masters' Federation and Trade Board
terms. Why? Well, we suppose we must "wait and see." Trade in this
district appears fairly good.

EDINBURGH.—Our sickness during the month has been above the normal.
The repairing trade in this district has not been so quiet for a number of years
back. Members are being suspended from nearly every shop, which means
that our out-of-work benefits have increased during the month. In the last
Report we notice that the General President hinted at a scheme for the payment
of local officials. Now, in our opinion this would be all right for branches with
a large membership, but with small branches it would not be a great benefit.
In small branches the local official has to supply coal and gas in his own house,
and he can never call his home his own while acting as a branch official. But
at the same time we are pleased that the General President has taken this
matter up as this has been a sore point with secretaries of small branches for
some time back. We have got a start made with our Closing Room Quantities
Statement. Thanks to the lead given by Leicester No. 3. This will assist
branches all over the country to fix a fair value on the operations in the above
department. The following question has been asked several times since the
November Report was issued: “When did Council get the power to increase
a Political Agent's salary without consulting members of the Union?” Not
that the increase may be unnecessary under the circumstances, but the members
should have been consulted.

HALIFAX.—We have one member drawing out-of-work donation. The
members of our branch wish to draw attention to the fact that it is time we
had an organising secretary for the boot and shoe repairing if only to keep up
with the other Unions who practically only cater for that particular part of
the trade. Also we wish once again to bring it before the Council's notice,
the advisability of holding county conferences, whereby we think they would
be of great benefit to the Union, and it would be a means of bringing various
branches together, and we should be able to discuss many things which keep
cropping up in the various counties. Hoping the Council will bring this forward.

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.—During the month the Monthly Meeting
considered the question of Shops Committees. Rushden voted in favour,
38 for, none against. Irthlingborough voted in favour, 10 for, none against.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

127
an amendment to Rule 165. There is a section of members who think that the
contributions should be on a higher scale, with increased benefits. Whilst
this may seem alright to the man or woman who makes no other provision,
to those who are in friendly societies, &c., there is no need. Therefore to seek
to compel all members to pay increased contributions will do more harm than
good. Let those pay who want to, by providing a new scale which allows this
to be done, and pay the increased benefits.
[The question of "basement" factories is already under the consideration
of the Whitley Council. So far as repairers getting their share of representa-
tion, when one considers that FOUR members of the Council Messrs. Richards,
Buckle, Bleakley, and Dobbs--in addition to Mr. J. Osborne, of Bristol, are
devoting a large amount of time to the Repairing Board it cannot be argued
that the repairers are being "ignored." -E.L. P., G.S.].
GREAT YARMOUTH.-Trade is very good. Referring to our query
in last report of percentage to be allowed for slow workers, we believe it to be
the practice with the Shirt Makers' Trade Board to allow 7 per cent. for slow
workers. We take this to mean that some people working to a piece rate can
earn several shillings over the minimum, others on the same rate earn down
to 7 per cent. less than minimum without the employer being asked to make
up the difference. Without a proviso of this sort, and with other labour avail-
able there is the temptation for employers to dismiss slow workers rather
than make up the difference between wages earned and the Trade Board
minimum. The Council's action regarding the proposed increased minimum
was noted with approval. We hope they will be successful. The pity of it is
every increase is paid by the consumer. We cannot catch prices up on these
lines try how we may. What will be pleasing to the Council is that members
recognise the cause of high prices and are steadily following this line of thought
to its logical conclusion. We take this opportunity of thanking those who have
subscribed to the Moulders' Strike Fund. Members must not lose sight of
the fact that where Unions help each other it has far-reaching effects on em-
ployers' resistance or otherwise in meeting the Unions demands. Financial
help will prove to them quicker than any other method that it is not one Union
to be considered, but the whole movement. May we also add a word for the
need of supporting the Daily Herald. The true facts of things that matter
to us can only be learned from the Labour Press. Get the facts and reason
things out for yourselves. Journalists write to order, which are to mould
public opinion according to their instructions. You have seen in your master's
and the Government Press how to solve all Labour problems, it is produce,
produce, produce. The Government method of putting their programme into
operation is to be seen at Employment Exchanges, thousands of unemployed
waiting for the opportunity to produce. The fact is Tory and Liberal can
organise to produce war material, because they have not to study profit and
loss. (It is all loss). But they cannot organise for production of Peace
requirements. It is vested interest, profit and loss that counts with them,
and not the need of citizens.

CHANGES IN HOURS OF LABOUR.
Perhaps the most marked feature of the industrial situation in 1919 was the reduction
which was effected in weekly working hours in the principal industries. At the end of
1918 the hours usually worked in these industries ranged generally from 48 to 60 per week,
whereas by the end of 1919 the most usual range was from 44 to 48 per week. The number
of workpeople whose recognised hours of labour were reported as having been reduced,
during 1919, in the employments for which statistics of numbers affected by such changes
are available, was 6,400,000, the average reduction per head being about 6½ hours per
week. The Labour Gazette, January, 1920.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

131
Our Imports of Boots and Shoes.
The Figures for November and the Countries of Consignment.

The particulars of the countries whence our imports of boots and shoes for the month
of December last were consigned are given hereunder:

Countries whence Consigned.
Of Leather, or of
which the chief
value is Leather.
Of Rubber, or of
which the chief
value is Rubber.
Of other
materials.

Doz.
Pairs.
L
Doz
Pairs.
L
Doz.
Pairs.
f
Germany 
Netherlands 
Belgium 
France 
Switzerland
Spain
Italy
Japan
United States
British India
Hong Kong
Victoria
Canada 
22
70
596
1603
2583

7258
4
142
3944
309
1055
5349
22228
37357
14

5474

8608
168.

10427
16460
12

987
9
87
1002

23
399
19

6804
ΤΟ
190
774

72
1242
Total
16222
£188701 14096 £27055 2519
£9111

-Shoe and Leather Record, January 16th, 1920.

A TRIBUTE TO BRITISH TRADE.

Although our exports of footwear have steadily increased during the past few months,
the fact that boots and shoes are urgently needed in most of the world's markets, provides
an opportunity for British manufacturers such as they have never previously had in the
history of the trade. America is fully alive to the possibilities in this direction, but although
American goods obtained a footing in certain markets during the war, the merit of British
productions is still remembered, and the trade then lost may be recaptured provided it
is energetically sought. In this connection the provision of seventy million pairs of Army
boots by British producers is proving an exceedingly valuable asset to the trade during
the period of reconstruction. In no previous war were soldiers as well shod as have been
the troops of the Allies. And the fame of the British Army boot has resounded throughout
the world. Such an advertisement for British producers has a value which can hardly
be overestimated. Consequently we look for an enormous expansion in the exports of
British-made footwear during the coming year.-Extract from Leading Article in Shoe
and Leather Record, December 26th, 1919.

A MATTER OF IMPORTANCE TO LABOUR.

We note with satisfaction, not unmixed with surprise, that the City Editor of The
Times has now declared in favour of nationalising the Bank of England. Writing on
Tuesday upon the Coutts absorption, he mentioned with approval a scheme recently put
forward by Mr. J. F. Darling, formerly manager of the London Joint Stock Bank. Mr.
Darling, even before the war, sketched in outline the "conversion of the Bank of England
into a rea' ank of the British Empire." This it would automatically become if it belonged
to the nation. For ourselves, we do not see how nationalisation of the Bank of England
can be much longer delayed. The profits of the Bank are now so enormous that they have
had to be concealed by making a voluntary surrender of Excess Profit Duty at the rate
of 100 per cent. The other banks have cleverly succeeding in concealing their profits
without paying any Excess Profit Duty whatever.-Shoe and Leather Record, December
26th, 1919.

IA


---
Here is the text from the image:

133
FAMINE IN AUSTRIA.
TRADE UNION APPEAL FOR IMMEDIATE ASSISTANCE.
Joint Action by the Parliamentary Committee of the Trades Union
Congress and the Management Committee of the General Federation
of Trade Unions.
The reports which have been current in the Press concerning the suffering and starva-
tion in German Austria have now been definitely authenticated by personal inquiries
conducted on behalf of the International Federation of Trade Unions. Hundreds of
thousands are suffering grievously from cold and hunger, while, to quote the words of
Edo Fimmen, the Secretary of the International Federation of Trade Unions, "thousands
must inevitably die," unless immediate help is forthcoming.
It has never been the practice of a Britisher to act maliciously towards a defeated foe.
Under the stress of actual fighting he has been noted for his care of enemy sick and wounded.
It is because we are assured of the continued existence of these human traits that we take
up the appeal which the International makes on behalf of those who are suffering in what
is, and what was, Austria. Anton Hueber, the old leader of the Austrian Trade Union
movement, stated at Amsterdam that his son had been killed in Poland and his daughter,
when her baby was born, had been so ill-nourished that she had no milk for the child.
There are hundreds of similar cases, and many thousands of little children who must
die or pass through the winter under conditions that will permanently injure them.
For us the war has ended. We desire, wherever possible, to mitigate the suffering
that follows war. We would rather also that these children should remember us with
gratitude than with hatred.
The Parliamentary Committee of the Trades Union Congress and the Management
Committee of the General Federation of Trade Unions, jointly represented as they are
in the International Federation of Trade Unions, jointly appeal for funds to enable them
to assist the Austrians to tide over the time between now and the next harvest.
This is an appeal from Labour to Labour, and we confidently look for immediate
and effective response, which will once again show that the movement is neither local,
nor national, but international.
All contributions should be addressed, in the first instance, to-
The Right Hon. C. W. BOWERMAN, P.C., M.P.,
the Trades Union Congress :
(Signed) Parliamentary Committee of
Мг. Ј. Н. ТнOMAS, P.C., M.P.,
Chairman.
Mr. G. H. STUART-BUNNING, J.P.,
Vice-Chairman.
Miss M. BONDFIELD.
Mr. Н. ВоΟΤΗΜΑΝ.
Mr. W. J. DAVIS, J.P.
Mr. H. GOSLING, J.P.
Mr. J. HILL, J.P.
Mr. J. W. OGDEN, J.P.
Mr. E. L. POULTON, J.P.
Mr. A. A. PURCELL.
MR. J. SEXTON, J.P.
Mr. H. SKINNER.
Mr. A. SWALES.
Mr. W. THORNE, M.P.
Mr. R. B. WALKER.
Mr. J. B. WILLIAMS.
Mr. C. W. BOWERMAN, P.C., M.P.,.
Secretary.
32, Eccleston Square, London, S.W. 1.
Management Committee of the
General Federation of Trade Unions:
Mr. J. CROSS, J.P., Chairman.
Coun. T. MALLALIEU, Vice-Chairman.
Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD, C.M.G., C.B., J.P.,
M.P., Treasurer.
Mr. J. CRINION, J.P., Trustee.
Mr. A. GEE, J.P., Trustee.
Coun. A. WILKIE, C.H., J.P., M.P.,
Trustee.
Mr. J. ASQUITH, J.P.
Mr. J. N. BELL, J.P.
Mr. F. W. BIRCHENOUGH, Ј.Р.
Councillor B. COOPER.
Alderman I. H. GWYNNE, J.P.
Mr. T. F. RICHARDS.
Councillor A. SHORT, M.P.
Mr. JOHN TAYLOR, J.P.
Mr. B. TILLETT, M.P.
Mr. W. A. APPLETON, C.B.Ε.,
Secretary.
CHANGES IN RATES OF WAGES.
The changes in rates of wages (including additional war wages or bonuses) reported
as having taken effect in 1919, in the trades for which statistics of the numbers of work-
people affected by such changes are compiled by the Department, resulted in an aggregate
increase of over £2,100,000 in the weekly wages of about 5,650,000 workpeople.
-The Labour Gazette, January, 1920.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

```text
101
JOINT INDUSTRIAL (WHITLEY) COUNCIL.
The sixth meeting of the Joint Industrial (Whitley) Comcil met on the
27th January, 1920, at Montagu House, Whitehall, London, a report of the
proceedings appearing on pages 192-194.
We would call special attention to the following matters dealt with at the
said meeting.
ORGANISATION in the industry. The following resolution was unanimously
agreed to :--
That this Joint Industrial Council is of the opinion that it is in the best interests
of the trade that operatives and manufacturers should be well organised, and urges
that no obstacle be placed by the management of any factory in the way of any
operative joining the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives."
The question of Phthisis in the trade was again discussed in connection
with the improvements of factories, and the adoption of a standard for a factory
before being allowed to be used, the following resolutions being endorsed :-
That this Joint Industrial Council recommends that any person desiring to
start in business in a factory or workshop, shall give adequate notice to H.M. Inspector
of Factories of his intention to do so, and the address of the premises which he proposes
to occupy."
"That this Joint Industrial Council recommends that the Home Secretary should
take powers to require that before any place is used as a factory or workshop, the
certificate of an Inspector of the Home Office shall first certify its fitness for the
purpose.
In this connection we would call the attention of members to the fact
that for the years ending 1918 and 1919 the branches shew the percentage
of deaths due to consumption as set out hereunder :--
1918.
1919.
Kettering
25.1
Kettering
19.0
Kettering No. 2
30.0
Higham & Rushden
27.0
Kingswood
33.3
Kingswood
20.0
Leicester
24.0
Leicester
20.0
Leicester No. 2
22.8
Leicester No. 2
33.0
Leicester No. 3
20.0
Leicester No. 3
40.0
Leeds
20.0
Leeds
20.0
Leeds No. 2
33.0
Leeds No. 2
20.0
London Metro.
19.0
London Metro.
10.0
Norwich
27.0
Norwich
30.0
Norwich No. 2
50.0
Norwich No. 2
40.0
Northampton
28.0
Northampton
20.0
Northampton No. 2
30.6
Northampton No. 2
20.0
Stafford
20.0
Wellingborough
35.0
Wellingborough
30.0
A sub-committee was also appointed to report upon the
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BILL
and as to setting up a scheme outside the scheme, if at all possible, for dealing
with those unfortunate members of the industry who have long-continued
illnesses, and as a result of the same have the utmost difficulty financially in
making both ends meet, and which cases it was felt should be treated not only
sympathetically, but practically.
```

---
Here is the text from the image:

101
JOINT INDUSTRIAL (WHITLEY) COUNCIL.

The sixth meeting of the Joint Industrial (Whitley) Council met on the
27th January, 1920, at Montagu House, Whitehall, London, a report of the
proceedings appearing on pages 192-194.

We would call special attention to the following matters dealt with at the
said meeting.

ORGANISATION in the industry. The following resolution was unanimously
agreed to:-
That this Joint Industrial Council is of the opinion that it is in the best interests
o: the trade that operatives and manufacturers should be well organised, and urges
that no obstacle be placed by the management of any factory in the way of any
operative joining the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives."

The question of Phthisis in the trade was again discussed in connection
with the improvements of factories, and the adoption of a standard for a factory
before being allowed to be used, the following resolutions being endorsed :-

That this Joint Industrial Council recommends that any person desiring to
start in business in a factory or workshop, shall give adequate notice to H.M. Inspector
of Factories of his intention to do so, and the address of the premises which he proposes
to occupy.

That this Joint Industrial Council recommends that the Home Secretary should
take powers to require that before any place is used as a factory or workshop, the
certificate of an Inspector of the Home Office shall first certify its fitness for the
purpose.

In this connection we would call the attention of members to the fact
that for the years ending 1918 and 1919 the branches shew the percentage
of deaths due to consumption as set out hereunder :-
1918.
1919.
Kettering  ..  25.1
Kettering  .. 19.0
Kettering No. 2  .. 30.0
Higham & Rushden  .. 27.0
Kingswood  ..  33.3
Kingswood  .. 20.0
Leicester  .. 24.0
Leicester  .. 20.0
Leicester No. 2  .. 22.8
Leicester No. 2  .. 33.0
Leicester No. 3  .. 20.0
Leicester No. 3  .. 40.0
Leeds  .. 20.0
Leeds  .. 20.0
Leeds No. 2  .. 33.0
Leeds No. 2  .. 20.0
London Metro.  .. 19.0
London Metro.  .. 10.0
Norwich  .. 27.0
Norwich  .. 30.0
Norwich No. 2  .. 50.0
Norwich No. 2  .. 40.0
Northampton  .. 28.0
Northampton  .. 20.0
Northampton No. 2  .. 30.6
Northampton No. 2  .. 20.0
Stafford  .. 20.0
Wellingborough  .. 35.0
Wellingborough  .. 30.0

A sub-committee was also appointed to report upon the
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BILL
and as to setting up a scheme outside the scheme, if at all possible, for dealing
with those unfortunate members of the industry who have long-continued
illnesses, and as a result of the same have the utmost difficulty financially in
making both ends meet, and which cases it was felt should be treated not only
sympathetically, but practically.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

105
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
I am sorry to have to report that some employers appear to be desirous of evading
the spirit of the 1919 Agreement to the extent that they say they are not bound by the
spirit of Clause 12, which reads that the Statements must be so made or amended that
they will give the average man at least 25 per cent. above the Minimum Wage. The
letter and spirit of that sentence is without any equivocation; 70s. per week for the male
pieceworker without a permit, and 37s. od. per week for the woman over 20 years of age
who is a pieceworker, and this amount is so unpopular with our members that we are
asking for these sums to be reviewed, with the prospect of improving them owing to the
continued rise in the cost of the necessities of life, as man lives not by bread alone. Food
is not the whole of a man's troubles, be he brain or manual worker. Although many
employers are loyally carrying out our undertaking so are there those who are doing their
best to evade their undertaking. This involves the trade union official having to play the
detective, as I had to do in 1912 and found two prominent members of the other side who
had not kept their Agreement of 1909. Our present experience will cause us to tighten
the language used in future Agreements, until the time comes when such Agreements will
be enforced by Government Inspectors, and the tendency of the times is moving in that
direction. By the time these lines are in print we shall have had our meeting with the
employers, who, if rumour is correct, may advance the minimum for dayworkers, yet are
opposed to increase the remuneration for pieceworkers. If they insist upon this most
unreasonable attitude, then they will start a new policy of no piecework before we have
well got going the Payment by Result system. I do not think them so foolish. If State-
ments are delayed the employers alone are responsible for the delay. They claimed they
would be ready by April last, or ten months ago. Personally I denied they would do
anything of the kind, and doubted whether they would be complete last year. As a
matter of fact neither Northamptonshire nor Leicestershire have completed their tasks
and are not likely to for the next two months. Our future Agreements must have swifter
application.

January 22nd, 1920.-It was my painful duty to attend the funeral of my old comrade
and colleague, Ben Cooper, of the Cigarmakers' Union, on behalf of the General Federation
of Trade Unions, who for thirty-four years was the General Secretary of that body. Tom
Mann, Fred Maddison, and D. Carmichael, Secretary of the London Trades Council, of
which body Ben was treasurer, were also at the graveside.

On the 25th and 26th we held the usual Council Meetings, and considered the Half-
yearly balance sheet, which on close perusal by our members will reveal a very healthy
state of our Union, with its 97,000 members, of whom some 26,075 are financial women,
with 12,748 probationary, or in other words 45 per cent. of our membership are women.

INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL.—On the 27th the usual meeting of the Industrial Council was
held, and several important matters affecting the Trade were considered, the most import-
ant being that in future all the members of the Federation will be requested to see to it
that neither they or any member of their various staffs shall in any way show any antagon-
ism to Trade Union effort or work. We have committees working with the Home Office
for the better health conditions in the factories.

On the 28th we had the meeting of the Lasting Committee of the County Board at
Leicester.

On the 29th we held a consultation respecting the attitude to be taken towards a
firm who have resigned by request the Employers' Federation, but at present we have no
quarrels.

On the 31st we attended a conference with the Amalgainated Union of Rivetters and
Finishers, in Cartwright Gardens, London, with the object of bringing about some amal-
gamation, and we hope that having met the Executive of that body, we may make some
agreement whereby we can act together in future.

On February 3rd, at Leicester, we met as a Closing Committee and made good headway
with the Statement, the employers at the outset making two important announcements
that they were prepared to grant us the full benefit of the Umpire's Award of 85 per cent.,
and should any of the prices prove to be of less value to the girls than 50s. per week, they
would be prepared to amend them.

On February 4th we had a further meeting of the Committee and advanced the work
a further stage.

B


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

169
been taken in the matter. We also notice that our Reading friends have the
trouble with a Railway Guard doing boot repairing. We are experiencing the
same difficulty here with a Prison Warder, who is in receipt of a weekly remunera-
tion something like £4 tos. per week, and who in his spare time does the boot
repairing for members of the local Force. The members of our Branch decided
that we should approach the local Police Union in the matter, but no reply
has yet come to hand. We suggest that our Reading friends should approach
the local Branch of the N.U.R.
BRIGHTON.--Work is very bad in the town, having 24 on the Labour
Exchange at Brighton and 9 at Eastbourne, and the Secretary writes that they are
turning out of training seven per week-soldiers who have taken up repairing.
We have raised a question at the Brighton Advsory Committee to come up at
the next meeting. The Brighton Advisory Training Committee on February
16th recommended that repairing should be stopped and that boot-making
should be taken up in place of repairing. We had five candidates before us,
two were recommended for boot-making and three were turned down. The
result of the Branch draw for March is First, No. 1619; 1994, 48, 4023,
8874, 3908, 1696, 1046, 1055, 4003, 724, 4829. We thank all those Branches
who did their best to sell the tickets. Hoping that 1920 will be a better year
for trade and a growing success for the Union.
CHESTERFIELD.--Trade is good. Our members are very pleased with
the action of the Council in regard to increasing the minimum rate, and we
hope they will press for same in full, as the cost of living is still increasing and
we consider it overdue.
0
CHESHAM.-Trade here is getting slack, and some manufacturers have
commenced to discharge men, and from what one can see and hear it looks as
if short time will soon become general throughout the district. Owing to lack
of organisation and other circumstances in our local factories our members
have not up to the present felt inclined to ask for the new Quantity Statements
to be put into operation, and with the minimum rate of 56s. per week find it
difficult to make ends meet; we therefore hope the Council will soon be able
to revise the very low minimum rates.
DUBLIN. We beg to say that trade is fair, though the Repairing trade
'is very slack since last October. There are many members walking the
streets, some who are members of our Union and others who are members
of another organisation. We believe the introduction of rubber soles-which
are done mostly by the "Home Rulers "-has taken effect to our detriment.
From last November we have been very busy interviewing employers regarding
the 70s., Winstanley's being the principal one, where we have set up a State-
ment for the strong and light lasters; the men in those departments are earning
over the 70s. each week. In the clicking department the majority of the men
are getting 70s., while others got various increases. This week we have
succeeded in getting the same sum for a good many in the finishing department.
Edge setters are working to Statement and are doing well. We find a great
difficulty in obtaining for youths their rate as per National Agreement, owing
to the antiquated methods of the firm, but in general we have done good and
are getting on nicely. We have been interviewing Messrs. Winstanleys' on
some occasions three times per week, and for the past few months there has not
a week passed but that we have been at their office. We have had a very bad
experience-both the officials and the heads of the firm of Winstanley's-
through some miserable creature who stooped so low as to send a number of
threatening letters, one of them stating to burn the factory, &c., and accusing
the officials of bribery. The letters were put into the proper hands, and it
may not be very healthy for the poor thing when he is found out. We regret
to report that Mr. Kimble (foreman clicker) has passed away from life. We
tender to his family our deep sympathy. We hope he will be replaced by
a man as just as he was.
H


---
"Unionism," &c., &c. There is no lack of problems in the industrial and political
world waiting to be discussed and understood by the ordinary trade union
member. Indeed, the difficulty is to choose the most appropriate topic from
the mass of conflicting problems which present themselves. Although, as yet,
the introduction to the discussions has fallenn on the shoulders of the officials
there is every indication that very shortly members will themselves make the
platform their own, and lead the way to a fuller appreciation and a truer con-
sciousness of the principles of democratic progress. May we also just whisper
the hope that arising out of these meetings we shall ere long see our younger
members forming study groups, debating classes, speakers' classes, and par-
ticipating in all those joyous social activities which will make of our movement
the real unifying and uplifting force in all that appertains to the lives of the
peoples. To stimulate consciousness; to infuse light and breadth and thought;
to impart enthusiasm, knowledge and direction; to create inspiration and
desires; to give life, iridescent beauty; to make of our movement a joyful
pulsating throbbingly beautiful force, is surely part of the ennobling work
which Trade Union leaders are called upon to perform. Let these things, at
least, constitute our hopes; the fears of the past can then be forgotten in the
anticipated joys of the New Jerusalem. Sickness is heavy; unemployment
increasing, and trade very unsettled.
KETTERING No. 2.- We are sorry to report that no further progress
has been made with regard to the Roughstuff Statement, no Board meeting
has been held, and as yet no notice of such has been received. This is largely
due to the unfortunate position we find ourselves in with regard to the Closing
Statement. At the meeting of the Closing Room operatives (of which upwards
of Soo attended) they unanimously decided in no uncertain voice to have
nothing whatever to do with it. The Board will have to meet and discuss this
position before any further business can be given attention, which means
further waiting for those departments without Statements. The question of
transferring our Banking Account to the Co-operative Wholesale Society was
raised at the Monthly Meeting, and the officials instructed to make enquiries
as to the facilities, &c., and if satisfactory to have the account transferred;
enquiries having proved satisfactory steps are now being taken to carry this
out. Trade is still good, although clickers are losing time; this is due to the
shortage of labour in the Closing Department. This is a question which
requires very serious consideration, as girls are steadily leaving the boot trade
for the clothing trade; the wages and conditions in the clothing trade are in
advance of those generally appertaining in the boot trade. Sickness slightly
over normal, two out of work.
LEICESTER No. 2.--In response to an appeal on behalf of the Police
who are still unemployed we granted a further sum of £2 10s. in addition to
the £5 previously granted. £5 was also granted to the Testimonial for James
Mason, ex-Secretary of the Norwich No. 1 Branch and Council Member for
many years.
LEICESTER NO 3.--We have to report that our membership is still
increasing, and we have already this year joined 433, and our membership
is to-day 6,471, of whom 3,871 are registered. We are sorry to state notwith-
standing the reports circulated, that our men are working short time because
of the shortage of labour in machine rooms, hundreds of our women are losing
time and many more are not kept fully going. Our new statement, which
means a large advance and much improvement in our members' position, is
largely responsible for this awakening in the women operatives. Also we are
pleased to report that with the assistance of our President, and the way in
which our girls have been handled in difficult circumstances, there has not
been a single stoppage of work. We appeal to all officials who are dealing
with statements for women members not to accept a principle which we have

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

173
beyond the march of wage advance. We were foolish enough to believe a
politician who told our trade union friends that the price of foodstuff would
fall and thus we have men working in accordance with a national agreement
which is not on a fodder basis. 'Tis true we have asked to be allowed to set
aside the wage clause of the agreement, but if all our members had voted as
did our little group we should not have to go to the employers cap in hand.
We hope the employers will see the wisdom of meeting our just claim, failing
which I trust the members, rather than submit to such injustice and privation,
will repudiate the agreement, and seek to secure a wage basis commensurate
with the present cost of living. At present this is our only remedy, but one
would like to inquire whether there is any desire or hope of seeking and securing
some form of control in shop and factory, which will render us less liable to
the cutting of prices by employers consequent upon increased production,
and also bring to the worker a larger share of the advantages of the productive
power of machinery, and would tend to cultivate those qualities so rare, con-
fidence, co-operation, to say nothing of that great principle the boys fought
for-self-determination.
NOTTINGHAM.-Trade is very fair in this district. We have to report
the starting of a new firm, Bryan & Son Ltd., of Kettering, who have opened
a branch here for the closing of uppers. All the hands have joined the Union,
and it bids fair to become a good shop. The firm of Seymour & Harding are
building new premises, and hope shortly to employ a larger number of hands.
Our repairer members are beginning to realise the importance of the Trade Board
and yet there is a good number who have not joined to help to reap some of its
benefits, preferring to watch till it gets into full force. This branch is in favour
of the £500 grant to the Austrian Fund. The foreman of the Nottingham
Co-operative Boot Repairing Department a short time ago left us to join
the A.U.C.E. He had been a member of our Union nearly six years. His
reason for so doing was that he hoped to obtain a higher wage as a Departmental
Manager. Considerable correspondence has taken place between us and the
A.U.C.E. with no satisfaction. Ultimately the matter has been brought
before the Nottingham Trades Council, and has been enquired into by their
executive, who have expressed their strong disapproval of the action of the
A.U.C.E. in taking in members of craft unions.
PORTSMOUTH.-Trade has improved a little since we made our last
report, but it has to go a long way before it becomes normal, as there are still
many men seeking for work. Some employers are discharging men as soon
as they are twenty-one so as to avoid paying a living wage; one firm here has
for several weeks closed down two days a week, and this is a great loss to the
workers. We are pleased to read our. General President's remarks on the
attitude of the employers who are opposed to the new Piece-work Statement
as suggested by the Trade Board. Many of these men have found their feet
financially during the war, as previously they were only just getting a bare
existence, but with prosperity has come selfishness, and they are only too
ready to sweat their employees to further swell their gains They had a
wonderful protest meeting here, in which many rolled up to expound upon the
wicked desires of the journeyman to live; the Chairman was not an employer,
the mover of the protest resolution a leather-seller, and many who voted will
never employ a boy or man. This resolution, with due pomp and solemn
seriousness, was duly despatched to the place of protest. Had it not been
a matter of our bread and butter, we should have been inclined to have received
this as a piece of original humour, but under the circumstances we felt com-
pelled to send along a letter to the Secretary of the Trade Board calling attention
to the nature of this meeting. The fact that employers are getting alarmed
should put the desire into every worker's mind to join up with a Union and
so improve the organisation of his trade, that will improve the status of himself
C


---
Here is the text from the image:

175
and we have grave doubts that the proper wages are not being paid, and also
working himself after bisordinary work (8 hours). Is there a law preventing
this? If not, why not? Here is a chance for our Council to do good for our
members; no doubt other Branch Secretaries can tell you Walsall is not the
only place. One of our members has gone so far as to say he does not associate
with railway-men, postmen or other blacklegs!
Our
WOLVERHAMPTON. At 0111 Branch meeting our members were
pleased that the Council had made an application for an increased minimum
wage, and a resolution was unanimously passed urging the Council to press
their claim, the opinion of the meeting being that the claim was overdue.
members also wish to urge upon the Council the question of females in male
departments: we think that the time has arrived when they should all be
cleared out at any cost. Employers say that they cannot get boys, but we
contend that they must make the jobs worth taking to the boys, as we cannot
agree that the employment of females should be extended on account of the
poor inducements offered to boys. (By reference to page 748 of October,
1919, Report it will be seen we unanimously agreed with the Manufacturers'
Federation through the Whitley Council that women should now cease to be
employed in men's departments.-E.L.P., Gen. Sec.)
WHITWICK.---Trade is fairly good, but the members of the Whitwick
Branch are hoping that very soon we may have the new Statements for new
work at hand, so that we may know better where we are working, as we are
hoping that we shall be able to earn better wages so as to meet the increased
cost of living as it is at the present time.
YORK. We regret to report that sickness amongst our members has been
much above the average during the past month, and as the sick members are
discharged service men, consider that it is due, to some extent, to the hardships
of serving during the war. At our Branch meeting we considered the proposed
amendments to the Union Rules. As we expected, there is a campaign to
Increase contributions, in some cases with no provision for increased benefits.
We consider that the financial position of the Union does not demand an all-
ound increase; rather do we think that a re-apportionment of contributions
will suffice. The total funds of the Union as shown by the Half-Yearly Report
re such that we consider that the Sick Fund should have a larger share.
When we remember that the Union has accepted the principle of arbitration
nd conciliation, thus eliminating to a great degree the danger of large or
eneral strikes or lock-outs, we think that it is not necessary to build up such
arge fighting funds. There is a safety line, and this has in our opinion been
eached. We can now allow the funds received to be used more for the purpose
f relieving sickness. With regard to Conference, and the system of delegations,
e think that here the small Branches have just cause for complaint. Of the
3 Branches entitled to elect delegates, only 28 Branches will be represented
one of their own members In one group, 16 Branches have one delegate;
en we have one Branch allowed II delegates, and 6 permanent officials with
e right to attend and vote. This is not democracy, but only another example
the doctrine that might is right. We hope an amendment will be passed
hich gives every financial Branch the right to be represented, and if it desires
express its opinion, otherwise we should cease to call the affair a Union
onference, but a caucus meeting of the strong Branches for the purpose of
owing them to decide what they shall do with the Union and its affairs.
less the Repairing Section is given more recognition than it has had in the
st, the Union will lose much of the support that it has had, these workers
her seeking other unions or making the attempt to fight their own battles
- means of a separate union. It is up to the factory operatives to accept in
al brotherhood the worker in the repairing shop or turn him down altogether,
t to seek to over-rule him, as is the present system in the Union.
1


---


---
8. Waiting Time.
187
The Act of 1918 provides that a worker shall be deemed to have been employed during
the whole time during which he was present on the premises of the employer (except during
normal meal times in a room or place where no work is being done), unless the employer
can show that the worker was present for some purposes unconnected with his work or
was present without the employer's consent, express or implied, or was present only by
reason of the fact that he was resident on the premises.
A worker employed on piece work would be deemed during his waiting time to have
been employed at the general minimum time rate.
9. Time and Wages Records.
Under the Act of 1900 it was provided that on the prosecution of an employer it would
rest with the employer to show by the production of proper wages sheets or other records
of wages, or otherwise, that he had not paid, or agreed to pay, wages at less than the
minimum rate.
This provision is retained, but the Act of 1918 also makes it an offence, punishable
by a fine not exceeding £2, to fail to keep such a record of wages as is necessary to show
that the minimum rates are being paid, irrespective of whether the minimum rates are in
fact being paid.
10. Liability of Agents.
The Act of 1918 makes it possible to proceed against the agent of an employer (for
example, a manager or foreman) as well as the employer himself; and where the employer
can prove to the satisfaction of the Court that he has used diligence to enforce the execution
of the Act and that the offence was committed without his knowledge, he shall, in the
event of the conviction of the agent, be exempt from any fine, although the Court may
adjudge him due to pay any arrears of wages due to the worker on account of the under-
payment.
11. Indirect Employment.
It is provided that where the immediate employer of any worker is himself in the
employment of some other person, and the worker is employed on the premises of that
other person, that other person shall be deemed to be responsible jointly with the immedi-
ate employer for the payment of the minimum rate. Thus, for example, in the Tailoring
trade, if a machiner employed on the premises of a master tailor himself employs an under-
machiner, the master tailor is jointly responsible with the machiner for the payment of
the minimum rate to the under-machiner.
12. Learners and other special classes of Workers.
It is provided that a Trade Board may attach to the fixing of minimum rates fora
special class of workers the condition that the workers who are members of the class must
be holders of certificates to that effect issued by the Trade Board. If the special class
consists of persons who are learning the trade, the Trade Board may also attach such
conditions as they think necessary for securing the effective instruction of those persons
in the trade.
If any condition so attached is not complied with, the worker will be deemed not to
be a member of the special class; that is to say, if the conditions attached by a Trade
Board to learnership are not satisfied, the learnership rates would not be payable, and the
person employed would be entitled to the minimum rate fixed for workers other than
learners.
13. Admission of Investigating Officers and furnishing of information.
Officers are appointed by the Minister of Labour for the purpose of investigating
complaints and otherwise securing the proper observance of the Acts. They have power
to enter factories, workshops and places used for giving out work, to require the produc-
tion of wages sheets or other records which are necessary to show that the provisions
of the Acts are being complied with, and to question any person found on the premises.
Persons hindering the officers in the exercise of their powers render themselves liable
to a penalty of £5, and persons who knowingly furnish the officers with false wages sheets
or other false information or knowingly cause such to be furnished are liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding £20, or to imprisonment for not more than three months with or
without hard labour.
OFFICE OF TRADE BOARDS,
5, CHANCERY LANE,
LONDON, W.C. 2.
November, 1919.

---
Here is the text from the image:

189
C. For all other Male Indentured Apprentices:
1. Apprentices of 21 years of age and over
2.
در
3.
"
IQ
20 and under 21 years of age
20
4.
دو
IS
1)
5.
17
IS
6.
۱۱
۱۱
10
T 17
PART 11.
Per week of
48 hours.
055.
45s.
37s. 6d.
328.
278.
228.
PROPOSED GUARANTEED TIME-RATE AND VARIATION OF GENERAL
MINIMUM TIME-RATES FOR FOREMEN AND MANAGERS.
SECTION 1.-For Foremen and Managers as defined in Section 2 of this Part of this Schedule:
Proposed General Minimum Time-Rate and
Guaranteed Time-Rate
..
Sos. per week of 48 hours.
A Foreman or Manager employed on piece-work shall be entitled to be paid not less
than the Guaranteed Time-Rate notwithstanding that his earnings on Picce-work are
less than such sum.
SECTION 2.-For the purpose of this Notice a Foreman" shall be deemed to be a Male
Person, who is employed in any branch of the trade specified in the Trade Boards
(Boot and Shoe Repairing) Order, 1919,
and (a) who exercises sole supervising authority over all journeymen, exceeding
three in number (exclusive of the Foreman), working in the same shop
or department,
“
or (b) who continuously exercises supervising authority and is held responsible
for the output and the general conduct of the workshop, even although
the total number of journeymen employed does not exceed three,
and a Manager" shall be deemed to be :-
A Male Person who is employed in any branch of the trade specified in the Trade
Boards (Boot and Shoe Repairing) Order, 1919, and who, whatever the number of
persons employed, has financial responsibility for the management of a shop or for
dealing with customers.
PART III.
PROPOSED OVERTIME RATES AND VARIATION OF OVERTIME RATES FOR
MALE INDENTURED APPRENTICES, FOREMEN AND MANAGERS.
Overtime Rates, calculated on the above General Minimum Time-Rates and Guaran-
teed Time-Rate in the manner set out in the Schedule of the Notice issued by the Trade
Board and dated 15th November, 1919, shall apply, in substitution for the rates set out
in Parts I and II of this Schedule, in respect of all hours worked in excess of the number
of hours declared by the Trade Board in the Schedule of the Notice dated 15th November,
1919, to be the normal number of hours of work in the Trade.
PART IV.
GENERAL,
SECTION 1. The minimum rates set out in Parts I and II of this Schedule are weekly rates
based on a week of 48 hours, but they shall be subject to a proportionate deduction accord-
ing as the number of hours actually spent in the factory or workshop in any week is less
than 48.
SECTION 2. The respective minimum rates set out in this Schedule shall apply subject to
the provisions of the Trade Boards Acts and of this Notice to all workers in Great Britain
who are employed during the whole or any part of their time in any branch of the Trade
specified in the Trade Boards (Boot and Shoe Repairing) ing) Order, 1919, that is to say, the
repairing, wherever carried on, of boots, shoes, slippers and all kinds of leather footwear,
INCLUDING the making of bespoke handsewn, riveted or pegged leather footwear, but
EXCLUDING the manufacture of leather footwear on a large scale, the repairing of saddlery
and leather goods other than leather footwear and the retailing of leather footwear.
SECTION 3. The minimum rates set out in this Schedule are without prejudice to workers
who are earning higher rates of wages.
The Trade Board will consider any OBJECTIONS to their Proposals which may be lodged
with them within two months from the 27th January, 1920. Such Objections should be


---
190

in writing and signed by the person making the same (adding his or her full name and
address), and should be sent to the Secretary of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board
(Great Britain), 5, Chancery Lane, London, W.C. 2.
It is desirable that the Objections should state precisely, and so far as possible with
wasoms, what is objected to.
Dated this Twenty-Sixth day of January, 1920.
Signed by Order of the Trade Board.

F. POPPLEWELL, Secretary.
OFFICE OF TRADE BOARDS,
Old Serjeants' Inn Chambers,
5, Chancery Lane, LONDON, W.C. 2.

(In the large copy of this Notice for posting in factories, workshops and places used for
giving out work an extract from the Regulations with respect to posting will here be
inserted.j
the offence is continued after conviction therefor.
Under the Trade Boards Acts, 1909 and 1918, it is provided amongst other things that
to do so shall be liable on summary conviction in respect of each offence to a fine not
person employed at not less than the minimum rate clear of all deductions, and if he fails
an employer shall, in cases to which the minimum rate is applicable, pay wages to the
1. Where any minimum rate of wages fixed by a Trade Board has become effective,
exceeding twenty pounds and to a fine not exceeding five pounds for each day on which
In the foregoing provision, the expression " deductions" includes deductions for or
Act, 1911, as amended by any subsequent enactments or deductions authorised by any
in respect of any matter whatsoever (other than deductions under the National Insurance
provident fund), and notwithstanding that they are deductions which may lawfully be
Act to be made from wages in respect of contributions to any superannuation or other
made from wages under the provisions of the Truck Acts, 1831 to 1896, and where any
section two, or section three of the Truck Act, 1896, is made by any employed person
payment being a payment authorised to be received by an employer under section one,
to have deducted that amount from wages.
of the foregoing
te to a person employed, the Court may by the conviction adjudge the employer con
On the conviction of an employer for failing to pay wages at not less than the minimum
ted to pay, in addition to any fine, such sum as appears to the Court to be due to the
rson employed on account of wages, the wages being calculated on the basis of the
ninimum rate, but the power to order the payment of wages under this provision shall
not be in derogation of any right of the person employed to recover wages from any other
proceedings.
2. If a Trade Board are satisfied that any worker employed, or desiring to be employed,
in any branch of a trade to which a general minimum time-rate, a guaranteed time-rate
or a time-work overtime rate is applicable is affected by any infirmity or physical injury
which renders him incapable of earning that minimum rate, and where the worker is not
already employed on piece-work, are of opinion that the case cannot suitably be met by
employing him on piece-work, the Trade Board may, if they think fit, grant to the worker,
subject to such conditions, if any, as they prescribe, a permit exempting the employment
of the worker from the provisions of this Act relating to the payment of wages at less
than the minimum rate, and, while the permit is in force, the employer shall not be liable
for paying wages to the worker at a rate less than the minimum rate so long as the con-
ditions prescribed by the Trade Board on the grant of the permit are complied with.
3. It shall be the duty of every employer in a trade to which a minimum rate is
applicable, to keep such records of wages as are necessary to show that the provisions
exceeding two pounds, and also to a fine not exceeding one pound for every day during
of this Act are being complied with as respects persons in his employment, and if he fails
to do so, he shall be liable on summary conviction in respect of each offence to a fine not
which the default continues after conviction.
mum rate.
Acts shall be void.
On any prosecution of a person for failing to pay wages at not less than the minimum
rate, it shall lie on that person to prove that he has not paid wages at less than the mini-
Any agreement for the payment of wages in contravention of the provisions of the
to pay wages at less than the minimum rate :-
4. An employer shall, in cases where persons are employed on piece-work and a
general minimum time-rate but no general minimum piece-rate has been fixed, be deemed

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

(a) In cases where a special minimum piece-rate has been fixed under the provisions
of this Act for persons employed by that employer, if the rate of wages is less
than that special miniumm piece-rate; and
(b) In cases where a special minimum piece-rate has not been so fixed, unless he shows
that the piece-rate of wages paid would yield, in the circumstances of the case,
to an ordinary worker at least the same amount of money as the basis-rate.

For the purpose of this section the expression “basis-rate” means the general mini-
mum time-rate, or, where a rate (i.c., a “piece-work basis time-rate”) has been fixed
by the Trade Board for the purpose of being substituted for the general minimum time-
rate as the basis-rate, the rate so fixed.
5.-(1) Where a worker in any trade being a person to whom a minimum rate of wages
fixed by a Trade Board applies, is an apprentice or learner, it shall not be lawful for his
employer to receive directly or indirectly from him, or on his behalf or on his account, any
payment by way of premium.
Provided that nothing in the foregoing provisions shall apply to any such payment
duly made in pursuance of any instrument of apprenticeship not later than four weeks
after the commencement of the employment.
(2) If any employer acts in contravention of this provision, he shall be liable on sum-
mary conviction in respect of each offence to a fine not exceeding twenty pounds, and the
Court may by the conviction, in addition to imposing a fine, adjudge him to repay to the
worker or other person by whom the payment was made the sum improperly received by
way of premium.
6. For the purpose of calculating the amount of the wages payable in the case of a
worker employed on any work for which a minimum rate of wages has been fixed under
the principal Act, the worker shall be deemed to have been employed during all the time
during which he was present on the premises of the employer, unless the employer proves
that he was so present without the employer's consent, expressed or implied, or that he
was so present for some purpose unconnected with his work and other than that of waiting
for work to be given to him to perform, and in the case of a worker employed on piece-
work shall be deemed during any time during which he was so present and was not doing
piece-work to have been employed at the general minimum time-rate applicable to workers
of the class to which he belongs:
Provided that-
(a) where a worker resides on the premises of the employer he shall not be deemed
to be employed during any time during which he is present on the premises
by reason only of the fact that he is so resident ; and
(b) a worker while present during normal meal times in a room or place in which no
work is being done shall be deemed to be present for a purpose unconnected.
with his work.

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

LEICESTER BOOT & SHOE TRADE.—BOARD OF CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION..

Discontinuance of the War Emergency Employment of Women
in substitution for Male Labour.

DECISION OF THE BOARD.

The following resolution was adopted at a Meeting of the Board held on the 30th
day of January, 1920 :-
“That the Board instructs the Secretary to inform the Manufacturers that the engage-
ments of all women employed in Men's Departments on operations ordinarily restricted
to male labour, under the Agreement of 25th June, 1915, should be terminated by the
end of February, 1920, inasmuch as the Agreement was an emergency provision having
effect only during the continuance of the war, and that the Manufacturers are recommended
to transfer such women to departments where the work is usually performed by female
operatives.”
41, FRIAR LANE, LEICESTER,
7th February, 1920.
A. E. W. CHAMBERLIN,
Secretary.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

193
At the suggestion of Mr. Poulton the report and the two resolutions named by Mr.
Parker were considered together.
Arising out of the report, Mr. Bleakley raised the question of the adequate and regular
inspection of factories, more especially ones in which health conditions were known to be
less perfect, and Mr. McCarthy stated that approximately 50 per cent. of the deaths in
the industry were due to Phthisis.

Phthisis in the Industry.
Mr. Poulton said that on becoming General Secretary of the National Union, he had
been so struck by the heavy mortality from Phthisis that he had made repeated representa-
tions to the Home Office, and after the presentation of figures relating to the deaths of
members of the Union for 12 years, which showed that the half yearly figures were approxi-
mately 50 per cent., had convinced the Ministry that the industry was suffering unduly.
He said that excluding the Licensed Victuallers, the Boot and Shoe Industry came second
on the list of mortality from Phthisis, and that conditions in factories compared unfavour
ably with those in Germany as regards space. On the motion of Mr. Parker, who was
seconded by Mr. Richards, the report was unanimously adopted together with the following
resolutions :-

(1) "That this Joint Industrial Council recommends that any person desiring to
start in business in a factory or workshop, shall give adequate notice to H.M. Inspector
of Factories of his intention to do so, and the address of the premises which he proposes
to occupy."
(2) " That this Joint Industrial Council recommends that the Home Secretary
should take powers to require that before any place is used as a factory or workshop,
the certificate of an Inspector of the Home Office shall first certify its fitness for the
purpose."

Merchandise Marks Act.
Mr. Poulton said that at a meeting of a certain Committee at which he had been
present on the previous day, evidence had been given which pointed to the necessity for
stronger action in ensuring that trade-marks were not tampered with.
The Council expressed full concurrence with the first part of the recommendation
of the Committee" That steps should be taken to ensure that the place of origin should
be clearly stamped so that it could not be obliterated "-but decided, while expressing
full approval of the principle of purity of material used in the manufacturing process,
to defer further consideration of the matter to a later meeting.

Unemployment Insurance Bill.
Mr. Parker drew attention to the main features of the Unemployment Insurance Bill,
and pointed out the need for considering the provision made for "contracting out" of
the scheme and the advisability of taking advantage of the provision, or as an alternative,
any amendments which they desired to put forward to the Bill as a whole.
On the motion of Mr. Hindes, seconded by Mr. Riley, it was decided that a Sub-Com-
mittee of six, three from each side, should be appointed to consider the matter.

Sickness Disablement Provident Scheme.
Mr. Riley said that the scheme which he had drawn up was based on the conviction
that the National Health Insurance Scheme did not go far enough and that it was illogical
that sick pay should be reduced after a period of six months when savings might be ex-
hausted, because a man did not recover, and further that it was difficult, in the present
circumstances, for an employer to say that a man should not come to work although he
might be a danger to the health of his fellow workers. There was need therefore for
adequate provision against poverty during sickness, and he desired to bring the necessity
before the Government by means of a resolution. On the motion of Mr. Riley
the following resolution was unanimously adopted :-
"That this Joint Industrial Council welcomes the promise of the Government,
in the coming Session of Parliament, to make provision for workers against unemploy-
ment, but would draw attention to the very inadequate provision now made under
the National Health Insurance Act for the benefit of workers who are unemployed
owing to prolonged illness, and particularly to the wholly inadequate provisions for
the treatment of persons suffering from consumption.
It urges upon the Government the immediate necessity of increasing the benefits
now payable under the Act and also an extension of the period during which full
benefits may be enjoyed.
This Council is further of the opinion that workers should be assured of suitable
maintenance benefit during the period they are medically certified as being incapaci-
tated through illness from following remunerative employment."


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

195
REPORT ON THE CONSTITUTION AND WORK OF
THE CONSUMERS' COUNCIL.

At a meeting of the Consumers' Council held at the Ministry of Food, Palace Chambers,
Westminster, on Wednesday, 19th November, 1919, it was resolved:
"That the Report on the work of the Council which had been prepared by the
Secretary and revised by the Sub-Committee be approved and circulated to the
various constituent bodies represented on the Council and the Press and in other manner
which might be thought necessary for the information of the public."
The Council further expressed their appreciation of the work of the Secretaries and the
valuable assistance rendered by them since the formation of the Council.

The Consumers' Council was formed in January, 1918. At that time the Food
situation, owing to the German submarine menace, had become very acute, and Mr. Clynes,
who had recently joined Lord Rhondda as his Parliamentary Secretary, felt the need of
enlisting the co-operation of the organised working classes and the co-operative move-
ment in the gigantic task which lay before the Ministry. Lord Rhondda readily agreed,
and suggested that the unorganised consumers should also be represented on the Council.
The following bodies were ultimately invited to send representatives :-
The Parliamentary Committee of the Co-operative Congress,
The Parliamentary Committee of the Trade Union Congress,
The War Emergency: Workers' National Committee, and
The Standing Joint Committee of Industrial Women's Organisations.
The invitation was accepted by each of those bodies and delegates appointed, as also
three delegates to represent the Unorganised Consumers.
The first meeting of the Council was presided over by Mr. Clynes, who, in explaining
the object with which they had been called together, said :-
" The Council would have access to the facts and figures on which the Ministry
based its policy. It would have no political attachment to the Government, and
would be free to give advice and record opinions without accepting responsibility for
the decisions of the Food Ministry. The Food Controller would, of course, retain
authority and responsibility for the policy of the Ministry, but the recommendations
or views of the Council would be of great value in the national interest.
" The Council could deal with problems of rationing, transport, administration,
and with all questions arising from the shortage of certain articles of food. The
interests of food producers were safeguarded by the public demand for articles of food
of every kind, and while full justice should be done to producers, and fair payment
made for their services, the Consumers' Council would be the special representative
of the interests of the public at large, and by acting within the Ministry could ascertain
for themselves the reasons why the various decisions of the Ministry were reached.
The Ministry was now an immense organisation, and had to undertake work having
the closest relation, not only to the civil population, but to millions of men who were
in the Army. In addition to the extensive machinery through which the Ministry
worked throughout the provinces, an idea of the vast extent of the work at headquarters
could be gathered from the fact that on an average 8,000 letters a day were received,
apart from sugar cards and forms. The Consumers' Council would, therefore, find
every outlet for its energies and for the advice which experienced men and women
could give in a difficult but necessary task."
Lord Rhondda, in elaborating the work which lay before the Council, said :-
" . . . as Mr. Clynes had said, he would have to take the responsibility as
Food Controller for ultimate decisions. Their relations with the Department would be
intimate and constant in character, and there would be no secrets kept back from them;
they would have access to everything, but they would realise that there were some
documents which they would not see. But the main thing to assure them of was
that there was no mystery about the department, and all possible information would be
available to them. They would give him their advice, and he would be accepting
very grave responsibility whenever they came to a unanimous decision if he rejected
their advice; but ultimately it must of necessity fall to his province and authority
to assume full responsibility for action taken. When he and Mr. Clynes took office
there was great discontent throughout the country as to prices of commodities, and
it had been decided to turn attention more particularly to prices in the first instance
rather than to supplies. Prices had been steadily advancing in all directions since
the beginning of the war. In many articles the increases had exceeded the increases
in wages, and commodities were rapidly getting beyond the reach of large sections of
the community. They had been criticised in that department for allowing theory

---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

199
BOOT MANUFACTURERS AT DINNER.
FUTURE OF THE INDUSTRY.
IMPORTANT SPEECH BY MR. OWEN PARKER.
Interesting Presentations.
There was a large attendance at the dinner of the Leicester Boot Manufacturers’
Association last evening, presided over by Mr. C. H. Roberts (President of the Association..
the guests including Mr. Owen Parker, OBF, LP. (President) and Mr. T. F. Marquis,
MA. Secretary of the Federation).
Our Guests,” welcomed Mr. Owen Parker and Mr.
The Chairman, in proposing
Marquis, and said the Federation was a really live organisation, interesting itself in all
matters of importance that came before the trade, and with a broad outlook on all industrial
Under Mr. Parker's presidency it had become representative of the
and trade questions.
whole trade, and about do per cent of the manufacturers were now affiliated with it.
In Mr. Parker they had a great leader. They owed a great deal to him for the work he
did at the War Office: owing to his efforts, control was less irksome and more beneficial
to the country than it might have been. With regard to Mr. Marquis, he was satisfied
that they did the right thing at the right time in appointing him secretary of the Federa-
Hear, hear Notwithstanding the industrial unrest, the general rising of prices,
tion.
and the demands of labour, it had been possible to arrange their businesses, and make
new arrangements with their workpeople without any friction of the nature of a strike.
The trade union's leaders, while rightly actuated by the desire to get the best terms they
could for their members, were actuated by the feeling that they would rather get those
advantages by arbitration than by strikes. (Hear, hear.)

Policy of the Federation.
The toast was heartily drunk, and Mr. Owen Parker in responding, said during the
last 25 years the great central organisation of the industry had worked steadily with one
object in view. They had had the good fortune to meet the representatives of labour,
who had taken a broad view of the situation, but he thought it was largely due to the
leadership and well-considered policy of the Federation that it was the boast of their
industry, and their industry alone of all the industries in the country, that they could
look back on a period of more than a quarter of a century without having had a strike.

Wages Questions.
With regard to wages, Mr. Parker observed that they were now being asked to revise
the terms agreed upon, after protracted deliberations. Frankly he was not surprised
that the matter had been brought up again, and did not believe that anything would
happen to disturb the good relationships that had existed for 25 years, but while he thought
he could say that the Federation would accept the invitation of the union to meet them,
he wanted to say that the underlying policy of the agreement was payments by
results, on what was commonly called piecework rates, and they had had a
strenuous year in revising their piecework statements to bring them into line with the
national agreement. Very few statements had been worked for a sufficiently long
period to ascertain their advantage or otherwise to those who were called upon
to work them. He felt bound to protest against any idea on the part of the union
to call for a revision of statements of the result of which they, like the employers,
were entirely ignorant. (Applause.) In a few months it might be found that the
terms were such as to make a revision necessary. It was, however, necessary that they
should "wait and see." He was of opinion that the solution of labour unrest difficulties
was not entirely a question of wages. (Hear, hear.)

Organisation and Unemployment.
They must attend to the internal organisation of their factories, so that their pro-
ductive capacity might be used to the utmost. It was also necessary to see whether
they could not remove the nightmare of unemployment through short time or
sickness, and they were considering very carefully means whereby it was hoped they
would be able to make concrete proposals for industry on both sides to make itself some-
what responsible for seeing that payments were made which would avoid starvation for
those who, through no fault of their own, were left without employment. (Hear, hear.)
In conclusion, Mr. Parker said they had before them a period of the gravest possible
anxiety, but he was sure that if they were true to themselves a bright future was assured.
(Applause.)
Mr. Marquis, in proposing “ The Leicester Boot Manufacturers’ Association,” said
there never was a time in the history of the country when industry mattered more, and
when the leaders of labour on the one hand and capital or, he preferred to call it, manage-


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

200
He appealed to the whole of the boot
by some such means could they do their, quota
trade to recognise a great national responsibility, to produce goods for export to every
ment on the other, had greater responsibilities.
as an industry in readjusting the exchange and repairing the ravages of war.
Presentations,
conceivable market in the world: only by some
know that they could never repay what
at they owed to these gentlemen, but they desired
MG W. Hunt, in supporting the toast, paid a tribute to the work of Mr. Roberts
and Mr Wilkes in securing unity of purpose among the members of the association. Ther
and Mr. Wilkes with a Georgian silver tea and coffee service and silver tray bearing the
to C. H. Roberts, Esq. (and Arthur Wilkes, Esq.) as a token of their high regard and in
to give a token of their esteem, and, on behalf of the members. he presented Mr. Roberts
inscription "Presented by the members of the Leicester Boot Manufacturers' Association
appreciation of his loyal and distinguished services to the industry. 6th February, 1920'
endeavoured to serve the industry to the best of his ability. He returned thanks for the
The toast was accorded musical honours, and Mr. Wilkes, responding, said he had
The Chairman also returned thanks to the members for their kind gift. - Leicester
handsome present, which took him entirely by surprise.
Mercury, February 7th, 1920.
"BAT-EYED.''
Sir Kingsley Wood, M.P., Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Health, speaking
at the opening of the Garden Villages Conference at Croydon on Monday, is reported to
people become bat-eyed and sometimes Bolshevik" But bat-eyedness is not a quality
have said: "Bred in towns, nurtured in alleys, reared up in stufty rooms-no wonder
confined to the slum-dweller. It is a characteristic of the Government official. To pass
a Profiteering Act which sought to penalise the small trader and let the man of
wholesale profiteering; to attempt to suppress the reports of such committees, and to
business" go free; to set up at length, under great pressure, committees to inquire into
And what in the slum-dweller is to be pitied, in the educated and well-paid official is to be
think that the public will utter no threat or raise no protest, what is this but bat-evedness)
depised and condemned.
money will surely make the workman and the peasant
"
big
see red." We regret the out-
Bad housing is a great cause of discontent, but capitalist robbery is a greater. Slums
may incubate Bolshevism, but the heartless effrontery of the man who boasts of blood-
bursts of the extremists among the workers, but we are not surprised at them. Th
decay of high morality in business is a lamentable feature of our time. Its evidences are
Dean Inge's contention that "the economic and the ethical theory of Liberalism cannot
be harmonised," by telling us that the earning of large profits is not a necessary evil.
Very speciously it states "it is not the amount of the profit that matters, but the way in
which it has been earned." We hold that excessive profits cannot be justly earned. We
ask, Is there no such thing as a fair profit? Is a man at liberty to make any rate of profit
he can manage to secure by exploiting the misfortunes of his country, or by cornering a
market, or by the methods of the trust and the combine, and to have no consideration of
the suffering which his conduct may involve on the masses of the people? We say that
such a doctrine is damnable. And if this is the method on which British business is to
be conducted we call upon our preachers to denounce it from their pulpits, and to work
and pray for the day when the present competitive system must give place to a system of
honest co-operation and mutual good will. The Methodist Times, January 29th, 1920.
WHAT THE PRESENT SHORTAGE OF HOUSES IS PRODUCING.
£30 offered for key of house, any district.
PROPERTY WANTED.
£5 for key of suitable house before Easter.
£5 for key of 6-roomed house, Dunton Street or North district preferred.
fro offered for key of six-roomed house, Rutland Street district.
120 offered for key of six or seven roomed house, Highfields or Clarendon Park.
45 premium offered for 3 unfurnished rooms or part house.
£50 premium for tenancy of house in nice locality, Leicester, rent £30 to £40.
- Leicester Mercury, February 12th, 1920.
(
T
la
T
jo
er
in
e
L
T
w
th
b
CC
in
th
of
de
ar
th
St
po
th
L
F
ci
th
su
to
Ú
(2
qu
im
CO
en
di
we
WE
th
of
or:
eff
be
th
wa
eff
em
ing

---
Here is the text from the image:

(1)
201
TRADES UNION CONGRESS PARLIAMENTARY
COMMITTEE.

THE "DAILY HERALD."

TO THE OFFICIALS AND MEMBERS OF AFFILIATED SOCIETIES.
GENTLEMEN, Supplementary to the appeal made at the Special Congress in December
last on behalf of the Daily Herald, Messrs. E. Bevin (as representing the Daily Herald
Trade Union Provisional Committee), and R. Williams (representing the Directors of that
journal) recently attended before the Parliamentary Committee and requested their
endorsement of the appeal for capital which is being made to the Trade Union movement
in support of the Daily Herald, and which it is understood is now before the Executive of
every Trade Union in the country.
The deputation urged that if the paper could be printed in Manchester as well as in
London a circulation of one million copies per day would be assured within one year.
The size of the paper would be increased to ten pages, a larger revenue from advertisements
would be commanded, and the whole concern made a sound financial investment.
The deputation also stated that offers had been made by capitalist concerns to purchase
the paper, which had been refused; and that certain syndicates were contemplating
bringing out a spurious Labour paper in order to counteract the influence of the Herald.
The deputation assured the Parliamentary Committee that the Daily Herald had
command of a sum of £100,000, which would be set aside in the Bank to guarantee the
interest for five years on the £400,000 now being raised. Both the present Directors and
the Provisional Trade Union Committee gave further assurance that they were confident
The continuous
of the scheme becoming a financial success at the end of five years.
demands that were being made for the paper, and the irritation caused when it did not
arrive in the various districts as sometimes occurred under present conditions indicated
that there was a growing need for development. The aggregate circulation of the present
Sunday papers is said to reach nearly 20 millions. These papers are made much use of by
politicians opposed to the Labour movement, for they now make a practice of issuing
their statements on Saturdays so as to secure publication on Sunday, when there is no
Labour paper to counteract the influence of the capitalist Sunday press.
Any profits made from the undertakings, over and above the guaranteed interest of
Five per cent. will be used for the development of a real Labour press, able to print and
circulate all the best that Labour can produce.
The Parliamentary Committee, after hearing the deputation, decided to recommend
the Executives of the Unions to give the appeal their urgent consideration and financial
support. For further information the Parliamentary Committee refer the Unions direct
to Mr. Ernest Bevin, the Hon. Secretary of the Daily Herald Trade Union Committee,
2, Gough Square, Fleet Street, E.C. 4, who will send deputations to the Executives of any
Unions willing to receive them.
(2) EMPLOYMENT OF YOUNG PEOPLE IN DISTRIBUTIVE TRADES.
As you are aware, the Shop Assistants' Union has unceasingly struggled for over a
quarter of a century to limit the excessive hours of labour, increase the wages, and generally
improve the conditions of those employed in the distributive trades of the country. A
considerable measure of success has attended its efforts, and many of the worst phases of
employment in shop life, common 25 years ago, have been ameliorated or got rid of entirely.
By comparison with other occupations, however, the wages of those employed in the
distributive trades are, in many cases, shockingly low, while there is no normal working
week or any legal limitation to the hours of labour, except for young people under 18,
who cannot legally be employed beyond 74 hours per week. This is largely due to the fact
that the whole occupation is always being inundated with young people, often children
of even less than 14 years of age, and who, therefore, are for the most part too young to
organise. It is this fact which accounts for the slow progress made, in spite of the unceasing
efforts made by the Shop Assistants' Union, though the new Education Act, as soon as it
becomes operative, is likely to alter very considerably the position of young people entering
the distributive trades.
For the last nine or ten years serious efforts have been made to establish minimum
wage scales throughout the country, and thousands of pounds have been spent in these
efforts. During the last two or three years some measure of success has been attained.
The Union feels that until it can control the conditions of work for those who enter
employment in shop life, the improvements secured by Trade Union effort must be exceed-
ingly small for the tremendous expense and efforts made.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

203
The Leicestershire and Rutland Board of Conciliation and
Arbitration for the Boot and Shoe Trade.
COUNTY MACHINISTS' PIECEWORK STATEMENT.
The following copy of a resolution was adopted at a meeting of the County
Arbitration Board held February 4th, 1920 :
"That pending the issue of the revised Machinists' Piecework Statement for the
County, the percentage advance agreed upon by the Joint Committee, namely 70
per cent., shall be paid to the female piecework operatives on the net earnings in
lieu of the War Bonus and the 20 per cent, advance as from the working week com-
mencing January 29th, 30th or 31st, being the date upon which it has been decided
that the Statement should come into operation."
In accordance with the above resolution, the operatives engaged on piecework
in the Closing Department are to receive 70 per cent. on their net earnings in place of
the War Bonus and the 20 per cent. War Wage, commencing on this week's pay day pending
the completion of the Closing Statement.

FOOD-STUFFS.
The following table shows what we produce, and what we have to import :----
MR. LAMBERT asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Board of Agriculture, what
was the estimated consumption by the United Kingdom during the year 1919 of wheat,
barley, oats, beef, mutton, bacon, butter and cheese, and what are the proportions of
these products imported from overseas and produced at home?
The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY OF FOOD (Mr. McCurdy): I have
been asked to reply. As the answer is in the form of a statistical table I propose, with the
permission of the House, to circulate it in the Official Report.
The following is the table referred to :-
Commodity.
Wheat
Barley
Oats..
Beef and Veal
Mutton and Lamb
Bacon and Hams
Butter
Cheese
::
Proportion of Home-grown and
Imported Produce included.
Estimated Total
Consumption.
Home-grown.
Imported.
Tons.
Per cent.
Per cent.
7,395,000
27
73
1,956,000
64
36
4,297,000
92
8
995,000
66
34
368,000
57
43
447,000
19
81
1
180,000
58
42
145,000
30
70

NOTES.-Cereals. The quantities are given after deduction for seed and in the case of
wheat, for tailings also.
1
Bacon. The quantities given are for bacon as smoked or dried.
0
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.
MEMBERS
should see to it that the members of their families, who are members of
the Union, should BELONG to their own Approved Society. All persons
belonging to the Union, upon attaining the age of 16 years, should
approve AT ONCE with the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
Transfers can now be dealt with.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
JOHN W. MURBY, Manager.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

Telephone No.:
4438, Museum, London.

Telegraphic Address:
"Natunishop, Holb., London."

OPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members, the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NATIONAL UNION OF
Boot and Shoe Operatives.

MONTHLY REPORT.
Nearest Post Office:
34, GUILFORD STREET,
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
LONDON, W.C. I,
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
22ND MARCH, 1920.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
THE STATE OF TRADE
still continues fairly good in most parts of the Kingdom, the figures issued in the Labour Gazette being as follows :-
In this trade employment during February was fairly good on the whole, but there was a considerable amount of short time, which was partly due to shortage of female labour and to difficulties in connection with the supplies of raw materials.
At Leicester employment on the whole was fair, and not quite so good as in January; a considerable amount of short time was reported. At Northampton and in the surround-ing district employment showed a slight decline; at Kettering it continued fair. At Norwich and Stafford the operatives continued well employed, and at Bristol employment was fair. In Scotland generally employment continued good.
The exports of boots and shoes in February, 1920, amounted to 78,204 dozen pairs, or 16,837 dozen pairs less than in January, 1920, and 65,284 dozen pairs less than in February, 1913.

ADVANCES.
DUNDEE. Upon the firm of Messrs. Patterson Ltd. an increase of 5s. has been granted, bringing males wages up to 75s. per week and 40s. for females.
At a meeting of the Leicester Arbitration Board held on the 20th ult., the following resolutions were adopted in connection with the Statement for Lasting Nursery and Children's work :-
"That the piecework statement for lasting 2 to 8 nursery and children's machine-sewn work dated February 5th, 1920, now submitted by the nursery lasting joint committee, be approved and confirmed by the Board, the prices to come into operation and be paid from and including the working week commencing on February 19th, 20th or 21st, 1920.”
That the 70 per cent. addition agreed upon as regards the machine-sewn and riveted hand lasting statement for nursery and children's work be applied to the 1892 hand state-ment prices for lasting women's, girls' and boys' machine-sewn and riveted work, and that such prices be revised accordingly by the firms affected, the revised prices to come

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

229
UNEMPLOYMENT BILL.
Several meetings with the Committee of the Manufacturers' Federation
and ourselves have been held during the month, along with a representative
from the Ministry of Labour, with a view to seeing if a scheme dealing with
unemployment could not be drawn up for the industry outside the Government.
proposals. We are not in a position to report further on the matter at present,
and for the same reason we cannot state what increase, if any, to the present
contribution we shall ask for at the Whitsuntide Conference. Information,
however, will be sent out as soon as possible regarding the same.
1919 AGREEMENT REVISION.
During the past month we have held several meetings with the Executive
Committee of the Manufacturers' Federation, under the Chairmanship of
Alderman F. Sheppard, J.P., regarding the re-opening of the 1919 Agreement
with a view to increasing the minimum scale rates of pay owing to the ever-
increasing cost of living. We are not in a position to state the results at the
present time, except to say that proposals are now being considered, and
meetings arranged to go further into the matter. We hope to be able to
report fully upon the matter in the April Report.
NATIONALISATION OF MINES.
DIRECT ACTION DEFEATED BY 2,820,000.
The Special Congress was attended by about eight hundred delegates
representing 5,250,000 members, and was presided over by the Rt. Hon. J. H.
Thomas, M.P., who placed the position both for and against political action,
and shewed the dangers to the movement if a strike was decided upon. Mr.
F. Hodges, on behalf of the Miners, moved in favour of " trade union action
in the form of a general strike," and from his standpoint put up as strong a
case as possible, although he admitted from the debating standpoint the argu-
ment was against him. Very few speeches indeed were made, the evident
desire of the Congress being the issue not being mixed up with other matters-
to take the vote without numerous speeches being made. Two speakers spoke
against direct action and Mr. Hodges and Mr. Mann in favour. The result
shewed :-
In favour of Trade Union Action
Against
..
..
..
..
1,050,000
3,870,000
Majority Against..
..
..
2,820,000
The vote being so unmistakable as to which policy should be pursued
will undoubtedly clear the air and enable political action propaganda to proceed
along the lines, and so educate the electorate upon the question of nationalisa-
tion of other monopolies as well as mines.


---


---
231
has brought about such vast improvements in the wages, hours, and
conditions of employment.
MONTHLY RETURNS.
We beg to call the attention of Branch Secretaries to the advisability of
keeping a copy for their own use of the Monthly Returns sent to the Central
Office. There are a number of reasons why this should be done which we need
not particularise here; one, however, may specially be named: if the Returns
were lost and no copy kept it would mean all the work being done over again.
OUR ROLL OF HONOUR.
We have to report with pain and regret that the following members
have either been killed in action or died of wounds during the past
month. To the relatives of our departed comrades we tender our
sincere sympathy in this their time of loss and sorrow.

Union No.
Member's Name.
Cause of Death.
Branch.
Regiment.

5602
JOHN DOCHERTY
Died on Service
Glasgow No. 2
Highland L.I.
71337
W. POLE
Killed in Action
Leicester
West Riding.
47576
A. RODWELL
Northampton
Northants.
48229
A. BROWN ..
"
"
"
61968
H. BRAWN
"
Wellingborough Middlesex.
84707
F. FISHER
Died on Service
"
Essex.
Up to the end of January we had lost no fewer than 2,568 in the
War. This month 6 more have been reported, making a grand total
of 2,574.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEEΝΤΗ !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of branch secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. Last month many returns were late.
Branches failed to send off their returns to reach the Central Office by the
15th of the month, and this tends to upset the organisation of the work in
the General Secretary's office. We trust in future every branch secretary
will endeavour to get in his returns NOT later than the fifteenth of every month,
and before sending them see that they are properly signed. Moreover,
lateness in sending in the Monthly Returns makes it increasingly
difficult to get out the Report in time for the Monthly Meetings.
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.

---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

235
PARLIAMENTARY AGENT'S REPORT.
The end of the last Session found the Members generally somewhat wearied, and all
seemed glad of the prospect of the recess. I am afraid that for the Labour Members it
was not much of a rest, though it may have been a change. What with the campaign
for the Nationalisation of the Mines, the bye-election, and the claims of their own con-
stituencies most had a very busy time. In my own case, apart from addressing meetings,
the Royal Commission on Agriculture, and the delegation to Ireland made it almost
impossible apart from the Christmas period to spend more than a few days at home.
The delegation sent by the Parliamentary Labour Party to Ireland was a wise step.
The Irish question has always been in some respects a difficult one to study from a distance,
and an investigation on the spot, even if the time for same was limited, could only produce
good results. We were able to obtain a great deal of information, much of which was
highly discreditable to the present Government. In pre-war days it would have dismayed
all lovers of liberty and freedom, but following upon a war that was frequently stated
to be in defence of the right of small nationalities, the present condition of Ireland is such
as to cause one to wonder whether we have not drifted back rather than moved forward.
That the present conditions cannot continue with advantage to either Great Britain
or Ireland is self-evident, and one can only hope that the report of the delegation when
issued, which will be very shortly, will awaken an interest in this century old question,
which will demand a solution in a way that will end the difficulty and give to Ireland the
task and the opportunity of working out her future. The longer it is delayed the more
difficult will it become. It is a matter of extreme urgency and a big responsibility rests
upon those who refuse to view it from that standpoint. The Irish people have largely
lost confidence in the British politicians, their one remaining hope is in the British Labour
Party. Let us by establishing justice in this distressed country, prove ourselves worthy
of the trust reposed in us.
There is a general expectation that the present Session will be a critical one for the
Government, and indeed speculation is rife as to whether it will not prove to be fateful
to the Coalition. Be that as it may, if the Government survive throughout the Session,
its time will be fully occupied, for the King's speech, which is really the official declaration
of the Government legislative programme, is undoubtedly a heavy one. The debating
activities of the Labour Party during the discussion on the address showed that they are
very dissatisfied with the Government's proposals. Nationalisation of Coal Mines is
again rejected. The reference to the cost of living is a typical example of the false sense
of security and satisfaction of the Government. The people are told that" prices in these
islands are appreciably lower than elsewhere." This is certainly cold comfort to a people
who know perfectly well that profiteering in regard to the necessities of life is still rampant,
and it will require more than empty phrases on the part of the Government to remove the
present popular discontent due to abnormal prices.
The King's Speech is also remarkable for various important omissions, notably the
total absence of reference to the housing problem, which continues to exercise the minds
of the people, and to the question of the financial condition of the country.
At the last General Election, Mr. Lloyd George, forgetful of the great assistance
rendered by Labour during the war, returned to his inimitable Limehouse style and warned
the nation of the evil consequence that would follow if the "Bolsheviks" of this country
were charged with the responsibility of government. The immediate object of the Prime
Minister was to secure the defeat of Labour candidates and his misrepresentation of the
Labour policy towards Russia assisted him in achieving a large measure of success. But
how different the position is to-day! The policy of non-intervention for which Labour
alone among the political parties in our country then stood, has now been accepted by the
Prime Minister, and by Mr. Asquith, the leader of the independent Liberals. Indeed,
the Prime Minister does not hesitate to appropriate the very argument put forward during
the last Session by Mr. Clynes in his advocacy of a sane Russian policy. Mr. Clynes stated
that the best way to restore stable government in Russia was not to fight the Russian
people but to feed them.
The Prime Minister administered an unmistakeable snub to Mr. Churchill and his
ambitious schemes for carrying "liberty" to Russia at the point of the bayonet. "We
have failed to restore Russia to sanity by force, I believe we can save her by trade."
This belated admission amply justifies Labour's consistent and persistent opposition to
the blockade and to Mr. Churchill's military adventures. The Prime Minister's return to
sanity has been slow and somewhat devious. Nevertheless, Labour can congratulate
itself that it is at last within measurable distance of securing the orientation of Britain's
Russian policy on to the lines which the organised workers have been pressing for since the
signing of the Armistice.
During the past few weeks discussion on political prospects has usually brought
forward the suggestion that the Prime Minister might play for a breach with organised
Labour on the question of Nationalisation of the Mines in order that if a national stoppage

---


---


---


---
243
BRANCH REPORTS.
BRISTOL No. 1.-Trade has fallen off considerably with some discharges
of men. At our Branch meeting the Report of the Industrial Council held
January 27th last, gave rise to a strong discussion on the attitude taken up
by the Council on Works Committees. This Branch is of opinion that with
proper safeguards works committees can be a power for helping and not hinder-
ing the Union officials in carrying out their work. This is proved by the
working of such a committee at one of the largest firms in the district. We
therefore strongly protest against the Council's action on this important ques-
tion. We are very anxiously awaiting the result of meetings of our Council
and the Federation representatives on the minimum wage question, and trust
that the £4 asked for may be an accomplished fact.
BELFAST.-Trade remains similar to previous month, fair in the Manu-
facturing, but quiet in the Repairing. With regard to the application sent
to the Boot and Top Manufacturers, we are pleased to report that some progress
was made, the men on the 56s. minimum rate were increased up to 65s., and
the women on the 30s. minimum rate were increased to 35s. A meeting of
the Trades Board was held during the month in Belfast when the time and
piecework rates were confirmed with some slight modifications. A Sub-Com-
mittee was appointed to draw up special rates and conditions of working for
apprentices.
BURNLEY.-We are dissatisfied with our present wages and desire an
advance. We are in a considerably worse position than we were in 1914.
But to fight alone is suicidal, so we have written all secretaries in Lancashire
asking them to join us in our endeavour to better our conditions. Now,
Lancashire shopmates, rally round us, and if you will back us up we will do
the fighting. You have nothing to lose, but everything to gain.
CHESTERFIELD.-Trade very good. We agree with our General Presi-
dent in his report, that our future agreements must have swifter application.
Our members at our monthly meeting ask the Council to press the Union demand
to the fullest extent; they are now overdue, when we look round and see what
other trades are getting at the present time. Also on every hand we see the
cost of food and other necessaries of life still going up. Our members are
looking forward this time for something that will give satisfaction all round.
CHESHAM.-Trade here is slack, some of our members are being dis-
charged, others are losing time. These things with the continual increase in
the cost of living, are making our members very dissatisfied with the present
rates of pay; and if the manufacturers do not soon get a move on and meet
the increase, we might with advantage to the workers be brought under the
Trade Boards Act. Our local Labour Party have decided to contest all six
seats at the forthcoming Urban District Council election; Mr. J. Davis will be
the Boot and Shoe Operatives' candidate, taking the place of our Branch
President, who is retiring from local politics owing to ill-health.
DUNDEE. Whilst operatives in boot factories in this area are having
a plentiful supply of work, the repairer on the other hand has severely felt
the intense sluggishness of his calling, resulting in a heavy weekly bill for out-
of-work benefit. This part of the administrative machinery of a trade union
has a significance beyond its surface value. Little as the dole is, the flickering
flames of discontent are thereby lessened, enabling the country to reach more
readily the normal conditions which most people are calling loudly for to-day.
A very harmonious gathering of the members of the branch took place on
Saturday, the 21st February, in the "Stag," Hilltown, the occasion being the
presentation to Mr. John Moir of his portrait in oils, the able work of our


---
Here is the text from the image:

245
to us. It will gladden the hearts of a lot of our members to see the piece rates
come through as some are down in the dumps owing to the report in the trade
Press this week which reads to the effect of it being delayed or put back, and
which will cause a lot of discontent among repairers generally, if such should
happen to be the case.
KETTERING No. 2.--We can at last report progress with regard to the
Roughstuff Statement. Two meetings have been held, and we are hoping
that a reasonable basis to start from will be agreed upon, and that rapid pro-
gress will be made with this Statement, as the men in this department are about
tired of waiting. The position with regard to the Closing Statement is far
from satisfactory: the employers as far as our knowledge goes, have not as yet
attempted to force the situation; it is perhaps best not to comment on the
position, but await developments. Our members were very pleased to hear
that the Council had started negotiating with regard to increasing the minimum
rate, and sincerely hope that a large measure of success will attend their efforts
in this direction. At the moment we have only one on the out-of-work, although
considerable time is being lost in the Clicking Department. Sickness is just
over normal.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.---Trade is this centre is still very quiet,
with the exception of those firms making lighter classes of footwear. Memories
of previous depressions in trade in our district are still fresh, but nothing so
dramatically sudden has been previously experienced. The outlook at the
time of writing is far from encouraging. The problems peculiar to our industry
will have to be recognised, and tackled by the responsible thinkers among
both employed and those who accept the responsibility of ownership. Our
trade has solved the problem of production, with its almost automatic power
of expansion, and in view of our present unhappy evidence of over production,
why not devote a portion of our thought and energy to a consideration of
measures of a restrictive character affecting hours of labour, control of output,
and a still more comprehensive control over the introduction of labour into
our industry. Numbers of our men, returned from the Services, triumphant
in war, find no welcome situation in civil life, and bitterly reflect, "what shall
it profit a nation, capable of winning in a tremendous war, but incapable of
organising its civil life to guarantee even a minimum standard of comfort
to its members."
LEICESTER No. 1. - Very pleased to report that we have organised
Ratby and made over 80 members, male and female, and it is hoped they will
stick together and see the benefits derived by becoming Trade Unionists.
LEEDS No. 1. - We regret to report that a falling off in the heavy and
medium work has taken place, and as a consequence our out-of-work is likely
to become much heavier, but we hope that this unfortunate change may be
only temporary. We regret to report that our sick list remains very heavy.
No doubt this is due partly to the varied changes in the weather. We are
pleased to report that by the time this report appears in print, our members
who are employed in the making and finishing of light work will be working
to the new Piece Statement, which we believe will prove satisfactory to all
employed. We are pleased to report that through the efforts of Mr. Wright,
Solicitor, we have been successful in obtaining £110 compensation for Reg. No.
35648, and also £30 for Reg. No. 101304. It is pleasing to note that the same
gave satisfaction to the two members.
LIVERPOOL.-Trade is still quiet with repairers. We have had two
members on the sick list and one on the out-of-work funds. From a financial
point of view the year that is past and gone was successful; balance, November
30th, 1918, £29 2s. 7d.; Income for the year, £248 17s. 9d.; Total, £278 os. 4d.
Expenditure, £236 15s. 5d.; Balance in hand and at bank, £41 45. 11d.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

249
TRADES UNION CONGRESS PARLIAMENTARY COMMITTEE.

DELEGATES' REPORT OF THE ADJOURNED SPECIAL CONGRESS.

The adjourned Special Congress was held in the Central Hall, Westminster, London,
on Thursday, 11th March, 1920, commencing at to a.m., the Rt. Hon. J. H. Thomas,
M.P., chairman of the Parliamentary Committee, being in the chair. Mr. Thomas gave
a very reasoned statement pointing out the difficulties on the one hand of what would
accrue from Direct Action," and the facilities existent for bringing into being those
things which are so desired - from the workers' standpoint (on the other) if only the vote
of the workers is used in the proper way at the Ballot Box. After the statement of the
chairman the Congress agreed to back his position, the meeting without formally moving
taking the following resolution :---
"In view of the repeated refusal of the Government to Nationalise the Mines,
in accordance with the Minority Report of the Coal Industry Commission, and in
agreement with the terms of the resolution passed at the Glasgow Congress, and the
Special Congress held in December last, the Parliamentary Committee suggest the
following forms of action as a means to compel the Government to adopt the Nation-
alisation of Mines: (a) Trade Union action, in the form of a general strike."
There voted in favour..
Against
Majority Against
1,050,000
3,870,000
2,820,000
MR. F. HODGES, on behalf of the Miners, moved in favour of trade union action being
taken, but admitted from the point of view of argument the position was against him.
He stated there were special circumstances which in his judgment called for trade union
action on account of the long delay which had already obtained in bringing about the
reforms desired.
MR. T. SHAW, M.P. opposed Mr. Hodges' statements.
MR. J. R. CLYNES, M.P., supported political action and pointed out the danger of the
whole movement if we were engaged in a general strike, and he felt sure the Government
would make an appeal to the country to rally to the support of the Government and again
return them to power.
MR. T. MANN favoured trade union action in the form of a strike.
For Resolution (b) there voted :-
(b) Political action, in the form of intensive political propaganda, in preparation
for a General Election.
For
Against
Majority For
3,732,000
1,015,000
2,717,000
The Congress was a fully representative one there being over 800 delegates present,
representing 5,250,000 members. Now that the policy has been laid down for political
action in such a clear manner it is hoped there will be no hesitation in going forward with
the propaganda and thus not only educate and convert the majority of the electorate
of the country to our way of thinking in the matter, and thereby secure at the proper time
a majority of members to the House of Commons to bring about a policy which once
established as to the Nationalisation of Mines, going down as it does to the foundation of
society as at present constituted, will make the way so much easier for the nationalisation
of other industries. All your delegates voted in the majority except one.
T. F. RICHARDS, General President.
GEORGE PARBURY.
ALFRED HILL.
C. BATES.
S. J. B. BARNES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. TOWNLEY.
SAMUEL THOMPSON.
WALTER R. SMITH.
F. C. JEX.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
MR. H. SIMMONS did not attend owing to illness.
Delegates.
D


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

National Union of Boot & Shoe Operatives
APPROVED SOCIETY 281.

60,000
NEW MEMBERS
WANTED

All Members
should become Approved through their own Trade
Union. By this they will get all their benefits from
one source with the least possible friction.

If all Trade Unionists were Approved
through their own Trade Union
they could become a great force, making for the
establishment of a Real Public Health Service, Good
Houses, Good Factory and Workshop Conditions.

REMEMBER-
The Health of the People is the Supreme Law.
Become a missionary and help us to enrol all our
members in their own Approved Society.

APPLICATION FORMS and all information can be had by
applying to your Local Secretary, and
ADVICE ON INSURANCE MATTERS
can always be had by writing to
JOHN W. MURBY, Insurance Manager, 34, Guilford St., London, W.C.1.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

253
WELFARE WORK
AT MESSRS. SMITH & BROWN'S.

A correspondent, who is evidently a bit of a humorist, asks us to insert the following:
"The well-known firm of boot and shoe manufacturers, Messrs. Smith and Brown,
met their employees on Monday to explain to them the new welfare arrangements which
had been made. At the outset Mr. Smith first stated how very pleased he was to see
representatives of the various daily and weekly papers present, It did not always do
to keep all good things to oneself, and if this good news got into the papers many young
ladies would get to hear of it, and would be glad to know of what was being done. Mr.
Smith went on to explain the advantages which his firm hoped to bring about, as they
thought the hours which working people were working to-day, viz., 48 hours were much
too long. They, therefore, proposed commencing work in the morning at 9.30. At 10.30
there would be a half-hour break for lunch. The ladies would be supplied with either
tea, coffee or cocoa, and one-round of buttered toast. The men would be supplied with
a round of bread and cheese, with either a bottle of Bass or Guinness (here the band of the
Life Guards, which had been engaged purposely for this great day, struck up 'He's a
jolly good fellow,' and the speaker bad hard work to proceed owing to several of the workers
closing round and tapping him on the back).

Mr. Smith said that was not all the good news by all means. They considered seeing
that some of the workers lived ten minutes away from the factory, that the dinner time
had to be extended to two hours. Therefore they proposed leaving off at 12 o'clock, and
not starting again till two. When the workers returned they would be met at the gates
with trays of whatever fruit happened to be in season, as doctors all agreed that there
was nothing like fruit for the constitution, and Mr. Smith assured the workers that he was
very deeply interested in their physical welfare.

Mr. Smith then proceeded to say that no doubt the workers had noticed the sprinklers
which had been put in the roof of all the various departments, and no doubt the employees
thought that they had been put up to put out any fires which might arise. 'Oh, no,'
said he, we have something far better in view than this; and that is, whenever the atmos-
phere in the department becomes a little oppressive we shall spray through these sprinklers
20 gallons of eau-de-Cologne through the factory. (The band here struck up 'Sweet Violets.')
At 3.30 you will all retire in the roof-garden, where tea and cakes will be handed
round by smart good-looking girls (here the men broke into singing. First one commenced
with 'Come into the garden, Maud.' This appeared a bit too classical for the majority,
and all united in singing 'K-K-K-Katy, my beautiful Katy.') 'To make the time pass
pleasantly, Mr. Smith added, we are engaging a small string band to discourse sweet
music to you during tea interval. At 4 o'clock work will be resumed, and we trust that
when you get down to your various departments there will be no bunnyhugging or fox-
trotting going on, as we are anxious to close in the afternoon at 5 o'clock. Upon leaving
work for the day the girls will be supplied with a small packet of chocolate each, and the
men with either a cigar or packet of Woodbines." Mr. Smith then pointed out that
each worker would be supplied with three clean overalls per week, also the male operatives
with one suit per year and the female operatives with one new dress. Fathers of very large
families, would also receive £5 allowance per year for each child. (The band here struck
up with 'I'm a dada, I'm a dada.') Also Mr. Smith mentioned that if any one of the workers
happened to die while in their employ, a grand oak coffin, carved in Jacobean style, with
gold handles, and nicely padded eiderdown, would be provided.

Mr. Smith said there was just one more benefit he would like to mention. The firm
had decided in the interest of the health of the workers to allow a full month's holiday
during the month of August, which of course they would be paid for. (The band chipped
in here with the 'Hallelujah Chorus.')
"Now there was one favour he would like to ask, upon entering the works would
they please remember to wipe their feet on the mat. Also to make a special endeavour
to be kind and considerate to their foremen and employers. The memorable occasion was
then brought to a close by the band playing 'Rule Britannia' and 'God save Smith and
Brown' (and they will need it)."-Hinckley Times.

PLAYING FIELD FOR EMPLOYEES.
J. H. F. Willis, Ltd., Worcester, have acquired the old Worcestershire county cricket
ground, and they have presented it to their Cinderella Works employees as a recreation
ground. Mr. H. Mattock, the general manager, in handing it over, said it was the firm's
wish that the employees should manage it for and by themselves. He hoped the glorious
sporting memories of the ground would inspire them to emulation. Mr. Hardwick, on
behalf of the employees, expressed gratitude for the generosity of the firm. -Shoe Trades
Journal, February 27th, 1920.


---


---
BOOT REPAIRERS' WAGES.
Official Announcement by the Ministry of Labour.
The Ministry of Labour makes the following announcement :- --
"At a recent meeting of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board (Great Britain)
it was resolved to fix general minimum piece rates for male and female workers and general
minimum time rates and overtime rates for female workers and to vary the general minimum
time rates at present in operation for certain classes of male workers, in accordance with the
notice of proposal to fix and to vary issued by the Trade Board, on December 1, 1919.
The minimum piece rates in question are for repairing (hand-sewn and riveted work) and
for making bespoke hand-sewn, pegged and riveted work.
"The general minimum time rates fixed by the Trade Board for female workers of
21 years of age and upwards are 45s. per week of 48 hours, where such workers are employed
in a productive department on patching machines; 65s. per week of 48 hours for female
workers employed on finishing or benching work; and 2s. per hour for female workers
employed on surgical work. The Trade Board have also fixed overtime rates for female
workers and general minimum time rates for younger female workers in the trade.
"Trade Board have also resolved to fix a general minimum time rate of Is. 6d. an hour
for male workers ordinarily employed on piece work when employed on a time work basis
on work for which no general minimum piece rates are fixed; and 2s. per hour for male
workers employed on surgical work.
"The minimum rates fixed by the Trade Board will not become effective unless and
until they have been confirmed by the Minister of Labour. The Trade Board have notified
the Minister of Labour that they have fixed these rates and have suggested that they should
be made effective as from March 12, 1920.
On the receipt of an Order by the Minister of Labour confirming the rates in question,
a statutory notice setting our the particulars of the minimum rates fixed and varied by
the Trade Board will be circulated to the trade. --Shoe and Leather Record, March 5th, 1920.
S.C.W.S. BALANCE SHEET.
Year's Turnover £24,750,000.
Big Increases in Sales and Production.
The Scottish Co-operative Wholesale Society's balance sheet and statement of accounts
for the half-year ended December 27th, 1919, is now issued, and reveals continued progress.
The net sales for the half-year amount to £13,040,502 195. 1od., an increase of £2,939,006
18s. 3d. over the corresponding period of 1918, the rate of increase being 29.1 per cent.
The value of goods manufactured in the productive departments and transferred to the
distributive departments, including the direct sales of by-products from flour mills, soap
works, &c., amounted to £3,935,294 6s. Iod., an increase of £996,748 11s. 6d. over the
corresponding half-year of 1918, or 33.9 per cent.
The sales for the whole year were £24,773,381 75. 10d., an increase of £5,556,618 9s. 3d.
over the year 1918, equal to a percentage of 28.9. The total amount of these sales does
not include payments for controlled goods received from the Ministry of Food. The total
value of goods manufactured for the year 1919 at the productive departments and trans-
ferred to the distributive departments, including the direct sales of by-products from
flour mills, soap works, &c., was £7,413,135 25. 2d., an increase over 1918 of £1,769,006
Is. 6d., or 31.3 per cent.
The balance carried forward from last half-year was £21,764 10s. 2d., making the
amount available for distribution for this half-year £349,345 125. IId. After meeting
all expenses, including interest on capital, depreciation on buildings, machinery, and
plant, the directors recommend this sum for allocation as follows:-£245,017 14S. 2d.
as dividend on purchases to members and non-members at the rate of 5d. in the pound
and 2d. in the pound respectively; £27,167 145. 3d. to reserve fund; £3,755 3s. 4d.
to special fund; and ₤20,000 to be appropriated for writing down investments to current
market value; leaving a balance of £53,405 IS. 2d. to be carried forward to next half-
year's account.
During the half-year 24,598 shares were allotted to societies, of which 600 were trans-
ferred, 823 new, and 23,175 additional. The total number of shares held by societies
is now 649,995. -The Co-operative News, March 6th, 1920.


---
Here is the text from the image:

256
DYING VIENNA.
By EDO FIMMEN.
THE POSITION OF THE RELIEF MOVEMENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL TRADE UNIONS ON
BEHALF OF THE AUSTRIAN TRADE UNIONS, FEBRUARY 5TH, 1920.

England.
The General Federation of Trade Unions informed us that a shipment of 10,000 kilo-
grams of margarine and 1,500 cases of compressed beef, weighing about 40,000 kg., is being
sent to Holland via the Co-operative Wholesale Society at Manchester, to be distributed
amongst the working classes of Vienna. The value of this shipment is about £5,000.

Holland.
The moneys derived from the extra hours made by the Dutch trade unionists—that
is, by working on Boxing Day—are now coming in. As in various places the eight hours
overtime have not been completed as yet, and as a fairly great deal of administrative work
has still got to be done in connection with the division of the money, which has got to be
made in accordance with the wishes expressed by the members of the four different national
centres, we are not yet in a position to give details as to the total sum so far collected in
Holland.

Italy.
The Confederazione Generale del Lavoro at Milano wrote us under date of January 15th
that the moneys collected from the Italian workers for our comrades in Vienna will be
remitted to the International Federation, with the exception of a small part to be applied
for defraying the expenses for housing and maintaining a number of working-class children
from Vienna in Italy.

Spain.
The Spanish Centre "Union General de Trabajadores" wrote us on January 30th
that to its great regret it is not in a position to contribute anything—not even in a moderate
way—for alleviating the great distress of the Austrian population. This is attributed to
the difficult economic position in which the Spanish population itself is placed at this mo-
ment.
From the Centres of the other countries no reports have come to hand since our letter
of January 29th.
*  *  *  *
The articles about the position in Vienna mentioned in our reports on January 21st,
have been taken up, besides in the papers referred to, in these reports in—
England: THE DEMOCRAT.
Norway: Social Demokraten.
Sweden: Social Demokraten.

A Trainload of Foodstuffs.
With a special train, consisting of 40 wagons the International Federation of Trade
Unions sent on January 26th to Vienna :-
100,000 kg. margarine . . .
10,000 kg. cocoa . . .
250,000 kg. potatoes . . .
I wagon of so-called egg-coals . . .
I wagon sundries . . .
Bought by the
International Federation.
Presented in kind by
Holland to the I.F.
According to telegraphic advice received this train safely reached Vienna on Saturday,
January 31st.
On February 16th a second train will leave Holland for Vienna, containing :-
105,000 kg. cheese . . .
10,000 kg. cocoa . . .
20,000 kg. hard soap . . .
200,000 kg. potatoes . . .
40,000 kg. compressed beef . . .
10,000 kg. margarine . . .
I wagon sundries . . .
Bought by the
International Federation.
Bought by the General
Federation of Trade Unions
and forwarded to the I.F. of
T.U.
Presented in kind by Holland
to the I.F. of T.U.

---
257
This train will presumably be accompanied by W. A. Appleton and the writer, respec-
tively President and Secretary of the International Federation of Trade Unions, in order
to again investigate the present position locally, and to confer with the Austrian comrades.
as to the further assistance to be given.
Grants have been made by the Council, 1500, and the following Branches have notified
us of their Contributions to the Austrian Relief Fund...

S. d.
Kettering No. 2.
Kilmarnock
Norwich No. 2.
Plymouth
Rushden
Shepshed
Wolverhampton
f
2
2
()
Τ
(0 ()
5
() ()
5
() ()
5
Ο ()
I
()
()
2 0
()
INDUSTRIAL COUNCILS.
ENFORCEMENT OF AGREEMENTS.
MR. JESSON asked the Minister of Labour if dissatisfaction exists in those industries-
that have established Industrial Councils when decisions and agreements arrived at are
ignored or set at defiance by those employers who are not parties to those agreements or
members of employers' associations; and whether he will consider the advisability of
making the decisions and agreements upon wages, conditions, and hours of employment
arrived at by all Industrial Councils binding upon the whole of the respective industries.
when they represent two-thirds of the workers and their employers concerned, so as to
prevent employers under-selling those who are helping to establish industrial peace ?
SIR R. HORNE: I propose to answer this question in some detail because the principle
involved is one to which public attention ought to be given. I should say, in the first place,
that while it is the fact that several Joint Industrial Councils have asked for powers to
make their agreements compulsory on the whole trade, it is far from being the case that.
this demand is universal. This division of opinion was to be expected in view of the
controversial history of this and the allied question, from which it is difficult to dissociate
it, of making awards of Courts of Arbitration compulsory. In 1913, the Industrial Council,
a body consisting of representatives of employers' associations and trade unions, under
the chairmanship of Sir George (now Lord) Askwith, reported that, subject to certain
conditions to which I need not allude, an agreement, entered into by associations of em-
ployers and workmen, representing a substantial body of those in the trade or district,
should be more applicable to the whole of the trade or district concerned. The matter
was then considered by the Trade Union Congress, at which the proposal was rejected by
a large majority. The Trade Union Congress had previously rejected the idea in 1912,
and the Labour Party adopted the same attitude in 1913. The hon. Member's proposal
was the subject of one of the recommendations of the Provisional Joint Committee of
the National Industrial Conference. I endeavoured to secure the opinion of the Trade
Union Congress in September last year, but I understand that the Parliamentary Committee
was unable to bring the matter before the main body. I made a further attempt to ascer-
tain the reception which the proposal would meet from workpeople's organisations at the
time when I was introducing the Industrial Courts Act. At that time, however, it was
rejected by the trade union organisations largely on the ground that it was proposed, and
I think justly proposed, to make compulsion two-sided, penalties for breach being provided
equally against employers and employed. Under the Trade Union Act of 1871 and the
Trade Disputes Act, 1906, not only is it impossible to enforce legally an agreement made
between employers' associations and workers' associations, but it is also impossible to
bring an action against either such association for inducing or assisting its members to
break the contract to which it has itself been a party. Contracts between employers and
workmen's associations rest, therefore, only upon the good faith of the parties to them,
and, unless the law is altered in this respect, it is difficult to see how it is possible to make
them legally binding upon persons who are not themselves parties to the agreement. The
difficulty of making compulsion apply equally to perhaps not greater than the practical
difficulties which would be involved in making agreements of joint industrial councils
compulsory on the whole trade. Not only would complicated questions of demarcation
and trade definition inevitably arise, but the question of the extent to which any given
group of employers or employed represented a large majority of the trade would require
close examination. There is the further difficulty that certain wage settlements affect
an industry, while others affect a craft extending through a number of industries. For
these reasons it is clear that the matter is not one which can be settled without a great deal
of further discussion and examination. In saying this, however, I am not averse from
giving further consideration to this matter, but unless a substantial agreement of opinion
exists among employers and workpeople I should not be prepared to introduce the necessary
legislation.
14.


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

263.
THE MINIMUM PIECE RATES.
In View of Objections Received, the Ministry of Labour Postpones the Date
of Coming into Operation.
The following letter has been addressed by Mr. E. Leggett, Ministry of Labour, to
the secretary of the Boot Repairing Trade Board:
I am directed by the Minister of Labour to refer to your letter of February 23 on
the subject of the fixing by the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board of Great Britain
of certain minimum rates of wages for male and female workers in the trade. I am
to state that the Minister has received preliminary notice of objections to be made
against confirmation of the rates, and, in all the circumstances of the case, he regrets
that it will not be possible for him to make an Order confirming the minimum rates
as set out in the draft notice accompanying your letter, in time to allow of March 12
being fixed as the date from which the rates shall be effective. As the Trade Board
are aware, the Act provides that a month may elapse after the fixing of a rate by the
Trade Board before the Minister's decision is given. The Shoe and Leather Record,
March 12th, 1920.
1
HOUSING AND HEALTH.
Boot Workers' Deputation to Dr. Addison.
Representatives of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives waited upon the
Minister of Health, Dr. Addison, yesterday afternoon with members of the Parliamentary
Committee of the Trades Union Congress, and submitted for the Minister's consideration
the resolution passed by the Congress in September last, as follows:-
"That this Congress, in view of the great shortage of dwelling houses, with its
consequent menace to the health of the people, calls upon the Government to at once
deal with this important question: (a) By making it compulsory for local authorities
to prepare and carry out immediately adequate housing schemes in their particular
areas; (b) By the Government making grants free of interest, as will enable local
authorities to erect suitable houses at a reasonable cost to the people.
"In default of any local authority not so proceeding, this Congress instructs the
Parliamentary Committee to press the Government immediately to make provision
for the proper housing of the people."
The resolution was submitted by the general president of the Union, Mr. T. F. Richards
at the Congress in September, and seconded by Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P.
"SHOULDER HITS" ON HEALTH.
Dr. Burkitt on Criminal Apathy of Society.
HOUSING, CONSUMPTION, AND INFANTILE MORTALITY.
Dr. J. C. Burkitt, vice-chairman of the County Insurance Committee, gave an address
on "Health Matters" to the members of the Leicester and District Friendly Societies'
Council at the Foresters' Institute, last night.
Dr. Burkitt said the standard of sickness in this country was much too high. Amongst
insured persons alone there were 14,000,000 weeks lost annually in sickness, which meant
that on an average every man lost 10 days a year. Nearly 90,000 children died before
reaching their first birthday, and there were 100,000 school children in England and Wales
who suffered so badly both mentally and physically that they were unable to attend school.
Another 500,000 children were suffering from malnutrition, whilst 3,000,000 of the little
ones were afflicted with defective teeth, one of the chiefest causes of stomach derangement.
Another damnable fact was that in our large towns fully 10 per cent. of the inhabitants were
victims of venereal disease, either acquired or transmitted. These figures were a terrible
indictment, and one could not doubt that the health of the country was in a bad state.
The money spent on tuberculosis was absolutely useless, because it was not doing what
it ought to do. No child was born into the world with this dreaded disease, which was
bred in overcrowded slums. It was for them to see that the poor were not crowded together
in kennels which were not fit for human beings to live in. -The Leicester Daily Mercury,
Saturday, March 6th, 1920.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

265

READ THIS!

I may say peace is our first purpose – a real peace, not a snarling peace, not a scowling peace, but a real peace.  A sulky angel of peace is apt to become the harbinger of a new war—not an armed peace, not an angel of peace winged with spears.

PEACE ON EARTH.

We want peace in the East and peace in the West; peace abroad and peace at home. Ten millions of slaughtered men and fifteen millions of mutilated men ought to satisfy the most bloodthirsty appetite in any land.
You can only build up on the basis of peace – and that is the first thing we have to establish.
Peace on earth and good will amongst men is not merely a great gospel, it is the soundest of political economies.

Unchecked individualism in this country is responsible for slums, sweating, prolonged hours of toil, child labour, and for starvation in periods of misfortune through ill health and unemployment ; and the legislation of the last few years especially, and even of the last fifty years, has been directed to checking the abuses that strengthened that system-
From Premier's Speech, March 18th, 1920.

THE GOLDEN FLEECE.

We do not suppose that the spinners will accept the Committee's findings without some attempt at explanation.  They will tell us that the report is an ex parte statement ; and they will justify their action as being in accordance with the business theory of "buying in the cheapest market and selling in the dearest." But no amount of excuse will suffice to allay public resentment. The fact of the excessive prosperity of the wool districts remains, and the reports of the Committee leave no room for any other conclusion than that prosperity is due to "fleecing" the public. We have read the reports with shame. We do not suggest that the dealers in wool are sinners above the rest. This is but the first crop of a Further revelations from other trades are promised us. great harvest of tares. What is to be said of business integrity under these circumstances ? And more than this, what is to be said of the commercial morality of a business community which includes so many men who are as prominent in Church and civic life as they are in the world of commerce ? The Government itself, having made colossal profits out of a necessary commodity, sells that commodity to manufacturers at a price which should permit the public to be provided with clothing at a reasonable rate. The manufacturers and merchants use their opportunity to increase their already fabulous profits at the expense of the nation. Surely it is not impossible to devise means whereby this money should be returned to the community from whom it has been taken.

TRADE DISPUTES.

The number of trade disputes beginning in February was 122. In addition 47 disputes which began before February were still in progress at the beginning of the month. The total number of workpeople directly or indirectly involved in all these disputes, new or old, was about 110,000, as compared with about 119,000 in the previous month, and about 280,000 in February, 1919. The estimated aggregate duration of all trade disputes during the month was about 450,000 days, as compared with 1,793,000 days in January, 1920, and 2,316,000 days in February, 1919. —The Labour Gazette, March, 1920.

CHANGES IN RATES OF WAGES AND HOURS OF LABOUR.

The changes in rates of wages reported to the Department as having been arranged to come into operation in February, with effect from that month, or from earlier dates, resulted in an increase of over £72,000 in the weekly wages of 370,000 workpeople. The principal changes affected workpeople employed in the textile dyeing, bleaching, finishing, &c., trades and iron and steel workers.  Changes in hours of labour arranged during February affected about 178,000 workpeople, whose hours were reduced by an average of three per week. —The Labour Gazette, March, 1920.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

Telephone No.:
4438, Museum, London.

Telegraphic Address
"Natunishop, Holb., London."

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.

Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents being men on whom we can rely should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members, the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NATIONAL UNION OF
Boot and Shoe Operatives.

MONTHLY REPORT.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
26TH APRIL, 1920.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
ADVANCES

reported to the Central Office during the month include the completion of the FINISHING STATEMENT dealing with heel paring, heel scouring, padding, and seat wheeling being fixed up for Leicester, the same to come into operation as and from the working week commencing the 12th, 13th or 14th February, 1920. A report appears in the news pages.

NEWCASTLE.- Wallsend Cc-operative Society: Improvements have been obtained in the Repairing Department.

WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.

During the month the following amounts have been obtained for members :
At KETTERING, where a female member, E.P., obtained the sum of ₤150, and another member, C.L.W., £100; and one at Northampton, £150.

At LEEDS two claims were settled, one for ₤IIO and the other for £30. This proves again the value of having an influential Union at the back of a member who unfortunately meets with an accident.

BOOT REPAIRING TRADES BOARD.

The Repairing Trades Board have held several meetings during the month, either as a sub-committee or the full Board, and the Piecework (Revised) Statement has now come into operation. Copies have been sent to every branch secretary, and it will also be seen on pages 320-334. District Committees have also been appointed, and reference to this matter will be found on pages 314-315.
B


---
Conference, having regard to the fact that the cost of living ha
to a percentage figure not contemplated when the Agreement referred to was
reached, hereby agrees to amend the minimum wage rate and graduated scale
rates, set out in Clauses 8, 9, and to of such agreement, and to substitute
therefore the scales of payment set out as under:
For Male Operatives employed in other than Heel Building
Departments and Stock or Shoe Rooms:
Age.
16
17
18
19
Min. Wage.
228.
26s.
33s.
40s.
Age.
20
21
22
23
Min. Wage.
48
595.
634.
688.
For Male Operatives employed in Heel Building Departments
and Stock or Shoe Rooms:
Age.
16
17
18
19
Min. Wage.
20s.
24s.
30s.
37s.
Age.
Min. Wage.
20
45s.
21
56s.
22
60s.
23
65s.
For Female Operatives employed in the Closing and Heel
Building Departments or in the Stock or Shoe Rooms:-
Age.
16
17
18
19
20
Min. Wage.
19s.
23s.
28s.
34s.
40s.
2. That the piecework statement referred to in Clause 12 of the Agreement
of 13th February, 1919, shall be increased in the following manner, that is to
say 10 per cent. (Ten per cent.) shall be added to all Statements compiled or
revised under the terms of the aforesaid Agreement, and which came into
operation on or before 31st December, 1919, with the exception of the North-
ampton County Clickers' Statement, which came into operation on the 2nd
June, 1919, to which only 5 per cent. (Five per cent.) shall be added. That
all Statements that have come into operation since the 1st January, 1920,
and the date of the present Agreement, shall be advanced by 7 per cent.
(Seven and a half per cent.).
It is agreed that to avoid the necessity for further detailed revision and
amendment to such Statements, this percentage increase shall be calculated
upon and added to the total weekly earnings of pieceworkers.
3. That this interim Agreement shall become operative the week com-
mencing 15th, 16th, 17th or 19th day of April, as the case may be, and shall be
incorporated in, and interpreted with, the National Agreement of February,
1910.

---
Here is the text from the image:

29-4
The Conference agrees to recommend the respective organisations to ratify
this Agreement, and if ratified shall be registered with the Board of Trade
and the Ministry of Labour as a National Agreement.
Dated this 29th day of March. 1920.
Signed on behalf of the Manufacturers' Side of the Conference,
OWEN PARKER, President
A. E. MARLOW, Vice-President.
Signed on behalf of the Operatives' Side of the Conference,,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President. E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
Countersigned, F. SHEPPARD, Chairman of Conference.
Although not having secured all we put in a claim for, it will be seen that
very considerable improvements have been secured which must mean a largely
increased sum going into the pockets of the Operatives weekly. We feel sure
you will approve of the financial benefits which will accrue from the adoption
of such additions to the Agreement.
There appears to be some misunderstanding as to a vote not having been
taken upon the above additions to wages, and the Northampton No. 1 Branch
have gone so far as to pass a resolution, and have published the same, calling
upon us, as a Council, to resign from such position. Such a method does not
in any way help the movement, in fact, it increases the difficulties to secure
improvements from time to time when the employers know that such resolu-
tions have been sent along. Moreover, the time was too short to allow of the
voting papers to be got out in time for a vote by ballot at the April meetings,
seeing that the holidays intervened. Further, it must also be borne in mind
that these improvements are not part of a new Agreement, but are added as
a result of our presentation of the case for some increase on the minimum
due to the increased cost of living, and it was in our judgment unwise to put
off the time for them becoming operative, and thereby deprive the members
• of the increases secured simply on the ground that a formal vote had not been
taken. In such a case as the present one, we claim, as in the increases we
secured by the Bonus method, we were fully justified in putting the same into
operation at the earliest moment, feeling confident, as we do, that the putting
into operation of such rates of pay means a considerable sum of money (extra)
going into the operatives pockets weekly. It must be also understood that
clause 12 of the 1919 agreement, viz., "Local Boards of Arbitration will forth-
with prepare new piecework or quantity statements, or revise the existing
statements on a basis to ensure the average worker earning at least 25 per
cent, over the minimum wage, etc., is still operative on the new minimum rates.
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.
to
re
Br
15
the
wi
an
ma
Fo
Un
Fo
kee
Of
ne
We
ag


---
Here is the text from the image:

295

TRAGIC END OF MR. JOHN TAYLOR,
Secretary to Kettering No. 2 Branch.

It is with unfeigned sorrow we have to record the fact that Mr. JOHN
TAYLOR, who was Secretary to the Kettering No. 2 Branch for a long period
met with a tragic end on the 27th March, his body being found on the
railway near Isham severly mutilated. This is a sad loss to the widow
and family, and also to ourselves. For very many years Mr. Taylor had
done his part in helping forward the movement in Kettering and building
up the organisation to its present dimensions. Although of a retiring
and quiet disposition Mr. Taylor was always to be relied upon in helping
so far as he could do any movement designed to improve the lot of the
workers whether in the shoe or any other industry. To the widow and
family we tender our heartfelt regrets in the irreparable loss they have
sustained, and we can only hope that the good work done by Mr. Taylor
and the appreciation of such work by his fellows in striving to make
the world a better place to live in will be some comfort to them in this
their hour of adversity and sorrow.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !

Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of branch secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. Last month many returns were late.
Branches failed to send off their returns to reach the Central Office by the
15th of the month, and this tends to upset the organisation of the work in
the General Secretary's office. We trust in future every branch secretary
will endeavour to get in his returns NOT later than the fifteenth of every month,
and before sending them see that they are properly signed.

TRADE UNION STAMP.

This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade
Union Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."

MONTHLY RETURNS.

We beg to call the attention of Branch Secretaries to the advisability of
keeping a copy for their own use of the Monthly Returns sent to the Central
Office. There are a number of reasons why this should be done which we need
nct particularise here; one, however, may specially be named: If the Returns
were Icst and no copy kept it would mean all the work being done over
again.


---
Here is the text from the image:

296
LETTERS REQUIRING ANSWERS DURING EDINBURGH CONFERENCE.
Any letters requiring answers between the 24th and 29th must be sent to
THE GENERAL SECRETARY,
FREE GARDENERS' HALL,
14, PICARDY PLACE,
EDINBURGH.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
A. HILL, Treasurer.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
H. SIMMONS.
W. TOWNLEY.
C. MAYES.
W. HINDES.
J. MANNERS.
THE COUNCIL
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
T. ORTON.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.

NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT,
MEMBERS
should see to it that the members of their families, who are members of
the Union, should BELONG to their own Approved Society. All persons
belonging to the Union, upon attaining the age of 16 years, should
approve AT ONCE with the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
Transfers can now be dealt with.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
JOHN W. MURBY, Manager.

INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
Wednesday, March 31st, 1920
Mr. W. R. Smith: To ask the Minister of Labour, whether he is aware that the National
Health Insurance Commissioners have refused sanction to the National Union of Boot
and Shoe Operatives' Approved Section to invest moneys in the Co-operative Wholesale
Society Development Bonds on the ground that investments can only be made in trustee
or corporation stock; and whether, in view of the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section
56 of the Act, which empowers the investment of moneys in any securities for the time
being approved by the Commissioners, he will have the decision reconsidered.

Answered by Dr. Addison.
My Right Honourable Friend has asked me to reply to this question.
The general decision of the Insurance Commissioners referred to by the Honourable
Member followed the recommendations of the Investments Advisory Committee con
tained in their report of May, 1914. (Cd. paper 7498 of 1914).
In view of the present range of trustee securities I see no reason for reconsidering
that decision.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

299
PARLIAMENTARY AGENT'S REPORT.
The policy of the Government in regard to Ireland continues to be one of repression,
and the general arrest of persons, who are imprisoned without charge or trial, has cul
minated in their release following the adoption of the hunger strike. The weakness of the
Government is shown in the fact that Mr. Bonar Law, the Leader of the House, stated
one day, that after full consideration of the case it had been decided not to interfere with
imprisonment of these men even if their detention led to their death, and the very next
day they were released, practically without condition. How can such a Government
command confidence and respect?
The position in Ireland is not made easier as a result of the shooting of policemen
that is continually taking place; this is greatly to be deplored, and in my judgment con
demned; they are but the instruments of the law, and even if the law is bad it is no justifica
tion for the shooting in cold blood men who perhaps have no liking for the work they are
called upon to do. One can only hope some way out will be found, but the policy which
forces and then gives way to the policy of direct action is not a sound one, and coming
from the statesmen
who prate about Bolshevism in their speeches against the Labour
Party, it is a lamentable manifestation of weakness and futility.
The Unemployed Insurance Bill has been before Committee, and the insurance com-
I do not think there
panies and friendly societies have succeeded in getting through an amendment enabling
them to administer the Act when passed; those of us on the Committee strongly opposed
this, as also did the Government, but the majority were against us.
has ever been a worse case of anti-Trade Union feeling than this; there was no attempt
to argue it, and though we show conclusively the only bodies who could adequately and
properly deal with the matter outside the Labour Exchanges, were the Trade Unions, it
was all in vain.
We made another effort this week to reverse the decision but failed, and then as a
protest the Labour members retired from the Committee. At the moment the impression
is that the Government will endeavour to reverse this decision on the report stage, but
it is an object lesson of the hostility towards Labour that exists, and which the further
we get away from the War will make itself manifest in the House as well as in the country.
The Representation of the People Bill introduced by the Labour Party which seeks
to extend the franchise to the basis of adult suffrage is being strenuously fought in Com-
mittee, all the resources of procedure being taken advantage of in order to defeat it. We
are continually told that by constitutional procedure through Parliament we must obtain
the changes necessary for the people, but how is that possible if the people as a whole have
no constitutional rights. It is the same old game that has been played for generations:
obtain power, and then use it to prevent anything in the way of change, for change is
fatal to vested interests; we extend education, but refuse to recognise the inevitable
eonsequence of same.
The recent debate on the cost of living was very disappointing, and it served but
to show that Mr. Asquith is not prepared to go any further than the Coalition Government
in respect of positive proposals to bring about a drastic reduction of the present abnormal
cost of living. Judged solely from the point of view of expression and delivery, the speech
was a parliamentary success, but the fact that the Prime Minister did not consider it
necessary to intervene in the debate, is sufficient proof that Mr. Asquith failed to submit
any new suggestions for the consideration of the House or the Government.
Mr. Clynes, who spoke for the Labour Party, made an excellent contribution, and
pointed out it was not sufficient to merely go on talking about increased production, there
were two other things to be considered and recognised, viz., that the increased production
of the workers would not be merely for the personal benefit of the primary owners and
controllers of wealth, and that the increased effort will not be followed by the punishment
of unemployment. While in the main appeals for increased output are directed to the
manual workers, they are receiving no more in wages than they are able to secure by their
organised efforts, and yet there are growing up great associations of commercial businesses
or trusts which are being formed artificially to raise prices to the public and thereby secure
enormous profits to themselves. A memorandum recently issued by the Board of Inland
Revenue shows that the additional profits made during the years of the War exceeded
£4,000,000,000, and that this sum was shared by the comparatively small number of 340,000
persons.
The Labour Party has again pressed the Secretary of State for War to grant a general
amnesty for those who have committed breaches of military discipline. In particular
they emphasised the special class of case of men who deserted from one unit and promptly
joined up with another. There is a substantial number of these cases, and examples have
been brought to the notice of the Party of such men who are afraid to return to their homes
because they are classed as deserters and warrants issued for their arrest.
C

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

301
On April 8th I was back at Stafford and held another meeting with the Branch Com
mittee. It was agreed that the Secretary and I continue our propaganda work among
employers previous to the meeting we were to have with them as a body.

On the 13th Mr. Simmons and I met the whole of the manufacturers of Stafford and
Wolverhampton. We made a claim that every one now on weekly wages and receiving
above the minimum should be put in the same position on the new minimum. Also that
where present piecework rates did not give the men of average ability £4 5s., that prices
must be revised. We finally agreed as follows: That all men and women on weekly
wages be paid 12s. and 10s. above the wages drawn by them the first week in January.
Permit cases: That the men be paid an increase of 21 1/2 per cent, on their present wages,
All pieceworkers 10 per cent.
and females an increase of 33 1/3 per cent, on present wages, and extra work was expected for such increases, that these should not count and that the full 12s.
on their earnings.
The Board of Arbitration was held immediately after
or 10s. must be added to wages.
our meeting with the manufacturers, and everything outlined above was ratified, and it
was distinctly laid down that the increases in the weekly wages did not mean that opera
tives should be looked to to increase their output for same.
Stafford is now in the position of having fixed up a collective bargain instead of an
individual one for those drawing above the minimum. I went to Stafford strongly believing
in this being the right thing to press for. The Secretary acted splendidly in going round
privately among the manufacturers in breaking down any prejudices that might exist
before meeting the full body.
On the 14th I went to Manchester to assist the Secretary there in getting the new
terms applied. Each manufacturer here is a law unto himself. One man said he could
not pay this terrible increase. He hoped his workers would come out on strike as a result
of not getting the increases, and then the firm might be able to get rid of some old stock
at enhanced prices. We made a settlement at one firm, Frankenburg's. They agreed
to pay the new minimum to all who are now on the old minimum, also the graduated scale
to juniors. We could not get the 12s. for the men who received increases of 5s. last
February, but we managed to get them more than 12s. counting from January, so with
the females. For six men on hand lasting we got an increase of over 15 per cent. and
grindery struck off. For the same group we had an increase of 10 per cent. in February.
The old chap who sweeps the shop had an increase from 50s. to 55s. I don't think we missed
one in the firm.

On the 16th I was back at Stafford and had a meeting of the females, Mr. Simmons
in the chair. The following night I had a fine meeting of the men. I explained the new
terms and the agreement made locally. Everything went off smoothly. Yesterday I
visited a factory at Tamworth. During the last week about one hundred females have
joined at Stafford.
D. MCCARTHY.

April 20th, 1920.
CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES' POLITICAL WORK.

COMMANDER BELLAIRS asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether there are
any restrictions imposed on the use of the funds of co-operative societies for political
party purposes in connection with the immunity they enjoy from Income Tax ?
MR. BALDWIN: I would invite the attention of my hon. and gallant friend to the
provisions of Section 39 (4) of the Income Tax Act, 1918, under which a society registered
under the Industrial and Provident Societies Act, 1893, is entitled to exemption from
Income Tax under Schedules C and D, unless it sells to non-members and the number of
its shares are limited. The question of the Income Tax liability of co-operative societies
is dealt with in Section 12 of Part 5 of the Report of the Royal Commission on the Income
Tax, and if my hon. and gallant friend will refer to that Section of the Report he will
appreciate that the relief from Tax is grounded on the nature of the surpluses which arise
from the transaction of the societies, and is not connected with the manner of the dis-
tribution of those surpluses.
MAJOR MALONE: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that a large number of the members
of the co-operative societies object to their profits being used in this way, and can he say
whether the Law Officers of the Crown have been consulted as to the legality of the divi-
dends being dissipated ?
MR. BALDWIN: I have no doubt that something in connection with this matter will
come up for discussion in the course of the Financial Debate. — Parliamentary Debates,
House of Commons, Tuesday, 13th April, 1920, Vol. 127, No. 39.


---


---


---


---


---


---
persuading all manufacturers, both federated and non-federated, to pay the
operatives in accordance with the revised scale. We are pleased to state that
at the moment our sick list is clear, and that one of our members has resumed
work after an operation following an attack of appendicitis; we trust he
soon wholly regain his strength and continue to enjoy good health. Member
please note next meeting, Friday evening, May 7th, at 8 o'clock, when it
hoped a goodly number will be present.

STREET. Trade in the district seems to be very plentiful, but unfe
tunately we still have reports of short time being worked by certain section
menibers who have been faced with the struggle of trying to maintain then
selves and dependants respectably on a wage of 56s. a week, and some f
tunately below that amount, against present abnormal prices. Reckoned
terms of s. d. we acknowledge the increase, but when we come to realise
exchange value by putting to the test the amount it will enable us to purcha
against the many things we really need, our opinion is still that the £4 minim
which we hoped to obtain is in no way an unreasonable claim. More than ever
the fact is brought home to us that the deliverance of the toiler from s
present economic dependency will not be accomplished by a mere adjustme
operatives' position will not compare very favourably with that of other
of wages. We fear that by the time this Agreement expires the boot and sto
industries. We hope the protest of the Parliamentary Committee of the Trad
carried in Standing Committee C.. the effect of which will enable the great
Industrial Insurance Companies and Friendly Societies and Employers
Organisations to be parties to the administration of unemployed benefit will b
followed by united action on the part of all trade unionists. No one can at
present contemplate the serious results to organised labour which this would
have if carried into law, and now is the time to resist it with all our power.
The fact that we ourselves are trying to contract out of the scheme should not
deter us from doing our utmost to defeat this new step towards reaction.

SOUTHAMPTON.-Trade is fair in the Repairing trade here, when it is
considered that the Labour Exchange shews a considerable amount of un-
employment, still we are hoping that ere long trade will settle down near
normal and that increased trade will gradually absorb those who are on the
unemployment list.

WOLVERHAMPTON. At our Branch meeting it was decided to alter
The date of Branch meeting from the first Wednesday in the month to the
ond Wednesday.

WHITWICK.--Trade is on the whole fairly good. We were pleased to
arn that our Council had done so well as regards the improvement in the
ninimum on the 1919 Agreement, although it was not so high as we should
have liked it to have been. We are pleased to know that this experience in
tieing ourselves down to a certain date on making Agreements that our worthy
officials have decided to somewhat tighten themselves in the future arrange-
ments, as we can see that although the cost of living has gone up so high some
of the masters were not in favour in re-opening the 1919 Agreement till the
time was expired. It seems to us as if they did not care a jot how
the boot and shoe operatives, male or female, went on to pay their way straight
and upright, as we know that unless the workers get a good wage nowadays it
is impossible for them to live as they ought, as everything is at the top price,
and from what we can see it is likely to be higher still, what with increases on
rents and rates and everything else. We are hoping that now the time has
come for all females on men's work to cease that all male operatives may be on
full time in those factories where they have been losing time through being
short of female labour in the closing departments.
قرأ
abo
المنذ
12
05
th
fcr
er
po
ໂທ
B
NE
b

---
307
SAD END.
KETTERING SHOE OFFICIAL'S SUICIDE ON THE LINE.
Illness and Delusions.
A pathetic story was told at the inquest, which Mr. J. T. Parker (county divisional
coroner) conducted in the waiting room of the Midland Railway Station at Isham on
Saturday afternoon, concerning the death of Mr. John Taylor, of Kettering, the well
known and esteemed trade union official whose shockingly mutilated body had been found
on the line close by.
Mr. George Wright, of Wellingborough, district controller, watched the case on behalf
of the Midland Railway Company, P.S. Jones and Parish Constable Waters, of Burton
Latimer, also being in attendance.
Harry Taylor, of 50, Broadway, Kettering, clothier's warehouseman, identified the
body as that of his father, whose full name was John James Summerley Taylor, and who
lived at the same address. Deceased was secretary to the Boot and Shoe Operatives'
Union, No. 2 Branch. His age was 57. Witness last saw him alive about 1.20 on Friday,
during the dinner-hour, when he was at home as usual. He (deceased) had an ulcerated
stomach, and that had caused him much trouble. During the past nine months, since
witness returned home from military service, he had appeared much quieter and more
depressed than he (witness) had formerly known him. The letter now produced by P.S.
Jones was in deceased's handwriting. It was dated March 26th, addressed to Mrs. Taylor,
and ran as follows:-
Dear Lizzie and all,-Cannot stand strain and worry any longer have had
nine years of it-life made unbearable. Bolshevik section up against me during the
past 12 months this after nearly 20 years' service.
Trust you and yours who have been of the best to me through life-will still
think of me and forgive me for the step I am about to take. Farewell.-JACK.
Witness-who was much overcome as the letter was read also identified the wallet
produced as belonging to his father.
The Coroner: Had he any money trouble at home?-Witness: No money trouble
at all.
No domestic quarrel at all?-No. There was no other illness in the family apart
rom his own. Witness attributed his unusual quietness and melancholy to his stomach
rouble.
George Chester, of 88, Nelson Street, Kettering, assistant secretary to the Boot and
hoe Union, said that he and deceased occupied adjoining offices in the same building.
n Friday evening a meeting was held, as usual, of the Union committee, at which deceased
nould have been present. As he did not attend, witness went to his house to enquire
bout him, and found he was not there. Witness then went to the place where deceased
ually had tea, and found that he had been there. He could, however, find no further
ace of him. Eventually he (witness) and one of the sons went to the Police Station,
d reported him as missing. The last witness saw of deceased was at 4.15, when he went
t for tea. He seemed as usual, except that for the past six months or so he had seemed
ach depressed-not himself at all. His accounts were absolutely in order. He had
the keys on his desk, and the usual amount of money was in the safe. He had been
official of the branch now for over 20 years.
The Coroner here read the above-mentioned letter, and Mr. Chester explained that new
ements (piecework, &c.) latterly coming into operation had caused the whole of the
cials an excessive amount of work and worry.
The Coroner: More since the war than during the war?-Witness: Oh, yes. During
past twelve months it had taken him (deceased) quite twice as long to do his work as
merly.
Questioned with regard to the "Bolshevik" allegation in the letter, Mr. Chester
hatically declared: "Nobody was 'up against him,' in any shape or form. I am
cive that was a delusion." Deceased had been awfully unwell-suffering from an
ated stomach-and that, witness knew, had greatly worried him.
Richard Poole, stationmaster, stated that at 6.10 that morning his attention was called
man lying on the line, close to the road bridge at the station, and in the parish of
on Latimer. The body was in three pieces, the head and one leg having been com-
-y severed from the trunk. They lay on the down fast line, and during the night a
Der of trains would have passed over the spot. Deceased had evidently been killed
train.
D


---


---
309
THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR CONFERENCE.
WASHINGTON, D.C., December, roro.
It was our privilege, as visitors, to attend the International Labour Conference pro
vided for in the Covenant of the League of Nations.
In addition to studying the Conference, our instructions were to study and promote
the interests of the International Federation of Trade Unions.
The Conference was held in the Pan-American Buildings, Washington, D.C
opened on the 20th October. On the first day there were 32 countries represented, the
principal European exceptions being Germany, Austria, Hungary, and Russia. Owing
to representations made in London prior to the Conference Mr. G. N. Barnes specially
interviewed the Supreme Council in Paris, his object being to secure the removal of any
obstacles to the attendance in Washington of the delegates of the Central Powers.
American Embassy gave courteous and sympathetic assistance, and before the end of
September the restrictions imposed by the Treaty of Peace and the Covenant of the League
of Nations had been waived. In these circumstances it was confidently expected that the
German and Austrian representatives would be present. Unfortunately, their internal
difficulties were too great, and they were unable to make the journey.
The absence of nations which were certain to be serious competitors for the world's
business was regrettable, both from the moral and material point of view. Their presence
might have helped the healing of the world's wounds and the closing of the breaches
between the peoples. Not being present they could claim liberty to adopt, to modify,
or to reject any of the findings of the Conference in respect of wages, hours, or conditions
of Labour. That they do not regard these findings as binding may be inferred from their
attitude towards piecework, as illustrated at the International Conference of the Garment
Workers, which was recently held in Amsterdam. There they frankly argued that piece-
work offered their only means of industrial regeneration.
In fairness to these countries it must be admitted that they cannot pay the debts
incurred unless every individual within them produces very much more than is required
for his own maintenance and the maintenance of his dependents.
Much more serious than the absence of the Germans and Austrians was the official
abstention of the United States of America. Taking into consideration the object of the
Conference and the importance of the subjects to be discussed, it was more than unfortunate
that the country responsible, through its own President, for issuing the invitations to the
Conference was not officially represented. Unofficially, Secretary W. B. Wilson and Mr.
Samuel Gompers attended.
The attitude of the American people towards the Conference was reflucted by the
American Press, which, after the first day, gave only limited consideration and space to
the proceedings. Generally speaking, there was a courteous suppression of actually
hostile sentiments, but there were many who doubted the practical utility of the Con-
ference and not a few who doubted the bona-fides of those who persisted in precipitating
the Conference upon an unready community.
Not all the Americans suppressed their opinions in order to maintain the national
reputation for courtesy. Senators Sherman, Reed, and La Follette all gave utterance
to pungent criticisms. The former, speaking at New York a few days after the Conference
opened, said that the delegates had been dumped there from all parts of the world, that
they were Radicals (Reds) working for no good purpose, and they were bent on fanning
into a flame the discontent in America. If he had the power he would deport the Inter-
national Labour Conference. It was no time for such a Conference. They had enough
stormy petrels in their own country without having the Internationals to swamp them.
Americans were often kind enough to say that Senator Sherman only represented
himself. Our inquiries, however, led us to believe that, while the language used might be
typical only of Senator Sherman, the thought behind was the thought of the great mass
of the American people. They saw no advantage to the world or themselves in discussing
what they regarded as platitudes, and they feared the effect of the discussions upon the
minds and activities of those who in America are hostile to American methods and institu-
tions.
The active opposition to the Conference may be to a great extent attributed to partisan
politics, because there are men in the Republican Party who feel that to the extent they
can belittle the Peace Treaty and its machinery to that extent they can weaken the position
of the Democartic Party and that of the President.
This situation could, and ought to, have been foreseen by the British Government,
and appears to justify our conclusion that the Government, in view of the opposition of
the Senate to the Treaty of Peace and to the action of President Wilson, made a great
mistake in pushing the arrangements for the Conference and in temporarily financing it.

---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

60
The Spen Valley Curriers and Strap Belt Makers.
Provincial Spanish and Morocco Finishers, Nottingham.
London Spanish and Morocco Finishers.
The Lenton Society of Leather Finishers.
Female Fancy Leather Workers, Sheffield.
London Portmanteau, Bag and Fancy Leather Society.
Birmingham Brown Saddlers.
London Saddlers' and Harness Makers Society.
Saddlers and General Leather Workers.
Patent Leather Dressers.
Patent Leather Grainers.
Leather Shavers' Society.
Card Dressers' Society.
President: Mr. R. Siddle, A.S. Leather Workers, Hepworth Chambers, Briggate,
Leeds.
Secretary of Federation: Mr. W. Collingson, 5, Ringley Street, Harpurhey,
Manchester.
The A.S.L.W. is far away the strongest union in Federation, present membership
somewhere about 18 to 20,000. Most of other unions are strict Craft Unions and as
such cannot be large ones; for instance, Card Dressers have every man in society,
but do not number 100, but they are very important men.
Your Union was invited to take part in this Federation, but declined. Our
Federation now meets National Federated Employers on all wage questions, and con
sidering number of workers in the industry probably covers a larger proportion
workers than your own Union. My own Union at present time has nine full-time
officials. Information from A. HEADLAND, General President.
We are arriving at a position that we should link up with other societies. It is a
debatable point as to whether a great fund with no resistance is better than a great resist-
ance and no funds. We should be so well organised as to resist the opposite forces. I
know we cannot be as big as the Triple Alliance but there the miners when they struck
did not make themselves felt until they linked up with the dockers and railwaymen. If
we linked up with the Leather Federation we should be better off. We as workers should
go along this line and it would be in the right direction of one Union for the workers and
would be better for internationalism. I ask the delegates to refer this paragraph back
so that the Council can see the wisdom of linking up with these societies.
THE CHAIRMAN: What is their membership ?
MR. J. JEFFS (Northampton): The letter does not say, but it was thrown at us that
a Union of six or seven years ago were poor but have demonstrated their power to us
and it is of great importance.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: We are not at all, nor have we ever been, by the wildest
stretch of imagination opposed to these bodies. We have, before our Central Office
was moved to London, always placed at their disposal my private office at Leicester for
their meetings. We have given them practical experience and some help in their federation
business, because I know something about it. We have to bear in mind, and the point
was raised two years ago when you decided for the time being we could not alter our con-
stitution, that the rule says:
"The Union shall consist of any number of males and females working at the
boot and shoe trade, organised into branches in the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Ireland."
No one has given notice to alter the constitution, and we have therefore no opposition,
but we have done all we could to help these people to meet with success in their efforts.
We should also bear in mind if we did carry out this amalgamation, we should have to
scrap all our agreements and start afresh, and the Council are bound to consider these
questions from the standpoint of the well-being of the whole as compared with the
federating up of a partially allied industry. They are the only reasons why we have
not gone into this federation, but we have been in a position and have shewn our fraternal
support to all sections.
MR. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): The whole blame lies on a few men. I have felt
the whole of the workers might be joined in one Union from the economic and financial
point of view. I feel in the same position to-day, but some men are afraid of losing their
job. When I was organising some months ago in Liverpool I found a good many members
of the amalgamated. They were quite innocent of our attempts to bring about amal-
gamation and expressed their delight with our efforts. So far as the Council are concerned
they have tried their best to bring about amalgamation, but the conditions of the amal-
gamated are utterly ridiculous. There are about six forms of contributions and benefits.
They are antiquated and one marvelled how they got on. The only body outside them

---
Here is the text from the image:

61

is the Rossendale Valley. It would be beneficial if we could bring these people in with
the Council and it is out of place. They have tried their very best. There is no need for this criticism on
us, because slippers are so closely allied with us.
MR. J. JEFFS (Northampton): I am not criticising the Council.
THE CHAIRMAN: Some years ago we were asked to link up with these people. We
considered the position, and surely you don't want to place our officials and our banking
friends at the disposal of other people you don't know. I have had some of it. Our
account stood out; had they joined with cotton there would have been one Union to-day.
the miners, instead of joining the General Federation of Trade Unions 21 years
ago, stood out: had they joined with cotton there would have been one Union to-day.
They only believe in federation for the miners. They only come together occasionally.
There is no federation in the sense as you have it in the General Federation of Trade Unions,
where money is pooled and spent on a strike. Take the miners and transport men, they
leave the factory workers alone. That is only thinking of number one.
attempt to bring about federation, but it is amalgamation we want.
We do not believe
in federation. That is our difficulty with Rossendale Valley and the Old Body. They
want Home Rule for ever, except when there are funds about. We might have another
MR. W. BRAY (London Metro.) asked if the City Women's of London had been
approached. We have a number of sewround members in our branch, but not many.
If they have not been approached I suggest we do so.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Although we have not sent directly to this particular
body Mr. Bray knows quite well that they are linked up with the Old Body very closely,
and we have asked them why they left their parent Union. They were part of the Amal-
conference they started another Union, and until they compose their differences we felt
gamated at one time, but because they could not get a certain resolution through at their
we could not make any headway.
THE CHAIRMAN: We have made up our minds not to federate. It must be amal-
gamation or nothing. If these people came round we should be prepared to consider
matter, but to give them the corner of our headstone cannot be done. This is the
first time we have heard anyone in the City Women's wanted to belong to us.
Paragraph 7 was then endorsed, and Paragraph 8 on
The Whitley Council
was under discussion when

MR. J. H. BAUM (Leicester No. 2) asked what were the functions and powers of the
Council. Does this Council interest itself in the industry? Is there a possibilty of it
growing and any extension of powers to the operatives in the factories? I feel in raising
this question I would like to remember several items on the agenda. When one reads
in the Report that several questions were ruled out, such as hours, wages and conditions.
I should like to know what is covered. I quite agree when negotiations take place from
time to time that negotiations should be conducted on wages and hours apart from this
Council. I feel the conditions of employment are such as to come under the Whitley
Council. We have lost an opportunity during the war. We all know during the war
the operatives in our trade enjoyed a larger measure of freedom than they enjoyed before,
and the whole tendency from the point of view of the man at the bench is that having
tasted a certain amount of freedom he is most anxious, so far as any new negotiations are
concerned, to have a measure of freedom and some control regarding the conditions of
employment. I feel there is a strong current of opinion on this question and I hope the
Council will take it fully into consideration that they ought to be and should be amenable
to new ideas. We may try to govern from the official point of view, but there are times
when new ideas permeate the rank and file of our Union, and in these ideas one can find
a steady and repulsive feeling on the part of our members to many of the conditions in
the workshop. I believe as far as other Unions are concerned they are demanding a higher
status. Is it possible in our Union? Are our demands to be less than those of other
Unions? One must at least give some attention to the past and such questions as were
raised at the Coal Enquiry, and the rank and file want a lead from the Council in this
respect.

MR. E. MARRIOTT (Northampton No. 2): As a member of the rank and file I have
seen times when the married woman has taken her child to its foster home and gone into
the factory and done her duty, as she should do, the same as her unmarried sister. These
things are not conducive to the factory conditions. Why should these people go out to
work? Should they be debarred from being able to sustain the home? I think the
Insurance Acts should be altered to prevent women from going out to work when they have
young children.
MR. L. SMITH (Northampton): Seeing this is a new principle, why were our members
not consulted before the Council decided to embody the Whitley Council ?


---
Here is the text from the image:

62
MR. A. BIRT (Northampton): Before the supplementary wage came in vogue wo
found the manufacturers gave us the best light possible. Afterwards we found the men
had to work in the winter time, say after 4.30 or 5 p.m., in bad light. This had the effect
of reducing the man's earning capacity because he was working under difficulties. If
the Inspectors come round and order certain things they are not done. More workers
have to have glasses and are continually having to get their lenses changed; then there
is the question of consumption. I think all these matters should be dealt with by the
Whitley Council.
MR. F. C. JEX (Norwich): Whilst the Council may be wisely guided in some things
they have done, I think otherwise so far as the sickness scheme is concerned, because
we should do something to strike at the root of the evil. I am anxious to avoid this
machinery being set up and so far as I am concerned-and I am speaking the mind of
the Norwich delegates-desirable as the case may be it ought not to be done by a trade
union. There are a few Norwich manufacturers who are prepared to deal with cases of
this kind, but they will not whilst the Union is prepared to waste its time, energy and
machinery in this way, as it is not our work. We shall become a glorified friendly society
and I am not prepared to vote for Clause 8 in its present form.
MR. G. ABBOTT (Leeds): Now as to the conditions of employment. I want to know,
and I think the delegates generally want to know, what is underlying this principle.
MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): There has been some mention of the
married women by one or two speakers. I feel their ideas are the same as our own that
the married woman should be at home, and not in the factory, especially when they have
children to look after. We have considered the question of women in the factories: the
space between the machines; the rapid pace of the needle; rest rooms for women, eve-
married and single women. The Washington Conference pressed for rest rooms for nursing
mothers, i.e., the American delegates wanted the children to be in rooms where the mother
could go at feeding times, and although the representatives from England voted against
it, it was ultimately carried. We do not want to make our factories slave markets. I
hoped it could be made possible for married women to stay at home and look after their
children. (Applause.)
MR. G. CHESTER (Kettering): Had the Council themselves any authority to con-
stitute such a Whitley Council? Why were the members of the Union not given a voice
as to whether such a Council should be established, and did the Council have a policy of
their own? I congratulate the Council upon changing their minds and policy since the
last conference.
MR. H. CRAMPHORN (Leicester) dealt with the question of consumption. As a sick
visitor for many years I have never known of a case go to the sanatorium which has not
broken down again. A man goes to the sanatorium; he is there a few months and puts
on as much as two stone, only to come back and begin to lose.
MR. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): The principle upon which we are dealing is
antagonistic to the principle laid down for social industry, but if we aim at that end we
should socialise our industry and see a freer land and keep our operatives from the chains
of the manufacturers, a greater and better future. Every entanglement we make is a direct
menace. The holiday scheme has meant a boon to many men. It is easier to burden us
than to remove the burdens. Temporary parables are not based upon the firm rock.
I hope the Council will think twice before we have a joint scheme such as is set out in this
report.

Alderman Hill's Reply on behalf of Council.
ALDERMAN HILL: This is one of the portions of the Council's Address one could
anticipate would bring about a profitable discussion. Mr. Baum raised certain questions
and dealt with the thing from a general standpoint, and only gave us generalisations.
What I would like the delegates to do is, when they think anything is worth criticism, they
should shew it. If Mr. Baum feels we have not come up to the right standard yet, he has
not shown us what standard is in his own mind. I can assure him and the Conference,
of the Hall. I can understand the amount of suspicion on this paragraph. I sympathise
with our friends that we should avoid any entanglements with the employers that might
it forward as an absolutely disinterested person, but he was moved by the fact that several
the manufacturer and the fellow workers should contribute a little towards a scheme to help
these poor unfortunate fellows. I have always felt if this matter went to the vote, it would
be against us. I think we shall discover that. Our friends Smith and Chester seem to be
necessarily interfere with the freedom of the operative. The Voluntary Sickness Scheme
-so far as one might be guided by the man who brought it forward (Mr. Riley) he brought
men had suffered, and those who had been afflicted with a malignant disease continued
prepared to take advice even from the body
to be away from work two, three or four years were unable to get anything, and he felt


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

63
put out because we ventured to do something without appealing to the Union. This is
necessary or not to submit to the members. If the Executive Council wanted a vote
before they proceeded with matters from time to time, the whole of your time would be
one of the things which your Executive should have sufficient wisdom as to whether it is
a complete reorganisation of its trade union status, and when we had our initial gathering
taken up in voting. If we were going to the Whitley Council under the same conditions
as other Unions I should say go to the vote of your members, because it has meant to some
the representative of the Government, Mr. George Wardle, was very anxious to institute
full-blooded Whitley Council, but he was reminded of the fact that however much we
Council for many years so far as arbitration and conciliation with the employers is con
had been criticised in the past, at least the boot and shoe industry had had a Whitley
comed, and as we had not worked so badly in the past we could not agree to scrap o11
machinery for any Government department. I think we can prove that the machinery
we established in 1805-with all that can be said against it has stood for the benefit of
Live us, and we were not prepared to give that away. That is why it is set out in the way
our industry, taking it as a whole, and it is quite equal to what any Whitley Council could
still be dealt with by the national conferences of the two executives, but there are a great
number of things that we felt could be usefully dealt with under a Whitley Council. One
it is because we wanted the question of hours, wages, and conditions of employment to
or two of you seem afraid of
Conditions of Employment,
which we have agreed upon as being outside the scope of the Whitley Council. Some of
Chester reminded us, quite wrongly, when he brought forward certain suggestions last
you feel we have taken away a portion of the freedom of the rank and file, and our friend
conference the Council as a whole were against them. That is not true. During the
discussion I took up a strong position in favour of shop committees. The conditions
set out in the 1919 Agreement could not come under the Whitley Council discussions.
The time has arrived when the person inside the factory will have a larger say in conducting
ever before. I should
thevent the carrying out of the Social Order. Some of us are socialists and at one time
it seemed we should live to see the new era come in. The older I get the further it seeme
way. I am beginning to believe this, that if ever it comes about in our time we have
long road to travel. That does not mean we should throw everything else away because
will be a godsend, and if we wait until we can convince the Government to do all we believe
we haven't got all we want. To a man who has been ill four years this temporary scheme
should be done in the emergencies of life a good many will die before that comes about.
Upon the question of
Consumption,
we all know every right thinking man and woman must think seriously about it. Our friend
Cramphorn made a statement which, whilst generally speaking may be correct, is not
absolutely correct. I have known men who have been to our Sanatorium at Gilroes in
Leicester and never broken down since and are working to-day. I know of course what
happens is that the economic conditions are such that a great number of men and women
never get to the sanatorium until their case is hopeless. They keep at their work and are
bound to carry on until they are too far gone, and when they get to the sanatorium there
is no power on earth to save them, and that is why we see them melt away. We shall
never solve the problem of consumption until the State takes full responsibility. We
shall have to use preventive measures and be prepared to spend more and more as a
community. I remember a young man being able to stay at the sanatorium six months.
I see him very often in Leicester. A married man with all the responsibility of a married
man. He only stayed there because his employer said "I'll see the wife and family are
all right." As a result of that employer's generosity he stayed, and to-day he looks as
well as others and takes his corner as a citizen, husband, and responsible for his family.
The great majority of course are not dealt with on those lines. The Government must
come to the rescue and I am prepared to think the Government, through its Departments
are beginning to realise more and more must be done in this direction and through its
officers on the Whitley Council; the little time we have been established we were able
to see the Home Office place at our disposal their best men and we have met in conference
several times. We have agreed upon certain regulations for the building of factories
and the regulation of working conditions, which if carried out at once would
Scrap 50 per cent. of the Factories
where boot and shoe manufacuring is carried on, but the Government Department are
hoping they will get an Order in Council embodying these things we have agreed upon to
like to say immediately, but if so we should have thousands of our members out of work.
become operative. The only thing is when should they become operative? We should


---


---
MR. F. C. JEX (Norwich): I would have preferred the Council should definitely lay
down their intentions and understanding of the pulse that is operating throughout the
country against the trade union movement, You can understand the position if you
fix your minds against the trade union movement. You can understand the position if you
have been something in the Report that marked a stage of development in the Union
that proceeded along the lines of other things than wages and conditions. During the
past 20 years the trade union movement devoted itself to nothing but wages and con-
ditions. One or two went a little further. Parliamentarians made astute statements
and were able to delude the labour representatives, and a Congress was called to vote
against another of our weapons. I think there are troublous times ahead we should
be prepared to face the facts. The time is now, when we should be prepared to face a
crisis and I am desirous of seeing our Council give us a lead. I should like to know the
Council's position.

MR. G. PARBURY (Leicester): It was interesting to hear the statement of Mr. Jeffs
in criticising some of the Trade Congress delegates. I used to criticise the Council; then
ther put me on it; then I resigned because I could not agree with them. At the Trades
Congress I voted against Direct Action; when the Miners moved their resolution they
were asked how it would be carried out. They did not know. Are we going to carry a
policy of direct action without getting the machinery and organisation? Jeffs and his
wife and children would be amongst the first to suffer. It was the Miners who wanted
nationalisation of the mines. Are there not other questions quite as important? Why
not have a national strike for Old Age Pensions? I wanted to criticise the Labour Party.
The attendance of the Labour Members to-day in the House of Commons is shocking.
Upon every important question which calls for action we are not so well represented as
when we are not affected. I don't know whether it is because they have other positions.
if so we should tie all M.P.'s down to one job. If there ever was any disgrace to the
Labour Party, it is now when not half of them are present. It is stopping progress inside
the Party because when you put up a Labour man they say, Look how they attend at
Parliament!

MR. J. BUCKLE, J.P. (Organiser): Let us look at the proposition that the Council
are not wise upon political matters. The paragraph congratulates our M.P. upon his
capacity in helping us generally. The other portion deplores to a certain extent and
say we should have more representatives in Parliament from our own
inde. Surely there is somebody who has a duty to perform besides the Executive in
that matter. You are loud in your criticism because we have not grown so fast as you
think we should have done. The Council have put at your disposal in the various con-
stituencies of the country.

Men fit to be your Representatives

in the House of Commons. We were enthusiastic for the promotion of men from our
own Union. Then we have Direct Action brought into play. I am speaking of shoe centres.
Is there any reason why, providing we have men of sufficient capacity, we should not have
had a candidate at Northampton? Is there any reason why we should not have had one
at Leicester? Is there any reason why we should not have one at Leeds, out of your
five? It is because you come here and

Swank

once in two years and then shirk the other portion. (Applause.) You might say I am
playing up to my "gaffers" to keep my job, because I am not a member of the Council.
Ten members of the Council to do everything for you! You go back and say the Council
have guided us; there is a little intellect amongst them, and then ignore them until the next
Conference. Our Union is one of the few Unions prepared to pay for politics. I am one
of the four who were here 26 years ago. I hope to be in your midst another 26 years.
We have always paid and are willing to pay. We have men in our ranks equal to any other
Union. The result of our labours shews that. All that is wanted is for our men to have
an opportunity with other people, and when they are elected they can use their influence
for the industry. I want to tell Jex, of Norwich, who got in a kick re Direct Action,
that he is distinctly out of this clause. When it is necessary to take Direct Action we shall
take our corner. I hope you will go back to your various constituencies and not forget
You have three Parliamentary Agents and that three can be extended to five. We have
the funds, the energy and the men, and if you are earnest I urge you to get into it for the
purpose of promoting and taking in due course some of my colleagues with my old organising
colleague, Mr. Walter Smith, M.P., to Parliament and promote the general welfare of our
industry there.

Why not a Boot Operative Candidate for Leicester?

MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2): We were very, very sore indeed that Mr. Buckle
was turned down at Leicester. I am confident if he had acted straight we should have


---
candidate. This is no swank! Our Branch Executive were
position of the Council to us and also Mr.
Buckle and see how things were. Mr. Hill wrote to
Mr. Hill's name was given in for nomination at the last
We were convinced if Mr. Hill hard
Everyone was surprised when Mr. Hill's
first place Mr. Hill made it clear to our
supplementing the remarks of the
2 Branch was profoundly sorry. The position
three political agents, two at liberty for selection and
with Mr. Poulton, was one under the extension scheme
Parliamentary Agents (who are elected by the Union) it will
Parliamentary Agents. Mr. Hill heard Mr. Buckle
and Mr. Buckle denied any knowledge of his being a
Mr. Hill went forward to the Local Labour Party secretary
men running for three seats. Hill
Vallance asked the delegates to
Had we have had straightforward work
last minute, and between Saturday and
would have got to work and there is every likelihood
Hill would have withdrawn
representatives we must be fair to each other.
Buckle's name was sent into
name was mentioned. Why didn't
This is all news to me and I
was a Parliamentary Agent
what had the trade unions done in the last 20 years:
Unions to do a thousand times more than they have done.
Our General Secretary knows full well that 26
what our resolution meant. Dan Stanton.
the horse's mouth. After the last Special Congress I wrote to
taken the trouble of making enquiries and getting the
Miners) and their rate is 125. 6d. per day. The boot opera-
but the men getting more had to come down to rós.
said they were prepared to come down. Where are the
wage? Take the railway-
We are not so bad as that and will not allon
In addition we find the railwaymen conniving
Unfortunately our Docker
wife and family to keep. Whilst
bound to put it on record that I cannot
the boot operative after all.
any discussion.

was then discussed, MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2) asking for the expenditure incurred
removal of the offices.
read the following statement :-
Solicitors' Charges ..
Fares to and from London
Council Meeting re Offices
Cost of Telephone
Removal Office Furniture
Grants to Removers
Clerk's homes-Leicester to London
Removal of General President's, General Secretary's, and Principal
Miscellaneous Items
Photo Block-Head Office
Lodging Accommodation-Manager and Four Clerks (Insurance
Department)

was agreed to.
fs. d.
33 5 3
43 10 0
39 80
1000
134 12 3
5000
I 100
286
17 19 4
46 18 0
£379 II +

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

67
1919 Agreement.
Paragraph 12 then being under discussion,
MR. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton) suggested two ballot papers should be issued giving the sectional items.
THE CHAIRMAN: You are asking for more officialism. You want the Council to run
Let us have more expressions of opinion. Mr. Gould's suggestion does not
you more.
help us at all. I do not know whether our friends at Midsomer Norton have sent in any-
thing about voting.
MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2): When you come to an agreement you should have mass meetings.
THE CHAIRMAN: We did.
MR. R. HARRIS: There were not, because several times you adjourned the Conference
because you got no further and then you should have taken the delegates into your con-
sidence. You will remember the Bonus question when the rank and file kicked over the traces, and if you want to interest the rank and file you should have mass meetings and so get a big vote.
THE CHAIRMAN: We expect branches to give us an invitation, but even then in the midst of negotiation it would not be helpful. If we told the members how far we had got they would refer it back to us.
MR. H. FRAZER (Norwich): I think the Council were dilatory in moving in the matter. As far back as September, 1919, branches asked the Council to move. They did not make much of a move. Then the local secretaries were asked how many men were receiving
I contend they wanted that information to prove there was no necessity to amend
4.3.
the agreement. As far as negotiations were concerned they were carried out as usual.
without the rank and file knowing how they were progressing. I think the most criticism
that can be levelled at the agreement is the 10 per cent, for pieceworkers, because I think it strikes at one of the principles of trade unionism and also one of the clauses in the 1919 Agreement, viz., the one regarding restriction of output, providing full payment is made.
If full payment means anything it means that you should get full payment in accordance
General President or someone should have gone round
I think the
and explained the matter, and it should be done in future. Owing to the fact that the strike weapon is given away every time we sign an agreement we ought to secure all we
demand. According to the last Report the Northampton Branch called upon the Council
to resign. There is no mention of a resolution from Norwich. I understand three large branches demanded a vote on the new terms. There cannot be two interpretations of
the rule relating to agreements and I should like to have an explanation as to why a vote
report he says we were anxious to
was not taken. I notice in the General President's
get the money in the pockets of the workers as soon as possible," and when the Council
all, I think in future every member, from the highest to the lowest, should carry out rule.
have negotiated five months and seeing it was signed three weeks before we picked up at
It being 5.10 p.m., the Conference adjourned.
A Reception by the Lord Provost, Magistrates and Council of the City of Edinburgh
to the Delegates attending the Conference of the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives was held in the City Chambers, on Tuesday, 25th May, 1920, at 5.30 p.m.
The Right Hon. John Wm. Chesser, Lord Provost, welcomed the delegates, after
which tea was served, and music rendered as follows:-
1. Ballet Suite (Sylvia), Delibes. 2. Violin Solo, "Romance," D'Ambrosio, Mr. W.
Watt Jupp. 3. Ballet Egyptien, Luigini. 4. 'Cello Solo, "Country Dance," Mozart,
Mr. D. Millar-Craig. 5. Four Characteristic Waltzes, Coleridge Taylor. 6. Violin Solo,
"Londonderry Air," Arranged by Morris, Mr. W. Watt Jupp. 7. Keltic Suite, Foulds.
8. 'Cello Solo, "Minuet," Beethoven, Mr. D. Millar-Craig. 9. Peer Gynt Suit, Grieg.

WEDNESDAY.
Morning Session.
The Conference resumed at 9.30 a.m. prompt, MR. T. F. RICHARDS presiding.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY reported that Mr. M. A. Parker was absent. He arrived fifteen minutes later and his explanation for being late was accepted.
The Minutes of Tuesday's proceedings were unanimously endorsed.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY read a telegram as follows :-
POULTON, FREE GARDENERS' HALL, EDINBURGH.
STAFFORD.
In house, improving slowly, and with
My thanks to conference delegates.
you in spirit. SIMMONS.


---
Here is the text from the image:

68
The discussion on paragraph 12 was resumed.
MR. G. ABBOTT (Leeds): We are behind many large societies. Many unions send
their voting papers by post. I think a scheme should be formulated for votes to be taken
in the workshops. We know the great farce the present ballot stations are. We have
not the facilities for people to vote. I think shop stewards should be appointed to take
the votes in the workshops. It would do away with a lot of sentiment. We know votes
have been declared null and void because of men voting in workshops. If you want to
get the opinion of the members you must give them the facilities to vote.
MR. A. G RANDALL (Kingswood) said they had a resolution on this matter.
Piecework.
MR. T. RABBITT (Wellingborough): In our district we are trying to fix up piecework
rates for all our work, and I should like some information on the clause dealing with those
receiving less than the minimum wage. Clause 3 should be deleted.
THE CHAIRMAN: The Agreement is very intelligible to us and we have almost worn
it threadbare by giving information upon it. As I explained yesterday the resolution
was only agreed to where a man deliberately refused to earn his money, and I don't know
of a single instance. It is up to the local officials to administer it. If the employer says
you have only earned so much and that is all you get, the trade union official must demand
the full rate. Permits should only be given after consultation with the operatives in the
factory.
MR. W. WARNER (Hinckley): I don't think anything will be lost if an instruction
is sent from this Conference to employers who are not properly carrying out the Agree-
ment. The better class work is done on day-work. The employer knows he has to pay
68s. and yet some operatives have to be subsidised and they do not want charity. Men
to-day are working 48 hours and do not earn 68s. Men in brickyards get Is. 7d.; our men
get rs. 5d. If a man puts in 48 hours he should have the full rate. If those who are in
doubt will adopt this principle they should meet with success.
Northampton v. Northants.
MR. L. SMITH (Northampton): On the statements made here regarding men who
cannot earn the minimum wage, I am not surprised to hear Wellingborough say that
because I live so close to Wellingborough I hear it continuously. In Northants we have a
Northants Advisory Committee and some months ago we heard they had put in a demand
to enable the operatives to earn the minimum wage. Strange to say we on the Northamp-
ton Arbitration Board had this put up to us by the manufacturers every time we asked for
an increase on our statement. Whenever we go to revise a shop statement we have the
position of the county districts put up. We are told it is our business to pull up the county.
We know the statements in the county do not give the operative a chance to earn the
minimum rate of wages. Seeing one district stands in the way of another how can we get
uniformity? It does not matter to me what quality the work is; if you are going to
have statements they should be priced to let one have a decent living. You have all the
machinery in your hands to get those conditions and your agreements give you the oppor-
tunity of bringing them up to it, and so far as we are concerned something must be done
to enable us to develop along our own lines, which we have always tried to do, but we
cannot have another district put up against us from the county. Regarding men being
in the shop 48 hours and coming out with less than the minimum wage, that thing seems
to operate generally in Northants, because every time in the town we demand the full
wage for a man who has made 48 hours. The goods should be priced to enable the opera-
tive earn 68s. with 25 per cent. on.
MR. C. MAYES (Council Member): I am astounded to hear the remarks of Mr. Smith.
With regard to the Lasting and Finishing Statements in Northants, so far as my experience
goes, we have never yet had to ask for any increase of prices so far as finishing is concerned.
In relation to the lasting statements one or two prices have been revised. Mr. Smith is
most unfair to the representatives of the county of Northants. You have no data and no
figures to back up what you have said. Now in relation to men working 48 hours and
coming out with less than the minimum it is wrong.
MR. G. UNDERWOOD (Higham and Rushden): We have recently had a factory close
down at Raunds, and some of the men went to Northampton town and they say the prices
are less than at Raunds. (Laughter.) Mr. Smith should be fair.
MR. W. WYMAN (Wellingborough): Mr. Smith is not quite correct in talking about
Wellingborough and the men coming out with less than the minimum. We are not pre-
pared to accept anything less than the minimum. The general statements for the county
are drawn up by the Arbitration Board. The only thing about these county statements
is they are too stringent to give elasticity for the trade union official to get the thing to
i
C
is
S
a
ge
gru
in
I

---


---
their price. As a result of the supplementary terms of agreements the Northampton
manufacturers have adopted piecework in its entirety, and the difficulty of adopting a
uniform statement has been so great that we are trying to reorganise various departments
to make these statements fit. What happens is this; where manufacturers have reor-
ganised their departments they have been paying their men what they earn and in som
cases it is less than 68s. I am not out to leg anyone over but to assist others. What has
happened in Northants is a danger to Northampton. We may not be perfect. I know
we have shop statements, but I feel the shop statements is the best system for the complex
What we do is to fit a statement to the organisation.
details of the boot and shoe industry.
It is rather difficult when you are going to have piecework and see you have no prices to
fit. I hope as a result of this explanation we shall not have any feeling, but if there is
anything in the statements which is wrong, our county friends should amend it.

Uniformity.

MR. L. POOLE (Wellingborough): With the exception of one factory no one was on
piecework until the new agreement came along. After a lot of trouble with the operatives
(who at first refused piecework) we were enabled to get them to test it. You will under.
stand Earls Barton is a place where there are no large factories, hence the difficulty in
putting in piecework statements. All these factories are now on the piecework principle.
We insisted upon the minimum being guaranteed. The unfortunate part is the many
facturers cannot organise their factories to carry piecework and we have had to do it.
These small factories were on the daywork system, men had been on one particular opera-
tion which they performed from Monday until Saturday, and whilst they kept going
everything was all right. When piecework came along there must be greater production
Where three men did a certain amount of work on daywork
two men did the same amount on piecework. You say that is all very well, if a man has
to stand still he will be paid. When the operative presents himself at the factory the
work may not be quite ready. He goes out for a smoke. When he comes back he finds
for a man to earn his money.
another operative has done the work to keep the operator going. We put our foot down
and told the manufacturers we should not allow it.

MR. T. H. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): The question of uniformity as raised by Mr.
Smith seems very simple until we get the evidence from our county friends. Uniformity
of prices will be a waste of time for a trade union to attempt. We had a sample of it with
our present conditions, the minimum wage on the piecework basis. I remember the first
attempt at uniformity to fix prices for war work. I remember Mr. Collier and Mr. Rawson
uniformity. We wanted to make Northampton pay Leicester prices and upon that talk
touching me during the interval, calling me a good fellow, and asked why I was opposed to
we agreed to go in for uniformity. We adjourned until the next day. The first item was
the Cossack boot. We asked for 5s., and the manufacturers offered Is. 6d. We had a
struggle to raise it above 2s. Eventually we did. I well remember our late friend Tom
Hornsey when he advised one of the county manufacturers who told us how much work
they had done, to get them to stud and breed from them and he would be well off for
clickers all his life. (Laughter.) I contend it would have been better if we had kept on
the old shape, met at the Arbitration Board, fixed the minimums and statements rather
than have gone to that conference. When Leicester went in for a rise, Northampton
followed, then Stafford and then Norwich, and I claim it is better than the present position.
It may be said I may be local in my contention. There is much umbrage caused owing to
the way we are working to-day. Is it possible in the future to get back to the old con-
ditions when the local Arbitration Boards can fix their own minimum rates? We have
suggested devolution and decentralisation for many years. Can the full powers of the
Arbitration Boards be restored?

THE CHAIRMAN: The employers would accept that position but our members would
not. What is the object of trade unionism? Is it not for the man at the top to pull the
others up to his position, and I should like to shew the position which is a curse. Some
people cannot see we have made any headway, but I say we have made considerable
that Northants is hazarding the conditions of Northampton town. All my experience
is that Northants go as far as they can to get level to Northampton town. Some of us
telling us, and some of them believe it
do not want to see a dead uniformity. If you as delegates would like a position of devolu-
have advised them not to push too far. Some of we outsiders see most of the game. We
tion, each district looking after itself and not care a jot for the others, you can get it, but
we lift the whole trade. We don't pretend we have got all we want, but we do try to keep
I think the national policy the best one.
Ours is a minimum and every time we lift it,
our operatives above the poverty line.

MR. G. CHESTER (Kettering) repudiated the suggestion of the Chairman that they
and compare it with Northants you will find our prices are higher and better wages are
take the suggestion of the Chairman statement
earned.

---
Here is the text from the image:

71
MR. J. H. HOOPER (Street): There are difficulties we have to contend with which the
large centres do not realise. At Street our operatives are doing as well as any town in the
country. I began with the clickers' prices, and we got busy writing to the branch
secretaries asking for particulars of their wages and statements. The replies we got back
spite of that we managed to get another 4 per cent. because we told the firm 85s. was the
did not help us. In
minimum for the average man. We did not fail there.
In another connection we wanted
price the best price which could be obtained in town firms to adopt the piecework prin-
We were offered a
ciple. We went into the prices and refused them. We were told the employees in town
to fix up a piecework rate for operatives who had been on daywork.
firms could earn good money.
We were surprised upon hearing that, because it amounted
to sweated slavery. We say the pace was far too high. It meant we should have to
increase our output three or four times to earn the money we wanted.

Piecework or Daywork.
MR. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): I am wondering whether the Conference is going
to accept the payment by results system. If we took a broad view we have to carefully
watch this payment by result system, or we shall be put into the mire. If there is any
trade which has brought to the world an immense power, it is the machinery in the boot
and shoe trade. If we participated in that productivity to give us leisure we should
enjoy it. I have been one of the biggest advocates of payment by results, but I have been
bitten and am now against it. Ninety-five per cent. of the productivity has gone to the
manufacturers. We have as workers the power to call a halt. A man at 70 years of age
draws 44 45. per week whatever his tonnage-i.e., in the mines. I know you will say there
are slackers. Working people are not slackers. When I go into the slums they call me
selfish. God forbid! Where I come from men have been working 2½ days per week for
days a man must live
dawwork and only to per cent. on piecework because of the latter's productivity, and
because of our added powers. We have to face a standard of living and a man must live
work in 12 months. I know you think that an impossible thing. I have got to live 52
whether he works 2½ days, more or less. The employers have got to guarantee 52 weeks
weeks, and if I put my labour-which is all I have got at the disposal of the boot trade,
I want as part of my responsibility to so organise the trade that I can get 52 weeks' wages.
Tom Mann says first if we get payment by results we must have 33¹/³ per cent. above day
rates, which must be a standard of living, and for 12 months each year. I know of no trade
working to such a sweated level as our trade. Seeing the employer uses our high wages
we should throw it back at him when he puts the bad stuff into his goods. What has
come to the heavy trade may come to the other trade.
I don't think you have
THE CHAIRMAN : Payment by results is not debatable.
uttered a sentence we have not made to the employers with the exception of the 52 weeks
wage. You don't get Press reports of our meetings and you don't get our argument. We
told the employers that by only giving 10 per cent. they were killing the principle of
payment by results.

MR. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood): We come from a district where we have just revised
a statement 26 years old. We are not concerned about the statement as to its soundness,
and I am with friend Gould wholeheartedly in anything that will benefit our members.
As an operative myself on the hand system and being brought up with it, I had sufficient
experience to know the manufacturers would not adopt piecework unless it was to their
advantage. The little differences between our Northampton friends are just misunder
standings, because whilst I believe in uniformity, I think it would be an evil if we went
back to start on different lines. You can have different rates for builders but you cannot
for boots.
MR. W. PITTS (Northampton) agreed we should keep to the present system. We
have to go into decimals now so that one shall not get an advantage over the other.
I wish to draw the attention of the conference to Clause 3 of the 1919 Agreement. We
told the manufacturers it discouraged the idea if they did not give the full wage to all
operatives. If a man had 8d., 9d. or 1s. per pair he should have the quantity to enable
him to earn the wage. Clause 2 of the Agreement contradicts this.
MR. S. ILES (Kingswood): In our district it is impossible to have uniform piece
rates because the shops and labour so vary that it is impossible. It is regrettable that
information cannot be obtained to help the Union's work.

MR. H. SPINK (Leeds) : I will read Clause 11 of the Agreement :--
"The wages of the operatives who, when this agreement comes into operation,
are employed at or above the minimum wages or graduated scale rates applicable to
them by this agreement, shall not be reduced in consequence of this agreement."
Some old men only get 2s. rise. One woman in the machining department had 38s. when
the minimum was 30s. We should like to go to the Arbitration Board and claim 8s.
over the 40s. Can it be done?


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

74

In the April Report we got a statement that it does apply, which is contradictory
to the letter signed by Mr. Parker and Mr. Poulton. We never had a letter to say 25 per
cent, did apply, and I think the matter should be definitely cleared up for every
branch.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The Council never have had a shadow of doubt that
Clause 12 of the 1919 Agreement applies to make the piecework minimum 85s. No
branch has enquired about it except Northampton No. 1. When the case came to the
Joint Standing Committee we found two men out of nine could not earn 85s. or more.
and we suggested some allowance should be made. That is the sole reason why the
Council have not taken the matter up, because the original Clause stands, and to prevent
any misunderstanding in the country Mr. Townley knows quite well that the Council
agreed to insert the clause in the Council's Address for April so that everyone should be
clear upon the point, and I do trust our Northampton friends will accept that position
because it is evident there is some local matter behind all this. That, of course, we do
not want to go into, but we cannot deal upon the Joint Standing Committee with local
matters calling for adjustment by the Arbitration Board. We can only deal with the
principle, and I feel confident this Conference will not desire the Council to ask for an
interpretation of the clause, upon which we are quite satisfied as to what it means.

THE CHAIRMAN: Mr. Townley was with us, and he knows what transpired. Mr.
Parker thought my wording would create some trouble, and I told him it would create
trouble if we put his clause in, so we redrafted it. You must not read into it that you
are not entitled to 25 per cent. on 68s. Mr. Marlow himself stated he entirely agreed
with Mr. Townley with one exception. He said Mr. Townley wanted 25 per cent. and
10 per cent. on top. He did not object to that so long as it is given to the average mind
and not the young man of 23 years of age. He did not object to 92s. We must have an
thing made quite clear and deal with it in a diplomatic manner. I want to know why
the Secretary to the Board of Arbitration-who represents 50 per cent. of our side
should not have sent again ?

MR. W. TOWNLEY (Northampton): We sent a letter asking whether the 25 per cent.
applied on the minimum, and it appears the General Secretary agreed with what Mr. Marlow
said.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I beg to demur from what either Mr. Townley or Mr.
Marlow said. I stated the argument adduced before the Joint Standing Committee, and
it is not for the branch to send to me because I cannot move until we hear from the Secretary
to the Board. We did not stand upon procedure; the Council have always risen above
that, and the Joint Standing Committee was called out at once. It is only a difference
of opinion and quite friendly. I cannot understand why Mr. Townley has any
doubt.

MR. W. TOWNLEY (Northampton): I haven't any.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The Council will render to Northampton or any other
branch all the help possible if the attitude of the other side is not in accordance with the
agreement entered into. We give them local autonomy and do not want to unnecessarily
interfere. If they cannot settle their differences on the local Board it will have to be
settled by some other authority. I will now read a letter from Mr. Townley and my
reply thereto :-

107, OVERSTONE ROAD,
NORTHAMPTON,
MR. E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
DEAR SIR,
May 6th, 1920.

The Northampton Arbitration Board has sent two requests to the Joint Standing
Committee to clearly define whether the 25 per cent. in Clause 12 of 1919 Agreement
applies to the New Minimum Wage of 68s. and 40s., but the replies have been drafted
in words that makes it impossible to understand and the manufacturers claim that it
does not apply, after receiving the replies named above. Now in our Monthly Report
for April you state clearly that the 25 per cent. applies on 68s. and 40s., but before
we can alter statements, the local manufacturers have got to receive a reply that it
is so, and our members are getting jumpy on the matter, so I am asking if it is possible
to get a letter sent to Secretary of our Local Board stating that the 25 per cent. does
or does not apply to the New Minimum Wages. Hoping you will be able to help
clear up this definition.-Yours,

W. TOWNLEY.


---
Here is the text from the image:

MR. W. TOWNLEY,
107. Overstone Road,
Northampton.
DEAR MR. TOWNLEY,

75
3.4. GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.С. г.
Toth May, 1920.
I have been carefully considering your letter to me regarding the position that
would appear to have arisen at Northampton in connection with the recent alterations
in the minimum rates of wages. You state the replies " have been drafted in words
that make it impossible to understand." I cannot agree to your contention, nor have
I had a letter from Mr. Lea saying they do not understand.
So far as the statement in the Monthly Report is concerned, you will, as a member
standpoint bevond dispute that Clause 12 of the 1910 Agreement is still operative.
of the Council know full well why it was put in the Address to make it from our
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
mittee, to see satisfaction is secured if possible. If the matter is not settled and we have
I am bound, not only as General Secretary, but also as Joint Secretary to the Com-
letter is because Mr. Marquis was in America. I can assure you all. Mr. Parker has never
an appeal from the official source it will be taken up. The reason Mr. Parker signed the
shewn to any of our side, any doubt that the 25 per cent, is operative on the new agreement.
THE CHAIRMAN: We do not want to go further with the case seeing it has been sO
elaborated this morning, and we ought not to take away local autonomy of the Board.
In this instance your Secretary should be approached.
(Norwich), the paragraph was endorsed.
JEX (Norwich), seconded by Mr. A. Butcher
Did Mr. W. Townley resign from the Council ?
The next
THE CHAIRMAN: Owing to no vote of the Union being taken Mr. Townley tendered
his resignation. We asked him to reconsider it and thought he had done so.
thing we know is to see a statement in the Press that Mr. Townley had resigned, and it
had been endorsed by the local branches; then both branches and secretaries at Northampton
asked us to fill the vacancy. I suggest the correspondence be read, because even up to
to-day we have no resignation in writing. Northampton branch asked the Council to
resign and we wondered whether they wanted to send another Council member, seeing
they have withdrawn their own, or at any rate endorsed his action.
MR. G. ABBOTT (Leeds): Why not insist-whether it be a Council member or a trade
union officer-upon the regulations being carried out. I move next business.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Mr. Townley verbally tendered his resignation on Monday
evening of the April sitting of the Council. We felt we should put pressure upon him and
induce him to reconsider his action. We value fully Mr. Townley's services and inasmuch
as we were meeting on the next day we were very pleased when Mr. Townley came the
next morning, and we assumed, and I think rightly so, that he had reconsidered the
matter favourably. The next thing I saw was a statement in the Northampton Echo.
Then I had a letter from Mr. Pitts and a post-card from Mr. Thompson asking us to fill
the vacancy. I cannot accept, nor should I imagine any General Secretary would accept
on behalf of somebody else a resignation. I sent to Mr. Townley a kindly letter and had
a reply which the Council did not feel was satisfactory, and even now we have not had
a satisfactory resignation. This letter was received at the end of last week :-
MR. E. L. POULTON,
DEAR SIR,
107, OVERSTONE ROAD,
NORTHAMPTON,
May 18th, 1920.
In reply to your letter of this morning I am surprised that you should state that
the Council have not received from me what they regard a resignation. Surely they
have not forgotten that I resigned at the last Council meeting I attended on April 26th,
and stated my reasons for doing so, and from them I reported my action to both
branches and my position was accepted. As to attending Leicester you know the
difficulty of getting anyone to act on the Council, so I felt it would be in the best
interest of both parties if I went rather than cause delay until the Council had met
again.
In conclusion the Council doesn't seem to have taken the matter seriously, and
given that respect to my opinion which caused me to resign.
I am, yours,
W. TOWNLEY.
To my mind that is not a final statement and Mr. Townley has not resigned.


---


---
77
thought 68s. was the lowest figure for a male operative then 65s. is too low. Twenty-five
only. If 68s. is the minimum for one operative then 65s. is too low. If our Council
wage as the men.
ments, and to-day there are many and we do not mind, providing they have the same
years ago there was hardly a female working in the heel building and shoe-room depart-
rooms and the employers tell us there must be someone to build the boot should be
paid the same rate as those in other departments.
in these departments girls from 16-20 years of age should have the same graduated
emplovers to fix a minimum lower than the minimum. As regards the female question
We claim that the shoe-room worker and those in the heel building
scale as the youths. We claim the girl is as clever as the youth from 16
get 40s., the youths 45s.
The Council have still allowed the
20. The girls
If we have a minimum in the future it should be for all the
workers in the trade and not for sections. That is one of the reasons why we were anzious
to take a vote of the members. Although our girls have got over 40s. they have bad
to increase their output.
If a girl did roo pairs per week she had 8 pairs off on 30s.,
and although the minimum has gone up 33 per cent., they only got to per cent, on their
statement. I trust the Council will consider this in future agreements.
It is a poor argument
Tell me which part of a house is the most valuable
MR. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): When you get a bad start it is hard to overtake it.
The pressmen got a bad start in days gone by and that is the reason for this difference.
I am with you in this. I believe in one minimunt for the trade. I tried to do my little
bit to bring about that, but the manufacturers would not move.
felt in Leicestershire and Northants. It is a question of looking after your own business,
to turn down the agreement because of that. It is a question of organisation. That is
and if the thing had been wished for from the beginning, that is the strength of the em-
plovers all the time to try and divide us.
_ the foundation or the top? The foundation man gets 56 and the chap who carries the
bricks 64. There is no thought of the unskilled man when he goes to buy clothes in the
same market as others. I am glad this is before us.
roads are all unskilled but they have to live. They have no holidays; no joys of life,
of us until we bring up the conditions of the trade. The men who clean drains, sweep the
and I agree this thing should be faced.
It has hurt me and should hurt all
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The Council has been cognisant of this fact right from
the beginning, but I would remind the Conference that it is not many years since we had
tis minimums-without the women's minimum-and now we have knocked four off,
and we shall try to reduce the others as soon as possible.
MR. W. WYMAN (Wellingborough) felt the minimum for females should be raised
as soon as possible, to at least 45s. or 50s.
MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): Our piecework minimum is 50s.,
not 40s. I was astounded to hear Mr. Law say his girls had 40s.
MR. E. LAW (Northampton No. 2): I said our girls are earning over 40s. Prices were
fixed on 30s. minimum less 8 per cent.
THE CHAIRMAN: The members have an opportunity of reminding us what our claim
shall be in September to come into operation next February, when the present agreement
runs out. With our present methods I wondered whether we should not consider the
formation of a Trade Board. Some trades have done well and if it has been good for the
repairing it should be all right for the manufacturing. You would have the policeman
to administer instead of a trade union official. Mr. Law's suggestion is popular with the
Council. Some of us feel there should be one minimum only. The exempted operations
must be cleared out. We know our agreement runs out in February and it is for us to give
notice what amendments are required.

Is a Supplementary Wage Piecework?
MR. A. BIRT (Northampton): The Council may be wise in their way of dealing with
things, but Northampton does not like the position created, i.e., the supplementary wage,
which they call it. We were asked to vote on an increased rate and a reduction of hours.
Our members feel they should have had an opportunity of voting for or against the supple-
mentary wage system. When our members got back to their benches they had voted for
an increase in wages and a reduction of hours and they found by taking the jam they also
had to take something they did not like by taking the agreement as a whole. We don't
really know where we stand regarding the supplementary wage. I think they should
have a chance of voting either for or against the thing.
since never
THE CHAIRMAN: I do not know why, but ever since I have been a member of the
mad. We
labour position so strongly as it has been put up at this Conference by two or three delegates.
got out a piecework statement and the men crucified everyone who had a hand in it. In
the Northampton people hold. I told our members then he acted as a man, but found
1914 our friend Sam Thompson was the only Council member who put up the view which

---


---


---
mind what people say about slackness being at the bottom of payment by results. We
are under an obligation. The 1909 Terms of Settlement were revised in 1914 and again
in 1010 the payment by results was endorsed. More benefits have accrued to our members
than if we had any other policy. To improve our policy we must consolidate our present
position. Keep united and payment by results will bring a greater freedom in the future.
than we've enjoyed in the past. (Applause.)
MR. W. FLOWER (Leicester) : As a finisher I am looking to the future. We should
keep a watchful eye on the youths and the girls on men's operations. I believe payment
by results is the best system.

Miss E. TIMMS (Leicester Women's) : So far as the women are concerned and the
future which we have before us, we think we have made a

Splendid Start
for the future with our 1919 Agreement. I have been on the masters' time and on piece
work. I have tried both and know which I and my fellow workers would have. It
has already been said that when we are on the masters' time we never do sufficient work.
It is true in many instances. There has been no quantity statements for women's opera-
tions. There have not been any set prices, and not knowing the price of the work we
couldn't do so many and then stop because we had earned our money. Although I am
on piecework now I can truthfully say I work no harder than I did on daywork, and do
much better. I hope we shall never go back to daywork. I think Mr. Warner mentioned
on the masters' time where the output did not come out so well. Before we had a state-
ment to work to, we were only reckoned for half our work. We did three or four operations
we do. I feel it is up to every individual worker to say what the future shall be. I have
Since we have had the statement we get paid for all
girls around me at work, who, rather than ask for their rise would sooner lose it. They
are either too timid or too nervous. The women will have to be educated. I do hope
everyone of us will rise to the position set before us. I don't blame the Council nor our
officials. Like many others I have grumbled many, many times, but since I have been
and were only reckoned for one.
with our officials more and been on the Statement Committee and met the masters, I know
how hard they have to fight to get our prices. They are not got so easy as some of the
operatives imagine. We should hold all we have and fight for more. (Applause.)
Clause 21 was then endorsed.
Russia.
The Standing Orders Committee submitted the following resolution, MR. A. BIRD
(Norwich) moving the same :-
"That this Conference of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives
condemns the action of the Government in supplying munitions of war to Poland for
the purpose of defeating the People's Government in Russia.
"It further congratulates the Dockers, and other workers, in refusing to handle
such munitions."
MR. A. BIRD (Norwich): You mentioned yesterday that 26 years ago we carried a
certain resolution. The same year the Trades Congress declared for the socialist resolution.
Therefore I claim we ought to do all we can to help Russia in her Soviet struggle. I am
not asking you to assist Russia. What I ask is that she shall not be molested. If Russia
falls in her present struggle so we shall fall. I ask every delegate to support this resolution
I am rather keen on this
Commons about their action against Russia. It is up to the workers to take action on
because I feel every trade union is doing more or less the same.
question and I hope you will utter your protest of condemnation to the British House of
We cannot do as much as the Transport Workers. If these people refuse to
handle the munitions for Russia I feel they should not lose any wages.
a statement was made that 1,000,000 pairs of boots were wanted for Russia, yet our Govern-
ment would not allow us to do anything. There are other aspects which affect the manu-
and hemp we got a 4-ounce ball for 24d. To-day it is 2s. 6d. Stitching thread has gone
These wars with Russia are having their effect upon our trade. By the Government sup-
facturer and the consumer.
Government of Russia was trying to get into touch with Britain for the purpose of trade
MR. L. SMITH (Northampton) seconded the resolution. To-day we are suffering
from a depression in the boot and shoe industry. A few months ago when the Soviet
up from 37s. 6d. per dozen balls to 144s. per dozen balls, and a limited supply at that.
Before the war when we were trading with Russia for flax
porting Poland and the Allies, and to-day they are supporting Rumania, it is affecting
the whole of the British people economically. We should shew our determination against
it. We must protest as much as we can.
t

---
Here is the text from the image:

81
MR. D. ASTLEY (Leicester) supported the resolution. Our Foreign Secretary said they wished to see each country govern itself and we would not allow a government for Egypt, India and Ireland. The question of housing is of great concern to all of us. We don't grow our own timber we could get it from Russia We must bring about foreign made, and so bring about a better exchange.
MR. W. PITTS (Northampton) opposed the resolution, stating Russia was not socialistic. He outlined at considerable length the Russian situation. The Russians were having to work re hours per day no holidays and all freedom taken away. We did not want that. Upon the resolution being put to the vote THE CHAIRMAN declared the same carried.

Ireland.
The following resolution on Ireland being duly moved and seconded, was carried unanimously :-
"This Conference of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives calls on the British Government to withdraw the troops from Ireland and to immediately concede Ireland's request for Self-Government."
The Council's Address was then endorsed.

Parliamentary Representative's Report.
HOUSE OF COMMONS,
WESTMINSTER.
FELLOW DELEGATES, 13th May, 1920.
In presenting this, my first report to Conference, I do so with the feeling that politics to-day are of more importance than ever before to those whom we represent, and great as the task appeared before one got to close grips with the work, since that time the task that is before the Labour movement seems to be greater still. There is so much dead weight to lift, and the united effort to achieve it is not always forthcoming.
The House of Commons is called the Mother of Parliaments, it is the parent of them all, and necessarily and naturally because of its great age, much of its machinery is out of date, much of its procedure is antiquated, and does not lend itself readily for the purposes we have in view. It is slow, it is overloaded, it is in many ways cumbersome, but notwithstanding all this, it still is the constitutional expression of the public will, it is a channel through which we must seek our reforms; and not only seek them but work for and obtain them.
To many it appears to have served its purpose, and ought to give way to other methods, and I would at once admit that to a small minority like the Labour Party, it does not give much chance. It has been called a sounding board for the country, but our difficulty is we have not the medium by which to convey the sound, there is sound conveyed, but not that which is favourable to us, nor which is correct, and this brings us to the point, that a powerful and influential Press is a necessary adjunct to the Party in the House.
But with all its shortcomings, and the difficulties that exist for minorities, it is well to remember it is an excellent place for, and serves wonderfully well the interests that dominate there, and as it serves them to-day, it can be made to serve us to-morrow, and when the people realise that other political bodies no matter by what name they are known, are, on the questions that really matter up against labour every time and all the time, and when having realised this they use the franchise as a means of achieving their emancipation, then the House of Commons will be a much better and more useful institution. It largely depends upon who controls the machine as to the results obtained.
The interests represented in the House shew themselves in no unmistakable fashion whenever any attempt is made to trespass upon their preserves. It is


---
Here is the text from the image:

82

not often this takes place, but when it does, then even their pledges to Lloyd George and Bonar Law do not prevent them opposing the proposals of the Government.

As I have said it is not often this happens, but on the Transport Bill danger was scented it contained too much of the germs of co-operation, as against our good old friend competition. It also occurred on the Electricity Bill, and here at once became apparent, the impossibility of real reconstruction with the present House of Commons. To the Labour Party, these two measures while not going so far as we would wish, yet did proceed upon right lines.
A real co-ordinated system of transport is vital to this country, it must be complete, not partial, it must be nationally controlled, and then to be consistent it must belong to the nation.

This measure was most strenuously fought, every part of our system of transport that was a good paying concern was to be left to private enterprise those that shew a loss the nation could take over. The net result was the Bill was mutilated and robbed of its best features. So with regard to Elec tricity. There is no nation to whom economical central production of motive power is more important than to ourselves. Large generating stations, con- suming the vast quantities of uncommercial coal that we have, with distributing stations all over the country, could give to any industry and any house in the country cheap electric power and light, and with its cleanliness would help towards healthier conditions for the whole people. But here again it looked too much like service, and not business, and destruction was aimed at, and where the Commons failed the Lords succeeded.

The Labour Party strongly supported these measures and more than once by their support saved the Government from defeat in Committee. Our policy has been to support that which is good, amend that which is indifferent and oppose that which is bad.

The Ministry of Health Act now upon the Statute Book, should help in many ways. It was a matter of regret to the Labour Party that consistent with its passage there was no measure for the reform of the Poor Law. The Party felt that to saddle the new Ministry with the administration of the Poor Law would be a handicap. A Clause was inserted in the Bill, however, declaring that the administration of the Poor Law was only transferred pending a measure of complete reform and pledges were given by the Government to that effect.

The Party has strongly and persistently opposed compulsory MILITARY SERVICE, and the fact that it no longer exists is largely due to the efforts of Labour. The Minister for War tried to obtain in the Army Annual Bill last year one of the worst of the regulations from "Dora," which shews most conclusively that militarism is rooted firmly in their minds, and again Labour by its opposition was largely responsible for its withdrawal.

On HOUSING the Party has tried its best to obtain measures that will meet the needs of the people, but the Government by their patchy methods, and their great concern for private enterprise, coupled with the failure of the financial side of their proposals, still leave this question a matter of grave concern to the nation.

The "patriotism" of the wealthy is clearly shewn upon this question. local authorities cannot raise the money they need; great authorities like the London County Council and Birmingham Council fail to raise their loan. Why? Is it because there is no money? The capital that is being asked for by various Limited Liability Companies is being raised, some being over subscribed. How is it then we cannot get the money for housing? Because the interest offered by the companies is higher: 6 per cent. may be high for housing schemes, but when 8 per cent. is offered for cumulative preference shares, and huge


---
Here is the text from the image:

83
dividends are being paid upon ordinaries, then the housing of the people,
however important, and essential for national well being, must wait. It is
here that the Government find themselves in a difficulty: they are failing in
the delivery of the goods they promised, and once more labour is the scapegoat.
The reason why we have not the houses is because the Trade Unions will not
relax their rules and regulations," One would like to know how many schemes
are being held up for this reason and how many because of the procrastination
of the Ministry of Health, and lack of finance.
The only way to get the houses is by close co-operation with Labour
and the Government finding the money, compulsorily if need be.
The problem of COAL is still with us, and the Government continue to
endeavour to meet the difficulty without any settled policy. Never before
in the history of the country did the needs of the people clash so much with
vested interests and private enterprise. The time of scarcity is the profiteers'
opportunity and he makes the most of it. The production and distribution
of coal on a national basis is essential and it is to be greatly regretted that the
report of the Sankey Commission was not put into operation. The Miners
put up a fine case, the argument was with them, the voting strength with the
other side. That is the point to be noted.
In FOREIGN AFFAIRS there is no clearing up of the dark war clouds. If
there is a break in them one day the next brings them back with greater intensity.
Russia is still the cockpit. One is entitled to ask why? Is it the conduct of
the Soviets, or is it the principle upon which they rest, that earn them the
hatred of the other nations. Militarism and capitalist domination die hard,
it will fight while there is the slightest chance, and to-day they attack Russia
because they know that if once that great nation displays to the rest of the
world, a government free from the lust of conquest, whose only desire is peace,
then the opposing forces will collapse in other countries and the day of rank
and privilege will have passed.
Our own Government is not free from responsibility in this matter-they
have supported actively the factions that seek to destroy Soviet Russia, and
after a year of wasted effort, after a wicked sacrifice of human life and treasure,
the Prime Minister told us he knew a year before it was useless and bound to
fail; and while all this goes on our troubles increase and intensify. Of what
avail is the cry for more production, when vast areas are carrying on their
policy of destruction. Nations are interdependent. How much we are needing
the goods that Russia used to send us, and how much she is wanting those
that we produce. This can be applied to ourselves, in the centres of our trade
that produces men's and youths' goods we have depression. Boots we are told,
are what the Russians need; they have the timber, we want houses; they
have dairy produce, we want it; Siberian butter is better than margarine,
and how can we hope to break the ring of prices while the products of other
nations are denied us? This question of foreign policy is most important,
and just as we must have co-operation at home so there must be between the
nations of the world.
The PEACE TREATIES do not give us great hope in that direction. I voted
against the Austrian Treaty because I believe its conditions are wrong, and
until that and the previous one with Germany is revised, there is no chance of
a settled Europe, and peaceful settlement is what is needed to-day.
It is no good saying we are better off than others. This country is still
unsettled, and while prices continue to rise, necessitating fresh agitations for
increased wages, we are but carrying the problems on to a higher plane and the
higher they go the greater the danger of a collapse that may shatter the whole
fabric of State. It is the duty of the Government to stabilise conditions as
soon as possible. The Labour Party have urged this repeatedly through its

---


---
Here's the text from the image, formatted for readability:

**Put back the Kaiser on the Throne.**

That is the explanation of your Polish war. Poland is bankrupt. It is stricken with typhus from one end to the other. She could not rise against Russia. She is backed by other countries and our Government has given munitions of war as a gift. Mr. Bonar Law said they were given because Soviet Russia might attack Poland. When he was asked if Poland had become aggressive and attacked Russia would the munitions have been withheld the answer was "No." They are presumably to be used as a means of defence. They are being used to-day as means of aggression. It is not for us to bother too much whether Soviet Russia is perfect. Can you find a perfect government? Have we got it? Is America perfect with her attempt to make it impossible to prevent Socialism? Is your own Government perfect?—because if people dare to fight for their own right, implements of war are sent. Did we interfere in the days of the Czar? Did we go to Russia then?

Many of the students from Russia going to the educational centres to study the education of their country and to be worthy citizens, as soon as they got to their place they were carried off to Siberia and tortured to such an extent as to imperil their lives. The form of suicide in prison by thousands of men was to soak their beds with paraffin, light the bed and throw themselves on to the flames. Thousands of others have unbalanced minds, and I say we should do all we can to give them a better chance. Some of us lose our heads at times in regard to questions we have to deal with. There may have been outrages in Russia in the past and I do not endorse them. It is brutal at all times and it is more outraging to my feelings when done by some person with whom I have something in common. I do not express any opinion on that, but that is not why she is being touched. Nor is it because they have denied their freedom or independence to other countries. I have met representatives from Ukraine, Lithuania and other places and they are prepared to

**Live at Peace with Soviet Russia**

if left alone. They don't want war. Neither do we. It is no use you rising in your places to the memory of men who have gone unless you fight for that which they fought for, and I do not believe the men of this country went to war for the love of militarism. I don't believe it. They went because they felt they were taking part in a war which would liberate the peoples of the world from the domination of war. If we want to do justice for the service they rendered it is up to us to do all we can to thwart the machination of those who want to impress militarism upon Europe as they did in the past. That which has happened in the past is not a testimony to the sound judgment of those who are in office at the present time. I wish it were possible to speak at greater length upon these questions. My only desire is, because I want to impress upon you the importance of this work. It is no use criticising the Labour Party in the House when their numbers are only

**66 against 500 Government Supporters.**

What is the use of talking to us about our failures; about not accomplishing that which we set out to obtain in the first instance? No matter how we argue, what argument we put forward, when it comes to the vote we are beaten. We should be beaten if every-one of our members was present every hour and every day of the week. I may say some-thing upon that later on. I do beg of you to look at these great questions. I have sat


---


---
the work which has commenced and I hope the time is not far distant when we shall have
three or four representatives in the House of Commons.
MR. C. BATES (Rushden) seconded the resolution.
MR. H. SPINK (Leeds): Does Mr. Smith think if we do not raise the blockade from
Russia there is a fear of Northern Europe being Bolshevik? Does he think it possible for
Germany and Russia to combine and turn round and blockade us?
MR. G. CHESTER (Kettering): We have complained (if not to the Council, at any rate
amongst ourselves) that the services of Mr. Walter Smith, M... have not been called upon
in the interests of the Union, at any rate to the extent some of us think should have been
done. I apologise to our General President and General Secretary in saying that many
of 115 have a greater appreciation for Mr. W. R. Smith than for any other member of the
Union.
THE CHAIRMAN: So far as Mr. Smith is concerned I am not aware of the slightest
objection made by this Executive. You had a Member of Parliament before, and he was
never asked to do anything. I have asked Mr. Smith several times to raise questions and
he always has done. You are responsible for saying the
Parliamentary Representative should sever his
connection with the Union.
for not going contrary to your wishes. I was never permitted once to come here as your
have always held the contrary view. Therefore you must not hold the Council responsible
M.P., nor given any work to do. We have gone a long way since then. I still hold to
sever the connection of a man from the Union is not right. In the olden days if a M.P
protested because I was given work to do. They said why should Richards be given
was thrown out of Parliament he was on the pebbles, and don't forget some branches
organising? The position is not satisfactory. To-day they get £400 and we have given
100. Does that meet the position? I don't want Mr. Chester or anyone else to blame
The Council for something the delegates are responsible for. It is a personal matter whether
you think one member is better than another or not.
MR. W. R. SMITH, M.P.: I am not going to suggest the attendances at the House of
Commons are as good as they might be because our work calls for a maximum effort.
I don't think we are entitled to the criticism levelled against us. Most of it comes from
other people you know, and you should always take criticism with some hesitation when
it comes from the opposition. Moderate as the attendance may be, the
Labour Party have the best attendance
in the House of Commons, and this is reflected in the number of divisions taken. We
have an average of 75 out of a total of 166. My own figure is 95. Thus I missed 71
divisions. It is not really a good test of the work a man does, but it is the only thing to
shew. I have spent fifteen hours in the House of Commons without a division. I have
gone down at 9.30 a.m. when my correspondence was heavy and have taken out 57 letters
from the Post Office at one time. We have not a secretary and the replies all have to be
written; some letters call for two replies. If I left for an hour I might miss two divisions.
The real test is to be found in the amount of time spent by members at their work. Whilst
I do not wish to conceal anything, can any one of us do more when you consider the big
strain made upon our time? I have gone to the House at 10 a.m. and come away at 8.45
a.m. the next morning. There is additional expenditure in the way of meals and refresh-
ments. The next day there is correspondence to clear up. Absence on vital questions
was raised by Mr. Lawn. Here again some members have to supplement their income.
No man can live on his £400 and get a standard of comfort in his home equal to that of the
members of his Union. Some weeks I am fortunate if I have ₤3 left. Some members
get nothing from their Union and they are glad to take speaking engagements and go
week-ends to do it. Half of my correspondence is taken up by declining engagements.
Everybody wants the Labour member. I suppose it is the magic letters which guarantee
a bigger meeting. We must, however, take our share and very often members take engage-
ments for Friday night and Saturday night meetings. Some men have to work their passage
home in this way. It is the only way they can afford to go home. I see less of home lite
now than ever before. I want the delegates to appreciate the fact that we have a number
of old men in the House of Commons. Sickness comes to them and it is very rare if we
see some of them. There's "Mabon," Tom Richards, Alf. Onions, all ill; Labour members:
are on various bodies: four or five went to America. Some go abroad to other parts
Russia and such places. They cannot go and be at the House of Commons at the same
time. Absence does not necessarily mean neglect of work. Ben Tillett has had to go away.
the Unions
keep their members at tupannor I felt the severance from the Council because

---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

97
MR. W. HINDES challenged the statement made by Mrs. Richards regarding his voting for the Council's suggestion of rod. for the contribution, he stating he did not vote. Mrs.
Richards would not accept the position, and the General Secretary stated he would send a
telegram to the Head Office for a copy of the minutes.
The Standing Orders Committee recommended that the following rate of pay should apply for delegates attending Conference, the same being endorsed.
r. - Where it was essential for a delegate to travel on Saturday in order to reach
the Conference on the Monday morning, he or she shall receive to days' pay.
2. - Those delegates where it was necessary to travel on Sunday shall receive
8 days' pay.
3.- Those delegates who could travel on Monday and reach Conference in time
shall receive 7 days pay.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE BUSINESS.
MR. J. W. MURBY then read the Report of the Council, as follows:--
Council's Report.
34, GUILFORD STREET,
RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C. 1.
May, 1920.
FELLOW OFFICERS AND DELEGATES,
I.
In accordance with Rule 67, Part 2, and Commissioners' Regulations 408 A.G.D.
(1912), we have pleasure in presenting our Report and Cash Statement showing amounts
received from the various Commissions, and the expenditure for the two years ending
December 31st, 1919.
Since the last Conference the accounts for the years ending December 31st, 1917,
have been audited and the Auditor's Certificate for the period appears at the end of the
analysis of accounts for your perusal. The accounts for the year ending December, 1918,
are in the hands of the Auditors, and the valuation of the Society is also proceeding. We
are expecting their report in the near future.
3.
t
The Cash Statement shews that in the two years under review we have paid
122,752 1s. 8d. in Sickness Benefit, £4,641 10s. 5d. in Disablement Benefit, £4,372 8s. od.
in Maternity Benefit and claims under Section 44, and the special Voluntary Section of
the 1911 Act, amounting to £790 18s. 8d. This Section is now abolished by the Amend-
ment Act, 1918. The total amount paid in Benefits is £32,556 18s. 9d. The amount
spent is well within the estimate allowed by the Government Actuaries. A perusal of the
appended Analysis will shew more clearly the balances relating to each particular Benefit.
The amount included under the item Sickness Benefit, includes payments to members
suffering illness as the result of war injuries, the whole of which is to be repaid to Societies
under a Recoupment Scheme. It is estimated that this may amount to over £5,500
during the year under review. If our estimate proves to be correct the balance shown
at the foot of the Analysis will be increased by the amount of recoupment.
The amount spent on Administration during the two years is £8,368 17s. 4d., which
we estimate will show an approximate balance of £619 25. 8d. Should this estimation
prove correct, the balance of this account at December 31st, 1919, will stand at
£5,895 135. Id. This must be considered very satisfactory and the Society is to be con-
gratulated on an Administration Account which will compare favourably with any other
Approved Society in the Kingdom.
6.
The Income from Contributions for the two years ending June 29th, 1919, is £54,967
145. 42d. It is estimated that the Income from Army Members will amount to £10,500,
making a total income from Members' Contributions of £65,467 145. 42d. The Analysis
the true state of the Society in relation to income from members' subscriptions.
of Stamped Cards to be found on an appended page of the report will show clearly and lucidly
7.
end of their first that intendedpenence. The advent of the War made this impossible
It was originally intended that every Approved Society should be valued at the
The valuation which is now proceeding will include the whole period since the inception
of the Act, until December 31st, 1918. Your Council feel confident that the result of the
valuation will show the Society to be in a favourable financial position.
D


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

107

V. -ANALYSIS OF ADMINISTRATION ACCOUNT
RECEIPTS AND PAYMENTS.

RECEIPTS.
£ s. d.
Fines
11 5 0
Rules Sold..
21 4 1

Total Receipts
£32 9 1

PAYMENTS.
£ s. d.
Salaries, Wages, &c.
2815 6 1
Printing, Stationery & Postage
211 9 1
Rent, Rates, Taxes and Insur-
ance
84 9 5
Incidental Office Expenses
22 9 0
Travelling Expenses
166 2 9
Expenses of Medical Referees
9 9 0
Other Expenses
13 8 0
Total Payments
£3,322 13 4

1. The item of "Other Payments chargeable to Benefit Fund," £5 11s. Od.., in the
annexed Cash Summary, геpresents an amount which was lost when the premises of the
Leicester No. 1 Agency were burglariously entered on the night of 28th-29th November,
1917. It is understood that the said amount is irrecoverable.

2. The Cash Payments charged to the annexed Administration Account include
under the sub-head of Travelling Expenses) a proportion of amounts paid to certain
members of the Executive Council in respect of allowances at rates in excess of those fixed
by Rule 261 of Part I. of the Rules.

P. BROOK,
Government Auditor.

31st December, 1918.

The Manager was instructed to write the Auditor stating that the said payment was
covered by resolution of the last Biennial Conference.

The report having been endorsed,
MR. E. BROWN (Northampton No. 2) said: It seems to me there must have been
some difficulty in transfers due I suppose to the transitory period between the removal of
the office, and as there seems to be such delay can Mr. Murby give us his reason?

MR. J. W. MURBY (Insurance Manager): The question of dislocation by the removal
of the office has nothing whatever to do with it. Until the close of the war transfers were
in abeyance and since then transfers have been allowed by Act of Parliament. One
society refuses to allow the member to transfer; you don't like to lose your member.
I am however unaware of any great number of transfers outstanding. We have to deal
with the society, then the member, and it is a difficult position. Transfers can only take
place at the end of each half-year so that if you give notice now it cannot take place until
January, 1921.

MR. A. H. FOLKARD, J,P. (Norwich No. 2): Can you tell us why there is a difference
between 38,000 and the number who have returned cards ?

MR. J. W. MURBY (Insurance Manager): 38,500 is the total number of members
who have passed through the Society since the Act started. Some are dead. Some have
been in the society half a dozen times. 31,000 are at present active on the books.

MR. G. ABBOTT (Leeds): Is it a fact that the values accruing to each society would be
declared at the end of a certain period, and does it not cost 2s. per head to transfer from
one society to another, and if so what is the suggestion of the Department to reduce this
difficulty?

MR. J. W. MURBY (Insurance Manager): The valuation deals with the position of
the Society as to whether it is solvent or otherwise. The question of the 2s. is a different.
matter altogether. The war saved many approved societies from insolvency.

MR. W. WARNER (Hinckley): I see £5,895 has been saved on the Administration side;
have the Executive considered the rate of remuneration of their agents? Postage is also a
big item.


---
MR. J. W. MURBY (Insurance Manager): The Central Office pays that. For 1919
our balance sheet was less than £300 on the right side, and another Id. to the agents would
leave a deficit. Now that we shall get an increased allowance (from the Government) for
Administration the question will have to be gone into by the Council seeing we shall have
an extra, but 4d. per member per card would mean £1,000 to the society.

MR. M. O'BRIEN (Northampton): If I am not mistaken, cannot only insured members
vote on Insurance matters ?

MR. J. W. MURBY: This Conference can deal with all matters of Insurance.
MR. W. PITTS: Wages have gone up just the same as everything else, but the allow-
ance is the same as pre-war. It seems unfair that the Union's agents should be treated
in a different manner from what the other societies' agents are. We have been

Running very Economically,

and have a surplus, but the agents have had a difficult time. The various insurance
companies' clerks have all had increases, and increased wages. It seems to me that the
should be considered. We had the doctors with a decreased membership going in for an
increased allowance, and got practically two-and-a-half times. I should like the Council
to consider this matter.

MR. M. O'BRIEN (Northampton): We have in our branch some members who are
not approved with the society and they raise questions which I think they should not.
I am of the opinion that only approved members should vote if you consult the Act.

THE CHAIRMAN: Mr. Poulton and I have no feeling in the matter and we are outside
the Act, but we have to take responsibility. I am afraid we cannot prevent any member
from raising questions.

MR. F. STANTON (Northampton) Can every member vote on Insurance matters:

THE CHAIRMAN: When did we ask for a vote to be taken on Insurance matters:
I am not aware of any vote being taken.

MR. J. W. MURBY (Insurance Manager): A branch has no power over its agents.
He is a servant of the Council, and the Council a servant of the Conference. Mr. Pitts
is a direct servant of the Council and paid to administer the affairs for the Insurance
Department. He referred to the societies which are paying two-and-a-half times more
than they used to do.

MR. W. PITTS (Northampton): I never said anything of the sort; I said the doctors.
MR. J. W. MURBY (Insurance Manager): Now as to the question of administration.
Our agents, time and time again, have grumbled, but let me inform you they are the best
paid agents in the country, and those societies who are paying their agents less than us
to-day shew a loss on administration. The reason there is anything to our credit is because
of economy at the Central Office. The fact that we shall be allowed 4s. 5d. as against
3s. 5d. will give the Council a chance to reconsider the allowance to agents. If you give
2d. per card it means £500 per annum. I can assure Mr. Pitts that the Council will take
this matter into consideration.

MR. J. JEFFS (Northampton): Let us assume owing to the inadequate pay an agent
gets, he has a clerk and cannot pay the full trade union rate of wage. What is his position.
I mean the position of the individual agent seeing the branch have no power over him.

THE CHAIRMAN: It is no use making a bald statement that we have no control. You
have control if you allow your secretary to use your offices and do the work in office hours.
We should all be put on the gridiron if proper wages are not paid. That is why I encourage
a branch to appoint the secretary as agent. We have had to make suggestions to some
branches about the wages paid.

MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): How long will it be before Mr. Murby
puts his own office in order on the basis that it was before the war, and only employ men?
I have enough commonsense to know the sex question must be dealt with. There are
hundreds of male clerks in London walking about, competent clerks who could fill our
positions. These two women have come in during the war and I know they are paid the
same rate of wages as the men. We have been discharging women from the factories
until we have put our own right. They were temporary women, and when there are male
clerks walking about we should have some of them in our office. expect other people to

MR. J. W. MURBY (Insurance Manager): The National Union of Clerks is not the
Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union. They have no objection to women labour. They ask
for the same rate of remuneration and that is the position. It is for the Council to deal
with the staff as they have full authority.

MRS M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): I hope the Council will deal with it.
There is more behind it than that.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

111
Arbitration.
Item 26 was proposed by MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2) :
26 LEICESTER No. 2." That the Council of the Union pay all Arbitration
Expenses incurred by the Branches."
THE GENERAL SECRETARY asked what it was meant to include.
MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2): I understand the branches' share of the Board of
Arbitration Secretary's salary is not paid at present nor the room-rent. These should
be paid for from Central Funds.
THE CHAIRMAN: What will be your contribution then?
MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2): The printing, which is a good share.
THE CHAIRMAN: Only the printing? Then you could have as many meetings aз
you wished. The Council felt if you paid a share of the expenses you would be more
careful.
MR. F. C. JEX (Norwich): I think I am correct in stating the expenses in connection
with arbitration are rather heavy. Now the branch allowance is to be increased we should
be able to meet the position and the situation is a minor one.
could recover from the Council is quite a small amount compared with the extra contribu-
tions they will have. In Norwich we pay ₤2 2s. per meeting, which works out at about
40 guineas per annum.
The amount a branch
MR. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow): The question of Arbitration expenses is an important
branches involved. We understood the Council would pay all the expenses, but the
one so far as the branches are concerned. We have created a new Board. There are three
General Secretary returned the bill dishonoured. It should all be paid by the Central
Office.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Mr. Gamble sent in for a block amount as expenses for
printing and I felt bound to disallow it. Travelling expenses are always honoured.
even the printing of statements which cost us £66 IOS.
would
THE CHAIRMAN: No one gets their statements printed by the Council. We cannot
give to Glasgow what we refuse other people.
MR. W. WARNER (Hinckley): We have completed a number of statements recently.
Our meetings are held in Leicester. The expense is borne by the Central Office so far as
lost time and travelling is concerned. The secretary's salary has not yet been fixed.
What it will be I don't know. Some branches cannot meet their liability. When you
consider the National Conference relegated the matter to the local officials, you will see
the great amount of work we have had to do. It saves the Union three times the
amount in other ways.
THERE VOTED FOR THE RESOLUTION
AGAINST
60
50
It being understood the extra liability on the Central Funds would be the branch share
of the secretary's salary to the Board of Arbitration and room-rent (if any) of premises
where the meetings are held.
Item 27 was formally moved and endorsed.
27 THE COUNCIL. Rule 252, Line 1.-Delete " £1,000," and insert " £3,000."
Delete "Treasurer," and insert "General Secretary."
Items 28-42 (with the exception of 35) were referred to the Standing Orders Com-
mittee.
28 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 259, Lines 1 and 2.-Delete " £350," and insert " £450."
29 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 259, Line 3. - Delete " £300," and insert " £350."
30 AYR.-Rule 259, Lines 1, 2, and 3.-General President, £478; General
Secretary, £478; Organisers, £400.
31 EDINBURGH. Rule 259, Lines 1, 2, and 3.-General President, £450; General
Secretary, £450; Organisers, £400.
32 THE COUNCIL.- Rule 260. - Delete, and substitute: "The General President
and General Secretary shall receive 7s. per day extra for out of town
allowance when returning the same night; if staying overnight 12s. 6d.
per day extra.
"
The organisers shall receive 12s. 6d. per day extra for each day away
from their own home, when on Union business; it being distinctly under-
stood if engaged on Union work within a radius of six miles from their
home, such extra does not apply."


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

112
33 EDINBURGH. Rule 260, Line 2.-Delete "7s." and insert "IOS."
34 THE COUNCIL. Rule 261 Delete, and substitute: "The salary of the Par-
liamentary Agents shall be as fixed by Parliament whilst a member of
the House of Commons, with an allowance of 50 per annum from the
Union's Political Fund, and the same scale of pay for out of town expenses
as the General President and General Secretary when engaged on Union
business, plus third class travelling expenses."
36 THE COUNCIL. Rule 262. Delete lines 3, 4, 5, 6, and insert:
If in town where residing 15s. per day.
If out of town, but returning same day 203. per day.
If out of town, and remaining overnight 255. per day.
That the item relative to Sunday should be deleted.
37 AYR. Rule 262, Line 3-Delete "158.," and insert " £1 1IOS."
38 EDINBURGH.Rule 262, Lines 3, 4, and 5-If in town where residing, 153.
per day: If out of town, but returning same day, 17s. 6d. per day. If
out of town, but remaining overnight, 28s. per day.
39 LEICESTER NO. 2. - Rule 262, Line 3 Delete "10S.," and insert " 15s."
40 LEICESTER NO. 2.-Rule 262, Line 4.-Delete
"12s. 6d.." and insert "205"
4I LEICESTER NO. 2. Rule 262, Line 5 - Delete "15S.," and insert
42 LEICESTER No. 2.-Rule 262, Line 6.--Delete "
253."
7s., and insert " 10s. 6d"
MR. W. TOWNLEY (Northampton proposed Item 35. The present rule states if any-
one becomes an M.P. he must give up his position in the Union. If he was the chairman
of a Board of Directors in any Company he would not have to retire.
35 NORTHAMPTON No. 1. - Rule 261. Add "Any National Officer being returned
as a Labour Member of Parliament shall attend Council Meetings and act
as a member of the same."
MR. L. SMITH formally seconded.
It was decided this clause should be retrospective but these ex-officio members should
sit upon the Council but HAVE NO VOTE thereat.

Constitution.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY, in moving Item 43, said it took many hours to get out this
constitution. It might look simple, but when one gets down to it it is not so. We ought
to as far as possible spread over the whole of the country the various districts. That is
why you get 3,000 in one case and 10,000 in another. I have tried it all ways to alter
the No. 4 district, and I thought there may be some feeling before the rearrangement
was brought about. I transposed and retransposed. I hope you will not throw over
this scheme for the sake of one particular district. We have to rise above the personal
side. The only wish and desire of the Council is to so arrange matters as to secure the
maximum benefit for the Union. I thought Wellingborough would withdraw Item 44.
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT formally seconded the resolution.
MR. C. MAYES (Council Member) referred to No. 5 as being a scattered district. He
suggested Daventry and Chesham should be put in with one of the other districts.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: What chance has Daventry with 419 members against
Northampton with over 6,000 ?
MR. J. H. JOHNSON (Daventry): We are somewhat isolated and in order to get to
Arbitration Board meetings I have to go through Northampton and Wellingborough to
get to Kettering. If Wellingborough was deleted and Daventry put in its place it would
be better.
MR. J. JEFFS (Northampton) : I think the Council have not looked at the map.
MR. J. H. JOHNSON (Daventry) proposed, and Mr. L. SMITH seconded, that Daventry
be put into District No. 4 and Wellingborough transferred to District No. 5.
This was agreed to, and Item 44 was then withdrawn :-
44 WELLINGBOROUGH.-"That an additional Council Member be elected for
Northamptonshire (County)."
MR. W. BRAY (London Metro.) moved Item 45, and asked for direct representation
London with 4,726 members down to Grantham with 3 members. That makes 9,101.
on the Council for London. The General Secretary has grouped Leicester No. 2 with
with 200 members. One of our Hackney firms have some of their work done in Ipswich.
Out of that Leicestershire has 6,102 and London 3,056. Ipswich should be in our area

---
Here is the text from the image:

113

Chesham in No. 5 does work no more applicable to its present area than if it came in
London area. I have been with our General President to Chesham to organise it in the
early days. Seeing we are to have a re-organisation I think the General Secretary or the
Council should so arrange it to give a member for London so that we could have one seat.
4.5 LONDON METRO.- " That a new District be formed. The area to be the
London Metro. Branch and all branches within a radius of 30 miles."
MR. W. WARNER (Hinckley) seconded the amendment.
MR. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton) : We thought at one time that Northampton should
It is important as regards this redistribution of seats.
have a member of their own. If London want the
Leicester under this scheme have two Council members certain.
Council member he may have to go from Leicester. I shall support London.
MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member) said she must put up the case of the
women now separate branches were asking for representation. I think the Northampton
No. 2 branch should have an additional member, because there are only 12 girls here out
of 130 delegates, and the women should have better representation.
THE CHAIRMAN pointed out under the new scheme Northampton No. 2 would have
one member for their branch.
MR. J. JEFFS (Northampton): The case as put up by Mrs. Richards that the weaker
You are not the weaker sex. If you say
sex should have a member is not a good one.
so you play into the masters' hands. Let us consider we are one body working in our
industry.
MR. H. DEAN (Chesham) said if Chesham was to be moved he suggested they go with
Kingswood or Leeds.
THE CHAIRMAN: This seems to be bringing up something we have tried to quash.
I thought Mr.
Clickers, closers, lasters and finishers' sections should be dead by now.
Dean made a wise suggestion that it was immaterial where his branch was, but if they were
removed from District 5 they should go to District 10 or 12. I hope Mr. Dean does not
think because they may not get the member, whoever is elected will not look after their
interests. From Mr. Bray's point of view one can sympathise with them, but much
depends upon the particular class of the industry. If we adopted Mr. Bray's suggestion
we should have the unlucky 13.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: In relation to Chesham where they do heavy work,
Chesham is nearer to Kettering than Norwich.
Upon the vote being taken the amendment was lost by 35 to 68, and the Council's
recommendation as amended was endorsed :---

No. I DISTRICT.-Leicester.
No. 2 DISTRICT.-Higham and Rushden.
No. 3 DISTRICT. - Northampton No. 2.
No. 4 DISTRICT.--Northampton, Daventry.
No. 5 DISTRICT.-Kettering, Kettering No. 2, Chesham, Desborough, Welling-
borough.
No. 6 DISTRICT. - Leicester No. 3.
No. 7 DISTRICT.- Leicester No. 2, Melton Mowbray, Shepshed, Sileby, Whitwick,
Hinckley, London Metro., London South, London No. 2, Grantham.
No. 8 DISTRICT.-Ipswich, Yarmouth, Colchester, Norwich, Norwich No. 2.
No. 9 DISTRICT. - All Scotland and Ireland.
No. 10 DISTRICT. - Barnsley, Burnley, Eyam, Halifax, Heckmondwike, Leeds,
Leeds No. 2, Liverpool, Manchester, Oldham, Sheffield, York, Hull, Bishop
Auckland, Newcastle, Kendal.
Hull, Bishop
No. 11 DISTRICT.-Bromsgrove, Chesterfield, Derby, Mansfield, Nottingham,
Stafford, Stone, Wolverhampton.
No. 12 DISTRICT.-Bristol, Bristol No. 2, Hereford, Crewkerne, Kingswood,
Midsomer Norton, Plymouth, Portsmouth, Reading, Redruth, Southampton,
Street, Worcester, Brighton.

The Conference adjourned at 5.15 p.m.

FRIDAY.

Morning Session.

THE GENERAL PRESIDENT of the Union, Mr. T. F. RICHARDS, again presided when
the Conference resumed at 9.30 a.m.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY read the Roll and reported all the delegates were present.


---
acquainted with what the Executive is doing. I would remind you of a similar body in
Northants called the N.A.C.
Whilst I have nothing to say of that particular body in
One representative should be appointed on the
resolution has one or two anomalies.
General Council. I admit there would be huge difficulties. Leicester Branch would have
the way it does its work. I believe it could be made to work more efficiently. The
a representative of its own and they would not have a Council. Some districts cover
a wide area.
If they were constituted they would be of advantage to the Union.
MR. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden) seconded.
practice, but it is necessary for the larger areas.
Outside the big areas scarcely once per
MR. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): There is some difficulty in putting this idea into
the relation and the link of the miner with his Executive: they get much closer. I wish
month do we hear of the work of the Council or our particular Council member I see
our Kettering friends had framed the resolution to include the whole of the areas.
sentation upon the Council is a different matter.
Repre-
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The Council do not want to oppose it for the sake of
opposing. If this is agreed to, a representative of the Council should be present.
that you have set up a new authority. Mr. Chester admits
It seems to me
that it is badly worded, but we are bound to take these words. Mr. Chester
Committee has worked well from the beginning with the full approval of the Council, so
knows quite well, and the delegates also, that there is an N.A.C. in Northants. That
much so that the General President goes down and takes the chair, whenever he is at
representatives together several times to discuss Scotch conditions, and we have also
liberty so to do. We have called into being a Committee for the Heavy Work, whether
it is done here in Scotland or in the West of England. We have called the Scottish branch
called the Irish representatives together, and I venture to say with these examples before
consider
are fully alive to the wants of the various districts, and I feel it is unnecessary to set up
you it can be left with the Council to take such action as they think fit, because the Council
had a committee formed of members from the various branches I take it you would discuss
from time to time as to whether the existing methods of the Union are the best. If you
matters of an educational character. You have appointed organisers and increased the
number of the Council. I regret the Council cannot support this idea.
a separate authority.
MR. A. SMITH (Arbroath) supported the resolution.
THE CHAIRMAN: There is not another Union conducted like the Shoe Union. We
are miles in front of the Engineers. (Hear, hear.) Their members hardly ever see their
Executive.
MR. J. BUCKLE, J.P. (Organiser) had no sympathy with the resolution at all. We
cannot be compared with other Unions which represent 50, 60, or 80 industries. We
have our mind content on our own industry, and everywhere we go people seem to under-
stand their own local conditions best. What can we achieve if we create this air of respon-
sibility? It is far from being reasonable. Mr. Smith represented Scotland on the Council
for many years. He thinks if they had a District Council for Scotland things would have
been better on the whole, and quantity statements solved much easier. My experience
is that if a Union officer handles it in the initial stages with the local official that is the
better method to get on with the business. Mr. Smith must be aware of the fact that
the whole of the representatives of Scotland were called together. If we made a mistake
it was by calling them together for the simple reason, whilst we had three or four meetings
on the basic statement, it was relegated to district committees to adjust and assess the
values to meet the earning power laid down in the terms of settlement. Nearly everyone
at that Conference dropped back, and we had to take the men in the factory on different
processes from beginning to end.
Scotland stands condemned
as far as District Councils being of any service are concerned. There you have it as plain
as anything. You agree upon a basic statement, and after a lot of trouble I am pleased
to say we are getting things fixed up in a satisfactory way, but none of the Committee have
helped us at all. The District Council so called may meet once a month in a Union like
the General Workers' Union, but it may have a 100 mile radius and have 20, 30, or 50 dele-
gates all representing different callings of life, which is entirely different from our position.
Many of the Unions with District Councils would like to get rid of them. Instead of being
of assistance to their Union they are a great hindrance.
MR. G. ABBOTT supported.
THE CHAIRMAN: For years the district representative for Leicester of the Workers'
Union came from Birmingham. He had from 15,000 to 20,000 men under his supervision.


---
eferred
A.C. in
Orders
asurer
ment)
and
lius of
years
after
ets"
eside
"By
ncial
ber
be
nly
the
Er
he
He
to
1.
le
S
t
117
We con
comes from a distance. I say this with due respect to our present organisera
awhile to wait. Let us give the things we have decided upon a chance before we
There is not much work or scopっ.
not being touched by our organisers ?
any more.
THE CHAIRMAN: Only Preston.
How many
centres are there in the count
ALD. A. HILL (Treasurer): I know our London friends, if they were left to themsel
would have an organiser to themselves. You want them to do the work branch oftheers
should do. Why should they want an organiser any more than other people?
discover we are treading on one another's toes
We should
MR. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton): There is not one minute for our President
Vice-President to spare to help in the office.
it would surprise you.
If you heard of the work they lo every work
Take your new districts. I warrant whether Buckle or MeCarthy
What
have the districts in the South done? No one knows the importance of a strong organis
have seen inside some of them. Buckle has been in Scotland cighteen mouths
tion better than the Council. It is manufacturers in outlying districts who employ a fo
men who can escape unless we send our organisers.
I want them
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Apart from the clerical staff there are now fifteen per
Council members. I want them to be more and more used in their areas.
manent oficials in Northants. Yesterday you decided to increase the number of
Council members will not have the same opportunity, and I hope you will remember that
to be more closely acquainted with the operatives. If you increase the organisers the
before you increase the number of organisers. My desire is to use the Council members
more and more, and I hope you will give them a chance.
MR. G. ABBOTT (Leeds): Some of the Council members are branch officials and it is
not at all true what Mr. Poulton has said. I remember when the organisers were appointed
it was understood they should assist in the administrative work of the Union. The more
growing administration your numbers have increased to place a greater responsibility
you get into touch with the local officers the more work there is to be done. I feel with the
on the shoulders of the Council, and if these men are appointed they will be able to bear
the burden more successfully than at present. I have great pleasure in supporting the
resolution.
THE CHAIRMAN: I have always been in favour of four organisers, and was pleased
when we appointed four
0
On the Eve of the War
imagined we should have an organiser in one
and sorry they were not started. I never
district for twelve and another for eighteen months. I do not grumble nor complain.
Suppose our friend Walter Smith had not been sent into Northants would he have had
the opportunity of representing them as he now has? ("No.") Just the same as our friend
Buckle down in Scotland; much as the men grumble it is in their favour nevertheless,
although they will not admit it; I cannot understand why our men should be tied in one
branch. I don't think Mr. Smith, of Wolverhampton, or Mr. Dunn would say we did an
unwise thing in allowing Mr. McCarthy to go to the Stafford Board of Arbitration the other
week where, with his assistance, he got 12s. and 10s. rise and organised over 400 women. In
Leicester things have been very awkward. I don't say they have not had help when they
asked for it. I have come to the conclusion that if we cannot get the information for our
National Conferences from the local officers we must get it through our organisers, and I
am sorry there should be an attempt to keep back the information. The material assist-
ance an organiser gives to the local officers is given at a time when the men are at work.
If you think we should have more organisers, vote for them. All the Council members
are full up to the eyes with work, and I don't know one who has refused to come out when
required, but usually it is not convenient, I am satisfied in my mind that we should have
four organisers.
MR. L. SMITH (Northampton): The members who have opposed the resolution have
proved my case for four organisers. The work gets greater and greater upon the local
officials and they want more and more help. It is as much as two of us can do to keep
Northampton right.
MR. W. HINDES (Council Member): Appoint another.
THERE VOTED IN FAVOUR OF FOUR ORGANISERS
..
ور
AGAINST
..
57
65
"
"
رو
Item 55 was withdrawn.
55 THE COUNCIL. Rule 58, Line 3.--Delete "by a general vote of the Union,"
""
and insert "by a general vote of the financial members of the Union."
Add, Line 4, after "Union,
miles of the Seat of Government."
who must reside within a radius of fifteen

---
Here is the text from the image:

118

Item 56 was endorsed, 10o being inserted in place of £350-
56 THE COUNCIL. Rule 58, Line 5. Delete "
per annuuווז
Item 57 was withdrawn.
15 per week," and insert," 1350
57 EDINBURGH Rule 58, Line 12. Add after
"instructions,"
reside within a radius of TO miles of the Seat of Government and must
Parliamentary Agents.
MR. C. BATES (Higham and Rushden) formally moved Item 58:
58 HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.----Rule 59, Line 1.----Delete
"
three" and insert" five"
THE CHAIRMAN: This will mean that you will have five, and the possibility of UNG
MR. W. HINDES (Council Member): If we adopt this method, which is one I am in
more if the opportunity arises. I think you should all know this.
agreement with, I wonder if it is the best method to adopt. At present we have three
possibility of the Union carrying a seat,
with power to select two more if there is a
feel we should keep the question open.
THE CHAIRMAN: I should not oppose it if you had fifty. At present there is only
about 67,000 at your disposal and we should have to find the cash.
Items 58, 59 and 60 were agreed to.
59 KETTERING NO. 1. - Rule 59, Line 1. - Delete "three," and insert "five"
60 KETTERING NO. 2. - Rule 59, Line 1. - Delete "three," and insert "
Item 61 was withdrawn.
61 KINGSWOOD. - Rule 59, Line 1. - Delete "three," and insert "six."
Item 62 was agreed to :-
five."
62 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 59, Line 2. - Delete "by a vote of the Union," and
insert "by a general vote of the financial members of the Union.
Item 63 was withdrawn owing to there being no mover of the resolution.
63 DUNDEE.- Rule 68. - Delete
District," and insert "Branch.”
:
Item 64 was endorsed :-
"
Conferences.
64 THE COUNCIL. Rule 69.-Delete after "Union," and insert "The time and
place of meeting for next Conference shall be decided upon by the vote
of the delegates in Conference."
Item 65 was proposed by-
MR. H. THOMSON (Higham and Rushden): Possibly the biennial conferences have
served their purpose in days gone by, but I think the time has arrived when (especially
in view of the Chairman's remarks on Monday) that we should be on the box and drive
our own coach, for us to have an Annual Meeting. I think it is more necessary for us to
meet frequently and adopt an up-to-date policy. In my opinion owing to the constant
change of circumstances and conditions we should meet annually for the benefit of the
Union as a whole. Perhaps some of the delegates think it is impossible to get the business
done in that period of time. There has been nothing done at this Conference which could
not have been done at an annual meeting. If the Conference got down to serious business
at 10 or 11 o'clock on Monday and our delegates kept their remarks to the questions under
discussion instead of going all round the place we should get along much better. I have
much pleasure in proposing this resolution.
65 HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.-Rule 69, Line 2. - Delete "every two years," and
insert " annually for three days."
MR. F. C. JEX seconded: I think the question of expense may be raised and to-day
I hear that this Conference will cost something like £2,000. I think the Conference could
be fixed and decision arrived at on this suggestion. This resolution should be discussed
in accordance with its relationship to the next resolution, because if we arrange to meet
and the expenses would be modified. If the business of the Conference was conducted
upon the lines of some of our Trade Council meetings we should
get along better. The
I think the delegates to Conference should keep to the question under discussion. If the
delegates have taken advantage of the broad mindedness of the Chairman, and in future
business was conducted properly we could get through it in three days.


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

121
Afternoon Session.
MR. T. F. RICHARDS presided when the Conference resumed at 2 p.m., and the
General Secretary reported all the delegates in their places.
Discussion on Item 67 was resumed, and MR. W. PITTS (Northampton) suggested
that only elected delegates to the Conference should vote on the resolution.
MR. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): I am surprised that some of these delegates have
a security of their position without consulting the members. It is not consistent. There
is one appeal I have to make and that is to allow the delegates to the Conference all to be
elected.
MR. J. WESCOE (Leeds): This is the first Conference I have attended for 12 years,
and the delegates who come under the rule regarding branch officers are those who have
to administer them. After the experience of the last conference I attended I thought
it was wise to stand down and let other delegates go. It was a wise decision when a majority
of the delegates altered the rule seeing the branch officers have to interpret the rule. I
say I would prefer to stand nomination every time in the ordinary way. I am not afraid
to allow my name to go forward in the ordinary way, because at least 99 per cent. of the
permanent officials would be elected. I shall be sorry if this resolution is carried.
MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2) said he could not accept the resolution, but upon the
question being put to the vote there voted for 46, against 65.
THE CHAIRMAN declared the resolution lost.
Items 68 and 69 were withdrawn.
68 HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.-Rule 70, Line 3.-Delete "All Permanent Officials
shall attend the Biennial Conference by virtue of their office, over and
above the maximum of representation."
69 NORWICH.-Rule 70.-Delete "All Permanent Officials shall attend the
Biennial Conference by virtue of their office, over and above the maximum
of representation."
MR. R. WHITE (Edinburgh) proposed Item 70: I say a Branch Secretary with a
membership of over 100 has a right to attend conferences and I ask the Conference to give
this matter consideration.
70 EDINBURGH.-Rule 70, Line 4.-Add after "Permanent Officials," and
"Secretary of every Branch."
MR. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member) seconded: We have a Branch Secretary in
Edinburgh who is part time, and anyone who looks at the back of our Report will see
there are 13 sections, so you will understand his position. That is a side issue after the
100 members because the resolution states "secretary of every branch." When the
nominations were sent in Mr. White was not elected and had it not been for the fact that
the duly elected delegate is ill he would not have been here. When a man has to administer
the rules he should be at the Conference to hear them properly discussed. On these grounds,
Mr. Chairman, I don't need to say a great deal but will leave it to the Conference to decide.
MR. F. C. JEX (Norwich): If the logic of the argument used before has the same
bearing in this case, I agree entirely as there is no delegate who can argue against it. That
would be on the presumption that a Branch Secretary cannot read or write the General
Secretary asking for an interpretation of rules. In my own case I have never attended
a conference that framed rules that I have to administer. Only common sense and intelli-
gence tells me how to administer the rules, and when a difficulty occurs then write the
General Secretary. If this resolution is carried then Southampton would be entitled to
send a delegate with five members, and their votes with their modified trade union know-
ledge would be largely detrimental to the policy of the Union. I want the Conference to
understand where they are leading us, and I ask them not to pass this resolution.
MR. ALEX. SMITH (Arbroath): I was hesitating to support the Council's resolution,
but now that the policy has been settled I make bold to say the secretaries of the smaller
branches have as much right as the secretary of a large branch to attend the conference,
and feel they should be included and given their chance.
MR. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): As secretary of a branch with 150 members I
appeal to the Conference to turn this down.
The resolution was lost.
There being no proposer for Items 71, 72 and 73, next business was carried.
71 YORK.-Rule 70.-Delete, and substitute: "Delegates shall be elected from
every branch which is financial on January 1st preceding the Conference.
The basis of representation to be one delegate to each 1,500 members,
or part thereof. Voting to be by card vote."
72 YORK.-Rule 71.-Delete.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

122
73 YORK. Rule 74. Delete, and substitute : " Every delegate must be financial
with the Union."

Items 74. 75. 76 and 77, were passed without discussion.
74 THE COUNCIL. Rule 75, Line r. Delete " Treasurer," and add "Organiser."
75 THE COUNCIL. Rule 77, Line 2. After "Committee" add " of five."
76 THE COUNCIL. Rule 79. Delete.
77 HIGHAM AND RUSIHDEN. Rule 80, Line r. Delete " Biennial," and insert " Annual."

Item 78 was agreed to subject to the deletion " and similar times on each succeeding day."
78 HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. Rule 8r, Line 2. Delete after " purpose " and substitute : " At to o'clock a.m., and shall proceed to the election of Doorkeeper and Two Tellers, and shall also consider the President's Address and Council Report, the Conference shall adjourn at 12.30, and re-assemble at 2 p.m., and proceed with the business of the Conference and adjourn at 5 p.m., and similar times on each succeeding day."

Item 70 was lost.

79 YORK. Rule 82, Line 3 Delete from the word "follows," and substitute
"Delegates shall be elected from every branch which is financial on January 1st preceding the Conference. The basis of representation to one delegate to each 1,500 members, or part thereof. The Council to attend by virtue of their office."

Doorkeeper.
Item 80 was proposed by the General Secretary.
80 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 86, Line 8. - Delete " 7s. 6d.," and insert " Izs. 6d."
MR. W. R. SMITH, M.P., said that the Conference for its own consistency should not recommend the doorkeeper to have less than the minimum rate. If a man work as a doo- keeper he should be paid at a proper rate.

THE GENERAL PRESIDENT: If we want to grumble we can all grumble when it comes to a question of inconsistency, as we only get 12s. 6d. a day.

MR. W. R. SMITH: There is no comparison. Permanent officials get a salary, whilst others are here on a daily allowance.

MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2): Take IOs. off for bed and breakfast and we arr losing.

ALDERMAN HILL (Treasurer): I don't object, but a delegate to this Conference and a Council member should be worth as much as a doorkeeper, and you will be giving less to a Council member or a delegate than the doorkeeper. A delegate to this Conference gets 125. 6d. now: 15s. 6d. next time. In the Higham and Rushden resolution the doorkeeper will get 15s. 6d. next time. All I can say is it is a ridiculous position.

MR. G. ABBOTT (Leeds) said we should not fall out for the sake of 6d. I contend this is wrong: that I prefer to pay 6d. more than anything under.

It was eventually agreed to alter the amount to 15s., and Items 80, 81, and 82 were withdrawn.
81 LEICESTER NO. 2.-Rule 86, Line 8. - Delete " 7s. 6d.," and insert " Ios."
82 HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Rule 86, Line 9.-Delete " 7s. 6d.," and insert "15s. 6d."

Voting.
83 YORK.-Rule 87. - Delete. Lost.
Elections.
MR. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood) proposed Item 84 : Many of our operatives live in Bristol and they cannot get to vote. It has already been pointed out this week what a poor vote we had on the 1919 Agreement. Our present position is not a satisfactory one.
84 KINGSWOOD. - Rule 91, Line 5. - Delete "which must be apart from any factory."
MR. T. ROBERTSON (Glasgow) seconded: In Glasgow many of our operatives have to go three-quarters of a mile to vote and unless we can vote at the factories we shall never get a good vote.

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

124

MR. A. SMITH (Arbroath) formally moved Item 90.
00 DUNDEE. Rule 117. Delete first sentence and insert the following: "That
Official or Officials shall not commit the Union to any agreement without
first consulting the members. The vote of members affected shall deter-
mine the decision."

THE CHAIRMAN I like to consult the members, and as my colleagues say you would
have lost a month's pay. I remember over the 1914 Agreement that two of our branches
voted against it and then bullied us for not putting in the alteration. The other side
said: "Are you going for your members?" and whatever we sign is tentative. We got
the money, and had we waited would not have got it. What I told Northampton
I have told you. I said, in my judgment a vote should be taken. Both Mr. Townley and
I thought a vote would be taken, otherwise why was the ballot paper printed? But you
supported the policy of the Council on Tuesday.

MR. W. HINDES (Council Member): I don't want to reopen the whole question, but
everyone knew when he took up the position about the vote that it was not in accordance
with the rules.

MR. A. J. DoBBs (Council Member): I want to know whether the attitude of the
Council is going to be discussed or not. If the Northampton delegates had raised the
position about not taking the vote we should have put our views before the Conference
I desire the matter to be fully discussed and let the Conference decide whether the Council
was justified in not taking the vote. We use a little commonsense on the Council, and I
think this is absolutely childish.
Item 90 was lost.

Shops' Presidents.

MR. G. CHESTER (Kettering) proposed Item 91, and stated that the present rule was
not clear.
91 KETTERING NO. 1.- Rule 134.-Delete, and substitute: "Shops Presidents
shall be appointed in every department of every factory. Such members
may be the representatives of the employees on the Shop Committee."
91 KETTERING NO. 2. - Rule 134.- Delete, and substitute: "Shop Presidents
shall be appointed in every department of every factory. Such members
may be representatives of the employees on the Shop Committee.""

THE CHAIRMAN : Where a Shop President goes wrong, we are held responsible by
the member. We can object to a man being a Shop President if he has been a defaulter.
MR. G. CHESTER: We take it that Shops' Presidents should be appointed for every
department, but although this is badly worded, I submit the resolution and ask the Con-
ference to discuss it.

MR. W. YEOMANS (Kettering) seconded the resolution: The object we have in view
is to do away with street collecting. We have a dozen collectors and think they should
be done away with by the appointment of Shops' Presidents.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: This is not referring to Shops' Presidents, but to Shops'
Committees. There is nothing to stop Kettering or any other branch from appointing
Shops' Presidents, but if you take out Rule 134 there is no legal position.

MR. W. YEOMANS: We have Shops' Presidents in two co-operative shops. Let me
tell you what happened in the other shops where they were appointed. The men were
not allowed to collect the money and they had the "push."

THE CHAIRMAN: This matter has been dealt with by the Whitley Council, and con-
tributions should be allowed to be taken on the premises after working hours. We told
the manufacturers we should not work with them if they were antagonistic and we should
not allow them to do our business. I know Mr. Campbell thinks about men being vic-
timised. I have a case from Sileby which will go before the Council at their next meeting,
and I myself was sacked several times. When we tell an employer he has victimised one
of our members, he usually turns round and tells us he would have gone long ago was it
not for the fact that he was a sub-agent of ours.

MR. D. MCCARTHY: I have met Shops' Presidents myself who have had to stand out
in the rain to take the contributions. Several men I have known were dismissed,
but we have agreed at the Whitley Council that as far as possible Shops' Presidents
should be allowed to take the contributions on the premises after working hours. Take
it in Manchester they should be able to get girls to take the money. If they can do
it in Kettering. It is an important thing for
the Union.
The resolution was lost.

Items 92, 93, 94 and 95 were endorsed without discussion.
92 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 161, Line 4.-Delete "Minimum Rate of Wages."
"


---
Here is the text from the image:

126
Annual Conferences.
The Standing Orders Committee at this stage submitted the following recommendation on Rule 60, the same being agreed to:
"A National Conference of Delegates from each and every District in the Union shall meet every year for three days at the Seat of Government to deal with the general policy of the Union, the expense to be borne by the Union.
"Every third year the Conference shall meet for six days, and deal, in addition to general policy, with alterations in the constitution and rules of the Union."

Shops' Committees.
MR. G. CHESTER (Kettering) proposed Item 100: I feel you would have greater consideration to the proposals laid down in the Northampton resolution than you did.
We move this resolution because we think we should put into force Rule 19 as to Socializa tion as a means of production. You cannot assume a more practical basis than the work.
If the principles initiated by Mr. W. Smith the other day are to be drawn into effect, we must start in the workshops. In Kettering we have one or two of these committees in existence. The manufacturers have agreed with them and have representation thereon.
Friends, we have to run risks and we have the manufacturers represented on the committee, and if you get your operatives to resume control then it will be in the interests of the whole country. I should like to have argued the position further, but time does not
shops.
permit.
100 KETTERING No. 1. — Rule 19. — This Conference re-affirms its adhesion to Rule 19, and favours the establishment of Shop Committees in support thereof.
"Such Committees to be so organised as to place them in a position to assume responsibility on Boards of Management, and thus benefit themselves to control the boot and shoe industry when nationalisation has been effected."
MR. W. YEOMANS seconded: Not in the interests of the Union only but to the interest of the industry. Until a short time ago we had no voice in anything, the employers not even having the decency to put up a notice what holiday would be given.
THE CHAIRMAN : We are not much nearer than we were 26 years ago. We have no feeling against Shops' Committees and we should give the facilities to adopt them.
The resolution was carried unanimously.
Item 101 was endorsed.
101 KETTERING No. 1. — Rule 22. — Delete, and substitute: "To advocate free Secular and Higher Education, at the cost of the State, from the Elementary School to the University."
Item 102 was moved by MR. G. CHESTER: I think we all agree that education now plays a most important part. It should not be lost sight of in our Union. Our Union should place in the hands of its members the greatest possible facilities for the greatest possible education to the Union. Some of the Labour Colleges provide the ordinary Trade Unionist and Socialist with the broadest education that it is possible for him to get.
I suggest our Union should send at least two members to the Labour Colleges. You ask what would happen after they returned from the Colleges ? I will admit that one or two members have been sent to Ruskin College and we have not got all that we required.
I am certain we must do something of this sort that our members can conduct their business in a proper manner, and I have the greatest possible pleasure in moving this resolution.
102 KETTERING No. 2. — "This Conference re-affirms its adherence to the prin- ciple of free and full education for all.
"In pursuance of this principle, it instructs its Executive Council to prepare plans whereby two or more members of the Union may yearly receive instruction at one of the Labour Colleges. Fees and all expenses to be borne by the Union."
102 KETTERING No. 1. - Rule 22. — "This Conference re-affirms its adherence to the principle of free and full education for all.
"In pursuance of this principle, it instructs its Executive Council to prepare plans whereby two or more members of the Union may yearly receive instruction at one of the Labour Colleges. Fees and all expenses to be borne by the Union."
MR. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood) seconded.
MR. L. SMITH (Northampton): I think Mr. Chester has spoilt his case when he talks about Ruskin College. I contend that the Central Labour College is better than Ruskin College. Men who have been to Ruskin College are found in the ranks of the bourgeoisie.


---
Here is the text from the image:

127
THE CHAIRMAN: I should like to know from Mr. Chester, who does he think, is respon-
sible for the neglect of these people who have found a proper place in our Union? If these
men go to Ruskin College we cannot give them a job in om Central Office.
MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): How will these people be selected ?
MR. H. PITTS (Northampton) opposed the resolution: The only position that these
men can hold are those at present held by branch officers all over the country. I should
not mind in the least but it must be remembered some of us bave borne the brunt of the
work and it would not be fair for others to come in and supplant them. That is how we
should look at these matters.
MR. H. TOWNLEY (Northampton): 1 should like to support the resolution but any
member who goes there should go for the good of the Union.
MR. J. H. BAUM (Leicester No. 2) asked if the Union subscribed to any educational
THE CHAIRMAN: Yes, to the Workers' Educational Association. The Council would
have to have all the facts before them and if there were several applications they would
have to choose the people.
MR. A. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): 1 suggest this matter stands over until the next
conference. I am sorry to say according to the facts which have come to light during
the past ten years that Ruskin College is not the one which has provided the labour men
for our ranks, but they are the people who fight us.
THE CHAIRMAN: If a man has the ability and proves his worth, after going to
college he tries to get the best out of the position. That is why some of our people are not
particular about their labour candidates; after their education at these places, what
guarantee have we that they will stick to the movement?
The question was then put and there voted-
FOR THE RESOLUTION
AGAINST
THE CHAIRMAN declaring the same lost.
Item 103 was agreed to.
42
59
103 DUNDEE.-New Rule.-" That individual members are free to express them-
selves through the medium of the Monthly Report. Such expressions to
be educative, brief and courteous."

Monetary Guarantee.

MR. T. ADNITT (Leicester) moved Item 104: This is the outcome of an unauthorised
dispute we had in Leicester and a resolution was moved by one of the members, and our
branch meeting felt it should be referred to a vote of the Union with a view to having the
clause deleted from future agreements :-
104 LEICESTER No. 1.-" That a vote be taken of the members of the Union for
the abolition of the Terms of Settlement re the Thousand Pounds Guarantee
as it is against the interests of the workers."
MR. G. KNIGHT (Leicester) seconded the resolution: I have never been in favour
of the terms of agreement because I do not think we should be bound by this £1,000 nor
by two years' agreement. I believe if the terms of agreement are made for 12 months
it is as long as it should be. Everyone of us knows we are bound by the £1,000. All
agreements are binding by the employers and the men. Where are we going?-when we get
a good case we always lose. It is like getting a tip for the races, and then finding the
runner a long way behind.
MR. W. FLOWER (Leicester) : I do not know whether the manufacturers all over
England are the same as they are in Leicester, but if they are, they choose the biggest
tyrant possible to be the foreman of the departments. They bring about things where
they want nine-pennyworth of work for 6d., or one shillings worth for ninepence. This
goes on until the men get their backs up. I have been in five unauthorised strikes. We
never got any pay from the Union, and I say when such things come along we should be
supported. What do we pay our od. for? Mr. Flower explained at considerable length
a dispute upon the firm of Messrs. Beal, of Leicester, and went on to say some men had
been (as a result of the dispute) on the streets for 12 or 13 weeks. The firm would sooner
lose £10,000 than lose their foreman, and now I understand the firm have put in a claim
on the Guarantee Fund for over £500.
THE CHAIRMAN: But they have not pressed their claim.
THERE VOTED FOR THE RESOLUTION
AGAINST
..
..
..
..
87
19
"
"


---
Here is the text from the image:

128
MR. L. POOLE formally moved Item rob, and suggested it was a drawback to the
workers, but upon the question being put to the vote it was defeated.
100
Hem 10%
WELLINGBOROUGIL.
" That Clause 3 of the 1919 Agreement be deleted ίτοτη
all future agreements."
was withdrawn.
107 LEICESTER NO. 3.
at an early date the reconstruction of administration allowances to women
" That the Council be instructed to take into consideration
membership."
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT ruled item ros out of order.
108 LEICESTER NO. L.
"That the Political Fund be re-adjusted so that small
branches shall be given fair opportunities or running their members for
positions on local governing bodies. That the Standing Orders Com.
mittee be empowered to draw up a scheme along the lines indicated for
the approval of the Conference.
MR. F. HEWLETT (Higham and Rushden) moved Item 109: This matter arose ont
of a vote in our area and we knew nothing about it until we were asked to pay the bill
and the branch feel they should know something of it beforehand.
109 HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. Rule 284, Line 2.-Delete
any expense is incurred locally."
either" and
locally," and insert "The Branch Executive shall give their consent before
THE CHAIRMAN: Did you pay the bill ?
MR. F. HEWLETT (Higham and Rushden): Yes.
MR. C. BATES (Higham and Rushden) reiterated the statement of the previous speaker
THE CHAIRMAN: The Central Office always has to be consulted. The only reason
why that is done is to let you know how much is standing to your credit. We cannot let
you spend money when you have not any in hand.
candidate, always providing they have had the money in hand. I always say yes and report
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: There has been no friction anywhere because the Council
have never attempted to over-ride a branch when they have asked for expenses for a
the matter to the next meeting of the Council.
Next business was carried.
Item IIO was withdrawn.
110 AYR.-New Rule." The Council make some allowance to the Secretaries
of the small branches who cannot afford to pay a decent salary."
Sick Members in Arrears with Contributions.
MISS M. KING (Leicester No. 3) moved Item 111: We have women coming into our
branch in all sort of conditions, and we ask the Conference to vote for this resolution
and make it part of our rules. This is the third time we have brought it forward and we
hope you will do your best.
III LEICESTER NO. 3.--" That members in receipt of sick benefit, if in arrears on
their contribution card, shall pay up such arrears from the first week's
benefit received."
MISS E. TIMMS (Leicester No. 3) formally seconded the resolution.
MR. F. C. JEX (Norwich): I am in entire agreement with the women in Leicester.
At Norwich some time ago we attempted to apply a bye-law but found it worked disas-
trously. The complaint was that when a member fell sick his arrears were deducted when
the money was most needed. After some time we dropped it because the man who was
unfortunately sick could not afford 6s. I hope the Conference will not pass it.
MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): We have done it for years and success-
fully too. What we want the Conference to do is to make done so that we do not keep
breaking the rules from time to time.
when a member cannot afford to pay his arrears it is when he is sick. I don't think we
MR. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden) opposed the suggestion: If there is a time
should force them to pay their arrears when sickness comes.
The resolution was lost.
MRS. BELL-RICHARDS: We shall still keep breaking the rule.


---
Here is the text from the image:

130

Item 121 was withdrawn.
121 KINGSWOOD. Rule 3r0. Add "provided 50 per cent of the members have recorded their votes thereon."
MR. T. H VALLANCE proposed Item 122, and MR. G. SMITH (Leicester No. 2) seconded.
122 LEICESTER NO. 2. Rule 293, Line 4. Delete " 2s. 6d." and insert "1s.".
THE GENERAL SECRETARY opposed and stated we could only inflict a penalty of 15. in the Insurance Department because that is according to law. If a man is sick he should abide by the rules and be at home. (Hear, hear.)
The resolution was lost.
MR. R. WHITE (Edinburgh) moved Item 123, and said if you looked down the summary, giving the dates when the returns should be at the Central Office some were four days late, and he contended the returns should be in by the 15th to give the Central Office a chance to get on with their work in a proper manner.
Agreed.
123 EDINBURGH. Rule 395, Line 2. Delete " IS., and insert " 2s. 6d. for every omission."
Item 124 was agreed to.
124 THE COUNCIL. -Rule 306, Line 1. After "branches" add "sections.
Item 125 was withdrawn.
125 EDINBURGH.-Rule 306, Line 3.-Delete " 6d.," and insert " 2s. 6d. for every omission."
Item 126 was endorsed.
126 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 308, Line 1.-Delete " sick pay," and insert "any Union benefit."

Peace or War?

MR. T. H. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2) moved Item 127, and said if the General Secretary said the surest guarantee for a good balance sheet would be to waste the money, everyone would laugh. The surest way for the love of your husband is to be prepared for hate. There is just as much logic in this argument.
127 LEICESTER NO. 2. - Address. - Paragraph 4, Line 1. Delete "The surest guarantee of peace is to be prepared for war, and."
MR. J. H. BAUM (Leicester No. 2) seconded: The remainder of the paragraph is as bad when you talk of commanders and officers.
MR. W. PITTS (Northampton) opposed the resolution: It appears to me we should be prepared for any future emergency. Why should you want a fighting fund if we are not prepared for war?
ALDERMAN HILL (Treasurer): Brother Pitts has missed the point. The last five years has proved if we had not been prepared for war there would have been no war.
MR. W. PITTS (Northampton) : We were not prepared.
THERE VOTED FOR THE RESOLUTION
دو
AGAINST
,,
51
48

Objects.
Item 128 was agreed.
128 YORK. Rule 7, Line 1. Add after "Workshops," "above ground level."
Item 129.
After being formally moved, the GENERAL SECRETARY asked if the object was to get this in the next agreement, because it was one of those things we are always asking for.
129 HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. -- Rule 7, Line 2. - Delete "kit," and insert " provision of kit, to all workpeople, to be included in any new agreement.
MR. C. BATES (Higham and Rushden): Some firms supply kit and others do not.
THE CHAIRMAN: There are more important things to fight for than kit in national agreements. I think it much better if we can leave out these pinpricks. We can deal with this at the Whitley Council.
The next business was carried.


---
Here is the text from the image:

131

Item 130 was lost and Item 131 agreed to.
130 EDINBURGH.- Rule 7, Line 2. After word "that," add "that we press, and if necessary enforce, employers to supply kit to piece and day workers alike."
131 YORK.- Rule 7, Line 3. After the word "employment," insert "or employment in basements, either in the making or repairing of boots, shoes, or slippers."

Forty-Hour Week.

Item 132 being under discussion THE GENERAL SECRETARY said the Conference could assured that the Council would always fight for a reduction in hours so far as the working week is concerned.
132 THE COUNCIL.- Rule 11, Line 2.- Delete "48," and insert "44."
BRISTOL No. 1.- Rule 11, Line 2.- Delete "48," and insert "44."
CHESTERFIELD.- Rule 11, Line 2.- Delete "48," and insert "44."
EDINBURGH.- Rule 11, Line 2.- Delete "48," and insert "44."
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.- Rule 11, Line 2.- Delete "48," and insert "36."
KINGSWOOD.- Rule 11, Line 2.- Delete "48," and insert "44."
NORTHAMPTON No. 2.- Rule 11, Line 2.- Delete "48," and insert "44."
THE CHAIRMAN: 40 hours appeals to me for this reason; The Shoe and Leather Record ten years ago had an article upon the equipment of the boot and shoe trade, and they said we could produce all the boots and shoes our customers required in a 40-hour working week. Kingswood are overdoing it. We must take some consideration of the whole position.
Next business was carried.
Item 133 was agreed to.
133 LEICESTER No. 2.- Rule 11.- Delete, and insert " To establish a five-day working week of 40 hours."
Item 134 was agreed to.
134 THE COUNCIL.- Rule 13, Line 1.- Delete " seven," and insert "fourteen."
Item 135 was lost.
135 KINGSWOOD.- Rule 13, Line 1.- Delete " 7," and insert "28."
Item 136 was agreed to.
136 HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.- Rule 13.- Add "That workpeople be paid for all holidays, viz., Easter, Whitsuntide, August Bank Holiday and Xmas."
Item 137 was proposed by MR. R. WHITE (Edinburgh) :
137 EDINBURGH.- Rule 17, Line 1.- Delete " persuade," and insert "insist upon."
THE CHAIRMAN : If we abuse this and force men into the Union they are not good payers and not good trade unionists.
MR. W. BRAY (London Metro.): We shall support this, and we feel when a shop is financial the men should be withdrawn to make all the operatives trade unionists.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: There have been several cases before the High Courts recently and fines imposed because of wording in the rules similar to this. If they found we were giving support in this manner it would work against us.
The resolution was lost.

No Amalgamation.

MR. J. JEFFS (Northampton) proposed Item 139: You will remember by the letter I read the other day that I am strongly in favour of amalgamation and I move this resolution very heartily. We shall remain weak whilst we are isolated :
139 NORTHAMPTON No. 1.- Rule 18.- Delete, and substitute: "To amalgamate with other Unions whose members are engaged in the production of Footwear and manufacture of Leather."
MR. L. SMITH (Northampton) seconded : Two years ago, and four years ago, I moved a similar resolution at the request of the Leather Workers. It would strengthen their position and also our position. I trust this resolution will be adopted.


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

133
Next Conference.
Items 145 and 146 were withdrawn.
145 BRIGHTON.-Invites next Conference for 1922 to be held in Brighton
146 WELLINGBOROUGH.-"That the next Conference be held at Wellingborough.

Amendment to Rules.
Upon the proposition of MR. A. WORTH (Leicester), seconded by MR. A. W. DAKIN
Sileby, Item 147 was unanimously agreed to.
147 THE COUNCIL.-" That the Council take the necessary steps to amend the
rules in accordance with the various resolutions passed; to register the
same under the necessary Acts of Parliament, and that the New Rules
should come into force as and from Saturday, the Fourth day of September,
One thousand nine hundred and twenty."

Thanks.
THE CHAIRMAN: I should like to move a vote of thanks to the Lord Provost of the
City: the St. Cuthbert's Co-operative Association, and the Edinburgh Branch for the kindly
way in which they have entertained the delegates during the week.
MR. G. PARBURY seconded.
THE CHAIRMAN: I am pleased the Higham and Rushden Branch came forward
with their resolution to take the Conferences in future to London. Not so much because
last crust, but that does not satisfy their appetite. There has never been a more superior
We do our business worse in other places. The time has arrived when we ought to relieve
the little branches. People often say it is a pleasure to help you, and give away their
provision made than we have had at Edinburgh. (Applause.) We must run our Con-
ferences on a business basis and we must go forward in our work. I ask you to shew your
appreciation in the usual manner. (Loud Applause.)
MR. W. R. SMITH, M.P., moved a vote of thanks to the Chairman, and Mr. A. W.
DAKIN seconded, after which the Conference terminated with the singing of

Auld Lang Syne.
The Conference ended at 6.30 p.m.
E.B


---
Here is the text from the image:

TS.
Telephone No.:
4438, Muscum, London.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
"
Telegraphic Address
Natunishop, Holb., London."
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to
As these Reports are exclusively for the use of
being men on whom we can rely should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us,
Members, the information contained therein must not be divulged.
the correction as to the original matter.
NATIONAL UNION OF
Boot and Shoe Operatives.
MONTHLY REPORT.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
is now a
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
THE EDINBURGH CONFERENCE
21ST JUNE, 1920.
thing of the past. Very considerable alterations in many ways were
determined thereat, amongst them being the Contributions, which have been
raised from gd. to Is. for the full member, it being understood that Id. should
go to the Branch Management Fund and the other 2d. for trade and sickness
benefits; the Council to determine the extra benefits, if any, to be paid,
and we beg to submit the following scheme of contributions and benefits :-
NEW CONTRIBUTIONS AND BENEFITS.
We have considered the question of the Contributions and suggest that
they now be increased as follows :-
TO BE DIVIDED AS FOLLOWS:
Entrance
Fees.
Cons.
Sick.
Trade.
Branch.
Males
..
..
1/-
1/-
4d.
5d.
3d.
Males (Sick)
6d.
4d.
12
d.
..
Males (Trade and Funeral)
Males (Special Trade)
Youths
..
..
Females
..
Females (Sick)
..
..
..
..
1/-
8d.
Id.
4d.
2d.
6d.
5d.
3d.
Ind.
6d.
6d.
2d.
2d.
2d.
6d.
6d.
2d.
2d.
2d.
3d.
21d.
d.
..
Females (under 18)
Females (Special Trade) 3d.
Females (Trade and Funeral) 6d.
4d.
12
d.
21d.
Ild.
2d.
Id.
d.
..
..
3d.
Id. 3d.
Id.
Id.
B


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

422
SLACKNESS OF TRADE.
MEMBERS SUSPENDED FROM WORK.
Owing to the present depression of trade, brought about by many causes, amongst them being the adverse exchanges of money and consequent restriction of purchases, members are in large numbers having to stand off from employment in many instances for a week at a time. We have fully considered the question and have decided as a temporary measure for a period of three months from this date, June 21st, 1920 when the matter will be reconsidered to allow those members who are unemployed for a whole week at a time to declare upon the Unemployment Fund-it being understood that they are entitled financially to declare upon such Fund-to meet the position of members who are thus suspended from work. It must be distinctly understood that they will call at the Branch Office each morning and sign a paper stating they are not in work of any kind, and then at the end of the week, if not having had work as stated above for a whole week, they must sign the out-of-work book for the six days before payment is made to any member. ALL HOLIDAYS EXEMPTED. No member will be allowed to declare upon the Fund during the holiday week unless previously unemployed.

KETTERING.

Arising out of the resolution which appeared in our May issue, a meeting was held at 7, Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, the 10th inst., under the chairmanship of Alderman Frank Sheppard, O.B.E., J.P. After a full day's sitting, the following resolution was proposed by Mr. Owen Parker, J.P., seconded by Mr. T. F. Richards, and carried unanimously :
"That in the opinion of this Conference the words ' until the last pay day in June' in the undertaking given by Mr. A. H. Bryan are unnecessary, since they appear to limit the provisions of Clause 2 of the 1914-1919 Agreements, and further the Kettering Boot Manufacturers' Association be asked to see this undertaking shall have full effect."

A copy of the resolution has been sent to the Kettering Association.
We have always claimed that if the workpeople put in 48 hours in the factory at the employers' request they are entitled, unless working under a permit, to be guaranteed at any rate the minimum wage applicable to their operation.

MR. W. TOWNLEY'S RESIGNATION.

We regret to have to report that Mr. W. Townley, Council member for the No. 5 District, has felt bound to resign from the Council, such resignation being due to the fact that he thought a formal ballot vote should have been taken upon the recent interim agreement. For reasons which have been already explained we did not consider it necessary for this to be done, but Mr. Townley felt unable to continue his connection with the Council, and we regret the reason for his severance.


---
Here is the text from the image:

423

It is not necessary to deal more fully with the matter because the question
was fully gone into at the Conference and appears in the official Conference
Report. The nominations as stated elsewhere to fill the vacancy will be taken
at the July meeting.

SEVERE BLOW TO THE UNION.

DEATH OF TWO OF OUR COLLEAGUES.
We have to report with unfeigned sorrow and regret the death of
two of our colleagues from the Council during the month :-

THOMAS ORTON (Leicester).
COUNCILLOR H. SIMMONS, J.P. (Stafford).

This is unprecedented in the history of the Union that two members
of the Council lay dead at the same time. It is indeed a great blow to us,
and will be a loss to the Union that two such valued and experienced
officers should have passed away. Both of them have for many years
past carried out work of very great value both to the Union and the
community as a whole; the aim and object of both has been to as far as
possible assist the workers to a higher and better state of living. To
the relatives of both of our departed colleagues we have tendered in your
name the sincere regrets and sympathy and high appreciation of their
work, and we can only hope that the esteem with which our late colleagues
were held will be some consolation to those who are left. We were
represented at both funerals. Further references appear on pages 434-436.

NOMINATIONS

must be taken at the July monthly meeting for the position of-

GENERAL PRESIDENT.
GENERAL SECRETARY.
ORGANISERS (Two required).
COUNCIL MEMBERS (12 required-see Districts).
DISTRICT AGENTS ditto ditto.
TRUSTEES (Five required).
MANAGER OF INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.
DELEGATE TO SCOTTISH LABOUR ADVISORY COMMITTEE-Scottish
branches only allowed to nominate.
PARLIAMENTARY AGENTS (Two required).

It is not necessary to nominate Messrs. T. F. Richards, W. R. Smith, M.P.,
nor J. Buckle, J.P., for Parliamentary Agents, as they are already agents
of the Union.


---


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

428
BRANCH REPORTS.
BRISTOL AND KINGSWOOD No. 2. We regret having to report that
trade is bad; very few of our members are making full time, and have not felt
the advantages which the last Agreement gave them. We are glad that we
resisted the proposal of subsidised labour for the closing department. This
was brought forward a few months ago and supported by the manufacturers
and some local Union officials, and had it not been for the vigilance of a few
we should have had probably 200 girls drafted into our factories and subsidised
by the Government, but we said it had to be a unanimous acceptance for it
to be put into operation, and although we were outvoted the scheme fell through.
We want our women members to realise that, bad as their position is through
shortness of work, it might have been worse if we had not watched their interest.
The decision of Conference to raise the contributions from gd. to IS. has been
received with a deal of disappointment. Bad trade is responsible for the
pessimism that at present prevails, but we hope that things will be much
brighter in September when the increased payment becomes due. Our present
position, and we cannot think that our members won't rise to the occasion,
position has been won by years of honest endeavour to improve the operatives'
even if it means some little sacrifice
BELFAST. - We regret to report that trade has been very quiet during
the past month, we sincerely hope that it will soon brighten up again; we also
regret that our sick list is still heavy, and trust that all on the sick list will soon
be restored to health. We have tendered an application to the Masters'
Association on behalf of the Repairers for an advance of 50 per cent. on present
piece rates, and that the time rates be increased to 2s. 6d. per hour; we are
awaiting the masters' reply. In reference to the new supplementary rates for
those employed in the manufacturing end, while some of the manufacturers
have conceded the same others are waiting for the Conference between the
Irish Manufacturers' Association and representatives of our Union. We hope
the Council will arrange for the Conference at an early date. Might we suggest
that in future when the Council is making a demand for an advance of wages
or improved conditions of working to the Federated Association of Masters,
that they should at the same time notify the Irish Manufacturers' Association,
so that the plea put forward of having no representative at the Conference or
of not being advised of what was taking place until all had been settled could
not be put forward.
EDINBURGH. Our out-of-work sheet is now a clean one, but sickness
is still about normal. The time workers in Repairing trade are not satisfied
with their present wages, which they claim is the lowest paid to any skilled
trade in the district, and are about to claim a substantial increase on same at
the earliest opportunity, but would like other Scottish Branches to act along
with them. The Edinburgh Branch wishes to thank the Scottish Branches
who gave financial assistance to help to entertain the delegates to Conference.
There are some of the new workers who are not earning on piece rates the
amount equivalent to the 20 per cent. on time rates, so that we are trying to get
a meeting with the employer to get the prices raised to meet the case. There
are some employers who still think that piece-workers are not entitled to this
percentage, but it is up to the employees to educate them on this point. We in
Edinburgh at time of writing are still waiting on a settlement, i.e., square stuff,
from Wages Trade Board, which we hope will be soon. The price for patching
is causing some trouble, nearly every place giving a different definition as to
what is to be paid to workmen for putting on the patch. The finishers think
that a Quantity Statement for Repairing would improve their conditions of
labour, they would certainly know at end of week that their work would have
to be paid for. We hear on every side that the A.U.C.E. are still busy organising

---
Here is the text from the image:

429
petition from this union? With only two organisers for Great Britain, and
members of our trade, but what has our own Union done to combat the com-
one of them mostly employed as a negotiator for quantity statements, there
is no chance of overtaking the work that could be done.
GREAT YARMOUTH. Trade is dull and very unsettled, owing to the
stoppage of the business. The situation has been brought about by the
state of affairs in the fishing industry, which threaten to bring about a complete
Government declining to fix a minimum price of 50s. per cran for herring, as
increases in cost of materials. One cannot understand this attitude, as the
was done last year, despite the fact that conditions are worse now through
scheme worked well last year and involved the Government in no loss.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.-Trade in the Branch is bad, although in
the Army district we are pleased to report improvement. At a Court of Enquiry
held at Raunds on May 6th we agreed to the following price per pair for Welling-
Sewing, Is.; Stitching, Is. 8d.; Heeling, 3s. ofd.; total, 9s. Iold. We have
ton boots, hand-sewn: Lasting, IS. Id.; Filling and Rounding, 2s. 3d.;
secured as compensation for loss of part of three fingers of right hand the
M.P. for the untiring efforts on behalf of our members in the Army district
stum of 4165 and costs for one of our female members. We are grateful to our
and although there are a large number unemployed, the result of his efforts has
been that 30,000 to 40,000 B 5 have been placed in the district. Our Monthly
Meetings discussed the Political situation of the Division, financially and
otherwise, and urge the Council to take a greater interest in the Division which
only representative as boot makers in the House of Commons.
returns our
HULL. We are pleased to see our Portsmouth brothers voicing the
seme resolution as our Branch, and sincerely hope the Council will form some
other scheme for the benefit of Repairers so that they can have at least one
representative at the Conference. We regret to have to report trade here as
very bad, and consequently many repairers are getting discharged, and we
cannot hold any hope of it improving at present. We think the conditions
on the Continent have a great deal to do with it as well as the housing question
as trade for both is stagnant and this promotes unemployment. We are afraid
if matters here do not get a better outlook we shall have to apply for support
from the Council for an organiser to pay us a visit. When, oh when, will the
private individual use his brains for his own benefit; some cannot see further
than their nose, and we have hard work during the month to keep some of
our members from seceding from the Branch owing to the action of
the A.U.C.E. They have been doing a lot of organising with a camouflaged
statement and tried to wheedle round our members at the local Co-operative
Society. Well, anyway, they have not got the statement for our members,
and neither have they for the other departmental employees, as the society
accepted the shop assistants' offer and so baulked the A.U.C.E.
KETTERING No. 2.--Trade is very bad; operatives are steadily being
dismissed, numbers are losing time, others standing off for weeks together.
This goes to prove what some of us have always believed, when the cry of
more production was raised, that it was not commodities they meant, but
profits, as rumour states that orders could be obtained if they were prepared
to accept a lowering of the standard of profit. Sickness is about normal.
KINGSWOOD.-Regret to state no improvement in trade. With shorter
time and less wages comes the employers' opportunity to encroach upon rights
and conditions which have been secured to the operatives by collective effort.
We speak with sufficient experience to know that unless we are prepared to
face periods of depression with courage, without any hope of securing advances
of wages, and prepared every day to resist attempts to impose reductions
(sometimes in a subtle way)
we have not fully realised our objects as Trade


---
Here is the text from the image:

Unionists. The present time is a testing time, will our loyalty stand the strain?
Are we to lose our faith and enthusiasm ? Ponder the matter deeply, let your answer be positive and clear, and we venture to say that we shall overcome the present difficult time, and in the winning through we shall gain added strength because of our faith.
LEICESTER. It is with regret that we have to report the death of our late President and Council Member, Mr. Thomas Orton, who died on Friday.
June 4th, at the Leicester Royal Infirmary. He was buried on Tuesday, June 8th, and the Council were represented by Messrs. T. F. Richards, E. L. Poulton, J.P., A. Hill, and Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards; No. 1 Branch; Messrs. G. Parbury,
T. Adnitt, M. Parker, A. Worth, D. McCarthy, H. Williams, H. Cramphorn, G. Knight, W. Flower, A. George, C. Harris, and J. T. Collin ; No. 2 Branch by
Messrs. W. H. Lowe, J. P., and G. Smith; No. 3 Branch by Miss King and Miss Muir. Mr. Orton was Vice-President of the Branch for several years, prior to being elected President in 1906. Mr. Orton earned the respect of all with whom he came into contact, and our Branch and the Union has sustained
a great loss in his death. Our sympathy goes out to his bereaved family
We also regret to hear of the death of our friend Councillor H. Simmons, J.P., of Stafford. We offer our condolence to his wife and family. We made a grant of £5 to appeal on behalf of the late Mr. J. Taylor, of Kettering, and £5 to the one on behalf of Mr. J. Mason, Norwich. Trade here is very quiet.
LEICESTER No. 2. Another of aur members, a Clicker, has just received a lump sum of £100 for an injury to one of his eyes; he having drawn £41 5s. in 27 weeks made a total of £141 5s. The Union solicitor, Mr. E. Barlow, successfully negotiated the claim.
LEEDS. We regret to report that trade here is very bad, in fact, we have never known it to be as bad, and at present there does not seem any prospect of a change for the better. Our sick list is about normal. We would urge upon our members in search of employment to give this district, at least for the time being, a wide berth; our out-of-work list was never in the history of the Branch as high as it is at the present time. We would urge upon those members who are in arrears with their contributions to make an effort if at all possible to have a clear card, and thus be fully prepared for anything that might arise in the near future.
LIVERPOOL. Trade in this district is fairly good, but we still have members on the sick list despite the change in the weather conditions. We have been expecting trouble in the form of a strike but wiser counsels have prevailed. We note by the trade press that the General President at the Conference at Edinburgh in Whit-week is reported to have said that the financial and probationary membership is 100,443, funds £367,000. The women working in the industry were 46 per cent. of the whole membership. Referring to the strike policy, he was one of those who hoped they had finished with that. They had experience of that, and they had seen the methods by which other people got the best and good things of this life. They did not do it by striking but by the more subtle methods of manipulation which included hypnotism and mesmerism. The time had arrived when the industrial classes should have a hand in similar methods. We also note that a motion to raise the weekly contributions from ninepence to one shilling was carried. We hope the Council in adjusting the same will not forget that the Branches could do with an allowance of at least another penny per member weekly to meet local current expenses and thereby relieve the Branch Secretary of his anxiety to make ends meet.
Further, we note the recommendation that a voluntary sickness benefit scheme be adopted was agreed to by 62 votes to 42. Approved members will also note an increase in contributions and benefits in July under the National Insurance Act, 1920. Leaflets will be issued in due course, which all members ought to obtain from their Approved Society.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

431

LONDONDERRY. - Trade is dull in the Repairing end.

MANCHESTER. - Trade very quiet, it having fallen off considerably during the month. We had Mr. McCarthy here again re the New Agreement; we visited Greggs', Libsteins', Frankenburgs', and Owens', and got advances for our members in each case. At our Monthly Meeting £3 was granted to the Widow of the late Secretary at Kettering, Mr. J. Taylor, and hope other Branches will contribute to the fund.

MIDSOMER NORTON. - Sickness for the past month has been rather heavy, and the continued trade depression has added to the gloom of the month. Nor is there at the time of writing any prospect of trade revival. Instead of becoming unemployed and depleting the funds the workpeople have nominally remained in employment and taken a share in such work as was given out on the particular firms. In view of this, we think the Council should be free, "and we have no doubt but that they are free," to assist the districts to a far greater extent than has been done by grants in aid to help the trade in this district through the most depressing period that has been known. Over a hundred pounds per week are needed to relieve cases of dire need, and care has to be taken even with this amount to ensure the scantiest minimum of existence and thus ensure some little good. The Miners have come splendidly to our aid and they naturally ask, "What does your own Union do?" Other trades and certain individuals are helping to the best of their ability, but after all, this is mere patching; the foundations of our economic life are bad, and we must all seek to learn the lessons of the present and apply our powers to the remedies we believe are necessary.

PORTSMOUTH.-The Biennial Conference has been held and gone again, and the question the ordinary member asks is how far am I affected by the decisions arrived at by the delegates. We are speaking from a Repairer's point of view, and we are wondering if repairers are likely to receive a liberal share of attention from the Executive of the Union, or are we to be allowed to run along behind the main army, and become obscure in the dust raised by that big force. We heard five or six weeks ago of District Committees being set up by the Trade Board, and we are still in the dark as to how they are to be elected. Who selected our representatives on the Trade Board? Was it Repairers or representatives of makers? Have Repairers a representative on the Executive of the Union, and how many Repairers are there in our membership? These are questions we would like answered, as locally our members are getting restless, and the A.U.C.E. is not asleep. It is now two years and eight months since this Branch was formed, and we have not had a visit from one member of the E.C. What are the experiences and opinions of other Branches who cater for Repairers? We had hopes of seeing the South strongly organised, but we are left to ourselves. A scheme was put forward by this Branch some time ago to link up the various towns south of London, but it was turned down or put in the waste paper basket. This is not biassed criticism, but just a plain statement of the temperament of our members here, and possibly other mem- bers are thinking the same. Perhaps other Branches will take this matter up and then something may be done that will make the National more attractive and so secure more members which we desire. (It must be remembered that considerable work has been done for the Repairers by the Trade Board, and our General President is Chairman of the Workmen's side of the Board.-E.L.P., Gen. Sec.)

REDRUTH.-Things are going along smoothly with us and trade still keeps good. We had a very interesting meeting this month, although the number present was not quite up to the average, probably owing to the fine


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

434
DEATH OF COUNCILLOR H. SIMMONS, J.P., OF STAFFORD.
Thirty years' association with Boot Operatives' Union.

The placing of the Union Jack half-mast at the Guildhall on Monday conveyed the
sad news to the townspeople of Stafford of the death of Councillor Henry Simmons, J.P.,
who for the past thirty years had been officially connected with the local branch of the
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives. His demise caused a general feeling of
regret in the borough, his wise and considered treatment of labour problems and his sound
judgment and advice in municipal matters having commended him to all classes of the
community.
The deceased, who was in his 64th year, had not enjoyed good health for some years, and
a bronchial affection was aggravated by cardiac trouble. His death was unexpected,
however, as he was out walking the previous afternoon with his eldest son, Mr. H..
usual. He passed peacefully away about 9.30 o'clock whilst in bed on Monday morning,
Simmons, of the Corporation Gas Department, and seemed in much better health than
the cause of death being heart failure.

Photo]
The late COUNCILLOR H. SIMMONS, J.P.
[Pearce, Stafford.

The late Mr. Simmons came to Stafford in 1875, the year after the birth of the National
Union of Boot Operatives in the town. He began work in one of the local boot factories,
at the time when piecework largely obtained throughout the trade, and when it was the
Simmons worked for two or three different firms in the course of his career, and gained
thorough knowledge of the trade. He was always ready to advance the legitimate claims
to as
branch of the Union in 1890 was unanimous. He continued to hold this position for 17
of the operatives for better wages and conditions, and his election as president of the local
ten years ago he took over his duties and resigned the presidentship. It was Mr. Simmons'
years, during thr secretaryship of the late Mr. Alfred Hammond, and on the latter's death
in the boot trade in Stafford, and this fact speaks volumes for the tact and discretion as
proud and justifiable boast that during his Union secretaryship no strike had taken place


---
well as sound judgment he displayed in the handling of disputes, and particularly in his
dealings with the employers, which were always of an amicable character. He was honoured
by being elected vice-chairman of the local Conciliation Arbitration Board for the shoe
trade, and served on the Local Advisory Committee in connection with the Employment
Exchange. The outstanding feature of Mr. Simmons's labours in connection with the
boot trade was the organisation of the female workers and the establishment of a minimum
wage. The valuable services which Mr. Simmons rendered to the Shoe Operatives' Union
locally were officially recognised about six years ago, when he was elected on the Executive
Council of that body in the place of Mr. Moreton, of Wolverhampton.

He had served 15 years on the Town Council the first period dating from 1808 to
1904, and the second from 1911 to the time of his death. He rendered valuable service
on several committees, and especially the Housing Committee, of which he was vice-chair-
man. He took the keenest interest in the housing question, and successfully sought re-
election on it nine years ago. The block of artizans' dwellings in Crooked Bridge-road
were erected in 1901 when he was chairman of the Housing Committee, a position now held
by Alderman Bostock. Mr. Simmons was a member of the provisional Insurance Committee
for the county, and he also served on the Military Service Tribunal for the borough, the
War Savings Association, and the Food Control Committee. In January, 1918, he was
made a magistrate for the borough on the reccommendation of the Board of Trade, the
appointment being looked upon as the reward of his long and devoted service to the trade
union movement.

The deceased leaves a widow and grown-up family of three sons (two of whom served
in the Army during the war) and two daughters.

TOWN COUNCIL TRIBUTE.

At a meeting of the Town Council on Tuesday, the Mayor (Dr. Blumer) made feeling
reference to the loss which the town and the boot trade had sustained by Councillor Simmon's
death. Elected to that Council as a representative of Labour, their late colleague never
lost sight of the fact that the interests of his party were in his keeping. He also showed
very marked interest in and the great sympathy he had always for the poorer classes; he
was also one of the pioneers of the movement which had for its object the improvement of the
housing conditions in Stafford. When he (Dr. Blumer) first brought the question of housing
forward many years ago, he looked upon Councillor Simmons as one of the props upon which
he could always rely for support in that movement. In his work on the Council the deceased
combined the double obligation he owed to his party and the ratepayers at large in a
peculiarly tactful and straightforward manner, and his sound judgment on Labour questions
were of great value on committees. Speaking of Councillor Simmons's labours on the
Military Service Tribunal, the Mayor said he always brought sound and unbiased judgment
to bear upon the cases, his intimate knowledge of factory conditions being of great value.
Dr. Blumer concluded by moving a resolution deeply regretting Councillor Simmons's
death, placing on record the Council's appreciation of his valuable services as a member
of that body, and expressing sincere sympathy with the family in their sad bereavement.

Alderman Bostock, who supported the motion, bore testimony to the great loss which
the shoe trade had sustained by the death of Councillor Simmons, who was always essentially
fair-minded, open to hear the other side, and desirous of doing justice both to those he
represented and those with whom he was negotiating.

The resolution was carried in silence, the members rising in their places.

THE FUNERAL.

The funeral took place at the Cemetery on Wednesday afternoon, the Rev. J. H. Price
(Wesleyan) officiating. The mourners were Messrs. H. B. Percy and Arthur Simmons
(sons), Mr. C. Harroll, of Sidcup (son-in-law), and Mr. H. Davies (Stafford). The Mayor
(Dr. Blumer), who wore his robes and chain of office, attended with members of the Corpora-
tion, the Town Clerk (Mr. R. Battle), and the Borough Surveyor (Mr. W. Plant). Alderman
H. J. Bostock, J.P., and Mr. F. Riley represented the Stafford and District Boot Manufac-
turers' Association, and Councillors T. H. Tunnicliffe and J. T. H. Williams the Trades
Council. Other members of the Town Council present were Alderman J. C. Mycock and
M. Bedford, Councillors W. Butler, P. E. Donnelly, R. B. Mummery, F. E. Read, and T.
Reynolds. The Borough Bench was represented by Messrs. W. Peach, W. Matthews,
J. Wheeldon, T. B. Mottram, and Dr. J. H. Croudace. The National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives was represented by Messrs. T. F. Richards (president), D. McCarthy
(general organiser), R. Dunn, Alec Smith, and Glover, representing the Stafford, Wolver-
hampton, and Stone branches. Among others present were Messrs. A. H. Simpson and
C. F. Peach. Floral tributes were sent by the Widow, Auntie, Harry, and Gertie, Percy
and Celia, Mabel, Charlie and Baby, Elsie, Arthur, and Annie, Florrie, Mr. and Mrs. H.
Davies, Stafford and District Boot Manufacturers' Association, and Stafford branch of the
Boot Operatives' Union. The Staffordshire Advertiser, Saturday, June 12th, 1920.
D

---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

443
Reverently thankful for what our co-operative movement has already become, let
us now determine that
Wider still and wider,
Shall thy bounds be set;
God Who made thee mighty,
Make thee mightier yet.
Our movement must be mightier in the establishment of justice, mightier in the
establishment of truth, mightier in the establishment of peace, mightier in the establish-
ment of "the parliament of man, the federation of the world." Mightier it will be if we
go forward with our building of the Co-operative Commonwealth to the end that we may
crown all men with the priesthood and kingship which belong to the sons of God.
Co-operative News, May 20th, 1020.
LIGHT ON HIGH SODA PRICES.
Revelations before Profits Tribunal.
Revelations regarding soda prices were made at to-day's meeting of the tribunal
appointed by the Central Committee on Profiteering to hear allegations regarding whole-
sale firms. A complaint was investigated against Messrs. J. Manger & Son Limited,
of Kingsland, E.
A retail grocer declared Messrs. Manger and Son charged him IIS. for 112 lb. of soda
when the price fixed by the big manufacturers was 5s. 6d.
120 per cent. Profit.
A representative of Messrs. A. G. Collins and Brother, Cardiff, said that they had
supplied respondents with washing soda.
The chairman said that on some of the soda handled by the Cardiff firm a profit of
approximately 120 per cent. was made on the purchase price. He asked what was the
justification for such a high standard of profit in Cardiff.
Witness. We had to take a risk.
The Chairman. Then with your eyes open you went into a gamble.
Witness. Well, it was a bit of a gamble. We thought the stuff was wanted for
export.
The Chairman. The artificial forcing up of the price of soda appears to be spread
all over the country?
Witness. It is quite general.
"The Noble Army."
Witness denied a suggestion that in February the firm sold soda at a small profit
because it had not then occurred to them to " join the noble army of profiteers." (Laughter.)
The chairman said the tribunal were satisfied Messrs. J. Manger and Son had not
attempted to make an unreasonable profit, and the complaint would be dismissed.
It was clear that there was in existence a widespread gambling conspiracy on the
part of merchants and others to take advantage of the shortage of supplies in order
to force up to an outrageous height the price of all the household soda they could
lay their hands on.
The great bulk of the washing soda used in this country was made by Messrs. Brunner,
Mond and Company and the United Alkali Company, who had honourably declined to
take advantage of their position, and had maintained their normal price of £5 1os. a ton.
The Real Monopolists.
The people who were responsible for the enormous inflation of price were the specu-
lators and gamblers, who had doubtless inspired the inaccurate, misleading, and mischievous
allegations regarding monopolists and profiteering in order to cloak their own evil doings.
The evidence in this case would be referred to the Complaints Committee of the Pro-
fiteering Act Department, who had power to refer the matter to the Board of Trade, who
could initiate a prosecution. The names of other firms who had demanded prices ranging
June 5th, 1920.

---


---


---


---


---
```
477
MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNION.
Financial Members-
Males
Female
60239
26743
Probationary
GRAND TOTAL
86982
13194
100176
JUNE.
1920.
1919. 1918.
1917. 1916.
1915.
1914.
Financial
Probationary..
Totals
86982
77483
68548
60452
54200
13194
12598
45374 43706
9043
8229 5679 8209
5449
100176
90081
77591
68681
59879
53943
49155
SLACKNESS OF TRADE.
MEMBERS SUSPENDED FROM WORK.
The number of members who have been claiming benefit under the
Temporary Scheme as named in the June Report is very considerable. We
regret also to have to state that we have had to make representation in several
instances to the Manufacturers' Federation, because we felt satisfied that
attempts were made to take undue and unfair advantage of the proposals for
trying to help financially members in a time of slackness. For instance, it
putting men off for a whole week,
came to our knowledge that firms were
and then at the end of the week they would go in to work and another batch
be suspended, and vice-versa. This system we feel bound to protest against,
because we certainly were under the impression that employers should share
the work rather than put men on suspension. As stated above, representations
were made to the Manufacturers' Federation, and a reply received as follows :-
THE INCORPORATED FEDERATED ASSOCIATIONS OF BOOT AND SHOE
MANUFACTURERS OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND,
E. L. POULTON, ESQ., O.B.E., J.P.,
34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
DEAR MR. POULTON,
7, TAVISTOCK SQUARE,
W.C. 1.
15th July, 1920.
I duly received your letter of the 13th inst. and had an immediate
opportunity of talking the question you raise to a few of my colleagues.
Though the present position is a very difficult, one for the
manufacturers, there is no change in the policy they would prefer to adopt,
namely, to equalise the periods of short time over the whole factory, and
thus to obviate, as far as possible, either the discharge or a prolonged
period of unemployment of a part of their employees.
I am to-day communicating with all the Associations and pointing
out the desirability of a rigid adherence to the recognised policy of the
Federation.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) OWEN PARKER,
President.
```

---
Here is the text from the image:

479
have anything to do with the Act; such clause not having been deleted, the
resolution was passed as follows:-

"That this Congress declares its emphatic opposition to the Govern-
ment Unemployment Bill in so far as it makes provision for the adminis-
tration of unemployment benefits by Friendly Societies and others.
Further, we instruct the Trades Union Congress Parliamentary
Committee to act in accordance with the circular issued to affiliated
organisations in March, 1920, and recommends to Societies that they refuse
to have anything to do with the Act unless the objectionable clause is
removed."

This must be taken to mean not merely the administration of the Act.
but instructions will be issued to members NOT to allow any deductions from
their wages for unemployment purposes. On this matter instructions will be
issued shortly when the Parliamentary Committee of the Trade Union Congress
have agreed upon a general procedure to be adopted.

GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
During the month the Annual Meeting of the above has been held; a
report of the proceedings appears on page 640.

THE LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE
has also been held since the issue of our last Report, and here again a report
of the Delegates will be seen on reference to page 635-37.

AVERAGE DEATH OF BOOT OPERATIVES.
Owing to a certain statement made recently regarding the average death
of boot operatives, an examination has been made of the deaths recorded in
the January Report; excluding the males who died on active service, the
report deals with 196 deaths, which gives an average age at death of 44-63
years. Of 77 females dealt with, the average age is 45.22 years.

FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.

MONTHLY RETURNS.
We feel bound once again to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the LATEST day for
returns to reach the General Secretary. Last month many returns were late.
Branches failed to send off their returns to reach the Central Office by the
15th of the month, and this tends to upset the organisation of the work in the
General Secretary's Office. We trust in future every Branch Secretary will
endeavour to get in his returns as soon as is possible after the month (or five
weeks as the case may be) ends, and NOT to wait until the latest date for
them to reach the Office; and before sending them to see that they are in
order and properly signed.


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

REPORT OF THE AUDITOR.

I beg to report that I have examined the Receipts, Counterfoils
Vouchers and Bank Books, together with the various Account Books for
the Sick, Trade, Fidelity and Political Funds of the Union.
The total increase in the funds under the direct control of the Head
Office is £23,920 17s. 11d. above the funds in hand in December last, the
grand total of the Central Office funds now standing at £292.635 11s. 8d.,
as against £268,714 13s. 9d., this despite the heavy call on the Out-of-
Work Fund, which has meant an additional expenditure of £8,148 1s. 2d.
above the amount spent in the previous half-year.
I tender my thanks to the General Secretary and the Central Office
Staff for the explicit explanation given to my queries, and testify to the
careful, efficient and able manner in which the books are kept, having
regard to the great amount of detail required.
The whole of the Deeds have been examined which are shown in the
Balance Sheet, and I have to report that they are all in order and intact.
The only addition since my last audit is the Debenture Share
Certificate for your investment in the "Daily Herald."
I certify the accounts to be correct and in accordance with law.
J. B. B. ROBERTSON,
Dated 14th July, 1920.
241, Uppingham Road, Leicester.
Corporate Accountant and Public Auditor


---
Here is the text from the image:

GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
The most important event to my mind has been the Special Trades Union Congress at the Central Hall, Westminster, when two resolutions of great importance were carried. The first dealt with the Irish question, calling for a truce by all belligerents. a withdrawal of the troops from Ireland, and the setting up of an Irish Parliament with full Dominion powers and adequate protection for Ministers. We all supported that. The second resolution read as follows:-
" That this Congress protests against the British military domination of Ireland, and demands the withdrawal of all British troops from that country, and demands the cessation of the production of munitions of war destined to be used against Ireland and Russia.
" In case the Government refuses these demands, we recommend a general down tools policy, and call on all the trade unions here represented to carry out this policy. each according to its own constitution, by taking a ballot of its members or otherwise."
The majority of us supported that resolution.
Speaking for myself, because we had promised many of our members that they should have the right to express their opinion on the matter, and although the resolution asks for the same to be recommended, I certainly could not recommend such a course. Direct Action at the ballot box will to my mind secure the best and most speedy results and will be attained just as quickly. We, as a community, are prepared to choose the representatives of Labour in place of the representatives of other parties, whose whole being is diametrically opposed to the common ownership and control of the means of life.
MELTON MOWBRAY. On the 17th ult., I went to Melton Mowbray and met the firm of Messrs. Smith, Faire & Co., regarding the new terms of settlement and conditions of working.
SHEPSHED. On the 18th I went to Shepshed and had a good meeting of the operatives. Owing to bad trade things are not as bright as expected. Two of the firms are carrying out our national conditions of employment to the letter, whilst the other firm feel the operatives are not doing their best to assist them in bringing about successful results. I am of the opinion that in a very short time Shepshed will be in a satisfactory condition.
COUNCIL MEETING. On the 20th and 21st ult., the Monthly Council Meeting was held, when we considered the decisions of the Edinburgh Conference and preparations were made for the alteration of the rules.
LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE. On the 22nd ult. I went to the Labour Party Conference at Scarborough, where we stayed until the 25th. Several great and important features stood out at this Conference. One was the feeling of the movement that it would be unwise to join the third International until at least all countries were in a more stable condition, and to know what methods such an International would advise the workers of the world to adopt. The subject of self-determination came up, and one delegate claimed that self-determination meant that every section of the community had a government of its own, whilst the other section would fall back on the older idea which has been universally adopted by organised workmen throughout the world that the majority rule. How far that has been successful we have only to look at our unfortunate neighbours in Ireland, and although there was a majority for the National Party as led by Mr. Redmond, Home Rule has never been granted, although clamoured for by a majority for so many, many years. The other important feature was the domination of the proletariat. Personally, I am bound to say this copying of languages from Russia may mean anything or nothing. For my own part I certainly would prefer, if there is to be any domination, that the domination be by my own class, although I prefer no domination. On the other hand it would be much better if we struggled for the Christian dictum-Love Ye One Another. Personally, my experience in the factory led me to feel pain at the domination of a dominant employer or a domineering foreman. I certainly could not subscribe to such a policy, believing as I do in the words of Wm. Morris, that "no man is good enough to be another man's master." Another important feature was the resolution of the I.L.P., which, so far as the liquor policy of the Labour Movement is concerned, has left us with Sir William Harcourt's 20 year old policy of local option. Some of us never thought that that policy was likely to become a policy of such an advanced body as the I.L.P. Not that I would complain in any sense because they have adopted for the first time in their history a liberal war-cry. On the other hand it would have been better to have stood wholly and solely by the one method of State Purchase without any trimmings. The surprise of the Conference was seeing the I.L.P. Conference carried total prohibition, that it was not introduced by them at this Conference. The only conclusion one can come to is that taking into consideration the overwhelming vote against prohibition the I.L.P. had adopted the policy of opportunism rather than lose votes at the coming election.


---
Here is the text from the image:

607
meeting at the earliest opportunity for the Sub-Committee to formulate some form of
words that will make plain to all concerned the true meaning of Clause 12 of the 1919
Terms of Settlement and its application with the Amended Terms of 1920. We hope also
to discuss the trade's relation to the Government's Unemployment Bill which may be an
Act by the time my report is in print.
them.
Trade Union made Boots with the Stamp are obtainable when our members demand
Yours fraternally,
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
JULY 21ST, 1920.
General President.

UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BILL IN HOUSE OF COMMONS.

Speech by W. R. SMITH, M.P.

MR. W. R. SMITH: All of us on the Labour Benches were disappointed with the state-
ment made by the Minister in charge of the Bill in answer to the case submitted in favour
of a non-contributory scheme. His main argument seemed to be centred round the cost
that might fall either upon the employers or upon the State. I would submit to him that
if the employers or the industry were saddled with the burden he suggested, he could not
reasonably argue that it was a burden which the industry could not carry. Right hon.
Gentleman speaking from the Government Benches vary their tone when they are speaking
on public expenditure. Sometimes a few millions are most important. At other times they
do not seem to have the same significant importance. But they always have increased signi-
ficance when what is proposed is something that will contribute to the solving of a social
problem. I will make a comparison. These millions here are spoken of in very serious
The same tone was not adopted when the House asked to sanction the expenditure
terms.
of millions for scarlet uniforms. Compare the object in view in the two cases. One is a
proposal to establish a scheme of social reform that is going to help those who suffer from
the inequalities of our social and industrial system. The other had for its object the glorifi-
cation of an idea which we thought was going to be destroyed by the sacrifices of the past
few years. The serious tone adopted by Minist rs in regard to a few millions to be applied
to a scheme like this, loses any importance it might have had, when we realise that in regard
to other matters the same seriousness is not displayed. Is the expenditure which has been
mentioned the net expenditure? Are there no economies possible? Will it not mean
some economy in administration? If we can effect some economy in that direction, surely
it is a sound line of procedure, because if 'we can reduce the amount of labour of a non-
productive character, we are really helping society. There is undoubtedly in this bill an
endeavour to make the problem of unemployment, and the method of dealing with it, a
national responsibility. It is a national question. But the hon. Gentlemen who are pro-
moting this legislation have recognised, by the limitations that they themselves have estab-
lished in their Bill, that they cannot carry out this scheme in a complete national sense.
Why? Why is it that you have excepted trades?
from the operation of the Bill certain industries? It is not because those who are unem-
ployed in those industries do not need assistance, when they are unemployed. Those of us
who have experienced unemployment, can speak very feelingly on the question. We know
what it means in the home-life of the worker. The reason you have excluded them
is the difficulty of applying this principle of a contributory scheme. Why is agriculture
excepted?

MR. DONALD: Why is Ireland excepted ?
Why is it that you are excluding
MR. SMITH: Perhaps it is not in order for me to answer that question but I was under
the impression that the Bill was extended to Ireland. The Government are prevented from
making this a national scheme because of the fact that it rests upon a contributory basis
and I should be interested to know why these limitations and exemptions. That was one
of the reasons indicated by the Minister. The case for a non-contributory scheme in
connection with this problem has not been met by the statement made by the Minister,
and in my opinion that is the only sound basis upon which we can proceed. I urge, even
though it might mean a recasting of the whole Bill, that the case for a non-contributory
scheme is so strong that it would warrant such action.


---


---


---
control a
618
men's and 8d. women's and a 95s. per week time rate. We enter the
confident of victory, if only the workers are prepared to make some
sacrifice and remain firm and true to each other. We hope the time is
distant when the workers in the Repairing trade will come to their own
large portion of the Repairing trade in all our large towns and
BRIGITTON. The Branch meeting was held on June 28th, 1920,
Branch supported the claim of three Mental Hospital workers, who
Labour Insti ute, London Road, Brighton. I am pleased to report that
co-operative work is are angry over a non-union man being employed.
the 1.3 5s. and 48 hours, but in Brighton we shall have some trouble
members who got the £3 5s. have had notice to start on time work
member reported that he was not getting the Trade Board wage.
was asked if he had applied for it, and the employer said he would
three weeks. The Branch put it off for three weeks. Members think
the employers are going to put men on time instead of a weekly wage,
organising Sussex from Hastings to Worthing, but it will cost money
time workers should be paid higher wages. We are getting out a p
it out. If Head Office could give us a hint we shall be pleased. The B
meeting will be held the last Saturday in the month.
CHESTERFIELD. - Trade is bad again. Our sick sheet is v
here, and the worst we have had for some time. We have settled the F
the seven weeks increase last Saturday. We are hoping to get a substan
question which has been hanging fire for some time, and the member
increase in the Closing by the time this report appears in print.
thank the Council for letting us have Mr. A. J. Dobbs, of Leeds, to a
our efforts to improve the wages in Chesterfield district.
dissatisfaction was expressed by the members at the proposed increase
CHESHAM. - Trade here is very quiet. At our Branch meeting
contributions, and the following resolution was unanimously carried
meeting of Chesham Branch of Boot Operatives' Union strongly pro
against the increased contributions as carried at the Biennial Confer
and is of the opinion that such increases in contributions if carried into ef
will result in a large decrease in Union membership. Further, we are of
opinion that the increase as recommended to the Conference by the Co
'that the contribution be raised Id. per week, the same to be used for Br
work,' will meet present requirements. We therefore request the Council
immediately take a vote of all Union members as to whether the increase
contributions shall be 3d. or Id. per week."
DAVENTRY. We regret that the state of trade is very bad ind
One factory has closed down for a time. Some of these members have f
temporary employment outside the trade, but about 70 are signing the
of-work book. All the other firms are running short time.
EDINBURGH. At time of sending our report our Branch me
are on holiday. Pleased that Council have come to the assistance of
members who were out of work for a short period. This will assist them
a very difficult time. Now the cry is for more output, but to all appeara
the shoe industry has produced too much, hence the short time prev
Our trade should try and get a shorter week so as to get all our members
going on full time. We have had a number of our members who are
When will they learn that the officials must first be notified so that the
satisfied with their conditions, and have taken matters into their own
could be looked into? Then Council would decide what steps should
taken to rectify matters. One firm here are playing a very dangerou
They have employed some extra hands to get out a rush which was


---
a
619
a week or two. Then things became normal again, with the result that men
are kept waiting for work. Sometimes they receive one pair of soleing and
heeling for 24 hours work, and this under a Wages Trade Board. Well, we
must try and get a move on to get them paid waiting time. else the new State-
ment will be no good to them.
GRANTHAM. - The boot repairing trade is very slack owing to so many
"home rulers," and many men out of work in the engineering trade.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - During the month trade has become
worse. Although some fiums who were on short time are now on full time.
a large number are only working three days a week, while females who left
the factory to commence closing in shops at home are now unemployed. The
Joint Standing Committee (Army Board) have been considering the revision
of Green Book prices, particularly those boots not affected during the war.
Our claim was for 110 per cent. on pre-war prices. The meeting was adjourned
from June Sth to June 30th, when the following decision was arrived at:-
100 per cent. to be added to all pre-war prices in Green Book, obsolete boots
to be deleted from book. Recommend that Red Book be published with
10 per cent. recent addition to be included in the prices, and both Red and Green
Book prices to be in one book, and in future recommend that the old Joint
prices in view of majority of work being
Standing Committee fix up any new
manufactured in Northants. During the month we have secured the sum of
1250 Compensation for one of our members who had lost his hand, besides
weekly payments up to time of resuming work.
ality
KETTERING NO. 1.-Shopmates-Where are we? Can any of you see
a glimmer of hope-a faint luminous ray of light on which to lean? Is there
anyone with sufficient foresight, courage, strength or wisdom, who can hew
a path through the morass in which the world is now wallowing? Is there
a MAN who can and will, "with clarion call and heart aflame," arouse our
Look where you
somnolent lethargic senses, and stir once again the pulses of desire into volcanic
eruption? For such a one is surely needed, here and now.
will-politically, socially or industrially the same blank granite-like black-
ness confronts you. Internationally, the "mailed fist" is smashing and
crunching, maiming and destroying; nationally, a chain of mail is being drilled
and woven into the very fibres of our State; industrially, profit is still the
criterion of moral success; socially, the people are seething with an appallingly
aimless unrest. Surely, somehow, it is possible to calm the tempestuous
seas; to bring peace to storm-tossed Europe; to replace by honesty, morality
and nobility of purpose, in politics and industry, the shibboleths of principles
at present existing; to give to the peoples of the earth contentment and an
all-embracing joy? No, friends we are neither sullied nor ashamed; merely
temperamentally reflecting the unspoken thoughts of our members, as occasioned
by unemployment and shortness of trade. Can you wonder at our "dumps,"
our desire for the immediate Millennium, when our wives are unable to make
ends meet when the dear kiddies are going short? And are you not also
finding it so? And are you not also amazed at the thought that we only
begin to cry when our bellies are pinched, and that we relapse into stagnant,
it not time we realised that the same principles are in continuous operation
quiescent ineptitude immediately our hunger pangs are satisfied? Gad, is
whether we be hungry or gluttonously full? And if the principles are wrong
when our stomachs are empty, they must be wrong, equally so, when com-
placency atrophies and the bottom buttons are undone. Until our next,
Shopmates all-think over these things, and think on !
the Kendal and Lansatur factories of Messrs. Somervell Bros., numbering
KENDAL.-On Saturday, July 3rd, the workers and their wives from
nearly 1,000, were invited by the directors to a day's outing at Blackpool.

---
621
MAYBOLE. -Trade is slack, sickness and unemployment too are heavy.
One firm working an hour and a half short each day, the other two also working
short time. We are hoping for better times after the holidays. Two delegates
from here attended the Heavy Trade Conference in London last month, and
report that some small concessions were got, but nothing like what we asked
for. and certainly will not make much difference on the wages of the operatives.
We notice the contributions are increased from September and don't expect
the operatives will object to this; the only grievance is the members think the
increase in benefits ought to take effect from the beginning of the increase in
contributions, the same as the State insurance.
[How is it possible to increase benefits until the extra contributions have
matured to meet the liability ? - E.L.P., G.S.]
MANSFIELD. - Trade is slack. Pleased to report we have had Mr. D.
McCarthy organising here, and good progress has been made. We have 60
more new members, and others are joining.
MIDSOMER NORTON. - Trade in our district is terrible. Surely we
are in a hurry to end this desperate state of affairs which is degrading and
demoralising to men, women and children. In the old days the slave was kept
for 52 weeks in the year. In the new world so often promised by a fat business
Government, the wage slave can be turned into the street for eight weeks
or given any work which may be to the advantage of the firm to give out,
but the worker must provide for himself and family. We must seek to legislate
that an industry shall support or give security to those dependant
upon it for
maintenance. Our first step should be by shop control, machine control,
factory control. That is the “gate to more," not necessarily more boots,
but more security, and we trust, more life.
NEWCASTLE.-Trade here, that is the repairing trade, is keeping all
our members fully employed, also the sick list is now low. After the Biennial
Conferenc which was held in Edinburgh, was over, we naturally thought
that seeing the Head Officials of our Union had to pass through Newcastle
on their way to Edinburgh and back, they would call a halt here, and spend a
few hours with us, knowing full well that we have a lot of local trouble, and also
to enlighten us on what transpired at the Conference. It is a number of years
ago since we had a visit from either our General President or General Secretary,
and we are sure that all would have had a cordial welcome. Well, we are truly
sorry and disappointed that we did not have the pleasure to welcome what we
should have called a red letter visit. We can only hope that we shall have the
pleasure at a later date.
[I feel sure upon reflection it will be seen that it would be most difficult
to carry out the suggestions made above, because if after being away from the
Central Office a full week one has to call at one branch on the way home, clearly
all the other branches on the same line (of which there are a considerable number)
would have the same claim as is made above. What our friends should do, if
they would like a visit from one of the permanent officials is to make application
to the Central Office when the matter will be dealt with.-E.L.P., G.S.]
NOTTINGHAM.-Trade around here is very quiet. We have had a good
number of men passing through lately, but with no chance of a start anywhere.
Nearly all are on short time. The A.U.C.E. have been a bit active lately
trying to induce our members to join them by offering them better benefits.
This we take as unfair in face of the Trade Board.
NORTHAMPTON NO. 1. - Trade continues quiet here, most firms losing
soldiers. We have been successful in getting some considerable improvement
considerable time. Sickness is fairly light considering the number of discharged
for Handsewn Men and Hand Welted Work, also increases in the Grindery

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

43
arrangements were made for meetings of the Executive of the Manufacturers'
Federation and ourselves. A number of meetings took place at the offices of
the Federation, 7, Tavistock Square, London, W.C.r., under the chairmanship
agreed upon, and is therefore now part of the 1919 Agreement :
of Alderman F. Sheppard, J.P., of Bristol. Ultimately the following was

The Incorporated Federated Associations of
Boot & Shoe Manufacturers of Great Britain and Ireland and the
National Union of Boot & Shoe Operatives.
NATIONAL CONFERENCE

London, IW.C.. on Monday, March 29th, 1920, it was agreed and determined :--
At a meeting of the Joint National Conference held at 7, Tavistock Square,
1. That notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Clause 25
Conference, having regard to the fact that the cost of living has increased
of the National Agreement dated 13th February, 1919, this Joint National
reached, hereby agrees to amend the minimum wage rates and graduated scale
to a percentage figure not contemplated when the Agreement referred to was
rates, set out in Clauses 8, 9, and 10 of such agreement, and to substitute
therefore the scales of payment set out as under :-
For Male Operatives employed in other than Heel, Building
Departments and Stock or Shoe Rooms :-
Age.
Min. Wage.
16
22s.
17
26s.
18
33s.
..
19
40s.
Age.
Min. Wage.
20
48s.
21
59s.
..
22
63s.
..
23
68s.
For Male Operatives employed in Heel Building Departments
and Stock or Shoe Rooms:-
Age.
16
17
18
19
..
Min. Wage.
20s.
24s.
30s.
37s.
Age.
Min. Wage.
20
45s.
..
21
56s.
..
22
60s.
..
23
65s.
..
For Female Operatives employed in the Closing and Heel
Building Departments or in the Stock or Shoe Rooms:-
Age.
Min. Wage.
16
19s.
..
17
23s.
..
18
28s.
19
34s.
20
40s.
or
2. That the piecework statement referred to in Clause 12 of the Agreement
of 13th February, 1919, shall be increased in the following manner, that is to
say to per cent. (Ten per cent.) shall be added to all Statements compiled
revised under the terms of the aforesaid Agreement, and which came into
operation on or before 31st December, 1919, with the exception of the North-
ampton County Clickers' Statement, which came into operation on the 2nd
June, 1919, to which only 5 per cent. (Five per cent.) shall be added. That
all Statements that have come into operation since the Ist January, 1920,
and the date of the present Agreement, shall be advanced by 7 per cent.
(Seven and a half per cent.).


---
Here is the text from the image:

44
It is agreed that to avoid the necessity for further detailed revision and amendment to such Statements, this percentage increase shall be calculated upon and added to the total weekly earnings of pieceworkers.

3. That this interim Agreement shall become operative the week com-mencing 15th, 16th, 17th or 10th day of April, 1920, as the case may be, and shall be incorporated in, and interpreted with, the National Agreement of February, 1919.

The Conference agrees to recommend the respective organisations to ratify this Agreement, and if ratified shall be registered with the Board of Trade and the Ministry of Labour as a National Agreement.

Dated this 29th day of March, 1920.

Signed on behalf of the Manufacturers' Side of the Conference,
OWEN PARKER, President A. E. MARLOW, Vice-President.

Signed on behalf of the Operatives' Side of the Conference,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President. E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.

Countersigned, F. SHEPPARD, Chairman of Conference.

Here, again, we claim that very substantial advantages have been secured for the members, and that without any loss of time to the operatives (which means wages), and which is not always fully appreciated at its right value.

13. OBITUARY.

It is with deep regret we have to report the passing away of so many of our colleagues since our Leicester Conference. In fact we believe this is the heaviest list of deaths of officials ever reported to one of our conferences. It is indeed a great loss to the Union, and to the cause of labour generally that so many of our comrades, in such a short space of time, have passed to the Great Beyond. We have in your name conveyed to their relatives sincere sympathy and condolence in the loss they have severally sustained. We hope the example set by our comrades in striving to leave the world a better place than they found it will act as an additional incentive to those of us who are left to carry on the work which they had so much at heart.

J. BAKER, Secretary to Derby Branch.

HARRY BROWN, ex-Council Member and Arbitration, London Board of Arbitration.

T. S. HORNSEY, President, Northampton No. 2 Branch.

F. KILLINGWORTH, President Wellingborough Branch.

GEO. LONG, ex-Secretary Bristol No. 2 Branch.

H. MURBY, President Derby Branch.

T. NEILSON, Secretary to Kilmarnock Branch.

T. O'GRADY, J.P., Secretary to London Metro. Branch.

C. PRICKETT, President Daventry Branch.

ALD. T. SMITH, O.B.E., J.P., Arbitrator and Conciliator to Shoe Trade; member Leicester Branch; First General Secretary.

D. STANTON, J.P., ex-President Northampton and ex-Council Member.

JOHN TAYLOR, Secretary to Kettering No. 2 Branch.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

53
Decided that the Report be received, and discussed clause by clause.
Is it War?
MR. L. SMITH asked for permission to move additions to Paragraph (1), and the
same were referred to the Standing Orders Committee.
MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2): The worst feature is to find our officials with the
war party. We know what they did during the war. Our General Secretary was taking
the side of the war party right through the piece. This matter brings me back to a sentence
in the Leicester Daily Post. At the Tribunal dinner our General Secretary is reported to
have said Leicester should be proud to be represented by Sir Gordon Hewart.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I certainly never made any such statement, nor do I
know to what Mr. Harris refers.
THE CHAIRMAN, to Mr. Harris: Why didn't you send a postcard and ask the General
Secretary before making these statements?
MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2): Mr. Poulton cannot deny he was on the platform
with Sir Gordon Hewart. Our officials should lead the workers and not mix with the
other side.
MR. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): If it means Clause (1) is to be adopted as printed
I cannot accept it. I hope it will be referred back. Whilst we have a progressive policy
in the East and make an attack on Soviet Russia we are not at peace. If the Dockers
and Railwaymen take their stand we dare not publish this report, and I move the
paragraph be referred back.
MR. J. JEFFS (Northampton) seconded the reference back. You have protested
against our officials taking an active part during the war. I protested. They were
misled, as were the people of Germany. The reference back or the passing of pious reso-
lutions does not go far enough. We must have a broader vision and I suggest it should
be taken into consideration whether we should link up with the second international
we should link up with the second international
which is deemed a failure. If we wish to help Soviet Russia we must establish a League
of Peoples. Had we worked internationally in the real sense we could have brought about
what the second one failed to do. It is up to us to see we toe the line with the miners
and other large unions.

MR. W. PITTS (Northampton): On most questions there is a difference of opinion.
In Northampton we are infected with the same disease. I personally believe we did quite
right in taking the part we did in assisting France to uphold democracy. It is in evidence,
which cannot be refuted, and statements made by independent men. Robert Blatchford
in 1904 predicted what took place in 1914, in a book called the "German Menace." H. м.
Hyndman, who cannot be accused of being a "militant," predicted the war years ago.
Germany had to extend its markets or burst, and I am pleased to say it burst. Democracy
would not have been extended by the use of a German army. If France had fallen we
should have gone under. I am not saying England is free from blame. When we know
the whole of the facts and what has taken place throughout Germany we can understand
why they forced a passage through another country and created ferment. Their assembly
is not an elected body at all. The free Press is abolished. It is not a question of democracy
but despotism. I claim there are two sides to the Russian question and I do not agree
to the paragraph being referred back. For the past 25 years I have been trying to bring
about a better state of affairs and can claim some credit. I believe in constitutionalism;
whilst it is not all we desire, still it only wants intelligent people to say what we want and
to get it.

MR. F. C. JEX (Norwich): I think it would be a grave mistake if the conference took
advantage of Clause (1) to have a post-mortem examination of what happened during or
at the close of the war. I have no objection to my friends having a different opinion
but think friend Pitts should take upon himself some authority as to what exists in Russia
to-day. I am not prepared to accept the Bolshevik reign as being applicable to ourselves,
but I do think we should be united against the Government when they sit and plan against
Russia. I hope also the length of service in the movement will not vouch for the truth
of delegates' statements. Some of the oldest men in our movement are the men who
I would rather like to see the resolution that comes from
went so very wrong in the war.
Norwich incorporated with paragraph 1. The Council have packed into a watertight
department a decision which does not definitely say what the Conference desires.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: If we all want to make personal statements we shall be
on the first paragraph until Wednesday. I have no objection to the paragraph going back,
but would suggest it meets the whole of the circumstances in allowing the paragraph to
go through and in consequence of recent happenings-since the Report was printed have
an addendum. When this paragraph was first drafted very little fighting was going on.
Two months ago when the first copy went to the printers these wars were not in the same
position as they are to-day. I suggest we pass this paragraph and then another be added
to it.


---
MR. G. PARBURY (Leicester) hoped the matter would not be referred back as the
Standing Orders Committee have two resolutions to consider already. If our friend
Gould wanted to get at the Council he must go about it in a different way.
MR. G. Aввотт (Leeds) hoped the clause would be referred back as the first two lines
said ".
war has ceased."
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: It also says
"
fighting is still going on."
MR. G. Aввотт (Leeds) still contended the resolution should be referred back seeing
there are twenty wars going on.
MR. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton) accepted the statement of the General Secretary
and said he was not getting at the Council. He was speaking of policy, not men. We are
in a free country and should have our own opinion.
Paragraph (1) was then referred back for additions to be recommended by the Standing
Orders Committee.

State of Trade.

MR. A. BIRT (Northampton): Are the Council taking into consideration the question
of short time instead of men being discharged wholesale? It seems from this paragraph
the Council think the shortage will only be temporary.
THE CHAIRMAN: In various parts of the country there was a shortage of female
labour and for a time we allowed employers to take women in at, say 25s. weekly for three
months. So far as Leicester is concerned this agreement finished last December. Now
as to the question of share and share alike, that comes under the Whitley Council Report.
It always has been the desire of the Council to do as you suggest.

Female Labour.

MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2): I understand 800 females were recently imported
into Leicester. Have these females come into the boot trade?
MR. T. ADNITT (Leicester): I am a member of the Leicester Advisory Committee
and a scheme was adopted under the jurisdiction of the Committee-seeing there was a
shortage of female labour. We realised in Leicester something must be done to bring
into our staple trades more female labour. In the hosiery trade they were wanted, and
in the boot and shoe trade the men were losing time owing to the shortage of female labour
in the closing departments, and it was decided to bring women from other parts to try
and meet the demand. We realised our difficulty so far as housing accommodation is
concerned. The scheme was adopted, however, and certain portions of the old Poor Law
establishment was used to house these women.
Men were returning from the war and
had no work owing to this shortage of female labour, and that is why we tried the experi-
ment.
MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): Let me put Mr. Harris's mind at rest.
Although over 700 girls came into the town 500 of them learned how to machine and went
into the hosiery factories. Two months ago I moved a resolution that no more women
were to be drafted into our trade and this is being carried out. No opposition was offered
by the manufacturers because they found after teaching the women, off they went to the
hosiery trade where the girls got more money.
MR. A. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): A good few of you will remember the Council
took up the position during the war that it was essential to keep the factories running
and the output at its fullest capacity to allow females to be introduced on operations
that
not due to the marriage of single girls, nor to their disappearance into domestic service
where they secured better remuneration, but they were in other parts of the industry
where they got increased wages. That agreement should cease.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: As far back as last September an instruction was sent
out that the wartime agreement relating to women must cease, this being agreed to by
the manufacturers and ourselves.
MR. A. SMITH (Arbroath): It is quite true the Council did issue such a circular. One
of the shops in my district put a girl in the finishing department. I saw the employer
and he said in Leicester there was any number of women in the finishing rooms. You
have shifted my women; go and turn them out at Leicester. I make no charge against
the Leicester officials, but if the statement is true the Council should take action. We
want protection.
THE CHAIRMAN: I am astounded at the situation obtaining in an official's mind that
because an employer says something it is taken as gospel. Let us have the truth.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

55
MR. G. PARBURY (Leicester): Before Mr. Smith made such a statement he should
know whether it is true or not. I am surprised our friend, Alec. Smith, should believe
every "nosy parker" or "Mother Hart" whatever they say. Will he give us the names
of the factories?
MR. A. SMITH (Arbroath): I will get them for you.
MR. G. PARBURY (Leicester): It is ten years since Mr. Smith was on the Council and
times have changed. So far as Mr. Parker, Mr. Adnitt or I am concerned we know nothing
of any females in the lasting or finishing departments. Leicester is a big place and when
there are a number of shops we ought to have names.
THE CHAIRMAN: Everyone should remember it is safer to have the facts to back
up our case. That is our trouble at the Central Office. We cannot get information.
When we make a charge we ought to have the facts. Most firms say we will have men
if they are available, but they cannot dispense with the women until men are found. If
a girl leaves her place should be filled by a man, and so far we've had no complaints to make.
MR. G. CHESTER (Kettering): I have been to some trouble in getting over this difficulty
of the shortage of closers. The only way out of the difficulty is to make the conditions
of the closing department so good and perfect as to provide an inducement for young
labour to enter the trade and maintain their position. We cannot get those conditions
which are necessary and I want to suggest to the Council the time is opportune when they
should take into consideration the tremendous difference and anomaly as to wages paid
to females and males, because you have to remember that in most centres as Leicester
and Kettering there are competitive trades, drawing female labour from the boot and shoe
industry. We must provide the means to continue the industry, and cannot do it unless
we attack it at the root. With the help of Mr. Chapman we recently took a census of
married women in Kettering shoe factories and we have to consider over 25 per cent.
of the women in the closing department are married. To be exact 28.33 per cent. I
want also to inform you their dependents are considerably over 500, practically all of whom
are children of school age. What will happen to those children? In the clothing factories
the percentage is 7.76 per cent. I asked the Medical Officer of Health the number of
people leaving school entering the shoe trade and the clothing industry. There is only
8 per cent. enter the boot factories and 92 per cent. go to the clothing and other factories
What is this conference going to do in this connection? You cannot blame the operatives
nor the girls. The responsibility is upon the backs of the male employees in the boot and
shoe industry to see to it that the conditions of our closing departments are such as to
make them sufficient inducement for the women to enter the trade. It should be tackled
very determinedly.
THE CHAIRMAN: This matter has been faced every time we met the employers. We
have given statistics not of percentages of people employed but of wages received. When
I went to Sileby a few weeks ago I was charged that 30s. was not sufficient, whilst children
at 14 years of age could get 40s. We cannot get the manufacturers to be more generous
with their cash. I was at Wellingborough a fortnight ago and we found 21 girls had left
school. One firm had one girl; two girls had gone to another factory and 18 had gone
to the Ideal Clothing Factory. What is the object? The girl learns to work a machine.
The clothing is clean work and she earns good money and at the same time learns how to
make her own clothes at less than cost price. In most industries the remuneration is
higher and in the hosiery much higher. Every time we have a national conference and the
question of the women is raised, we try to get the employers to be more generous. Our
girls should demand a better wage and it was only because of our good case that we obtained
the 10s. rise recently.
MR. T. ROBERTSON (Glasgow): So far as the Glasgow manufacturers are concerned
there are women in men's c'epartments to-day. The officials have tried to get them
dismissed and failed, and the employers refuse to put the women out.
MR. A. W. DAKIN (Sileby): I have had no trouble whatever in removing girls from
men's departments. We had the authority and power to remove the girls if we can find
male labour. Up to a few weeks ago I got along very well. When I saw the firms and
pointed out the agreement to them they removed all the girls from the departments.
MR. F. HUMBER (Leicester): You could not get the women to join the Union. I
have had considerable trouble to organise our shop and it is always a difficult job with
the women. You always have to give them something before they will pay to the Union.
MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): The women are suffering from the
same weakness the men did some time ago. I know the women are slow. In our city
of Leicester we are well organised, and in days gone by if a non-unionist was employed
in the men's departments unless he joined the Union the men downed tools. We have
now reached the time when the women must be recognised as workers, and in years gone
by if the men had realised that, and said we will not work with the women unless they are
trade unionists the whole thing would have been done. It is rather amusing to hear
this talk about the married women. It sounds all right. We are with you in getting


---
Here is the text from the image:

the women out of men's jobs. We had one thousand women in men's departments in
Leicester. When we started on the scheme I felt sure it would be better to have these
women as members. The three Leicester Executives met, and decided the women's
branch should take the women in the men's departments and every one of these women
signed a card to say they went in temporarily. We know by the women we are "scratching"
in our branch, all of them except a few must be out of the men's departments. The re-
maining few are coming out by the end of this week. With all our 6,000 members I don't
think we have had 2 in out of work pay; 90 per cent. of these women who came into
men's departments have gone into the hosiery and clothing trades. It was only by the
knowledge and information we placed before the employers that we secured the 105. rise
on the 30s.. because we are keeping a record shewing where all our women go to.

MR. C. BLEAKLEY (Edinburgh): The question from Glasgow is a big one. So far as
the Scottish operatives are concerned we had a meeting and it was decided women must
come out of men's jobs at the termination of the war. You all know we have been trying
to bring about the establishment of payment by results in Scotland. We have been
meeting the Glasgow employers. We had a position put to Mr. Buckle and I with regard
to Shieldhall. I think most of you know the attitude of the Scottish operatives about
the position of payment by results, and at Shieldhall our position was difficult. When
we decided to form a Committee we took the clicking department first. When we got
into Committee the clickers insisted upon all the women being put out. The difficulty
was they had no male labour to put into the positions, and if these women were put out
the other parts of the factory would be at a standstill. The Management said if you
can find us male labour we will get rid of the females. A strike was ultimately brought
about and the payment by results adopted. Now in the finishing department women
had been on the scouring. We had a case last week where, in connection with the finishing.
department. They could not get the work through. The men had worked on a certain
system for years. We fixed up a statement and asked our members to give it a two months'
trial with a guarantee of wages. At the end of two months the whole question would be
gone into and the statement compiled to enable the operatives to earn £4 5s. During that
two months the men did not go beyond their tally. The men did 70 dozen and the women
120. When we tried to get the thing put right and induce the men to give the system
a trial they said it was not worth while. We were told these women had been put on to
make the pace. We negotiated a position that women should be put on fittings and if
we had acceded to the men's demand the other departments would be idle for part of the
week. The Management has given us all the assistance they can. They are anxious to
get rid of the women as soon as possible but male labour must be found.

Paragraph 2 was then endorsed.

Demobilisation,

as set out in Paragraph 3, was then discussed and

MR. J. WESCOE (Leeds) asked when members should take up their cards.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY replied that several circulars had been issued upon this
matter stating in an explicit manner that members must pay their contributions as soon
as they were demobilised. I suppose Mr. Dobbs has also told Mr. Wescoe all about this
question. The time has arrived when we should decide, after a certain date, that the
whole principle should drop, and everyone will have to pay from that particular date.

Training of Disabled Men.

MR. L. SMITH (Northampton): So far as Northampton is concerned, and I think
it operates throughout the whole of the country, disabled men who have gone through
the Technical Training Schools have found themselves in an unfortunate position owing
to the shortage of trade. So far as the training of men in the machinery section is con-
cerned there has been a difficulty in putting these men into a job. At the moment the
were being trained in Northampton school; some four, some three, and some had had
one month's probation. Information came that the payments must be stopped. To-day
collapsed. Fifteen men
there is not a man being trained at that School on the machinery side. It has raised a
difficulty, and has given those who do not know much about it-the Discharged Soldiers'
Federation-to say we are not doing our duty. So far as I am concerned I have walked
and the School has
all round Northampton and appealed to manufacturers to give these men a chance to come
into the trade. The principle was laid down that we should not take a man into the
machinery side of the training scheme who had not previously worked at the industry.
Twenty-one men are now out on the streets. Next week we hope to deputise the Minister
of Labour and I should like to know if other centres have similar difficulties, because
we want the Minister of Labour to put these men into the School until work comes along
for them. So far as the handsewn side of the trade is concerned we have trained 76 men
and found everyone of them a job or set them up in businesses of their own.


---
57
THE CHAIRMAN: Can Labour govern ? If we go on like this we cannot. During
the last two or three years you have had three representatives on a Government Com-
mittee which has relieved the Minister of Pensions of the work and transferred it to the
Trades Board. The machinery has been wound up and none of us knew anything about it.
We want to be mandatory as well as advisory. I was not aware men were taught on the
factory system in Northampton. I had much to do in trying to get machinery to equip
We told the Minister of Labour we should be responsible or throw the whole business up.
the schools, but the majority of the machinery of Leicester was fetched from the school
the manufacture of army work, with the result we have not been able to get machinery
National Committee. I think our friend Smith should have acquainted the Central
Office as to what was being done. We could have seen the Minister responsible, sceing
given orders that no more men should be trained for the repairing and handsewn section
except a few, mainly for Scotland and the West End of London.
we are on the spot. I don't remember such a drastic resolution being adopted. We have
for
to teach the men.
I was on Union business and could not attend the last meeting of the
MR. L. SMITH (Northampton): The instruction was only received last Thursday
or I should have acquainted the Central Office, because I wanted to see our officials before
we met the Minister of Labour
THE CHAIRMAN: We meet on the 6th June and I don't want the thing to be delayed.
The Minister of Labour should be given our opinion and already we
some of his decisions.
Paragraph 3 was endorsed.
Red Book Prices.
have had to revise
MR. it means the Red Book
prices will be turned down. Are we prepared to allow this?
MR. C. BATES (Higham and Rushden): New contracts have been issued and the
Red Book prices are being paid in our district. We have had no difficulty to get the
employers to pay the prices and we have no idea of accepting less.
THE CHAIRMAN: The War Office want to claim the prices now, seeing the war
is over, but along with the employers we shall fight this contention.
MR. A. J. LOBBS (Council Member): There are changes all the time in the kind of
boots required. We might leave the Red Book in its present form and it might soon be
obsolete. What is an important factor is to see the Committee is kept in being to fix
new prices.
Paragraph 4 having been endorsed, the Conference adjourned at 12.30 p.m., and
resumed for the
Afternoon Session
at 2 p.m., MR. T. F. RICHARDS again presiding.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY called the Roll and reported Mrs. Burton, Mr. A. J. Buse,
Mrs. Corey, Miss Farmer, Mr. I. Sharpe and Mr. Tebbutt were absent. These delegates
arrived later and their explanation for being late accepted.
Boot and Shoe Repairing.
Paragraph 5 was then discussed, and
MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2) asked why at Bradford there was a strike seeing
these people were bound by Government regulations.
THE CHAIRMAN: There can be no worse conditions than Trade Board regulations.
The people in Bradford want roo per cent. above that. The Government do not interfere
and say we shall not have power to strike to enforce better conditions.
where there are a
MR. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton): In respect to the Boot Repairing business, let
of Boot Repairers and they are paving the full statement which has just come in, even
with a man employing say another man and pays less and so cuts prices? Our statement
up to the 33 per cent. for pieceworkers, and full day wages. What can our officials do
is 5s. 3d. and 6s.gd. We want these prices kept up to enable us to pay the wage. If men
can do a pair for 3d. or 6d. less what action can we take? I am very interested myself
is concerned. We should keep our eyes open and not be placed in the same position as
and don't want to see Northampton "scab" it. This work is young so far as our Union
we were in the manufacturing when machinery was introduced.

---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

626
THE REPAIRING TRADE BOARD.
Interpretation of Terms of Notices Issued by the Board-The Wages of
Machine Operators Constitution of District Trade Committees-The
Definition of a Learner-Earl Haig, Trade Unions and Ex-Service Men.
Lane.
A meeting of the above Board was held on July 7th, at the offices, 5, Chancer:
exemption, 44 applications has been granted, and two refused. Particulars were also giver
last meeting of the Board the Committee had held two meetings. In regard to permits of
A report from the Administrative Committee was submitted stating that since the
of the deputation to the Home Office on the inclusion of boot repairing businesses within
the scope of the Shops (Early Closing) Bill, the result of which has appeared in the Record.
respect of the interpretation of certain terms of notices issued by the Board. The Commit.
The Committee had considered at the request of the Ministry of Labour questions in
tee recommended the Board to adopt the following:
1. That stuff cut on the square means stuff cut in the rough in sizes sufficient to
provide two soles, and that the item referred to does not apply to single soles
or to heels.
2. That long soles mean soles under heels, and that for all soles under heel sewL
that rapid stitched work or Blake-sewn work should be paid for as machine-s
by hand ofd. extra on the minimum rate for half soling should be paid and
work.
3. That the Trade Board notice D4 does not require, and the Trade Board did not
intend to provide, that extra payment should be made for work sewn aloft
and that 5d. extra is for soles sewn through by hand on to insoles (similar to
Blake sewing).
4. That the word lifts means heel lifts.
5. That the term re-stitching means the extra work involved when old stitches are
taken out of a welt aud a new sole is stitched on through the old holes.
6. That as provided by the notice dated April 12th, 1920, Is. 4d. per pair extra for
square clumps on surgical work should be payable only if a boot has clump sole
attached in addition to ordinary sole.
The Committee had considered a letter in regard to the proposed alteration of wages for
machine operators (D5) asking if the proposal was to operate for men who with general
work had only occasionally, and for a small part of their time, to use the various machines.
The Committee felt that a man who was a general repairer should not be classed as a man
who was employed on a particular class of machine. The Committee recommended
the Board to amend their notice of proposal so as to provide that if a male worker was
engaged to work one or more of the machines specified in the notice, he should be paid
8os. per weck of 48 hours, and that if a male worker was not engaged to work one or more
of the machines specified in the notice he should be paid at the rate of 8os. per week of s
hours during such time as he was actually employed in working such machines.
In regard to the constitution of District Trade Committees, the Committee had consi-
dered a letter from the Ministry of Labour in reply to suggestions submitted by the Com-
mittee with regard to the proposals that each District Trade Committee should consist
of 24 representative members. The Minister felt that he would not be justified in appoint-
ing so large a number as 8 to represent the Trade Board on the District Trade Committees.
In his view the Trade Board would be amply represented by the appointment of two em
ployers' representatives and two workers' representatives from the Trade Board to each
Committee, especially in view of the fact that the Employers' Associations and Trade
Unions represented on the Board would have an opportunity of nominating independently
local representatives on the Committee. The unit be prepared to
constitute the Committees on the basis of a reptinister would therefore
members on each side to be nominated by the Trade Board. The Minister was prepared
to consider favourably the suggestion of the Board that more than one appointed member
should be appointed to serve on each District Trade Committee.
side, five
by the Trade Board, should be selected only from the nominations made by organisations
were of opinion that members of District Trade Committees, other than members nominated
The Committee had agreed that the Minister of Labour be informed that the Committee
represented on the Trade Board, and a deputation from the Committee had attended at
the Ministry of Labour in support of this resolution.


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

635
THE LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE.
DELEGATES' REPORT.
The Twentieth Annual Conference was held at Scarborough on June 22nd 25th, 1920,
Mr. W. H. Hutchinson being the Chairman.
The Conference was very largely attended there being not fewer than 1200 delegates.
The question of the size of the Conferences that are now taking place will in our opinion,
question of numbers it is becoming increasingly difficult to secure halls sufficiently large,
have to receive the attention of the societies in the near future, because, apart from the
and when secured the difficulty is for many of those attending hearing what is going on;
this was the case in a number of instances at Scarborough, and cannot be considered as
at all satisfactory.
The Chairman, in his opening statement, gave a résumé of the present situation as
it presented itself to him, and also called attention to points that needed dealing with
at once. Extracts from his speech appear elsewhere. The following were amongst the
more important resolutions passed at the Conference:-
Finland.
"That the Conference deplores the continuance of repressive measures by the Govern-
ment of Finland, under which 1,400 Trade Unionists and Socialists are still imprisoned
peaceful political meetings are being broken up, and those taking part in them are arrested
for complicity in the Civil War which terminated over two years ago, and under which
and arbitrarily imprisoned; and the Conference resolves that representations be made to
the sake of the credit of Finland throughout the
the Government of Finland urging that, for
and an immedi-
ate restoration of freedom of speech and political rights to all citizens."
"
That the Conference reaffirms its conviction that only on the basis of democratic
self-determination, with adequate protection for minorities, can any stable or satisfactory
settlement of the world be arrived at; and that this principle is applicable to all peoples
that show themselves capable of expressing a common will.
India.
"The Conference therefore demands the full and frank application of this principle
in the reorganisation of the Government of India that is now in progress, in such a way
as to satisfy all the legitimate aspirations of the Indian people; it asks that corresponding
measures may be taken in Burma, Ceylon, and other parts of the British Empire in which
self-government is demanded. It emphatically protests against the militarist and repressive
methods adopted by the present British Government, and expresses its sympathy with
the peoples now held in subjection. It denies the right of any Government to govern a
country against the will of the majority; and while expressing the hope that all the peoples
of the British Empire will prefer to remain as parts of that Empire-so soon as their aspira-
measures of autonomy, it declares that the final decision must rest with those people
tions have been dealt with in a thoroughly conciliatory manner by the granting of adequate
themselves."
"The Conference deeply deplores the cruel and barbarous action of British officers
in the Punjab; it extends its sympathy to the sufferers by these unpardonable atrocities,
which after much delay have now been far too mildly censured by the Government; and
it urges that all the officials concerned should be formally brought to trial before a criminal
court, in order that their personal responsibility for acts contrary to law may be investi-
gated, and, if found guilty, that they may be duly punished. Whilst doing this the Con-
ference is fully alive to the fact that the civil Government must be held responsible for what
has happened, and calls for the recall of the Viceroy as the only proof that can be given to
India that this country is deeply moved by what has taken place and does not mean it
to be repeated."
Egypt.
"That the Conference demands that the Government should remember that the
British Nation is bound in honour by its repeated promises to respect the independence
of Egypt; it insists that the right of the people of Egypt to self-determination must not
be infringed; it therefore condemns the arbitrary manner in which the British Government
has usurped the actual conduct of the Egyptian administration, whilst maintaining only
the forms of independence; and it accordingly urges that, in the negotiations now in pro-
gress, all such interferences with Egyptian self-government be abandoned; that the right
of the Egyptian people to independent responsible government be fully recognised; and
that British action in Egypt, whether for the protection of the Suez Canal, the administra-
tion of the Soudan in Egypt, whether forted to that to which the responsible Nationalist
Government of Egypt may freely give its consent."

---


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

644
SCOTTISH TRADE UNION CONGRESS.
DELEGATES' REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
Summoned by the Parliamentary Committee to consider a number of public
questions of immediate interest and importance, the Scottish Trades Union Congress,
at a meeting in the Central Halls, Glasgow, on Saturday, 10th July, decided to support
a "No Rent Campaign."
In addition to urging that complete self-government to the Irish people was the only
solution to the Irish problem, and demanding the withdrawal of the Army of Occupation, a
resolution on Ireland adopted by the Congress called upon affiliated organisations to refuse
to manufacture, handle or transport munitions, or to transport troops for repression in
Ireland.
On the question of measures to reduce the Cost of Living, the Parliamentary Committee,
who urged the public control and supply of the necessaries of life, and a levy on wealth to
clear off the war debt, declined to accept a proposal for a complete stoppage of production
if deemed necessary. The Chairman said such a course would simply deplete the market
of commodities, the price of which would inevitably rise still further. To propose Direct
Action as a cure-all for every social and industrial ill was to reduce the thing to an absurdity.
They had also to bear in mind that 70 per cent. of the articles which entered into the
workingman's cost of living came from other countries, and a strike in this country would
not induce the people in those countries to sell cheaper. The resolution as proposed by
the Parliamentary Committee was adopted.
ALEC. BROWN.
M. GAMBLE.

MR. ROBERT DUNN.
Appointed Secretary of Stafford Branch of the National Union.
Mr. Robert Dunn, who is well known in trade union circles in Stafford, has been
elected secretary of the local branch of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives
vice Councillor H. Simmons, J.P. (deceased). He has been president of the branch since
1907, and, following Mr. Simmons' death, has been acting secretary.
The appointment of Mr. Dunn as branch secretary coincides with the twenty-fifth
anniversary of his service in the making department of Messrs. D. Hollin & Co. Ltd., boot
manufacturers, Stafford. His father, the late Mr. George Greenwell Dunn, went to Stafford
from London when he was nineteen years of age, and was president of the local branch of
the Amalgamated Society of Boot and Shoe Makers.
At a meeting of the Stafford Branch, on the 17th inst., Mr. D. McCarthy (Union
organiser), who presided, moved a vote of sympathy with the widow and family of the
late Councillor Simmons. The motion was carried. It was reported by Mr. J. Keogh
(auditor) that the books of the branch had been audited by the Union's Chief Clerk, and
found in perfect order.
The following were nominated for the office of president:-Messrs. J. Daly, T. Draper,
C. Gunnell, E. Housby, and J. Reynolds. A ballot was taken on the 24th inst.-The Shoe
and Leather Record, June 25th, 1920.

LEICESTER BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
Steps to Limit Actual Unemployment.
A meeting of the Arbitration and Conciliation Board of the Trade was held yesterday.
Present: Messrs. W. A. Thompson, G. W. Hunt, J. W. Morton, J. A. Sabin, and T. W.
Smith (representing the manufacturers), Messrs. T. F. Richards, T. Adnitt, G. Parbury,
M. A. Parker, H. Cramphorn, G. Knight, A. Hill, W. H. Lowe, G. Smith and Miss M. King
(representing the operatives), and Mr. A. E. W. Chamberlin (secretary). Mr. Geo. Parbury
was elected chairman of the Board, to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mr. Thos.
Orton.
The meeting was convened to discuss, in the present situation of the trade, the possi-
bility of the work being more equally distributed amongst the operatives, and the following
resolution was unanimously adopted :-" That with a desire to limit the amount of actual
unemployment during the present period of slackness of trade, manufacturers be advised
to work uniform short time, either departmentally or over the whole factory, in preference
to discharging or suspending operatives."-Leicester Mercury, July 23rd, 1920.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```
645
OUR OVERSEAS TRADE.
LARGE INCREASE IN EXPORTS AND IMPORTS OF BOOTS & SHOES.
We give below an abstract of the Board of Trade Returns for June so far as the shoe
and leather trades are concerned.
Exports of Boots and Shoes.
Month ended June 30th.
Quantities. Value.
1919. 1920. 1919. 1920.
}
Doz. Doz.
pairs. pairs. £ £
+
Of Leather- 183 89 867 1057
i
To Germany 5791 9675 16851 46057
Belgium 8187 2316 62753 15868
Netherlands 14085 5408 117986 42956
1
France ΙΟΙ 306 331 2023
t
Italy 31 428 217 1331
Argentine Republic 404 2850 3157 27699
Australia 2696 23207 17232 215059
British East Indies 681 10283 5859 152504
British South Africa 108 306 440 1645
Egypt (including Anglo-Egyptian Sudan) 3 2335 27 8367
New Zealand 67 776 492 6646
Other Countries
Bahamas) and British Guiana
British West India Islands (including
9022 17723 68419 158557
Total (of leather) 41359 75706 294631 679749
Of rubber 3954 23763 8366 65051
Of other materials (except rubber) 11747 7655 23634 17194
Grand Total 57060 107120 £326631 £761994
For the six months ended June 30th, 1919 and 1920, our exports of boots and shoes
of leather, rubber and other materials were valued at £1,863,686 and £3,723,425 respectively.
Imports and Re-exports of Boots and Shoes,
1
Month ended June 30th.
Quantities. Value.
1919. 1920. 1919. 1920.
Doz. Doz.
pairs. pairs. £ £
Of leather 6761 28568 73074 433031
i
Of other materials (except rubber) 2689 6354 2061 14640
Of rubber 3391 47584 5477 99607
Gross imports 12841 82506 80612 547278
Re-exports 358 6325 628 63431
Net imports 12483 76181 £79984 £483847
in
For the six months ended June 30th, 1919 and 1920, our imports of boots and shoes
of leather, rubber, and other materials were valued at £321,330 and £2,580,098 respect-
ively, while the re-exports were valued at $15,872 and £156,039 respectively.
--The Shoe and Leather Record, July 16th, 1920.
CHANGES IN RATES OF WAGES AND HOURS OF LABOUR.
In the industries for which statistics are available, changes in rates of wages reported
to the Department as having been arranged to come into operation in June, with effect
either from that month or from earlier dates, resulted in a total increase of nearly £570,000
the worn that month or from earlier datenorkpeople. The principal bodies of workpeople
affected were rangineers and shipbuilders, woollen and worsted operatives
and workpeople in the printing and bookbinding trades. Changes in hours of labour
affected nearly 8,000 workpeople, for whom there was an average decrease of nearly
4 hours in the normal working week.
```


---
Here is the text from the image:

Telephone No.:
4438, Museum, London.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
66
Telegraphic Address :
Natunishop, Holb., London."
correspondents
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our
same being pointed ou! to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
being men on whom we can rely should, however, any eTLOTS CCP into them, upon the
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
correction as to the original matter.
As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
ΝΑΤΙΟΝΑL UNION OF
Boot and Shoe Operatives.
MONTHLY REPORT.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
23RD AUGUST, 1920.
SUSPENSION SCHEME.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
We have considered this matter and beg to confirm our original decision
that the above-named Suspension Scheme will cease on 26th September, 1920,
after which date the out-of-work rules must be fully carried out. The pay-
ments made under this temporary scheme have been very considerable and
must have been of great assistance to the members. We hope that the trade
will speedily improve and provide full employment.
VOTING
results will be found on pages 688-695. In those cases where second votes are
necessary, the votes must be taken at the September meeting night, votes
to be counted on the 13th prox., and the results posted so as to reach the General
Secretary not later than the 15th prox., otherwise the same will be disqualified.
TRADE
has, we regret to say, shewn no improvement during the month, and the amount
of money we are
paying out under the Suspension Scheme proves it has been
very widely taken advantage of; the number of members who signed the
out-of-work books during the past month only was 7,455, and over £9,000
was paid in unemployment benefit.
B


---
Here is the text from the image:

668
The figures given in the Ministry of Labour Gazette are:----
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE,
In this trade employment during July showed a further decline, and was very lazy
at practically all the principal centres. Large numbers of operatives were working shoat
time in various forms throughout the month.
The following Table summarises the information received from those emplo
who furnished Returns as to the numbers employed and amount of wages paid:
Number of Workpeople.
Total Wages Paid to all Work
Week ended
24th July,
1920.
Increase (+) or
Decrease (-) on a
Week ended
24th July,
1920.
Increase (1)
Decrease (-)
Month ago. Year ago.
Monthago Year ago
ENGLAND AND WALES:-
Per cent. Per cent.
£
Per cent. Perce
London
..
1,536
7.2
2'3
4,082
Leicester
..
8,955
2.6
1'9
23,509
45+4
Leicester Country District
2,517
2.3
+ 47
5,626
Northampton..
6,440
2.2
+ 2.3
16,776
Northampton Country
7,696
21
+ 2.2
16,468
54+
-116
+132
70 +
District
Kettering
3,362
12
+ 2.0
8,959
Stafford and District
2,590
3.2
+ 8.0
6,999
Norwich and District
3,407
4.9
+ 6.9
7,736
-
12
Bristol and District
1,207
2.7
7.2
2,519
71
7-8
Kingswood
1,440
0*4
IO
2,869.
-110
Leeds and District
1,799
2.0
5-8
4,683
Lancashire (mainly
3,475
I'I
+ 4.9
9,492
17 +19
-103
- ΟΙ
Rossendale Valley)
Birmingham and District
Other parts of England and
Wales
ENGLAND AND WALES
SCOTLAND
IRELAND..
974
0-8
+ 8-8
2,772
+ 77
+ 7.2
2,245 + 16 +35%
48,170
-
1.9
2,559
622
5,649
+153 +220
+ 0.9
+ 6.6
+ 2.3
117,612
6,735
1,113
57 +166
0-6 +48
2-1 +
..
UNITED KINGDOM
..
51,351
-
1.8
+ 1.6 125,460
54 +17
* Comparison of earnings is affected by increases in rates of wages.
In the Leicester and Northampton districts employment during July showed a further
decline, and was reported as slack or bad at all the centres; much short time was reported,
some of the operatives were suspended for a week at a time, while others were suspended
indefinitely. At Kettering also a large amount of short time was reported. At Norwich
employment was slack, and was adversely affected by a dispute during the month. At
Bristol, Kingswood and Leeds, employment was worse than a month earlier, and short
time was general. In Scotland, employment was slack in Glasgow, Maybole and Aber-
deen, but good at Edinburgh and Kilmarnock. - The Labour Gazette, August, 1920.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION CASES.
We are pleased to report that the Union Solicitor, Mr. Evan Barlow, of
Leicester, has been successful in negotiating three more claims on behalf of
the Union. In the first case a member named P., a member of the Leicester
No. 2 Branch, has obtained the sum of £550 for the loss of his arm. In addition
the taxed costs of the proceedings were secured.


---


---
```text
670
COUNCIL MEMBERS
No. 1 District *T. Adnitt, *J. Wheeler. No. 7 District *W. Warner, *A. Hill
2
*C. Bates, *A. C. Allen.
8
W. Hindes (unopp.).
3
E. Law (unopposed).
9
C. Bleakley.
4
L.. Smith (unopposed).
IO
A. J. Dobbs.
5
C. Mayes.
II
Alex Smith (unopp...
6
Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards 12
J. Manners.
(unopposed).

DISTRICT AGENTS
No. 1 District M. A. Parker. No. 8 District W. J. Smith lunopp
2
W. Langley (unopposed).
9
*E. Riordan,
3
A. W. Lyne (unopposed).
*W. Arnott.
4
I. H. Johnson (unopposed).
IO
*A. Bannister,
5
S. J. B. Barnes, J.P.
II
*J. Mason.
(unopposed).
6
Miss M. King (unopposed). 12
C. Harper.
7
*J. H. Baum, *W. Warner.
J. T. Osborne.

GUARANTEE FUND.

We note with pleasure that the vote is in favour of retaining the Guarantee
clause in Agreements, although we had wished for a larger vote having regar
to its importance to the Union and the Trade as a whole.
In favour of withdrawal 2,594
Against withdrawal 5,861

VOLUNTARY SICKNESS SCHEME.

The Voluntary Sickness Scheme will now be taken up with the Mann-
facturers' Federation.
For 4,709
Against 2,449

RUSSIA AND POLAND.

During the month the situation between the above-named countries was
such as to make it appear that despite all denials as to this country joining
in another war, there was a great possibility of being drawn into the vortex
of war again, owing principally to the position taken up by France. The
situation became so serious that the Parliamentary Committee of the Trade
Union Congress, the Committee of the National Labour Party and the members
of the House of Commons belonging to the Labour Party had a special (joint)
meeting on the 9th inst., at the House of Commons, to review the situation,
it being felt that war must be prevented. After a long consultation it was
decided to set up a committee consisting of five representatives from each
of the three bodies named, to be called a “Council of Action," to act in the name
of the three parties upon lines which were laid down at the said meeting; the
evidence brought before such meeting being of such a character as to shew
that if there was a will to peace, then peace could be secured between Russia
```

---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

672
RESOLUTION 2.
That this Conference of Trade Union and Labour representatives hails with satisfaction the Russian Government's declaration in favour of the complete independence of Poland as set forth in their Peace Terms to Poland, and realising the gravity of the international situation, pledges itself to resist any and every form of military and naval intervention against the Soviet Government of Russia.
It accordingly instructs the Council of Action to remain in being until they have secured:
(1) An absolute guarantee that the armed forces of Great Britain shall not be used in support of Poland, Baron Wrangel, or any other military or naval intrigue against the Soviet Government.
(2) The withdrawal of all British naval forces operating directly or indirectly as a blockading influence against Russia.
(3) The recognition of the Russian Soviet Government and the establishment of unrestricted trading and commercial relationships between Great Britain and Russia.
This Conference further refuses to be associated with any Alliance between Great Britain and France or any other country which commits us to any support of Wrangel and Poland, or the supply of munitions or other war material for any form of attack against Soviet Russia.
The Conference authorises the Council of Action to call for any and every form of withdrawal of Labour which circumstances may require to give effect to the foregoing policy, and calls upon every Trade Union official, Executive Committee, Local Council of Action, and the membership in general to act swiftly, loyally and courageously in order to sweep away secret bargaining and diplomacy and to assure that the foreign policy of Great Britain may be in accord with the well-known desires of the people for an end of
war and the interminable threats of war.

RESOLUTION 3.
The Council of Action is hereby authorised to take any steps that may be necessary to give effect to the decisions of this Conference and the declared policy of the Trade Union and Labour Movement.
The Conference also recommends that the Parliamentary Committee of the Trades Union Congress should raise a Special Fund to meet the financial requirements of the Council of Action, and for this purpose impose a levy equal to a halfpenny per member upon affiliated organisations as and when required.

DECLARATION OF THE RUSSIAN SOVIET GOVERNMENT ON POLISH INDEPENDENCE.
On January 28th of this year the Russian Soviet Government, while endeavouring to prevent War with Poland, made the following solemn declaration :-
"Taking into consideration the responsibility for the future of the Russian labouring masses and deeply anxious to prevent the new and countless sacrifices. sorrows and disasters that threaten both peoples, the Soviet of the People's Commissaries declares that the policy of the Russian Soviet Government with reference to Poland (being based not on temporary military or diplomatic combinations but on the basic principle of the right of every nation to decide its own destiny) recognises and will continue to recognise unreservedly and unconditionally the independence and sovereignty of the Polish Republic ; and this recognition has been made the basis of Russia's relationship with Poland from the first moment of the creation of the independent Polish State. The Soviet of People's Commissaries declares that so far as the actual interests of Poland and Russia are concerned there are no questions in dispute (either territorial, economic or any other) which cannot be solved peacefully as the result of negotiations, mutual concessions, and agreements, as is at present the case with the Esthonian Legation."
On February 2nd of this year (1920) the highest institution of the Soviet Republic, the All-Russian Central Executive Committee, over the signature of Kalinin made the


---
Here is the text from the image:

673
following declaration to the Polish people which was intended completely to dissipate
any doubts that might remain :-
"The Russian workers and peasants have recognised the independence of Poland
and they have done this, not at the last moment, not as a temporary diplomatic
combination, not under the pressure of temporary conditions. The Russian workers
hastened at the very first to recognise the independence of the Polish people, and they
recognised it unconditionally and for ever. They did this realising that the inde-
pendence of Poland is in the interests not only of your people but also of ours."
This declaration also includes the following words:
"Your enemies, who are ours, speak falsely when they tell you that the Russian
Soviet Government intends to force Communism on the Polish people with the help
of the bayonets of the Red Army. Communism is only possible in countries where
the vast majority of the working people have the will to secure it by their own initiative.
Only then is a lasting Communistic State possible, for then only can a Communistic
policy take deep root in the country. The Russian Communists are only endeavouring
to defend their own land and their own peaceful work of organisation; they have no
intention and can have no intention of establishing Communism in other countries
by force. The re-organisation of Poland in accordance with the interests of the
Polish masses must be the work of these working masses themselves."
And finally, after Mr. Pilsudski started his general advance against Russia and was
nearing Kieff, the All-Russian Central Executive Committee, after giving orders to the
Supreme Military Command to take the necessary measures for self-defence, issued, on
May 7th of this year (1920), a new Manifesto to the Polish nation in which it was stated :-
"Do not believe it when you are told that the Red Army is bringing slavery
and is going to establish Communism by force. After defeating your masters, the
Soviet Power will give the Polish Nation the right to organise itself as it chooses.
Whether you prefer to retain the present order, or whether you take over the land
and factories will be for you yourselves, Polish workers and peasants, to decide."
Copies of the above were sent out to every branch secretary of our Union
the same day the conference was held, with the decisions of the conference,
so as to enable branch officers to know the position to date. It will be seen
that the resolutions are of a very far-reaching character and such as to call
for discreet handling of a situation which is indeed one to call for the utmost
endeavours to be made to avert what might easily become a veritable disaster
for the human race. Under such circumstances it is imperative that each
one realises his duty and responsibility by doing what is possible to strengthen
the forces that are struggling to bring about peace. More than ever is it
incumbent upon all at such a time as the present to act only upon the instruc-
tions that may from time to time be issued, and thereby ensure the success
of a movement which is designed to not only avert war, but to shew to those
who may be termed the "war party" that the workers are determined that
differences between nations can be and must be settled without recourse to
arms. We felt we were acting in the interest of the membership by voting
in favour of the resolutions. These may mean even a strike and we ask the
endorsement of the membership for the action we have taken. Further
references to the conferences will be found on pages 696-700.

MEMBERS SERVING WITH THE COLOURS.
PAYMENT OF CONTRIBUTIONS.

We feel the time is rapidly approaching when the members who have had
their contributions paid by the Union during the period they served with the


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

Forces must cease.
674
demobilised do not commence paving their contributions when they coa٢٠١٠
We are satisfied in our own minds that numbers of member
payment of contributions by the Union will cease as and frorn Saturday, the
28th August, 1920, and members MUST pay their OWN CONTRIBUTIONS on ab
serve in either the Navy or Army. We therefore beg to intimate that the
after the 4th September, 1920, whether demobilised or not.
NEW RULES.
The amended rules come into operation as and from the the popteial.
we reprint below the new scale of contributions
NEW CONTRIBUTIONS AND BENEFITS.
Entrance
Fees.
TO BE DIVIDED AS FOLL
Cons.
Sick.
Trade. Branch
Males
1/-
I/-
Males (Sick)
::
41.
6d.
51.
Males (Trade and Funeral)
44d.
1/-
8d.
Id.
Males (Special Trade)
6d.
5d.
431.
Youths
6d.
6d.
34d.
21.
Females
6d.
6d.
21.
2d.
2
Females (Sick)
2d.
3d.
Females (Trade and Funeral) 6d.
24d.
2
4d.
d.
Females (Special Trade)
3d.
24d.
2½d.
PRI
P
Females (under 18)
3d.
Id.
3d.
Id.
Id.
It must, however, be understood that the old scale of payment of ber
will continue until the 5th September, 1921. The new rules are not yet print
owing to the fact that the consent of the Registrar to the same has not yet heer
secured. A copy has, however, been sent to each branch secretary so that
information is available as to the alterations that operate from the 4th prox.
In consequence of the alterations of the sickness benefit, we suggest K
235, which limits the amount of sick pay to £35 and £17 10s., should be altered
to read £40 and £20 respectively, this to bring the rule into conformity with
the increased rate of benefit.
BRANCH BOOKS AND CONTRIBUTION CARDS.
During the period of the war we have incurred considerable liability, which
has been willingly discharged (financially), by supplying those branches who
send to the Central Office for various stationery, contribution books, letter
books, &c., at the pre-war rates. The prices have considerably increased to
us, but as most of the branches we supplied were small, we were aware what
it meant for them to struggle along and meet their financial obligations, and
the difference between the amount paid by the branch and the invoice price
was paid from central funds. In future the prices set out on the inside cover
of the Monthly Report will be deleted, and the branches ordering goods after
the end of this month will be charged at the invoice prices which the printers
charge the Central Office.


---
Here is the text from the image:

675
EYAM DISPUTE.

Disputes have been very few and call for no particular comment. The
dispute at EYAM (Derbyshire), was first mentioned in the March Report, 1918,
and has been continued ever since that date. The dispute arose because of
the attitude taken up by the employers refusing to recognise the Union, or in
any way to negotiate with the Union officials on behalf of their workpeople.
Attempts have been made not only by us from time to time to bring the dispute
to an end, but also by outside authorities, including the Ministry of Labour.
All these efforts, however, were unsuccessful. Practically the whole of the men
have found employment either in other centres of our trade or in other industries.
It is to the lasting credit of both the men and women at EYAM that they remained
loval and firm in their adhesion to the Union despite the position in which
from time to time they were placed, being cut off as they were from manu-
facturing centres. Mr. J. Buckle, J.P., has been in charge of the dispute right
from the commencement, and during the last few months he has started a
Closing Factory whereby work has been found at full union rates for the women
operatives. This has been so successful that the whole of them are now em-
ployed in this co-operative factory, and thus we feel we can formally state the
dispute has been brought to an end. Whilst it is true the employers still refuse
to recognise the Union they cannot view with any satisfaction from their
standpoint the course of events since March, 1918. On the other hand the work
of the Union has been not only beneficial to the shoe trade but to other trades
in that district, because the dispute itself seemed to arouse amongst the workers
in other industries the determination to improve their conditions, and as a
result very great improvements have been brought about in other industries
both in Eyam and the immediate vicinity. Mr. Buckle has devoted a great
deal of his time to secure for these women members employment, and it is one
of those unusual endings to a dispute that the members should find work by
employing themselves. We can only hope, and we have good grounds for
building up our hope, that the scheme will be justified, and that the inaugura-
tion of this factory will not only find work for the women members, but ulti-
mately that manufacturing will also be undertaken, and thereby make another
step to secure for the workers in the district the full results of their labours. The
dispute from the beginning to end of last month has cost the Union £8,445 1s. 6d.
in dispute benefit, and this dispute, with the one at St. Cuthbert's, Edinburgh,
rank amongst the longest disputes we have had during the 46 years of our
existence. We cannot imagine that employers, as such, can look with any
satisfaction upon this matter, having regard to the fact that the dispute was one
for recognition of the right of workpeople to belong to a trade union if they
thought well so to do. The number engaged in the Closing Factory at the present
time is 40.

In conclusion we wish our fellow members every success, and thank them
in the name of the membership of the Union for the loyal way in which they


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

679
PARLIAMENTARY AGENT'S REPORT.
Since my last report many questions of importance to Labour have been before the
House of Commons, but none of greater importance than that of Russia and Poland.
How near this country was to being involved in another war we may know at some later
date, but no one doubts at the moment but that the policy pursued by the Government
was bound to lead this nation sooner or later into conflict, the extent or end of which
none could foretell.
The action of the Labour movement in declaring for a down tools policy in certain
events, was in every sense of the word justified: it was constitutional, because it harmonised
with the feelings of the whole people, and the Government realised that on this occasion
the war-mongers had over-reached themselves.
The speech of Mr. Lloyd George was a clever attempt to cover up the position, but the
deadly criticism that followed showed most clearly that he and his chief supporters had
pursued a policy that made peace doubtful and war almost certain.
The Labour Party had previously asked, before hostilities had really commenced
between Russia and Poland, that the League of Nations should be used to prevent this
new war, but, said Mr. Bonar Law. this is not a new war, it is a continuance of an old one,
and therefore the services of the League cannot be utilised; but now, when Russia has
beaten the Poles, the Prime Minister says the articles of the League of Nations must deter-
mine the position. It would indeed be comic were it not so tragic. But the fact that the
lives of men are placed in jeopardy in this careless, indifferent fashion surely ought to
constitute an object lesson for the people that will not be forgotten. Fortunately, Russia
has offered terms of peace that leave no excuse whatever for further war, and for the time
being the war-mongers are foiled in their object, but the country will not be safe in this
respect while men like Churchill are in office backed, as one feels they are, by financial
interests that care nothing for human life so long as dividends are high. This I know is
a strong statement to make, but let those who differ from me give any other explanation
of the situation. Here is a world torn with the results of war, with burdens that are crushing
and overwhelming, with the peoples hungering for the things that peaceful industry alone
can give, with social problems waiting solution which unless speedily dealt with threaten
to further degrade the mass of the peoples, with a yearning in the hearts of millions for a
better social order, and by a world peace alone can these things be realised, and yet, the
policy adopted by Governments is one of war, and the so-called peace settlements are but
the laying of foundations of future wars.
There is one thing, however, that stands out amidst it all, viz., Labour is the only force
that can guarantee peace, and it must be our duty to give the forces of labour greater
strength and power to enforce their will.
In regard to other matters, the Government still blunders on. The Ministry of Mines
Bill is evidence in that direction. The Coal Commission might never have been appointed,
their recommendations are ignored, as indeed they were bound to be when they proposed
to abolish private property in Mines. This is the wrong House of Commons to accept
proposals of that character, and whatever pledges may be given by the Prime Minister
or the leader of the House, if their fulfilment disturb private interests then the pledges
must go.
The Miners claim that the Bill aims at the breaking up of their Federation, by the
splitting up of the country into districts, and that the interests of the consumer will be
placed in jeopardy, and will be more than ever in the hands of the coal-owners. The
Labour Party called for the withdrawal of the Bill, but the Government had no difficulty
in securing its passage by a substantial majority.
The decision of the Government to stand by Clause 17 of the Unemployment Insur-
ance Bill as amended in Committee, which will enable Friendly Societies to administer
the benefits, is another instance of the power wielded in the House by certain interests,
The Minister of Labour is fully aware of the strong feeling of hostility to this proposal
by organised Labour, and it would not be surprising if the Government's decision was taken
against his advice. But on this question they could not control the House, powerful as
their majority is, and never have I seen prejudice shewn as on the occasion when we tried
to reverse the Committee's decision. It mattered not what arguments were used-and
never has a stronger case been put up by any body of opinion-there was no answer to it
only in the votes, which were based upon a strong anti-Trade Union feeling. It was not
that they thought we were wrong, but they were not prepared to give us a position which
might strengthen us in the future. The position at the moment is one which should cause
us to consider whether or not as members of Friendly Societies we will help to destroy our
economic position as Trade Unionists.
The Labour Party secured a substantial success in Committee on the Employment
of Women and Young Persons Bill. The clause which would have permitted employers
D


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

681
movement among moderate people of different political opinions in Ireland in favour of a
speech was both depressing and disappointing. This is all the more so in view of the
scheme of self-government along the lines of Dominion Home Rule. To stand by the
present meagre offer is not the way in which to secure the greatest measure of agreement
should declare the furthest lengths to which they will go in their desire to settle the Irish
among the Irish people. If the Government reject the Sinn Fein demand, at least they
problem. Instead of doing this, they shelve their own weakling and pin their faith in
coercion. Unless history belies itself, the new Act will intensify the present discontent
pended from the House. He had made an impassioned appeal the night previous for his
rather than allay it. During the discussion in the Committee stage Joe Devlin was sus-
country, which I think commanded the admiration of a large number, but his patience
was exhausted by the Government who ruthlessly proceeded in spite of all that was said
to pass their Bill.
It may be we shall not see him or his colleague here again, as I understand they have
decided not to return, but theyy will be missed from the House. They were always in favour
of democratic procedure and their earnestness on behalf of Ireland was apparent, none could
help liking them and Devlin and Mac Veagh were very popular. The constitutional move-
ment in Ireland is thus deprived of opportunity of expression here, and that cannot be
in the interests either of Ireland or this country.
But the Government, urged on by forces it cannot control, blunders on, and one cannot
help thinking of the words, that "They whom the gods would destroy they first make mad
August 11th, 1920,
WALTER R. SMITH.
ORGANISER'S REPORT.
AUGUST 17TH, 1920.
1
FELLOW MEMBERS,
During the month I have visited Stafford, Stone, Burslem and Mansfield.
Immediately before and after Bank holidays things are slack from an organising point
of view. In my last report I called attention to the conduct of the A.U.C.E. in its unfair
I made note of their
dealings with us as a Union. Here is another example of their conception of fair dealing.
When I visited Burslem in June I had a meeting of the repairers working for the Co-opera-
tive Society there. They were all members of ours except one.
complaints and saw the manager about them. He promised to lay the points in dispute
before the Committee. I was surprised when I visited Burslem on July 22nd to find that
the whole of the men, about 15, had gone over to the A.U.C.E., and this in face of the
fact that through my efforts the pieceworkers got nearly 25 per cent. increase, three men
on weekly wages were advanced 5s., and the few youths got an increase of 4s. Mr. Dunn,
of Stafford, accompanied me on this occasion. We told the men in plain English that
they did not understand the meaning of manly trade union principles or they would not
have acted as they had done. This treachery in the long run can be of no advantage to
those who for the moment seem to gain by it. There are two things that I would like to
seriously call our members' attention to. One is the banking of money with employers.
Besides being of a sneaky nature this is dangerous from a trade union point of view. Men
getting wages below the minimum have been saving in the employers' bank, and when
they have asked for the minimum they were told of how well they were doing and of what
stood to their credit. The other point is on the advantage employers are taking of the
clause dealing with the graduated scale of wages and age. I find that in some cases youths
of 20 and 21 are on piecework and only receiving the graduated scale of wages. This is an
entirely wrong interpretation of the clause. The graduated scale is not for piece rates,
but purely for weekly wages based on the young learning their trade or operations. In
the matter of saving, surely there are plenty of means to save without trusting managers
and employers with our private business. The Co-operative Societies are the right places
for working men and women to place their trust in for minding the bit they can save.
On the question of youths and girls working on piece rates while only receiving the gradu-
ated weekly wage, every branch in the Kingdom should have one policy on this question,
and that is not to allow it, or to demand the full piecework rates.
On August 9th I visited Mansfield with the view of getting the employers manufac-
turing stiffeners to pay to the Leicester Statement for this work. In no case did we come
to any terms, but we agreed to meet again in a few weeks time. Since I last visited Mans-
field there have been a good many joined the branch.
the great Conference at the Central Hall, Westminster, on August 13th. I was glad
With the General President, General Secretary and Council of our Union, I attended
We call the thing democracy. The people whom we fight on the industrial side are our
not to be for ever blindly led to war by the few who own the earth, the seas, and the air.
guides in politics. A paid Press helps in the fooling of the people.
D. MCCARTHY.

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

684
meet representatives of the Local Co-operative Societies, to discuss the
advance in wages submitted to them. Our Secretary desires to
that for health and domestic reasons he wishes to be relieved of
as branch secretary in March, 1921, when the annual meeting will
thank all members for their confidence and support in the past,
they will grant the same consideration to his successor, whoever he
and he will have completed nine years' service as secretary.
MAYBOLE. Sickness is on the decrease. Trade is very
consequently the out of work benefit increasing. Some of our mem
only getting half time and we don't know how they can live
members have had three weeks' holiday this year.

NOTTINGHAM. Trade during past month has been quet,
our shops working short time. The firm of Seymour & Harding
down for two weeks or more for the purpose of removing to their
which they have recently had built. We have had to report the
for not complying with the Trade Board. An inspector has been
enquiries and we await report. We have preferred before our Trar
at the Co-operative Stores by inducing them to believe that the
charge against the A.U.C.E. for poaching some of our members
for them higher wages, better conditions, and an annual holiday.
was carried by 60 to 3:-"That this Executive is of the opinion that pe
was fully gone into and reported to full Council, when the following res
the setting up of definite lines of demarcation between existing unions
national basis, all unions should refrain from any action calculated to in
the differences between overlapping bodies. The Executive therefore
upon all trade unions in the Nottingham district to desist from enr
members of other unions (unless by consent) until such time as the mat
shall have been determined by the Trades Union Congress."
NORWICH No. 1.-During the month the Norwich branch officers
compelled to declare a strike at the firm of Fincham's, Pitt Street. Thi
has followed a policy during the past six months of utter disregard
National Settlements. Efforts have been made continuously to comp
Fincham to pay the correct scale wages, but without avail. We had ther
no alternative but to withdraw his labour (numbering sixty operatives) in or
not only to bring him into line, but also to demonstrate to other small m
facturers who may be inclined to follow his example the futility of such
The men and women concerned are still out (seventh week of the strike! a
determined not to waver in the fight, and we are hoping that by the time th
lines are read we shall have concluded the fight successfully. Incident
this kind merely show that the war has not altered in any way the pre-w
antagonism towards the workers, and therefore we need more than ever
consolidate our forces in order to defeat the capitalist forces now ar
against us.
Trade in Norwich is very bad in all sections other than the Tu
shoe, and as far as we are able to judge is not likely to improve for at lea
three months. Our out-of-work, previously proportionately low, shews t
two hundred and eighty persons were paid in July £355 7s. 6d. At the Aug
monthly meeting our members felt that steps should be taken immedia
with the Manufacturers' Federation to adjust the amount payable under
Holiday Payment Scheme, in accordance with the new minimum, and so se
an amount from the manufacturers equal to one full week's wages. We
Norwich rejoice to hear of the declaration of the United Labour movemen
regard to the Russo-Polish question, and sincerely hope that no effort will
spared to protect the Workers' Republic of Russia from capitalist imperi
conspirators.
PLYMOUTH. - Trade has been quiet, but with the end of the month
there is a slight improvement. Now the trade is settling down to the


---
and conditions set up by the Trades Board, and the public to the new price
list, we hope to see better times. Since the resignation of Mr. Harris, who
served as secretary to our branch for a period of ten years, our members decided
to show their appreciation of his valuable work by making him a presentation,
and at the end of our monthly meeting our President spoke of the progress and
growth of our branch from forty to one hundred and forty strong; how we
had emerged from obscurity to power and influence, until we had members
serving in all the principal labour organisations in the town. He asked Mr.
Harris to accept the present as a small token of our appreciation. In reply
Mr. Harris expressed himself as being delighted, and said he was always sure
he had the loyalty of the members to help him, and with that loyalty and help
he had done his best. He thanked the members sincerly for their kindness.

PORTSMOUTH. - We are still wondering what is to be the outcome of
all the men now unemployed, whether the Government will recognise that
these men have a right to live. Trade still continues only fair, and is it to be
wondered at, when several thousand men are not receiving any wages, and
therefore have no money to spend? There is no lack of work to be done, but
those responsible seem to be content with looking over the ruins left by the
war. We were rather surprised to know that no one who has a technical
knowledge of the boot repairing trade has been appointed to see that employers
observe the orders of the Trade Board. It seems desirable that the members
should press for the appointment of inspectors and men they know who could
well carry out the duties. Many and flagrant breaches of the orders are taking
place. The one great subject which all trade unionists are talking about is
the Congress which meets here the first week in September. We hope this will
help stir up the workers in Portsmouth and the South generally. We need
some great stimulus, as we have no great hereditary leanings towards trade
unionism. Well indeed could we once again use the words of Charles Kingsley,
in" Alton Locke," when he tries to bring home to the toilers of the South of
England the need of organisation. We are still waiting news of the formation
of the District Committees of the Trade Board. We believe these would bring
a great fillip to the efforts of the main Committees, as they cannot legislate
for districts they do not know. We have to protest at the lax way the Ministry
of Labour are carrying out the training of disabled men at Portsmouth and
Netley. We have been waiting months for tools and uppers, the men are
wasting their time, and it is a waste of public money.

REDRUTH. - The Committee looked forward to a very interesting
August meeting, seeing that the voting for the various officers of the Union
was to take place, also the Sick Scheme and the Guarantee Fund. As it was,
only fourteen members were present, and that will not look very good when
we see the result of the ballot in our next Monthly Report. It was the custom
of the branch to distribute the papers at the works, but the Committee desires
to make it known that the proper place to transact the business of the branch
is at our monthly meetings, and they wish to make an earnest appeal to the
members to try and attend, even if it means a little sacrifice. There is a
possibility of the members of the trade unions throughout the country being
called upon to make decisions of very great importance, and unless we can
get together and express our views concerning the questions which have to
be decided, we shall be unprepared - a state which we might have to pay
dearly for. To turn from our regrets, &c., we should like to say that our
members greatly appreciate the work of the Council in establishing the Holiday
Scheme. We have just resumed work after the first week's holiday in our
history, and one and all are agreed that they will do their best to see that it
has come to stay. We are pleased to say in conclusion, that we are working
full time except in one department, who resumed work two days later than
the others after the holidays, but we don't think it will continue.

---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

SUGAR.
701
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
MR. L'ESTRANGE MALONE.-To ask the Food Controller if his attention has been
called to the fact that 20,000,000 pounds of sugar have passed through the Chicago customs
house from Canada during the past few days, and several million pounds more are en
route, and that Canadian sugar, which was purchased in Cuba last year and shipped to
England and then returned to Canada, is expected to be used in Chicago whether these
statements were made by Mr. William H. Clarke, collector of the port; and whether the
Ministry of Food, through the Supreme Council or other channels, will take steps to prevent
this unnecessary waste of energy in the transportation of prime necessities which are
urgently required.
SIR W. MITCHELL-THOMSON.-I was not aware of the circumstances referred to in the
question, and I regret that the information supplied by the Hon. Member does not enable
me to trace these transactions. If, however, he will supply me with more precise details
I will have them investigated.-Parliamentary Question (5346), August 4th, 1920.
MUTTON (LAMB).
MR. RATCLIFFE.-To ask the Food Controller if he will state what is the object in
diverting large supplies of last season's New Zealand lambs to the United States of America,
whether highest price realised at the Atlantic seaboard is from 162 to 181 cents. per lb.,
whilst old stocks of cut lambs are being charged here at 1s. 1d. per lb. to the retailer dis-
tributors; and will he see that in the future the best class of lambs is brought to this
country, and that the British consumer is not penalised for the benefit of the American
consumer by paying about 50 per cent. more for old stock than is paid in America for the
new stock of lambs.
SIR W. MITCHELL-THOMSON.-Some mutton and lamb has been sold for direct ship-
ment from New Zealand to the United States of America with a view to relieving the
congestion in the stores in New Zealand, saving storage charges and hastening the time
at which it will be possible for the New Zealand exporters to revert to business on normal
lines. I am unable to state the price at which this meat is sold in the United States,
but it has been sold by the Ministry at a price f.o.b. New Zealand, which gives the Imperial
Government a profit on the sale. It is obviously desirable in the interests both of the
producer in New Zealand and the taxpayer in this country that the abnormal stocks on
hand should be liquidated as rapidly as possible, and the suggestion in the latter part of
the question that the British consumer is being penalised for the benefit of the American
consumer is contrary to fact.-Parliamentary Question (5342), August 5th, 1920.
MINES (Baltic).
COLONEL WEDGWOOD asked the Prime Minister whether, in view of the present situa-
tion, he can give any information as to when the mines will be swept up in the Baltic
and freedom of trade allowed to Petrograd?
THE PRIME MINISTER.-As has already been stated in reply to a previous question
by the Hon. Member for Whitechapel, the removal of these mines is not an obligation
resting on the British Government.
LABOUR COUNCIL OF ACTION.
MR. BILLING asked the Prime Minister whether his attention had been called to the
resolutions passed at the Labour Conference on Friday last creating what is tantamount
to a Labour dictatorship, under the title of the Council of Action; whether he will state,
firstly, whether he has consulted the Law Officers of the Crown as to the carrying out of
such resolutions being contrary to constitutional law, and secondly, whether the Govern-
ment propose to permit the threatened action in any way to influence their policy; and
whether he will state that in his opinion the time has arrived definitely to declare as illegal
the organising of industrial disturbances for the purpose of achieving political ends?
THE PRIME MINISTER.-The policy of the Government in regard to Poland and Russia,
a policy which has been repeatedly communicated to the Polish Government, and which
was defined at Spa and again at Lympne, and has been fully expounded to this House,
would appear to differ in no way from that enunciated at the Labour Conference to which
the Hon. Gentleman refers. The swinging of a SLEDGE HAMMER AGAINST AN OPEN DOOR
IS MERELY MADE FOR PURPOSES OF DISPLAY. Any attempt to dictate the policy of the
Government and Parliament by industrial action strikes at the root of the democratic
constitution of this country, and will be RESISTED BY ALL THE RESOURCES AT THE GOVERN-
MENT'S COMMAND.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

729
Secretary, and interviews were granted by the Directors to the Secretary and
officials of the local branches, who asked that the factory might be kept running,
if not permanently, at any rate for some period, for the making of boots and
shoes, and thereby keep in employment the work people. This the Directors
felt unable to do, but to shew their SYMPATHY with our members they generously
granted the sum of FIVE HUNDRED POUNDS to be shared amongst the opera-
tives : the money to be distributed to the workpeople by the representatives
of the Union. We feel indebted to the Society for the said grant, which was
much appreciated by the workpeople, and although we have already tendered
our thanks to the Directors, we feel some public reference should be made of
the fact of such a grant having been made and entrusting the Union with the
distribution of the same.
COST OF LIVING.
We once more repeat our statements in connection with the cost of living,
that it is deplorable that the Government did not deal drastically with the
causes which have brought about the present situation, causes which we believe
they could have eliminated and thereby have saved the nation from the vicious
circle in which it is at present. A most valuable report was presented to the
Congress upon some of the reasons for the continued high cost of living.
Extracts from the report appear on pages 754-763.
QUESTIONS FOR COUNCIL MEETINGS.
A
Many branches have of late been remiss in sending in in time matters
they desire advice upon from us. We would once again call the attention of
every branch official to the fact that unless correspondence is received by the
THURSDAY morning prior to a Council meeting, the same will have to stand
over until the following Council meeting.
RESULT OF VOTING.
The following are the final figures of the second vote for Members of the
Council and District Agents :-
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
District No. 1.-LEICESTER.-ADNITT, MR. T., 469*; WHEELER, MR. J., 367.
District No. 2.-HIGHAM & RUSHDEN. - BATES, MR. C., 461*; ALLEN, MR. A. C., 276.

District No. 7.
HILL, MR. A.
WARNER, MR. W.
HINCKLEY
LEICESTER NO. 2
LONDON METRO.
LONDON SOUTH
LONDON NO. 2
SHEPSHED
SILEBY
WHITWICK
63
341
64
9
12
3
9
7
456
50
68
24
1
22
1
23

TOTAL
508
645*


---
Here is the text from the image:

731
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACT.
We record with pleasure that another case, this time at KINGSWOOD, has
been settled. The member, S.M., has been enabled to secure a lump sum of
£35 apart from the ordinary weekly compensation, this once again proving
the value of the member having a powerful Union behind him.

TRADE UNION CONGRESS.
Resolutions upon many questions were dealt with at the Congress, which
if carried into effect will undoubtedly prove of great benefit to the people.
A report appears on pages 746-748 from the delegates attending the Congress.
It was with pleasure we found Mr. A. E. W. O'Dell-one of the fraternal
delegates from Canada-was a member of the American Boot and Shoe Workers'
Union, he having been one of their organisers for many years past. We felt
this was a compliment to the boot and shoe industry that one of the fraternal
delegates should be a member of our own craft. Mr. O'Dell also attended
the national conference of hide and leather workers of France, held in Paris
from the 20th-24th inst., along with our General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton,
J.P. We did all possible to make Mr. O'Dell's stay in this country both
enjoyable and interesting.

MORE UNION J.P.'S.
It is with great pleasure that we record the fact that Miss N. WALKER,
Clerk to the Northampton No. 2 Branch, has been elected as a lady J.P.,
taking her seat on the magisterial bench at Northampton on the 4th inst.
This is indeed a great honour to the Union.
We offer our congratulations to Mr. I. H. JOHNSON, J.P., upon his elevation
to the Magisterial bench for Northants. Mr. Johnson has been secretary to
our Daventry Branch for several years past, and we trust he will be spared
to help along the workers in that district for many years to come.

IRELAND.
During the month the General President and Mr. D. McCarthy have been
to Ireland to induce the manufacturers of that country to accept in its entirety
the 1920 National Agreement. We are pleased to record the fact that they
have agreed to pay, at least, up to the Minimum rates, and also to work to
quantity statements, and as soon as ever possible statements will be prepared
for the various boot centres in Ireland.

WATERFORD BRANCH.
We are pleased to report that we have started a Branch at WATERFORD
(Ireland), quite a goodly number of those engaged in the industry having
joined up with the Union. Already, through the activities of the General
President, decided improvements have been secured as a direct result of the
Union's influence.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

733
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries, please
note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.
We remain, yours fraternally,

T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
THE COUNCIL

GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADES CONGRESS.-The Trades Union Congress at Portsmouth this month
marks another milestone in the march of emancipation of the wage-earner, and the greatest
tribute paid to it was in the words of the Secretary (Fimmen, a Dutchman) of the Inter-
national Trade Union movement, who himself described the British Trades Union Congress
as the greatest and most important Labour body in the whole world, and the hope of the
workers of all lands. This tribute should certainly give pause and qualm of conscience
to that section of the movement who, in season and out of season, have assailed the Trade
Union movement as being played out, a thing of the past, no good, &c., &c.; and Trade
Union officials were abused until many of the critics became officials, then that ceased;
but they have all learnt the lesson that for good or ill the greatest power in the land is
the Trade Union movement, that can at any time change or improve its policy to meet
all and every necessity for the welfare of the wage-earning community.
This brings me to a most important question in the Trade Union world. The Miners
consider the Agenda before the Trades Union Congress, meet and decide to vote on
certain matters which allow of no amendment, and then speakers are chosen and no one
is allowed to speak unless chosen. They act on the rule of majority and the individual
doesn't count. The question comes to my mind that as they had 250 delegates present,
on the show of hands they vote three to our delegates' one. In future they can only have
one delegate to every 5,000 members. We ought to send our full representation, and also
continue our policy of allowing each delegate to act by using their own vote individually
if they wish it, and not force them to be dragooned by any majority no matter how
intellectual they may be.
COUNCIL OF ACTION. -The greatest move made took place on August 13th, when it
was unanimously decided that our Government was not to take part in the Polish-Russian
War, and the result annoyed the Government and the militarists of our land. We are
now confronted with another difficulty in which the Miners are demanding, and rightly so,
an increase in wages in proportion to those paid to other workers. They also demand a
reduction in the price of coal by 14s. 2d. per ton, and very properly demand that the
Government should not choose their industry for experimental purposes. I am of the
opinion that if the House of Commons had an opportunity to express their unfettered
opinion, that no profits would be allowed to be made by the Government, at least not
unless they owned the business. Should the Government mature their plans no less a
sum than £66,000,000 is likely to reach them to help to meet the taxation of the country,
but this should not be confined to one industry, and for that reason is bad in principle.
But we need to be careful in this matter. The Government have had a serious set-back
by the resolution of August 13th, and they are anxious, nay excited, to get level with
that body of working-class representatives who so well gauged the human side of public
opinion that the Government, when told its business, had to obey and dare not go to the
country. Now they hope to have their opportunity, as the Miners have already
handed in their notices and the men have been encouraged to look forward to a fight.


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

743
LEICESTER BOOT & SHOE TRADE BOARD OF CONCILIATION & ARBITRATION.
CLICKING STATEMENT.

UMPIRE'S AWARD upon Questions as to the application of the Award
relative to QUALITY CUTTING.

Matters of dispute having arisen between the two sides of the Board of Conciliation
and Arbitration for the Boot and Shoe Trade of Leicester regarding the application of
tain parts of an Award dated the 7th day of May, 1920, at the request of the Arbitration
the several matters in dispute. The terms of reference being as follows:
Beand the Minister of Labour appointed me, the undersigned, as Umpire, to determine
(1) Three dozen quarters are cut as a " Runner in." The Clicker is paid at the
end of the week for this work. At the commencement of the following week the
Jicker is given a parcel of similar skins, and is instructed to use up the three dozen
quarters for the order and cut, say, six dozen vamps and three dozen quarters, using
the three dozen quarters previously cut to make up the order.
The men claim that these should be cut under Day Work conditions, or, if on
Piece Work, claim as an extra quality.
(2) Shoe cut with it. No
"Runner in." Men claim as an extra quality the Gibson Shoc.
stock.
(3) Clickers claim to be paid an extra on
"Runner" Shoes which are cut for
and having fully considered the
I met the representatives of both sides on Wednesday, the 18th day of August, 1920,
evidence placed before me, I do now award as follows:-
(1) Each parcel of skins when given out to be cut shall be considered a separate
contract. When the cutting out of the skins is completed, and the product be given
in by the Clicker, such shall be deemed the termination of that contract, and further
responsibility on the part of the Clicker ceases, either as regards any parcel of skins
cut out before, or, if given out after, a contract has been completed as stated above.
(2) When whole cut Court Patent Shoes and Gibson Patent Shoes are cut out
from the same leather both are to be considered as one quality. No "Runner in."
(3) Definition of the award term "Runner in." A" Runner in " is one or more
patterns used in the cutting up of the residue of the leather, but is not to be a fixed
complete quantity of either Boots or Shoes. When "Runners in "
these conditions no extra shall be paid to the Clicker.
Dated this 20th day of August, 1920.
are cut under
(Signed) GEORGE SEDGWICK, Umpire,
22, West Avenue,
Clarendon Park, Leicester.
Sick & Funeral
Benefit.
BENEFITS PAID SINCE THESE FUNDS WERE STARTED.
Out-of-Work
Benefit.
War
Contributions.
f
s. d.
£
S.
d.
f
s.
d.
Amounts paid up to Dec.
31st, 1919
498,965 4 11
77,139 13 2
78,049 14 8
January, 1920
1,847 2 6
724 12 1
458 6 10
February, 1920
2,608 6 3
1,324 2 1
495 16 11
March, 1920
2,374 8 9
1,376 5 2
383 0 4
April, 1920
2,357 10 10
1,659 9 2
311 18 5
May, 1920
2,190 10 5
1,729 17 6
270 1 6
June, 1920
2,402 15 5
2,514 10 10
311 1 10
July, 1920
1,776 0 5
3,347 7 8
241 15 10
August, 1920
2,305 8 4
9,092 11 5
291 15 1
TOTAL
£516,827 7 10
£98,908 9 1
£80,813 11 5
1
C


---
Here is the text from the image:

745
The world is at present in a state of ferment and unrest; the awful war through which humanity has been passing has indeed left in its train terrible problems, and it will call for the utmost we are capable of to safely steer through. On all hands the cry is for help to enable men and women and children to keep out of the morass brought about by the war: ours is a great responsibility, the obligations resting upon us are immense, and may indeed at times make one wonder where we may be forced to.

We must not, however, shirk the issue; let us ever remember the duty we owe to our common humanity, and by unity, concord and goodwill, determine that the suffering, pain and anguish of the past few years shall so nerve us for the future as to bring about such an altered and improved state as will for ever make it impossible for any repetition of such a catastrophe.

I trust your conference may result in not only the best interests of your members being served, but may have a beneficial effect upon the labour movement as a whole; that there may be in the near future such a spirit of fraternity and goodwill grow up between the various units of the human family as will give not only heart and hope to those who are now downtrodden and dispirited, but will so enhearten and inspire the forces that we striving to rid the world of all possible suffering, injustice and pain and usher in a new era, an era of peace, goodwill and justice, where poverty shall have been driven away, and the sum total of happiness be as fully as possible developed, giving to all the freest life possible and the removal of those things which are in the way and hinder humanity from attaining to those heights they are capable of reaching.

CHESHAM'S "EASTERN" ORDER.

Contract Completed and Goods Despatched by Motor Lorries.

The last consignment of what has been known at Chesham as the "Eastern" order for boots has been despatched, and according to rumour there is a larger contract to come very shortly. The order just completed came as a godsend to Chesham. When it arrived all factories, without exception, were on short time, not much more than three days per week being worked. Orders were few, and manufacturers thought the prospects black indeed-what the operatives thought may be imagined.

The contract was for boots of the British Army type, but of a lower quality. As early delivery was essential it was a case of "all hands to the pump," and overtime into the bargain.

Incidentally, the wages statement adopted at Chesham on the eve of the setting-in of short time received its first real test, and seems to have satisfied both sides the manu- facturers with regard to the quantity produced, and the men with regard to its earning possibilities.

The orders brought prosperity in another direction, for a local woodware manu- facturer had some thousands of cases to make. When packed the boots were despatched by motor lorry-the first experiment of the kind in this form of transport. It is significant as to the opinion held regarding the ultimate destination of the boots that operatives have been heard to say: "Now for civilian work once more."

Recently civilian orders have been in abeyance, and even if the rumoured contract does not mature factories may have a few weeks' respite from short time, owing to the need of catching up arrears of ordinary business. One local manufacturer, who also has a factory at Bristol, and who specialises in lighter work than it is customary to make at Chesham, is building cottages for his operatives. It is said that plans are ready for the erection of a large factory, but that they have been held up owing to the present slackness in trade.

Our Wellingborough correspondent writes: "The completion of a Russian order last week was signalised by eight dray loads of packing cases leaving one of the factories in the town for the station. A photographer met the cavalcade on the way."- Shoe and Leather Record, roth September, 1920.


---


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

7.53
ES.

power, helpful Power must be spiritually true that it did not rest upon Force, material
hand-whatever form that Force might take-be it money, brains, muscle, numbers.
organisation-it was possible, terribly possible, to make an irresponsible use of it.
light, but on Truth, Spiritual Right. In whatever measure they held Force in their
to an audience at West Calder over thirty years ago," said the speaker: "The true test
me quote to you some words of Mr. Gladstone, the great democrat-Premier, addressed
thing so long as he has not power, so long as the temptation is kept out of his way, that he
should be tolerably just in his judgments, but it is when power has come into his hands
this country, when you have become supreme to such a degree that there is no other power
to balance and counteract the power which you will possess.
"Let
people is power. It is a small
You will have temptation near you -you
the working people of
You have approaching
you a deep and searching moral trial, you will have to preserve the balance of your mind
and character when you have become stronger than the capitalist, stronger than the
werage, stronger than the landed gentry, stronger than the great mercantile class when
you have become in one sense their political master, you have still before you one achieve
ment to fulfil, one glory to attain and appropriate to yourselves continue to be just.
I venture to give you that warning for the future, it applies to the coming days more than
the days that are past, and I hope that many of you here will live into these days in increas-
ing prosperity and happiness, and if they do so, I am sure they will remember with kindliness
what was at all events a well-meant suggestion." Thirty odd years ago! A prophet
deed, so to read the future, so to be able to warn them of a new generation. He saw the
danger, the temptation inevitably ahead, for he read it so often in history, that men could
seldom learn to use power without first experiencing a great temptation to abuse it.
"The Spirit of Love." Here was the inspiring and uplifting
"emotion of the Ideal."
This was the great Social
Spirit, the welding, binding force, the spirit of true relationship. The moment they only
acknowledged love in a limited sense, they closed the circle, and put up barriers, there
Love was the source of all Life which was worthy of the name.
was a failure, a break, a hardening, a dead-end, and they got back to individualism writ
" was the outcome of that Love which was
"the fulfilling
the Law." Obedience to Law was the only source of true freedom for the individual
large. "The Spirit of Discipline
The spirit of restraint of self in word and deed and even in thought lies at
the heart of the Christian Religion: it was exhibited in the Figure of the Cruciftelies at
He faded from their view, if this generation made the tragic mistake of confounding liberty
with licence, if it would live without law, then it must accept the philosophy of the Prussian
of 1914, the outlaw of Europe.
the race.

LABOUR AND RELIGION.
To this Conference a
Emphasising the obvious need for religion, the Vicar said: This movement of yours
needs religion to spiritualise it, it must work towards God if it is to help the world to true
progress, if its power is to be saved from short-circuiting, which runs to earth and drives
nothing. This was brought out most remarkably in the International Conference on
"Labour and Religion," held last year at the Browning Hall.
Member of Parliament wrote, "Labour, divorced from religion and morality, is destined
to destruction." And if you ask why, let a Labour councillor answer: "One feels that
there is a bitterness of feeling growing that is bad for everybody. No real and lasting
reforms can come out of hatred and uncharitableness, and a greater charity amongst us
all is greatly to be desired." It is just because, and in so far as, Labour ideals are high
and lofty that they must depend for their attainment upon the God of Love and Grace :
we can only attempt to attain ideals by means which are of like nature to them, not by
their opposite. We do not get to freedom by fear, nor to love by hate. None after
reading the report of that Conference I have mentioned can think it to be true that "Labour
has no use for Religion," so far, at any rate, as many of its leaders in all countries are
concerned. I pray God that the Figure of the Crucified be before you in all you say,
and do and plan this week, that you may have that spirit of "Perfect Love." And I
plead here to-day for a holy alliance between a Church conscious of its own sins against
the Spirit of Christ, and anxious to be more true to Him in unity and service, conscious,
too, of its need for the co-operation of all those who are striving to make this world a
better place for people to live in, and the great Labour movement which, conscious of its
ideals trembles for their attainment, which knows in its heart that all its strivings for the
world will be in vain, if they be merely material, if, in other words, there be not better
people, more God-like people, to live in it. I plead that we turn our backs upon a Past,
a religious Past, an industrial Past, for which we to-day are after all only in small measure
responsible, if at all, that we face together the staggering perplexities of this Present,
1
problems of the Future,
This is the Sign and the Source of "the Spirit of Power, and Love, and Discipline that
God's sake, for Humanity's sake, for Posterity's sake, we join hands beneath the Cross.
casteth out fear." And "the greatest of these is Love," for "God is Love," God be with
you. "Not by might, nor by power, but by My Spirit, saith the Lord of Hosts."
At the close of the service Mr. C. W. Bowerman, M.P., and other of the delegates
present waited on the Vicar in his vestry and thanked him for his invitation and earnest
Sermon.


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---
0. We are
wanking system of the country should be publicly
controlled.
ro. It is essential that Government expenditure upon military and naval enterprises
should cease.
we think that-
11. As regards the international aspects of the problem of high prices,
(a) The re-establishment of peace throughout the world is a prime essential.
(6) War indemnities should be defined, and reasonable in amount
(c) Every country should be required to take all possible steps to rehabilitate
its currency.
of exchange should be established.
to the gold standard is impracticable a new parity
of goods between different countries should be conducted, where other methods are
not possible, by means of direct barter.
(under
conditions laid down by the League) in order to provide impoverished countries with
a means of restoring their productive capacity.
Conclusion.
It is true that we do not
We Report, that we do not wish
conceive a very considerable fall of prices as practicable in existing circumstances. But
to imply that the problem of high prices is an insoluble one.
with a change of these circumstances, prices might fall substantially. We are convinced
system. We accept the fact, as expressed by Mr. H. D. Henderson in his Memorandum,
that the high cost of living is due largely to the defects and weaknesses of the industrial
that "the present dilemma, in which it is virtually impossible to check the tide of rising
prices, without paralysing trade and industry, represents one more instance of the growing
pstability, inadequacy and disintegration of the capitalist system." We have tried to
avoid making proposals which would create industrial dislocation, or at least to ensure
that dislocation should be reduced to a minimum. It is a powerful indictment of the
existing industrial order that, apart from drastic and fundamental changes in its structure
and purpose, the way to lower prices lies in the first instance through measures which
might temporarily aggravate the evil. But this makes it all the more necessary for us,
when we come to deal with the other side of our problem-the demand for and supply of
goods and services to consider what antidotes there may be to the possible aggravation
of high prices due to the working of the industrial system.
We wish to extend our thanks to Mr. J. T. Day (Editor of the Shoe and Leather Record),
Mr. Thos. Goodwin (manager of the C.W.S. Bank), Mr. J. A. Hobson, M.A., the Rt. Hon.
Reginald McKenna, Mr. F. W. Pethick Lawrence, M.A., Sir George Paish, and Prof. A. C.
Pigou, M.A., who gave evidence before the Committee, and to Mr. Hugh Dalton, M.A.
(Lecturer at the London School of Economics), Mr. H. D. Henderson, M.A. (Lecturer in
Economics, Clare College, Cambridge), and Sir James Wilson, K.C.S.I., who submitted
memoranda to the Committee. All these gentlemen gave us the benefit of their special
knowledge on a series of abstruse and difficult questions. To those whose views we do
not share and have not accepted, we are under a special obligation, for they have tended
to correct our own conclusions. We have endeavoured to conduct the first stage of our
inquiry in an independent spirit and with a single eye to the welfare of the nation as a
whole, and we ask that this report should be considered by the public as a sincere attempt
to formulate practical proposals towards the solution of one of the gravest problems of
our time.
August, 1920.
J. H. THOMAS (Chairman).
Signed,
(Mrs.) FLORENCE HARRISON BELL.
C. W. BOWERMAN.
W. BRADSHAW.
F. BRAMLEY.
(Mrs.) MARY E. COTTRELL.
C. T. CRAMP.
J. DICKINSON.
ALLAN A. H. FINDLAY.
ALEX. GOSSIP.
G. HICKS.
FRANK HODGES.
ARTHUR HORD.
J. RAMSAY MACDONALD.
E. L. POULTON.
ROBERT SMILLIE.
R. B. WALKER.
ARTHUR GREENWOOD (Secretary).

---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

765
THE WORKERS' EDUCATIONAL TRADE UNION COMMITTEE.
Educational Facilities available for Members of Contributing
Trade Unions.

In connection with THE WORKERS' EDUCATIONAL TRADE UNION COMMITTEE it is
hoped to make available to members of Contributing Trade Unions the following Educa-
tional Facilities :-
(NOTE. At present these facilities are only available to members of the Confederation
of Iron and Steel Trades, but with the full development of the scheme it is probable that.
many other Trade Unions will desire and obtain an extension of the facilities to their
members.)
No. I. The REMISSION OF CLASS FEES to all members of the Confederation completing
a sufficient number of attendances in Grant-earning Classes, which may be University
Tutorial Classes or One-Year Classes.
(NOTE. Confederation members living in places where a W.E.A. Branch is already
at work should at once get into touch with its Secretary. Where desired Local Joint
Committees may be formed by Confederation and W.E.A. Branches to supervise loca'
arrangements. There is, however, no need to wait for these. If you want to join a clas
get into touch with the W.E.A. Branch Secretary at once.)
No. 2. The REMISSION OF FEES to Confederation members joining other Classes, Study
Circles, Lecture Courses, &c.
(NOTE.-Same as No. 1.)
No. 3. The ESTABLISHMENT, where desired and possible, of SPECIAL CLASSES for Con-
federation members.
(NOTE. Confederation Branches or Groups of Confederation members desirous of
forming a class or study circle should get into touch with the Secretary of the local W.EA
or with the District Secretary-see details on next page.)
No. 4. The PROVISION OF SCHOLARSHIPS to Confederation members tenable at SUMMER
SCHOOLS, WEEK-END SCHOOLS, &c.
""
(NOTE.-Details as to Scholarships offered will be made known through the Con-
federation "Journal," " The Highway," and through the Classes. Generally these will
be confined to members of the Tutorial Classes, but special Week-end Schools and Schools
for longer periods may be arranged.)
No. 5. The provision of SINGLE LECTURES or COURSES OF LECTURES to Confederation
branches.
(NOTE.-Applications by Confederation Branches for Lectures or Courses of Lectures
for their members should be made to the Secretary for the District-see next page.)
No. 6. TUITION BY CORRESPONDENCE for Students unable to attend Classes.
(NOTE. All enquiries re this should be addressed to Mr. J. M. Mactavish, Workers'
Educational Trade Union Committee, 16, Harpur Street, London, W.C. 1.)
No. 7. The PROVISION OF BOOKS for Students.
(NOTE. Confederation members requiring to purchase books for their own use are
entitled to use the Central Book Room of the W.E.A., 16, Harpur Street, London, W.C. 1.
Books required on loan for individuals or classes can be obtained from The Librarian,
The Central Library for Students, 20, Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, with whom
arrangements have been made for the supply of books on loan at the cost of carriage both
ways. Any queries as to books may be sent to Mr. J. M. Mactavish.)
In all places where W.E.A. branches are not in existence Confederation members
are asked to communicate with the District Secretary for the area concerned.
Fuller details of special schemes for Courses of Study, Lectures, &c., will be available
and made known to Confederation members.
WHEN IN DOUBT write to the DISTRICT SECRETARY under the scheme.
THESE FACILITIES ARE For Your USE. The Committee meets the entire cost of
Tuition, and the more you take advantage of the scheme the more pleased shall we be.


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

797
The following Table summarines the information received from those employers who
furnished Returns:

|                        | Number of Workpeople | Total Wages Paid to all Workpeople |
|------------------------|----------------------|------------------------------------|
|                        |                      |                                    |
|                        | Week ended           |                                    |
|                        | 25th Sept., 1920.    | Week ended                         |
|                        |                      | 25th Sept., 1920.                  |
|                        | Increase (+) or      | Increase (+) or                    |
|                        | Decrease (-) on a     | Decrease (-) on a                   |
|                        | Month ago. Year ago. | Month ago. Year ago.*               |
|                        | Percent, Percent.     | Percent, Percent.                   |
|ENGLAND AND WALES:|         |                      |                                    |
|London|1,060|2.9|10.5
| Leicester|10,207|3.7|7.7
| Leicester Country District|2,580|12.2|5.2
| Northampton|7,078|3.4|3.3
| Northampton Country District|7,702|10.3|1.7
| Kettering|3,237|1.6|5.0
| Stafford and District|2,570|1.4|1.1
| Norwich and District|1,130|20.4|2.5
| Bristol and District|1,192|3.3|20.8
| Kingswood|1,510|5.7|2.3
| Leeds and District|1,779|0.7|1.0
| Lancashire (mainly Rossendale Valley)|3,805|2.4|14.0
| Birmingham and District|875|6.6|47.7
| Other parts of England and Wales|1,130|11.2|10.9
| ENGLAND AND WALES|50,439|6.2|5.8
| SCOTLAND|2,755|6.8|0.4
| IRELAND|613|3.1|25.5
| UNITED KINGDOM|53,807|0.8|7.8

* Comparison of earnings is affected by increases in rates of wages.

In the Leicester district employment during September was bad; a large number of
operatives were working half-time or less, and some factories were closed altogether.
The position was much the same in the Northampton district: a number of factories
were closed altogether, and those that remained open were generally working less than
half the normal hours. At Kettering, and at Bristol and Kingswood, employment continued
bad. At Stafford employment was very slack, the factories being generally open for
only four days a week, and then for less than the normal hours. At Norwich (except in
the turn-shoe department, in which the operatives were fully employed) a considerable
number of workpeople were unemployed, and nearly all those who were still in employ-
ment were working only from half to three-quarter time. At Leeds also the majority
of the workpeople were on short time.

In the Rossendale district, where slippers and light shoes are manufactured, employ-
ment was fairly good.

In Scotland employment was reported as fair at Dundee, Glasgow, Kilmarnock and
Ayr, quiet at Edinburgh and slack at Maybole.

The exports of boots and shoes in September, 1920, amounted to 103,692 dozen
pairs, or 13,726 dozen pairs more than in August, 1920, but 57,943 dozen pairs less than
in September, 1913.— The Labour Gazette, October, 1920.

UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT, 1920.

In connection with the above-named Act, which comes into operation
on November 8th, 1920, owing to the resolutions passed by the Trade Union
Congress, in the first instance not to have anything to do with the Act, and
the short time left since receding from that position, it has not been
possible to fully deal with this matter. Meantime, members will take out
their insurance books, it being understood that the employers are empowered


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

799
HONOURS FOR THE GENERAL SECRETARY.
It is with no small degree of pleasure that we have to place on record the
fact that our General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., has been unani-
mously elected Chairman to the Trades Union Congress Parliamentary
Committee for 1920-21, and consequently he will be Chairman of the
Congress next year.
This is indeed an honour to the Union, and the position has only been
held by one of our officials previously, and that as far back as 1902, when the
late Mr. W. B. Hornidge was President of the Congress.

JOINT INDUSTRIAL (WHITLEY) COUNCIL.
The seventh meeting of the Joint Industrial Council was held at 8, Rich-
mond Terrace, Westminster, S.W., on Thursday, the 14th inst., the principal
business transacted being the following:-
Minutes of the Seventh Meeting of the Joint Industrial Council. Mr. Owen Parker,
J.P., presided, and was supported by :-

Representing the Manufacturers :-
A. E. MARLOW.
W. H. TOMLINSON.
D. HENDERSON.
J. H. MARLOW.
FREDK. HALLIDAY.
J. ADAMS.
O. PARKER.
G. W. HEATON.
Apologies from MR. BOSTOCK (who
is in U.S.A.), MR. HANLY, and
MR. POCOCк.

Representing the Operatives :
T. F. RICHARDS.
E. L. POULTON.
J. BUCKLE.
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS.
C. BATES.
L. SMITH.
ALEX. SMITH.
EMMETT LAW.
W. R. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
C. BLEAKLEY.
THOS. ADNITT.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
A. J. DOBBS.
C. MAYES.
Apology from MR. MCCARTHY, who
was in Ireland.

MR. E. E. H. ANTHONY, MR. J. W. RAMSBOTTом, and Mr. C. T. HAWKINS, of the
Ministry of Labour, also attended.

Minutes.
The Minutes of the previous meeting having been circulated, were endorsed, and the
Chairman signed the same as a correct record of the business transacted.

Election of Officers.
THE CHAIRMAN explained the reason why the Joint Industrial Council's Annual
Meeting had not been held in May owing to the great number of other pressing duties to
which both sides of the Council had had to attend. MR. PARKER then gave a brief resumé
of the year's work, emphasising especially its work in conjunction with the Home Office
in considering the possibility of drawing up regulations which should protect the Health
of Workers in Factories and its desire to find a practicable scheme for making effective
provision for Unemployment in the Industry, and expressed gratitude for the effective
way with which the work of the Council has been carried out. He also appreciated the
cordial help rendered by both sides of the Council, and intimated he was retiring from the
position of Chairman with pleasant memories of his tenure of office.

MR. O. PARKER then proposed Mr. T. F. Richards be Chairman of the Council for the
ensuing year; the proposal was seconded by Mr. A. E. MARLOW. Mr. Richards, however,
preferred that Mr. Parker should continue to act as Chairman, but upon the resolution
being put to the vote, Mr. Parker declared the "ayes have it." Mr. Richards took the
Chair and thanked the Council for their support.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

801
PRODUCTION.
A great deal of talk is being indulged in at the present time about the absolute need for increased output, and that everyone should put his best efforts forward on account of the world's need for all kinds of articles and materials. The present state of unemployment in this and other countries is a grim commentary upon the position, shewing as it does the great need for a radical alteration from the present methods in which industry is carried on, whereby the admitted needs of the peoples of the world can be supplied without throwing a great many others out of employment. It is an interesting point to notice that, with a view to keeping up prices, those who control the tea markets of the world are calling for reduced production to enable them to keep up prices. This also obtains in the rubber world, where the employers state it is necessary to reduce the output by 25 per cent.; whilst the statement a few days ago that in order to keep up the prices of cotton, which is so badly wanted by the world, it is being burned, seems to be at variance with the cry to the worker for more production. For ourselves, although we as a trade are suffering at the present time, NOT from over-production, but from under-consumption and bad distribution-as also the absolute necessity of a world peace-we believe the need of the world is for more production under proper conditions. This cry for reduced production simply to keep up prices shews what a long way we have to go before a proper state of society is brought about. We hope these things will not be lost sight of, but when the opportunity presents itself we trust the workers will shew by their votes their disapproval of such methods by putting those into positions who would, by legislative action, bring about such a reconstruction of society as will enable a just distribution of the world's supplies to take place.
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries, please note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
MONTHLY RETURNS.
We feel bound once again to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the LATEST day for returns to reach the General Secretary. Last month many returns were late. Branches failed to send off their returns to reach the Central Office by the 15th of the month, and this tends to upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We trust in future every Branch Secretary will endeavour to get in his returns as soon as is possible after the month (or five weeks as the case may be) ends, and NOT to wait until the latest date for them to reach the Office ; also before sending them to see that they are in order and properly signed.
B


---
802
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
Footwear "should be increasingly purchased ; therefore, push the Trade Union
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Members and their families should wear only Union Stamped Footwear
make a sucUOSS.
Stamp.
We remain, yours fraternally.
1. E. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES
E. LAW.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretar
REPAIRING TRADE BOARD WAGES.
Claim by a Journeyman against an Employer.
At the Bury (Lancs.) Police Court on the 27th ult., Wm. Feast, boot maker, 45, James
Street, Bury, was summoned by James Johnson, finisher, for £2 5s. wages, in accordan
with the Trade Board scale.
Mr. N. Crompton said the plaintiff was employed by the defendant. The amount
claimed was the difference in wages paid and wages due under the regulations. The
Trade Board had fixed a general minimum for all male workers. The rates had been
confirmed by the Minister of Labour. The rates for workers over 21 years should be
£3 5s. for a week of 48 hours. If a workman was disabled in any way application could
be made to the Trade Board for a permit that he might be employed at lower wages. An
application in this case had been made, but no permit had been granted.
Mr. Butcher: There is no reply to the application.
Mr. Crompton said the defendant paid the plaintiff £3 per week. After he had employed
the plaintiff for two weeks he told him he had better apply for a permit. The summons
was for nine weeks at 5s. per week.
been sent, but no
The plaintiff said he offered to go into the service of Mr. Feast for £2 158., but Mr.
Feast offered £3. He submitted he was entitled to 43 5s. A permit had been written
for and the Trade Board had asked for a medical certificate. A medical certificate had
he applied for the permit was because he wanted work. Mr. Feast had sold the business
reply had been received, and no permit had been given. The reason
was a dispute in the trade and men were on strike. The Union asked for the +3 5s scale
after the strike. Re-examined, the witness said he did not want to ask for a penalty,
Replying to Mr. R. W. Butcher, who appeared for the defence, the witness said there
only for the difference in the amount of wages.
Workmen's Act; it was
the Trade Board.
simply one for the recovery of wages.
The Clerk (Mr. H. T. Bull) said that the summons was under the Employers and
Mr. Butcher stated that when the permit was granted it would be dated back. He
suggested that a reasonable course would be to adjourn it until a decision was given by
that the man was disabled from working with his hand. It was his legs that were affected.
asked the local trade union to give information, and the union was not prepared to say
Mr. Crompton said he was told the permit would not be granted. The Trade Board
Mr. Butcher said he had other opinions from the other side.
The case was adjourned sine die. - Shoe and Leather Record, 15th October, 1920.

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

803
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Another Outrageous Government Blunder.
I am sorry to find that owing to the present blundering, stupid and incompetent 
Government that we have at the head of affairs in the country, we are again involved in
an Industrial Crisis. The Miners I would like to have seen act on the advice of their leader,
Mr. Smillie, who went so far as to advise the reference of the trouble to an Independent
Tribunal, and no one need be surprised after the treatment the Miners received over the
Sankey Award that the men refused to have any sympathy with the Government's position.
We ourselves know that at least 5,000 men could have been found employment at
Hand-Sewn Boot and Shoe Making, had the Government been prepared to have rendered
that assistance to the men who served the Nation in the late war. We have, therefore, to
express our great sympathy with the Miners in their trouble, and fully believe that had
their demand for the 2s. been granted it would have been the best thing for the Nation as
a whole. I am still hopeful a way out of the difficulty will be found without prolongation
of the struggle that has been entered into, but whatever happens all the blame that we
can find ought to be thrown upon the Government.
Unemployment.
At the Council Meeting for the month held on the 26th and 27th of September, we
again considered the question as to whether we should become responsible for the
administering of the Unemployment Act apart from the Government Scheme, and whether
we have a scheme of our own. The General President and General Secretary, with Mr.
Buckle and Mr. Smith, M.P., were appointed to await on the Ministry of Labour to find
out how far we could do this by drawing up a scheme of our own. We also took into con-
sideration the temporary unemployment scheme, the 3 months having been concluded,
at this particulary Council Meeting, and owing to the extraordinary amount of unemploy-
ment and thereby suffering which would be entailed on our members, we have decided
to ask the members of the Union for powers to amend the Unemployment Clauses of our
Rules to read: “That any person unemployed for 12 consecutive working days shall,
upon the recommendation of the Branch Executive, be permitted to come under the rule
from the first day of becoming unemployed."
The Council recognise that we have probably doubled our membership in very recent
years, and it will require very, very serious handling to make this scheme a success owing to
the fact that trade is bad at the present moment. We ought not to be looked upon in-
dependently out of our own fund to provide this money. Already I understand an in-
timation has been sent to the Employers, but they up to the present have turned a deaf
ear to the proposal. In the circumstances they are willing to allow us, out of our own funds,
to provide for and keep our men and women standing by waiting to serve them whenever
there is a possibility of a profit being made out of their labour, which, in itself, is a fact.
We can only, therefore, hope to get this scheme of unemployment in working order at the
earliest possible date in order to release our general fund from the responsibility that is
placed upon us.
On the 28th September I attended a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee with
the General Federation of Trade Unions, to meet the Friendly Societies with the object
of trying to bring about a working arrangement whereby the Friendly Societies would not
unduly interfere with the work which some Trade Unions have been able to do so
successfully for themselves, viz., to administer unemployment benefit. Several sugges-
tions were made, one of which was: That we should permit the Friendly Societies to take
over the Benevolent side, or in other words, Sick Insurance, and let them work that, and
on the other hand they would not deign to try and take over the Unemployment side of
our work. After a lengthy discussion we advised the Chairman, Mr. J. H. Thomas, unani-
mously, to inform the Friendly Society Delegates that we could not see our way clear to
make this proposal; in fact, as the conference did not propose any working arrangements
we decided to allow each side to do its best for its own members in the future as in the past.
Trade Board.
On the 30th I attended the Trade Board meeting of the Advisory Committee, and once
more went through a great batch of permits in order to allow the unfortunate people who
are already in the Industry to be permitted to work at what the Advisory Committee
believe to be their full value. Upon this question I should like to add that we make it a
point of personal investigation with some members of the Committee as to the offer of the
employer to the particular workman, thereby doing our best to preserve a man from being
taken advantage of.
October 1st, at the Full Board Meeting, where we confirmed the previous work done,
we had an explanation from the ex-Secretary of Lord Haig, who endeavoured to explain


---
Sure, here is the extracted text of the image:

Shoe Industry.
that his lordship had never had any intention of casting any stigma upon the Boot and
undoubtedly already taught and educated amongst the ex-service men, 20 per cent. of the
We informed the representative that in the Repairing trade we had
total number of men employed as journeymen in the industry, that is to say, that as a
general estimate before the war we would say there were 20,000 people employed at re-
pairing as journeymen, and we have trained more than 4,000. When we remember also
two combined is as general as you will find in any other industry, I fully believe.
that the men taken on since the war in our own industry amount to 4.7 per cent. surely the
direct employment on Goevrnment work, the right to work, and to be paid Trade Union
Rates for Hand-Sewn Boot and Shoe inaking for the Services. Lord Haig could also help
suading the Government to put down small workshops in various centres to give the men
It is our intention to inform Lord Haig that he could still help these men by per
in another direction At a meeting we held of the Technical Advisory Committee for Boot
and Shoe Manufacturing we have made an application to allow some 20 men in Northampton
an additional 6 months' training, but we are sorry to learn that the Government refused
intention to send on to the Prime Minister, to show him that there are instances where the
off and placing them on the streets among the unemployed. These two points it is m::
to allow these men to continue their training for another 6 months, thereby cutting them
Government could help and they absolutely refuse to do so.
Standing Committee.
the Interpretation of the Terms of Settlement. Mr. Buckle and I attended, and we were
On October 4th a Conference was held by the Standing Committee responsible fo
Agreement of 1919 required the Local Board of Arbitration to prepare piecework state-
informed that a full statement had been sent out by the Manufacturers' Office. The
All the trouble concentrates round that word "average," which is put in capitals, intend.
in 48 hours per week a wage 25 per cent, in excess of the minimum wage for day workers
ments upon a basis of prices which gives the average operator full opportunity of earning
decision still holds good, and we also affirm and avow and I hope it will not be departed
ing probably to soften the backwoodsmen of the Employers' Association in such districts
where such backwoodsmen are afraid of men earning big money. We affirm that tha
from-that the same support which gave the 56s. day worker 70s. when he became a piece-
worker in 1919 must also secure him 85s. as a minimum to-day.
Special Council Meeting.
In this particular week Council held a special meeting on the question of unemployment,
at which the General President and General Secretary gave in their report of the intervie
with the Ministry of Labour, and at the conclusion the Council undoubtedly felt that a
special scheme for our own trade, which was going to be encouraged by the Government.
would cover everybody working at the industry in the factories, with the exception e
Clerks, Engineers, and Electricians; that it would give our men the benefit due to them
from their own office and their own officials without going to the Labour Exchange, which
would be, in addition to the 15s. for males and 7s. 6d. for females already provided for by
our Union, eclipsed once the scheme has got into working order, and we fully realise how
many people we are going to cover. My own estimate is that this new scheme will involve
a turnover and the handling of cash amounting to probably not less than £250,000 per
year. Machinery of administration we have already set up. Additional help we shall
require. The Government contribution will only be d. or a little more than a d
for the Unions who administer the Act as against 2d. allowed the Labour Exchanges
Still, we are of the opinion the Act can be best administered by the industry itself, even
if additional help has to be engaged to make and ensure very successful working.
Leicestershire County Board.
On the 12th I attended a County Board Meeting at Leicester to settle several disputes,
which I hope by this time are
satisfactorily settled.
unionists had refused to join the Union. It is pleasing to note that I had communication
One part of interest we had to consider was in one of the villages where some non-
with a firm which I have known for many years, and I pointed out what I thought
the advantage the employers had gained with the assistance of our Union, and in the end
it should be, although I don't want to make a speciality of going to the employers, only as
orders had been issued that these men must become members of the Union. This is as
a very last resort.
Special Council Meeting.
the changed position in which we find ourselves since our last grant was made, and in face
make upon the employers in the forthcoming Agreement of 1921. We also considered
On the 13th the Council held a very special meeting to consider what request we shall
of the change we hope to make in February, we came to the conclusion, unanimously,


---
Here is the text from the image:

Telephone No.
4438, Museum, London.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Telegraphic Address
"Natunishop, Holb., London."
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members, the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NATIONAL UNION OF
Boot and Shoe Operatives.
MONTHLY REPORT.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,

34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
24TH JANUARY, 1921.

DISPUTES have been practically non-existent during the month.

NOMINATIONS for delegates to the First Annual Conference to be held in London must be taken at the February Meeting Night, and nominations sent to reach the General Secretary BEFORE the 15th prox., otherwise the same will not be accepted.

WOMEN DELEGATES.
Whilst it is not within the power of ourselves to allocate seats for women delegates for the Conference at Whitsuntide, we hope the branches will take into full consideration the women membership of the Union and their claims for representation, it being important that the women members should be fully represented so that their personal views on matters directly affecting women can be heard at first hand from the women delegates so appointed.

Nominations must also be taken for one delegate to attend the Scottish Labour Advisory Committee (Scottish branches only to nominate).

TRADE is, if anything worse, rather than better than it was last month, and the immediate prospect of any improvement does not appear to be in sight. During the month 14,662 have signed on the Out-of-Work Books, at a cost to the Union of nearly ₤18,000; these numbers are, however, not at all a full


---
reflection as to the real state of trade, there being many thousands on short
time and such short time as means in many instances only two and three days
per week, and this for a whole series of weeks. In connection with this system
of short time it is no new thing to the Shoe Trade, as members well know
We have, however, never for a moment thought, or considered that it even
approached the point of being in any way a solvent for the unemployment
problem; but simply a practical expression of sympathy of the workers to
one another to mitigate to some extent the suffering that is always existent
when bad trade prevails.
The Government, it would seem, have an idea that a general policy of
short time would act as some special charm to tide over the present period of
general slackness. It ought surely by this time to be quite clear to the Govern-
ment that what is required is a policy going down to the root of the causes.
It is indeed a satire upon the existing situation that people are begging for
the barest necessities of life on one hand, and millions of people in the aggregate
are begging for work to supply those necessities, and the raw material is at
hand to meet both situations. Yet statesmen hesitate to deal with the situation
except in the smallest possible degree, and in a way altogether unworthy of
politicians much less of statesmen. The situation is getting dangerous and
those in responsible positions ought by now to realise that men will not tolerate
the present disgraceful situation being continued. We trust therefore that
such steps will be taken by those who have the power as will relieve the
existing state of suffering, and that immediately.
We would remind the officers and members that the following instruction,
issued on the 20th December, 1920, must be rigidly adhered to :-" That the
question of Suspension Benefit should and must definitely CEASE on the
26th February, 1921, and will not be re-opened, the strain on the Funds having
already been very heavy indeed."
The figures given in the records of the Labour Gazette are:—

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.

During December the depression in the boot and shoe trade became more acute,
and short time and unemployment increased. In many centres the Christmas holidays
were extended to a fortnight or more. The number of workpeople employed in the week
ended 18th December by those firms from whom Returns were received was about 12
per cent. less than in the corresponding week of last year, and the total wages paid by these
firms showed reductions of about 5 per cent. as compared with a month earlier, and of
nearly 24 per cent. as compared with a year earlier, notwithstanding the increases in
rates of wages granted in April last. Of 23,000 workpeople covered by Returns giving
information as to hours worked, about three-fourths worked, on average, 18 hours less
than full time in the week ended 18th December.
In the Leicester district employment continued very bad; some factories were closed,
short time was almost general, and the Christmas holidays were extended In the
Northampton district there was a further decline; large numbers of workpeople were
unemployed, nearly all the rest were on short time; the Christmas holidays were extended
in some cases to three weeks or even a month. At Kettering employment was reported
as much worse; there was much short time, and a considerable amount of unemployment.
At Bristol employment was very bad, and short time was general, while at Kingswood
there was an exceptional amount of unemployment. At Stafford most of the operatives
were working less than half-time. At Leeds short time was general, amounting to two
or three days a week in many cases At Norwich about 75 per cent. of those employed
were on short time; the Christmas holidays were extended.

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

6
We are strongly of opinion that the Bank of England should be a Government
Bank, and thereby give to the paramount authority in this country an additional
lever which might be used for the benefit of the whole country. Further.
The City
in our judgment there should be in each locality a Municipal Bank. It is however,
of Birmingham has such a Bank, which is very successful.
significant that two other towns who applied for statutory powers to do as
Birmingham have done have been refused the necessary authority. The powers
that be will no doubt resist this attempt of the people to have some real control
of the power of money. Nevertheless, we trust it will not be lost sight of, but
on the contrary will be kept well to the front and thereby give to the authorities
power to deal with the financial situation which has tended to more and more
hold up work that is absolutely necessary should be carried out for the well-
being of the community.

UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT, 1920.
Since our last report a further meeting of the Sub-Committee appointed
to enquire into the Special Scheme for the trade has been held. Hereunder
is a copy of the minutes of the meeting.

MINUTES OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE APPOINTED TO ENQUIRE INTO A SCHEME RELATIVE TO
THE UNEMPLOYMENT ACT, 1920, HELD AT 7, TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1.,
ON THURSDAY, THE 16TH DAY OF DECEMBER, 1920, AT 4.45 Р.М.

There were present:-
Mr. A. E. MARLOW (in the Chair),
Mr. OWEN PARKER, J.P.,
Commander H. W. HEATON, D.S.O.,
Mr. T. F. RICHARDS,
Mr. J. BUCKLE, J.P.,
}
Representing the Employers.

Representing the Operatives.
Mr. E. H. ANTHONY,
Mr. J. MUNRO, of the Ministry of Labour, and
Mr. E. B. NATHAN, actuary appointed to enquire into the financial position of the
Scheme.
Mr. E. L. POULTON, J.P., was prevented from attending owing to his being engaged
upon important national business.

At the outset Mr. Marlow read the following decision arrived at by the Scottish
Federation:-

(COPY.)
"After due consideration the Federated Associations of Boot and Shoe Manu-
facturers in Scotland have decided that they could not enter into any Scheme for
contracting out under Section 18 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, in which
the contributions to be paid were more than in the Government Scheme, and also
that in any such Scheme for contracting out of the Government Scheme there must
be joint management of the Scheme. Further, that the agreement by individual
Manufacturers to enter into any Scheme for 'contracting out' of the Government
Scheme must be optional. The Federation are also entirely opposed to the principle
of Paragraph 5 of the Suggested Special Scheme submitted by the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives, which provides for an 'Under-Employment Benefit,'
and will be no party to any such Scheme"-

but intimated that if a scheme could be drawn up which would provide better benefits
than those named in the Act, the Federation would not be adverse to the same.

The Report of the Actuary was then considered and both Mr. Nathan and Mr. Munro
gave the Committee some interesting figures relative to the same.

After some discussion, it was unanimously agreed that Mr. Nathan should present
figures showing the benefits which could be paid by the contribution of 8d. plus 2/3ds.
of a penny from the Government for an out of work benefit rate varying from 3% to 5%


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

During the discussion, Mr. Munro called attention to the fact that when operatives
had paid 500 contributions and reached the age of bo years, they would be entitled to
draw their share of the contributions from the Ministry of Labour, less any benefit they
may have drawn during such period. The Chairman asked if such a clause would have
to be inserted in the Special Scheme, to which Mr. Munro stated that it was not absolutely
necessary, always providing the benefits named in the Scheme were not less favourable
than those named in the Act.
He also called attention to Clause 3 of the Scheme, and stated it would be for the
Committee to say whether the Rossendale Valley area was included in such Scheme;
further, he suggested that it would simplify matters if all operatives in the boot and shoe
factories were brought within the scope of the Scheme.
The Chairman, on behalf of the Committee, thanked Mr. Munro for his suggestions
and intimated they would be considered at a later meeting.
We are still in communication with the Ministry of Labour to obtain
powers to administer the Unemployment Act, 1920.

SUGGESTED REVISION OF CONFERENCE AGREEMENT, 1921.
We have submitted the following as the suggested revision of the 1919
Agreement to the Manufacturers' Federation, and asked that an early meeting
of both sides should be held to consider the same :-

CLAUSE 1.- UNIFORMITY IN LABOUR PRICE OF SIMILAR CLASSES OF GOODS.-That it
is desirable that a uniform system of prices should obtain and that the general outline
or groundwork of such system should be arranged on a broad basis, so that the essential
conditions and prices can be applied or adapted to the same class of labour or material
in all areas producing similar classes of goods.

CLAUSE 2.-BASIS OF QUANTITY STATEMENTS. - Where general or shop statements
do not at present exist the Local Arbitration Boards, at the request of either side, shall
forthwith proceed upon the ratification of this Agreement to prepare Quantity Statements
for their respective districts (subject to Clause 1). All manufacturers and operatives
shall accept such statements in their entirety as a basis of payment, but the system shall
be a daywork system, and no adult operative shall be engaged at less than the minimum
wage rate, without the written permit of the Union or the Local Arbitration Board. In
cases where circumstances arise that prevent the operative from earning the minimum
or agreed wage rate owing to bad materials or special care required in the performance
of their work, such cases shall be subject to special adjustment between the employer
or his representative and the operatives or their Trade Union officials.

CLAUSE 3.-PROCEDURE RE OUTPUT. It is understood that operatives use their
trade skill and ability to the best advantage. There shall be an agreed wage for the
various operatives, such wage to be in accordance with the conditions laid down in Clauses
I and 2. The agreed wage shall only be varied when the state and condition of trade
warrant such alteration. Such agreed wage shall be fixed by the Manufacturer, Operative,
and Trade Union Official.

CLAUSE 4.-REGULATION OF CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT. - Where operatives
attend at the factories on the instructions of the employers, or their representatives, work
shall be found for them for at least a whole day, except when short time is being worked,
and in that case operatives shall be informed overnight if their services will not be required
on the next working day. All operatives to be at work where practicable.

CLAUSE 5.-UNIFORMITY OF ORGANISATION.-All operatives shall be subject to the
same organisation and discipline in regard to attendance at the factories during working
hours.

CLAUSE 6.-HOURS OF LABOUR. As from March 31st, 1921, the ordinary working
week shall be a five day one of 40 hours, and meantime all statements shall be built up to
ensure the rates of wages as set forth in Clauses 7 and 8.

CLAUSE 7.-MINIMUM WAGE AND GRADUATED SCALE RATES. From the commence-
ment of the first working week on or after 31st March, 1921, the following scale of minimum
wages shall operate for male operatives employed in all Departments.
MALE OPERATIVES. Age 21, Minimum Wage 100/-.

CLAUSE 8.-MINIMUM WAGE AND GRADUATED SCALE RATES. - The national minimum
wage and graduated scale rates for female operatives shall be as follows from the commence-
ment of the first working week on or after 31st March, 1921 :-
FEMALE WORKERS.-Age 20, Minimum Wage 70/-.


---
Here is the text from the image:

CLAUSE 0. All operatives to be guaranteed a weekly wage for the 52 weeks annually ;
at not less than the Minimum Wage Rate.

CLAUSE 10. NO REDUCTION IN WAGES THROUGH NEW AGREEMENT. The wages of the
operatives who, when this Agreement comes into operation, are employed at or above the
minimum wages or graduated scale rates applicable to them by this Agreement shall not
be reduced in consequence of this Agreement. When, through special circumstances,
operations cannot be priced the wages paid to these operatives shall be the average agreed
wage rate of the adult operatives, both male and female, on the firm in question.

CLAUSE 11. NOMPILATION OF PIECE-WORK AND QUANTITY STATEMENTS BY LOCAL
ARBITRATION BOARDS. Local Boards of Arbitration will forthwith prepare new piece-
work Lr quantity statements, or revise the existing statements on a basis to ensure the
average worker earning at least 25 per cent. over the minimum wage.

All statements to be increased in proportion to the new minimum wage rates.

In the event of differences arising on a Local Arbitration Board as to the procedure
to be adopted in giving effect to this clause, either side of the Board may require the
Standing Committee of the Conference to advise upon such procedure, provided always
that the piecework or quantity rates to be finally fixed shall be determined in accordance
with the rules of such Board.

Local Boards of Arbitration operating in outlying districts accustomed to manufacture
goods of lower grades shall take this factor into consideration when estimating the pro-
ductive capacity of the average workman for the purpose of compiling piecework or
quantity statements.

CLAUSE 12. EXEMPTIONS FROM MINIMUM RATE. The minimum wage or graduated
scale rates shall not apply to clerks, engineers, mechanics, electricians, stokers, porters,
sweepers-up, lift or hoist men, caretakers and time-keepers, not engaged in actual manu-
facturing.

CLAUSE 13. PROCEDURE ON CLAIMS FOR MINIMUM RATE AND FOR PAYMENT OF LESS
THAN MINIMUM RATE. The Federation recognises the obligation upon the employers to
pay the minimum wage and graduated scale rates to all operatives to whom such rates
apply, except in cases where they hold the written permit of the Union or the Local Arbitra-
tion Board to accept less than such rates, but the obligation upon an employer to pay
such rates in cases where the operatives attain the specified ages whilst in his employ
shall be dependent in every case upon a separate application in writing being made to him
or to the manager or foreman of the department, stating the age of the applicant (of which
the employer may require reasonable proof) and the wage claimed, such application to
be made by the operative, or by the Union on his or her behalf, notwithstanding anything
contained in the Award of 10th February, 1898; and the liability of the employer to pay
the prescribed rate in the case of every lawful application shall commence at the expiration
of eight days from and including the date of the receipt by him or his manager or foreman
of the application. Should the employer decide that the operative is not qualified to earn
such rate, the employer, workman and Union representative shall endeavour to arrive
at a sum to be paid such operative. Failing any arrangements, the employer may terminate
the engagement in accordance with the contract for service, but shall pay such operative
of requisite age the prescribed rate for the last week of employment.

The procedure on claims for the minimum wage and graduated scale rates contained
in the Agreements of 26th January, 1909, and 28th July, 1909, is hereby revoked.

CLAUSE 14. GUARANTEE UNDER TERMS OF SETTLEMENT. Subject to the original
provisions of resolution 9 of the Terms of Settlement of 19th April, 1895, and the pro-
visions of the Trust Deed of 8th March, 1898, the monetary guarantee of the Federation
shall not be amenable in any case of alleged non-compliance by an Employer with agree-
ments in relation to wages, hours of labour, or conditions of employment, until after the
case has been dealt with in accordance with the procedure prescribed by rule 14 of the
Local Arbitration Board for dealing with disputes, and a decision of the Board, its Arbitra-
tors, or Umpire, has been given; but in no case shall the retrospective payment of wages
be ordered beyond the date of claim in writing sent either to the employer or to the Secretary
of the Board, whichever is earlier.

CLAUSE 15. BOY LABOUR. The restriction in the employment of boys, as provided
by the Award of 22nd August, 1892, and amended by the Agreement of 26th January,
1909 namely, one boy (under 10 years of age) to every three or fractional part of three
men (over 10 years of age) employed in the Clicking, Press, Lasting and Finishing Depart-
ments respectively shall be altered to read one boy to every five men employed.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

9
CLAUSE 16.--CLASSIFICATION OF FEMALE LABOUR. It is undesirable that females
should be employed amongst male operatives in the Clicking, Press, Lasting and Finishing
Departments of the trade, in which male labour is now almost exclusively employed.
The Conference therefore recommends that where females are now so employed, such
conditions shall gradually cease, and that in future no fresh female labour shall be employed
in the aforesaid departments.

CLAUSE 17-OVERTIME. No overtime shall be worked in the trade.

CLAUSE 18. UNIVERSAL APPLICATION OF NEW MINIMUM RATES. The minimum
wage and graduated scale rates fixed by this Agreement shall be simultaneously applied
to federated and non-federated manufacturers, and the Union and Federation undertakes
to bring every district up to such rates; but if at the expiration of the period for which
this Agreement has been fixed it can be shown that the Union has failed to put such rates
into general operation throughout the non-federated districts it shall be competent for
the Federation or any of its local Associations to decline to consider any further application
to increase such rates.

CLAUSE 19.-LESS FAVOURABLE TERMS BY LOCAL ARBITRATION BOARDS. In no
case shall a local Arbitration Board upon which the Federation or Union is represented,
its Arbitrators or Umpires, make any agreement or award as to wages, hours of labour,
or conditions of employment, which shall be less favourable generally to the operatives
(having regard to the local circumstances of the district) than the wages, hours and con-
ditions contained in any agreement or award made between the Federation and the Union,
or which extends beyond the period for which any such national agreement or award, or
any local agreement or award of a similar character, affecting federated manufacturers
has been fixed.

CLAUSE 20.- STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS. - The Conference re-affirms resolution 8 of
the Terms of Settlement of 19th April, 1895, which is as follows:

No strike or lock-out shall be entered into on the part of any body of workmen,
members of the National Union, or any manufacturer represented on any Local
Board of Arbitration."

Where grievances exist they shall be investigated immediately by representatives of
the local Manufacturers' Association and of the local branch of the Union concerned,
with a view to adjustment.

Where any strike or lock-out takes place and is continued beyond the period of three
days allowed by the Agreement of 31st March, 1910, the right of the Federation or the
Union, as the case may be, to claim upon the monetary guarantee under that agreement
and the Trust Deed, may be exercised by a National Umpire appointed in accordance
with clause 9 of the Trust Deed, and on the recommendation of the Minister of Labour,
for a forfeiture either (a) by way of fine or penalty, or (b) by way of damages or com-
pensation for loss sustained, and in any case where the latter alternative is adopted the
amount of such loss shall be assessed by a committee of three representatives of the
Federation and three representatives of the Union, and in the event of their disagreement
the question shall be referred to the National Umpire.

CLAUSE 21.-STANDING COMMITTEE. -A Standing Committee of three representatives
of the Federation and three representatives of the Union, with the Chairman of the Con-
ference, shall be appointed to deal with all matters arising out of or in connection with the
Terms of Settlement of 1895, so far as they are now operative, and any other national
agreement between the Federation and the Union and this Agreement, including any dis-
putes that may arise as to the interpretation of such agreements, provided that due regard
is paid to the authoritative decisions that have already been given under these above-
named agreements.

CLAUSE 22. CONFLICT WITH LOCAL BOARDS OF ARBITRATION.--Anything in this
Agreement which is in conflict with existing local awards or agreements shall be remitted
to the parties by whom such agreements were made or to the local Boards of Arbitration.
Failing agreement by the local authority, the matter in dispute may be remitted to the
Standing Committee.

CLAUSE 23.-DURATION AND RATIFICATION OF AGREEMENT. - This Agreement shall
come into operation on the 31st March, 1921, and it shall not be competent for either side
to re-open the same till hte expiration of
years from
1921.
Either side may, on or after
terminate or revise this Agreement, which will continue in operation until terminated or
revised pursuant to such notice.

give six months' notice to
The Conference agrees to recommend the respective organisations to ratify this
Agreement, which shall be submitted for the approval of such organisations before
Ministry of Labour as a national agreement.
B
and if ratified shall be registered with the Board of Trade and the

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

10
THE HALF-YEARLY STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS
The Half-yearly Statement of Accounts will be found on pages 1.5 to 39.
We beg to call attention to the fact that over £46,000 has been paid out in
unemployment benefit during the past half-year; this represents a sum of
over 50 per cent. of the total sum paid out since the inception of the
Fund in 1907 to June, 1920. The accounts are such as to speak for them-
selves, and although the Sick Fund is higher than at any other period, we would
remind the members of the Union's increa ed liabilities which will have to be
met in September next. One other point which we would emphasise is, the fact
that owing to the large amount paid out for those "suspended" from employ-
ment, the accounts show a loss on the half-year of £5,980 Is. 2d.
TRADE DEPARTMENT.
For the
half-year ending
31st Dec., 1920.
£ s. d.
35802 0 7.
57601 16 5.
212354 9 10
For the
half-year ending
31st Dec., 1919.
£ s. d.
31328 12 6.
13715 9 10
.223817 3 3

Increase on the
corresponding
half-year.
s. d.
£
4473 8 I
.43886 6 7
Decrease on the
corresponding
half-year.
s. d.
Total Income
دو
Expenditure
Funds, Trade Dept..
.11462 13 5
The Detailed Items of Trade Expenditure are as follow:
£
8 5 6
47 12 S
54 8 4
I 14 9
1491 + 3
381 17 4
I II 3
2435 3 8
Travelling Assistance
Investigation
Victimisation Benefit
Loss of Tools by Fire
Dispute Benefit
Arbitration Expenses
Panel Committee
Out-of-Work Benefit
Seven-twelfths Share Out-
of-Work Contributions..
Seven-twelfths Share War
Contributions
Seven-twelfths Share Health
Insurance Contributions
Three-fourths Share Organ-
ising
Three fourths Share Printing
and Stationery
Legal Expenses
Grants
General Federation Trade
Unions
Political Fund
Trade Union Stamp
General Officers' Expenses
British Trade Union Congress
Scottish
"
Delegations and Conferences
Upkeep of Central Office
Edinburgh Conference
Miscellaneous Expenses
Removal of Offices
Management
II 13 4.
329 I 7.
72 18 4
551 4 6.
400 9 5.
46061 16 3
262 75
445 2 3
15 3 6
512 19 8
2024 16 II
123 17 9.
893 14 6
1955 10 0.
1293 14 6
2 10 0
26 15 II
173 17 4.
2 6 6.
16 6 I
318 15 2
193 0
392 10 I
1521 5 5
3 7 10
376 14 3.
18 το 0
I 14 9.
2042 8 9
782 6 9
I II 3
1179 15 8.
42 II 4
2880 5 11
15 3 6
439
812 0
53 I
378 2 0
1548 3 0
1070 18 I
I 8 0
42 12 6.
207 3 6
2
6
2
20 15 6.
335 II 7
44882 0 7
219 16 I
2435 3 8
00
15 3 6
73 19 8
6. 1212 16
7.
70 162
515 12 6.
5
515 12 6.
407 7 0.
222 16 5.
I 2 0
I
15 16
33 6
7
2
0
ΙΟΙ 12
7.
193
+..
16 16
5
379 11
988
0 8
0 0
290 17 6.
533 4 9
379 II
4

---
Here is the text from the image:

13
ANNUAL RETURN PRESCRIBED BY THE REGISTRAR FOR A
REGISTERED TRADE UNION.
Having to send in a full return of Income and Expenditure for the Union
(Council and Branch combined) to the Registrar, in compliance with the different
Acts of Parliament covering Trade Unions, we shall be pleased if you will help
the Central Office by completely filling in the Form sent along, and send it
back to the General Secretary ON OR BEFORE FEBRUARY IST, 1921, certain.
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays in this month, branch secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for same accordingly.
RETURNS!!!
Some Branches persistently send in their returns after the 15th, and this
month 19 Branches were late. We have several times appealed to Secretaries
to send along their returns in time, and unless it is done in future we shall
have no option but to fine the delinquents in accordance with rule.
Moreover, lateness in sending in the Monthly Returns makes it increasingly
difficult to get out the Report in time for the Monthly Meetings.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therfeore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only Union Stamped Footwear.
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries, please
note, when ordering button. or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.
We remain, yours fraternally,

T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.


---
Here is the text from the image:

REPORT OF THE AUDITOR.

241. Uppingham Road, Leicester,
14th January, 1921.

To the Members of the Executive Council,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.

I beg to report that I have examined at the Head Office of the
Union, the whole of the Account Books, Receipts, Vouchers, Counterfoils
and Bank Books, and certify the same to be correct and in accordance
with law.

There has been a loss on the Trade Fund during the half-year of
£21,799 15s. 10d., due without doubt to the abnormal demand for unem-
ployment benefit, £46,061 16s. 3d. being spent in this connection. The
Sick Fund has increased during the half-year by the sum of £15,677 Os. 4d.,
Political Fund £142 6s. 10d., and the Fidelity Fund 7s. 6d., and thus the
total loss on the Central Funds is reduced to £5,980 1s. 2d. The sum of
£286,655 10s. 6d. now stands to the credit of the Union at Headquarters.

I have examined the Deeds and Bonds as shewn in the Balance
Sheet, and have to report the same are in order and intact. There have
been added to the list during the half-year two Investment Bonds-the
Kettering Urban District Council and the Leicester Co-operative Print-
ing Society Limited.

To the General Secretary and his Staff I offer my thanks for their
assistance, and for the explanation given to my queries, and testify to the
careful, efficient and able manner in which the books are kept.

J. B. B. ROBERTSON,
Corporate Accountant and Public Auditor.


---
40
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS
VOTING ON PIECEWORK U. DAYWORK.-One is really surprised in the circumstances
at the small number of members taking part in the recent vote, although there is to the
casual observer at least 17,000 votes for piccework or quantity statements or payment
by results, but with a limited output.
We make a generous estimate of the voting by assuming that there were 23,256 voters
out of the 75,616 members, and that gives us a ballot of 30.75 per cent. in these branches.

On the same reckoning the Northampton voting was 54 per cent. and in the county
45 per cent.; Leicester men's branches 18 per cent., while the Leicester women voted
1,166 for the present system and 49 for a change; Bristol and Kingswood 34 per cent.;
Leeds 19 per cent.; Norwich 31 per cent.

In spite of this, the vote must stand and be respected, although I am constantly
meeting with members who think they voted for day labour pure and simple. I am
really afraid that before a statement upon this subject can be arrived at, the members
will have to vote upon a policy for or against day labour pure and simple. I may here
say that although I think our members have a right to express their opinion for or against
this or any similar method of working, seeing they are the people who do the work, I should
deeply regret ever seeing day labour pure and simple introduced into our trade again.
I have always believed that if an employer is to buy my labour I should have a voice in
saying what price should be paid for the same. Day labour pure and simple gives no option
for the operatives to exercise that right; the result is the operative is continually worried
by the employer when no quantity statements are in existence.

I have had two votes of censure passed upon me without first of all being asked for
an explanation. The humour of the situation is this the treatment meted out to me is
the same as the Government are meting out to Ireland.

SAILORS AND SOLDIERS. On the 15th December, 1920, I attended a meeting of the
Discharged Sailors and Soldiers' Committee, when we decided not to train any more men
for our trade until occupation can be found for them.
The TRADE BOARD met on the 16th ult., to consider my request for a 50 per cent.
increase in the Trade Board prices. Such was not conceded to us, but we were enabled
to get 10s. increase on the minimum wage, making it 75s. for dayworkers, and 7% per cent.
increase on the repairing groundwork and extras, and 10 per cent. to be added to the
handsewn groundwork work only. Owing to District Boards being set up this decision
has to be reported to them before the same can be confirmed.
The COUNCIL MEETING was held on the 19th and 20th ult.
On the 21st ult. I journeyed to LEICESTER to meet the Co-operative Wholesale Society
Directors respecting the Derby factory. After a lengthy interview with them I made
arrangements to meet them at their Derby works early in January.
IRELAND.-On the 29th December a Special Meeting of the LABOUR PARTY was held
in London to consider the report of the Delegation and Commission to Ireland, and anyone
reading that report will come to the conclusion that things are very bad there, and I think
it would be well if the recommendations were given a trial. I know there are people
who cannot trust anyone, but the greatest honour of my life was when I was an M.P.
and had the opportunity of voting for Home Rule for a nation with whom we had been at
war-South Africa. The Irish may to some extent differ from the English, but I believe
they are as British as other persons in the British Empire. It is the Government them-
selves who have turned the Irish against them and I am sorry to find some Labour men
do not believe in it. I do not believe in class dictatorship; I am a democrat and I believe
in all parties in the community having a direct interest in the welfare of the nation as a
whole. At the same time I am not anxious to hand over Sinn Fein to Ulster, nor Ulster
to Sinn Fein; we must have dual parliaments for the present and I hope by comradeship
and good feeling we may be able to bring the two under one régime.
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETINGS were held on the 4th and 5th inst. to discuss the terms
we should introduce to the employers. As I have intimated before, I think when our mem-
bers see our request there will be few suggest that the Council have not asked for enough.
On the 6th inst. I attended a special TRADE BOARD ADVISORY COMMITTEE in London,
and after five hours adopted the recommendations named above.

---
es
he
t
S
$.
41
On the roth we held a combined meeting of Trade Board representatives under the
presidency of our GENERAL SECRETARY, chairman of the Trade Union Congress, and I
hope as a result of a special committee being set up our complaints will be put right. We
complained about non-unionists being allowed to sit upon the District Trade Boards;
the deduction of 2d. for stamp made by a certain society where the operatives carned
over £2, and the employment of a foreman in the Midlands at 655. instead of the 80s.
minimum.
In the evening I went to DERBY and held a meeting of the operatives at the C.W.S.
Works, and next day had a meeting with the management, when we agreed upon the
method as to how to arrive at statements for measuring the amount of work done. Several
of the operatives thought we should not fix up statements as they were of the opinion the
Union had turned this down, but I explained that the policy of the Union was to have
piecework statements and a fixed wage to be set.
LEICESTER was visited on the following day, when I enquired into the stoppage of the
working of the Leicester Board of Arbitration, owing to a claim by the Leicester Nos. 1
and 2 Branches for a 25 per cent. increase. The manufacturers left the meeting after
debating the question, this in spite of the fact that they did not ask permission of the
Chairman, who happened to be the secretary of one of our Leicester Branches. Occasion-
ally they do act in this manner.
On Thursday, the 13th inst., I went to RUSHDEN and IRTHLINGBOROUGH to make
enquiries into the prices paid for a boot similar to the B 5, which is the subject of a dispute
at Messrs. Wm. Evans, of Leicester, the same having been handed over to the Head Office.
On Friday, the 14th, the LEICESTER WOMEN'S Branch asked for an investigator
to deal with a dispute at the Hygrade Boot Co., Leicester, and along with the president
of the Branch I paid a visit to the firm and amicably settled the matter.
The same evening with Mr. D. McCarthy I went to SYSTON to interview the firm of
Messrs. Rice & Son Ltd., and from there we went to Sileby.
On the 15th inst. I attended a meeting of the MIDLAND DISTRICT BOOT REPAIRING
BOARD, when the resolution named above was carried by 6 votes to 4. On Monday and
Tuesday the 17th and 18th inst. I was engaged with Mr. E. B. Nathan, the Union's Actuary,
regarding Unemployment Insurance.
TRADE UNION STAMP. - One other word, I wonder whether our members are endeavour-
ing in any particular or on any occasion to demand Trade Union Stamped Footwear.
There has been so little response to the many appeals made on this occasion, that one can
come to the conclusion that we are very lukewarm on this matter as on many others,
where some interest ought to be exhibited.
Wishing every member a happy time in 1921.
34. GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. Ι.
Jan. 18th, 1921.
Yours fraternally,.
ihards
General President.
PARLIAMENTARY AGENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since my last report was written another year has come to an end, and one can
but regret that it should have finished under such conditions as to make one almost despair.
In whatever direction one turns the conditions were appalling; at home the old terror of
unemployment was again a dominating feature, thousands of our fellow workers willing
and able to work, were denied the opportunity of so doing. To those associated with
working-class life there is no need to say what this means in the homes of the people.
The situation abroad is no better, rather is it in some respects worse, for trade has
And so in a
not collapsed since the War, merely because it has never been restarted.
world where we were told the nations were hungering for the products of labour due to
scarcity following upon the War, labour is in enforced idleness, unable to produce, unable
to earn wages, and with prices still sky high the resultant misery is terrible to contemplate.

---
42
And what has Parliament done in its two years of existence to help in these matters?
Twice it has rejected a Bill brought in by the Labour Party to deal with Unemployment
Speaker after speaker from the Labour benches urged that it was not wise to wait until
the crisis was upon us before we prepared to deal with it, but that rather when trade was
fairly good we should lay our plans and be ready for whatever the future might bring.
The Government with its huge slavish majority would not heed our appeals, we might
be ever so sincere in our endeavours, but they the people of all the talents were quite
capable of meeting the situation, and so a policy of drift was followed, the only policy
that this or any other Government in the past have understood.

The refusal to do anything at home in regard to future unemployment would have
been more understandable had their foreign policy been of a different character, but it
has been one that was bound by the very nature of things to produce chaos. The so-called
Peace Treaties have not given us peace, the policy of the Entente led by France has resulted
in a kind of general paralysis in Europe, and a smouldering volcano in the Near East,
whilst our efforts in connection with Russia, moulded on the Churchill plan, have made
it impossible to restart anything in the nature of International trade.

While not desiring to be a pessimist one cannot see much hope in the immediate future,
unless steps are taken to secure exchange of goods by barter, which I do not consider
by any means impossible, or by the setting up of some form of International credits, so
that the difficulties arising out of the rates of exchange can be overcome, then some con.
siderable time must elapse before anything substantial in the way of trade can take place.
The trouble of it is the world is not run upon lines that seek to supply the people with the
things they need merely because they do need them, but rather as a means to enable
profit being made, and the lack of confidence existing in present conditions simply intensify
the difficulties of the moment.

Of course as usual it is the working class who is responsible. The high wages obtained
during the War according to many wiseacres have produced all our troubles, and the only
way out that they can suggest is to reduce them. How it can be argued that by reducing
the consuming capacity of the workers it is possible to permanently improve trade is
difficult to understand, and further, how is it possible to reduce wages with the cost of
living at its present figure?
All this constitutes a problem upon which it would be well for the workers to con-
centrate their minds, and to try and ascertain how far Parliament as at present constituted
has, or is likely to help in its solution. I am fully persuaded there is little to hope for
from this wonderful Coalition, and many of the stunts that are started by the Press are
not done with any idea of destroying it, but rather to make it more reactionary. It is
not very encouraging from a Labour point of view to find working men and women enthusing
over the return of stunt candidates, especially when one knows them at close quarters,
and I am convinced that all that kind of thing is but the old policy of distracting the minds
of the people when they shew a tendency to become, if not dangerous, then too enquiring.
It must be the purpose of us all in the New Year to press forward the claims of the
Labour movement, always believing that we stand for that which is best in the interest
of the whole of the people, and until they get some clear idea of what is wanted and make
up their minds how they intend to get it, very little in the way of real change will take
place. This is emphasised by the endeavours that are being made to secure an abandor-
ment of the supposed social programme of the Government, and the apparent readiness
of those in authority to respond to the clamour. Even in regard to houses it is being
pointed out that the figure of 500,000 as the number required was a miscalculation, and
that 150,000 will be ample for our needs; those who make these statements do not believe
them, but it is the beginning of an agitation to stop building houses as a means of economy.
It means we are back to the old state of things when material wealth counts for more
than human life, that a nation's prosperity was to be measured by accumulated wealth
rather than by the standard of the life of its people. This outlook on life must be changed.
human needs must stand first, and whether it is in regard to houses, education or any other
social question, the people must be provided with all that is necessary to develop human
life. Whatever our views of the future may be, surely one thing is certain, we shall be
more successful in our endeavours if we have a strong, healthy population to deal with.
Nothing can be done with ignorance, and a low physical standard does not produce the
courage necessary in the fight for human progress. Perhaps our opponents know this and
it may explain their hostility.

However, we must not be discouraged, but rather keep on, believing that persistent
effort will ultimately meet with success.
18th January, 1921.

WALTER R. SMITH.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

45
The Co-operative Congress at Swansea, 1917, readily responded to this proposal by
adopting the following resolution:
“This Congress adopts the resolution passed at the Trades Union Congress,
held in Birmingham, September, 1916, and authorises the Central Board of the Co-
operative Union to appoint six representatives to meet a similar number appointed
by the Trades Union Congress Parliamentary Committee.”
As a result, six representatives from each body were duly appointed, and after a series
of meetings, a statement was agreed to which contained proposals for mutual aid and joint
action, including the formation of a National Committee to be called “The United Advisory
Council of Co-operators and Trade Unionists.”
This statement was accepted by the Trades Union Congress held at Blackpool in
September, 1917, and by the special Co-operative Conference held in London during the
following October. The most important clause included in this joint statement is that
relating to the assistance to be given to workers during trade disputes.’ This clause was
in the following terms:—
“Clause (5). The consideration of how far it is desirable and possible to ensure
the unrestricted distribution of food supplies, or the payment of benefit during im-
portant trade disputes by issuing through the various branches of the Co-operative
Movement food coupons or loans from the Co-operative Wholesale Society’s Bank
on the security of Trade Union assets.”
At first sight it appears that this clause is intended to benefit Trade Unionists only.
A careful reading of the first two lines of the clause, however, will enable co-operators to
understand its importance and its value to the Co-operative Movement. Obviously, if
the unrestricted distribution of food supplies during important trade disputes is to be
ensured through co-operative channels, arrangements must be made between the Co-opera-
tive Movement and the Trade Union Movement, as a result of which co-operative employees,
both productive and distributive, can remain at work when other workers are on strike.
The Railway Dispute.
The statement already referred to was in due course accepted and adopted by joint
conferences of Co-operators and Trade Unionists held in different parts of the country
under the auspices of the United Advisory Council of Trade Unionists and Co-operators.
Steps were afterwards taken to form local joint councils and to create machinery for joint
action. The value of these councils and the usefulness of the machinery established,
were not fully tested, however, until there arose a trade dispute of national importance
which required the attention of both the national and local advisory councils.
The railway dispute which occurred during the autumn of 1919, and which continued
during the months of September and October, was the period during which the real value
of co-operation between Trade Unionists and Co-operators was first clearly demonstrated.
Then, if not before, Co-operators and Trade Unionists became conscious of their relation-
ship and realised that the resolutions passed by their representatives in previous years
were not merely expressions of pious opinion.
The railway dispute arose chiefly because the Government, supported by the united
capitalist Press, had challenged the power of one of the largest Trade Unions in Great
Britain. At the time when that challenge was made the Government was fully equipped
for a great industrial conflict. The machinery of publicity used by the Government during
the war was almost intact. The transport facilities devised for war purposes were exactly
what Goverment departments required for use in a conflict with the National Union of
Railwaymen. Hence, when a dispute seemed probable, fleets of motor transport wagons
were rapidly mobilised, the chiefs of Government departments were called together, and
after consultation with their permanent officials, the Government were able to establish
a unity of command far superior to the inter-departmental arrangements devised by them
for the purpose of conducting war against foreign enemies.
The Government, sure of the united support of every capitalist interest, were evi-
dently quite determined to beat the railwaymen. In fact, a long strike seemed inevitable,
leading ere it ended to a general strike in all trades. Fortunately, however, their clear
understanding of the dangerous policy adopted by the Government and the prospect of
a general strike caused Co-operators and Trade Unionists to take joint action without
delay. That action will undoubtedly prove to be the first step towards a still closer
alliance between the forces of Trade Unionism and Co-operation.
Joint Action in London.
As soon as the dispute commenced, Mr. Burt Williams, secretary of the Southern
Section of the Co-operative Union, acting as secretary to the London Joint Advisory
Council of Trade Unionists and Co-operators, promptly called a special conference, which


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

47
that they will receive the support of the C.W.S. Bank when they need assistance unless their
funds are invested in accordance with the terms of the statement accepted by the Co-
operative Congress and the Trades Union Congress. If the Co-operative Movement is
to assist Trade Unionists in an industrial crisis it follows that Trade Union funds must be
used to develop and extend Co-operation.

At the end of 1919 the accumulated funds of the Unions affiliated to the
Trades Union Congress were approximately £13,000,000, but the funds invested
by Trade Unions in the Co-operative Wholesale Society Bank at the end of
April, 1920, amounted to less than $3,000,000. It is evident, therefore, that
a very large sum of money, the funds of British Trade Unions, is still in the
hands of private Capitalists, and used by them to develop private undertakings
opposed to the progress of the Co-operative Moveinent. Trade Unionists are
in the habit of referring to their funds as their "ammunitions of war." Why,
then, do they leave their ammunition in the hands of their enemies? There are
many reasons why it is to the advantage of Trade Unionists to invest their money in under-
takings controlled by their friends, and by investing their funds in the Co-operative Whole-
sale Society Bank they can ensure help similar to that given to the N.Ü.R. during the
railway strike.

Trade Unionists should be Co-operators.

The investment of Trade Union funds in co-operative undertakings is not, however,
the only method by which Trade Unionists can further extend Co-operative production
and distribution, and thus increase the number of workers working under guaranteed
Trade Union conditions. An increase of membership would enable the Co-operative
Movement to devleop its productive activities. If the workers then expand the market
for co-operative products, the possibilities for production on a large and economical scale,
under up-to-date systems of scientific management, would be enormously increased.

The wage-earners can create an enormous market by spending their wages in co-opera-
tive shops. As previously stated, the turnover of the Co-operative Movement in 1919
was £200,000,000. This figure, compared with the total wages bill, as represented by an
estimate based upon a war period increase of 100 per cent. (an increase rather below Board
of Trade estimates), gives the following result :-

Wage bill, 1915
Increase, 100 per cent.
Total
£830,000,000
£830,000,000
£1,660,000,000

After making due allowances for taxation, rent, insurance premiums, Trade Union
contributions, &c., it is clear that wage earners spend at least £1,000,000,000 a year with
private traders, as compared with the £200,000,000 spent by them in co-operative shops,
this despite the fact that it is through co-operative trading that the workers will secure
effective control of prices. Until the workers control prices they will never
control real wages. The Co-operative Movement offers the most immediate
and practical means for creating a really democratic system of controlling
prices. The wage-earner may, by economic necessity, be compelled to sell his labour
to the private capitalist; he is under no economic pressure which compels him to buy
his commodities from shops owned by multiple shop companies, private traders or shops
controlled by other middlemen.

Private Enterprise During the War.

The case against the system of production and distribution for private profit was
strong before the war. The rampant profiteering during the war period has made the
present system intolerable. The success of commercial groups, trusts, and combines
during the period of national suffering and sacrifice is reflected in the memorandum sub-
mitted by the Board of Inland Revenue to the Select Committee of the House of Commons
on "Increases of Wealth during the War."

The Board call attention to the estimate of Dr. Stamp (late Assistant Secretary to
the Department), a recognised expert and financial adviser to four Cabinets :-

"In the 'Economic Journal of September, 1918, Dr. J. C. Stamp published a
non-official estimate of increases of wealth. He gave the figure of £5,250,000,000 as
his estimate of the amount which should be added to the aggregate pre-war wealth
of individuals as a whole, in order to arrive at the aggregate wealth of individuals
which would be subject to, and likely to be revealed for the purposes of any general
capital levy which might be imposed at the termination of the war.


---
Here is the text from the image:

301
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. -Trade in this Branch is unprecedentedly bad, and all of
our members have been treated to three weeks' holiday minus their wages.
When men and women are brought face to face with the state of affairs here
represented, it compels them to think as well as talk. Such thinking leads us
to say that if ever the bottom was knocked out of an argument, the past policy
of the Union in attempting to run an out-of-work fund on a contribution of
a half-penny for 5s. benefit, has been found lacking in forethought as well as
ordinary human sympathy. Everyone, except our half-penny financiers,
could foresee that whenever an exceptional strain was put on the fund it was
bound to snap. The result is, that when members all over the country are
urgently in need of financial assistance they cannot get it, because in past
years they did not pay a contribution sufficient to justify that expectation.
The pity is that the Council of the Union, as a whole, has always supported
that short-sighted policy, and even at the last Conference they put before the
delegates a scheme to raise the contributions by only one penny per week,
which, fortunately the Conference turned down. What we require is a
Council possessing some courage a Council that will leave off emphasising
the fallacy that by raising the contributions we will lose our members. Indeed,
the history of the Union proves quite the reverse, as every increase in the con-
tributions has been followed by an augmented membership. What the Union
requires is a fund, and a contribution, that will cover all unemployment,
whether suspension or otherwise. In bad times like the present it is not a lot
of talk that is wanted, but good Treasury notes, and the members must be
told that before these notes can be paid out they must first be paid in. The
pity is that responsible officials of the Union did not drive that point home
years ago. Meantime the poor member has to suffer, and the poorer he is
the more he has to suffer. It is unpalatable to write thus, but the foregoing,
we think, represents the facts, and the sooner the members pull the wool out
of their eyes, and view things in the light of present-day experiences, the better
it will be for all concerned. As a sequence to bad trade, and consequent
underfeeding, we have a sick list much above the normal.
BARNSLEY.-We hope that this year will see an improvement in trade
over the year just ended, but the main difficulty seems how to get shut of the
large stocks in the hands of boot and shoe manufacturers, who no doubt will
have to make large sacrifices to dispose of them, but they got large profits
when trade was good, and they ought to stand a good share of the losses.
Our men are doing a little better since the miners have resumed working.
BELFAST.-Trade continues to remain very bad, both in the manufac-
turing and repairing, and the prospects for an early improvement do not
appear to be in sight. Will the members in Belfast area please note that the
Branch meetings will be held regularly on the first Monday in each month,
in the Typo Hall, Frederick Street, at 7.30 p.m.
CHESHAM.-Trade here is getting worse. On December 17th Messrs.
J. H. Woodington closed down for an indefinite period, other factories are all
on short hours. We desire to thank the following Branches who, since our
report last have sent generous donations towards the fund being raised for
Mr. R. Badminton: London Metro., Wolverhampton, Colchester, Ayr,
Kettering No. 1, Leeds No. 2, Higham Ferrers, Bristol, Norwich, Worcester,
Derby, Belfast, Glasgow No. 2, Plymouth, Kettering No. 2, Bromsgrove,
Shepshed, Aberdeen.
CHESTERFIELD.--Again we have to state trade very bad here, and
with the declining market we have not much prospect for some time to come
unless the unexpected happens. The mild weather is not helping us at the


---
present, but we are looking forward to the future for better times than at
present. The system under which we are living is wrong. Thousands of
people are wanting footwear and cannot afford to buy same, because the
capitalistic class own and control that by which all men live. Unemployment
poverty, and all that rises from same must be swept away and the workers
take over the means of life and work same in the interest of all. During
month we have lost one of our old members. W. Winfield to his family we
send our deepest sympathy in their loss.
EDINBURGH. - The new workers have been given an extended holiday
for the New Year Festival. The employees are registering at Labour Exchange
and expect to receive out-of-work benefit. In this district there is reported
to be between 8,000 and 9,000 unemployed. Now we see on every hand people
requiring boots, yet boot and shoe operatives going either idle or on short
time. There must be something wrong with a system which allows these
things to exist. We are still without any settlement with regards to first
week's payment under the Wages Trade Board to piece-workers. The District
Committees have been set up, but for our part we don't see where they have
any power to alter any of the conditions of course they may recommend, but
ference recently to consider the unemployed question. One resolution was
the decision rests with the full Board. The local Trades Council held a Con-
that Trade Unions should along with Employers take steps to have all un-
Councils should apply for charter to open Municipal Banks. It was also
employment made a direct charge on each industry; another was that Tour
with the unemployment question. Now these are all right, but what about
agreed to have a permanent committee appointed to watch the case for dealing
the people who are out of work at present and have their backs to the wall
Hoping that during the present year trade will revive and the workers will
try and see that some remedy is found whereby they will not have this disease
of unemployment always hanging over their head.
HALESWORTH. During last month we had the pleasure of seeing
Mr. McCarthy down here for a day for the purpose of enquiring about a com
plaint lodged by the Consol lasting operative and several other details, but
owing to trade not being good little progress has been made. The other day
we had a letter from Mr. McCarthy pointing out the advancement made in
prices of the Green Book Heavy Work Statement. Now a word about the
Holiday Scheme. We think it is a good one, and it ought to have been started
before; everyone felt the benefit of it during the last holiday.
HULL.-Trade is very bad. During the month we have secured the
support of the Trades Council by getting a resolution passed regarding out
siders taking in and executing repairs and condemning the principle of out-
siders usurping the trade of bona-fide shoemakers. We thank our General
President for the nomination of our Secretary on the District Trade Board
Committee, and now having been accepted by the Ministry of Labour, we
shall soon be getting to business.
is, however, quite an optimistic f
an extended "holiday" of sixteen days our members resumed work on the
KENDAL. -The New Year opens with trade being very quiet. After
11th inst., and at the present time are working three days per week. There
increased hours of employment shortly. The closing of the factory for such
a long period enabled us to claim the out-of-work benefit, suspension scheme,
which was very acceptable and much appreciated. We desire to thank the
feeling with the employers, and we anticipate
two General Officers for the prompt way in which they forwarded the amount
due to us.
been closed since the Xmas recess, and the industrial outlook is very dark,
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.--The majority of factories here have

---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

303
the Suspensions Out-of-Work Rule is proving very helpful to the members and is much appreciated.
LEEDS.-Trade here was never worse than it is at present, and the outlook for the near future is anything but bright.
LEICESTER No. 2. We regret to report the death of Mr. R. A. Tildesley, who was a member of our Committee, having served several periods in that capacity and for many years had taken a very active interest in the Branch. The members apperciating the same by electing him as delegate to two Conferences, viz., Norwich and Northampton. We tender on behalf of the Branch our deep sympathy and condolence with the Widow and Family in their sad bereavement.
LEICESTER No. 3.--Our members on suspension now only reach two hundred, and we are in the fortunate position of only having eight girls out of work altogether, these being table hands; this position being due to the system of share and share alike in short trade as far as practicable, a system which Leicester put into operation some fifteen or twenty years ago, and have since loyally carried out. Much feeling is making itself manifest among women in the Leicester Branch re the vote just carried by our Union, which instructs the General Officers and Executive Council to press for a limited output and wage to be part of a National Agreement. Women who have tasted (after many years of the low wage policy) the fruits of their labours according to their individual smartness, are, we fear, not going to be easily pacified, and we know if this principle is attempted to be put into operation there is going to be trouble for the Leicester Women's officials, whose Council Member has already been instructed by our women to vote against it becoming agreed to, which puts her in an awkward position.
LIVERPOOL. Trade is still quiet; out of work and sick claims are tumbling in. We advise members to endeavour to keep their cards clear as we never know who may be the next, as the industrial position is very grave and serious. Our Secretary has been selected to represent the Union on the District Trade Committee of the Trade Board, also the local Technical Advisory Committee for the training of disabled sailors and soldiers, which is now affiliated to the Trade Board.
MAYBOLE.-Trade is very slack, all our members are getting two weeks' holiday and some being paid off; this makes the out-of-work bill very heavy. The prospects for 1921 are not very bright. The Secretary has been appointed as Workers' Representative on the Repairing Trade Board for the West of Scotland.
MIDSOMER NORTON.-The problem of unemployment and under-employment is the outstanding question of the month. It is most despairing;. the effort made to relieve the position is like dipping of the ocean. We have been able to open up some relief work through the U.D.C., and prior to Xmas distributed the sum of ₤160, which had been subscribed by organised labour in other trades, and from the churches and various individuals, the districts of Paulton and Norton being one for the purposes of this Relief Fund. The Miners are granting £40 per week and the Rad Co-operative has recommended £20 per week for four weeks of January; other trades are coming into line, and as a temporary expedient this is all to the good. The causes lie deeper. We are gratified for such help. The ex-service men's organisation made an Xmas effort and invited the operatives' families to a social and dance. The Branch Secretary took the chair on that occasion and was able to announce that in addition to the evening treat the promoters would hand over the sum

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

shall remember a
304
depressing period with some pleasant memories, and We
of £18 to the Relief Fund as a result of the effort. This is solidarity. We
offer those who are thus helping our most sincere thanks. We would prefer
work, but failing that there must come food. Our old friend Lloyd George
makers' reply is "We know it, old chap; we are on the lower deck."
ts fond of telling people in distress that he is still at the helm. The shoe
NOTTINGHAM. Trade is very bad around here. Many of our members
are signing on three days each week at the Labour Exchange. Our Secretar;
Committee of the Trade Board. Attention was called at our meeting of a
has been notified that he has been selected as one of the Midland Distric
Trade Board Regulations; the Inspectress has visited the firm three time
firm in the city who was reported in June last for not complying with the
and no report has yet been received though six months have passed over.
PLYMOUTH.- Trade is still very quiet. The New Year has operer
We are interested to see what effect the Union vote will have upon the futur
with depression all round, and the future is not very re-assuring for our trade
of our industry, we realise to the full that the Council has been given a
policy which has been in vogue for a life-time
will not prove an easy matter, for whatever interpretation we may place t
mad rush of piecework has been condemned, and the manufacture of C3 men
the result, the outstanding fact is clear "our members want a change":
must cease: but let us remember that to change direction right within
prison walls has never brought freedom to any man.
To obtain liberty
must loosen the shackles that bind and chafe, and open wide the prison gates
this can only be done by obtaining the power of control and our Gere
President has well said, "Those who want a control mut either nationalise
municipalise or co-operatisc."
tremendous task, for to alter our
PORTSMOUTH. We cannot report any improvement in trade at present,
and we now hear that short time in the Dockyard and other Government
departments is to start immediately. This will mean a large loss of wage
and of course will seriously affect our trade as repairers. Many of these men
with a reduction of pay, and more time on their hands, will take to repairin
their own and their families' boots and swell the large ranks of home-rulers
who have no consideration for the men of whom they are depriving their
living, in their desire to save a few coppers. On January 7th our Secretary
attended a meeting of the South Eastern Committee of Boot and Shoe Repairin
Trade Board. The employers put up a very poor show, and our representative
is doubtful whether they were able to convince the Chairman of theit
straitened financial position. While the employees' speakers put up a good
to pay a shilling more in wages. It is up to the men to perfect or improve
fight, it is certain the employers in this part of the district are determined nc:
their organisation to give more weight to their representatives. A deputatic.
went to Montagu House to protest against the action of the Minister of I about,
who selected three men to serve upon the Committee who belonged to no
association and only represented themselves. We had no personal grievance
give consideration to organisation of this district so as to prove by figures we
against these men, but were out for a principle. We hope the Council will
are entitled to good representation upon the District Committee. We have
and one to the Amalgamated Society; anyway, we are certainly favoured in
the Minister's'selection of nominees. We regret several of our members should
three seats out of eight three go to unorganised men and one to A.UCE
about that we shall soon be losing what few members we have instead of
reached the New Year it will begin to look up; there are so many walking
READING --Trade remains bad here: we are hoping that now we have
leave the Union because of the increased contributions.
making new ones.
All firms in the town are on short time.
4

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

305

SOUTHAMPTON.-Boot repairers' trade dull in sympathy with the
shipping, shipbuilding and engineering trades, from which trades there has
been a lot of discharges owing to shortness of orders, and also to cancellation
of contracts on which work had not been sufficiently advanced. We are
hoping that trade will take a spurt before long and continue on the upward
grade.

STREET. Previous reports on the state of trade in this district have
been bad but conditions have been growing gradually worse until we have
now reached a point the like of which has never before been known. After
closing down for periods of from ten days to three weeks for the Christmas
holidays our factories are only able to resume work for five or six hours a day
and only three days a week. Over 800 of our members are signing at the
Labour Exchange, and our own funds are being drawn upon to an extent
never previously experienced in Street. Although at present prospects are
very discouraging, we extend to our fellow members the best wishes for the
New Year.

WHITWICK. The Whitwick Branch wish you all a very happy and
prosperous New Year. We are sorry that we have to state at the time of
reporting that we are still on short time, making 40 hours per week, and now
as we have commenced on the new year, 1921, we are hoping that the boot
and shoe trade will soon be in a much better state, as one can see in our Monthly
Report of December that in some Branches the state of the trade is much
worse than it is in this district, and we are hoping that before long the boot
and shoe operatives all over the country will be making full time, as our trade
has had a hard time for months now. But as 1921 is but young we, the opera-
tives of the Whitwick Branch, do wish our Council and officials every success
in all their endeavours they put forth for making a much better state of things
in the boot and shoe trade, so that we may be more in line with some of the
trade unions as regards wages.

YORK. We beg to report that trade is bad in York as elsewhere. Our
members working about four days per week, with a proportionate wage; our
only hope is that trade will soon begin to brighten up, and that with some
expansion in the general trade of the country we shall share the benefit. At
our Branch meeting we discussed the question raised by our Chesterfield
comrades re District Committees, and agreed that the formation of such a
committee for the district mentioned would be a step in the right direction.
We in York have, fortunately, the South Yorkshire Statement, with its 70 per
cent. bonus, and for day workers at the Co-operative we have payment for all
holidays and six weeks' sickness per annum. If the York Co-operative can
give these conditions, and turn out work equal to its competitors, then there
is no reason why all the other Co-operative Societies should not do the same.
The sad part of the whole affair is, that working people, including trade unionists,
do not act to those whom they employ in the same manner that they expect
their employers to adopt. We shall be pleased to assist in whatever way we
can the formation of the committee. We wish to repeat our protest against
the method of distribution of Branches for the purpose of electing delegates
to National Conferences. We cannot see where any Repairing Branch is
going to be successful in getting one of its members elected.

WHY NOT CHEAPER SOAP AND MARGARINE?

The price of margarine to-day is just about the same as twelve months ago, but not
so the price of the raw materials. Ground nuts have dropped from £43 a ton to £17.
and palm kernels from £40 10s. to £25 105. Cocoa beans twelve months ago were £103
per ton, to-day they are ₤40, but cocoa and chocolate are no cheaper. Palm oil is sold
at £46 per ton instead of 190 10s., yet soap and candles have not dropped in price appreci-
ably. When is the consumer to get the benefit of these reductions? Leicester Mail,
January 6th, 1921.
I


---
Here is the text from the image:

306
FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE.
London, Whitsuntide, 1921.
The following resolutions have been received for consideration at
the Conference at Whitsuntide.
UNION POLICY.
KILMARNOCK. "The Kilmarnock Branch of the National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives call upon the Executive Council to take all necessary sters
to secure the proper election of delegates to the World Congress of Labor
Unions to be held in Moscow on
May Ist, 1921, pledged to support a
revolutionary policy aiming at the world-wide dictatorship of the Prole-
tariat, and to affiliate this organisation to the Red International Council
of Labour Unions."
KILMARNOCK. - "To sever all connections of this organisation from the
Amsterdam Federation of Trade Unions, and to take all necessary:
steps to obtain the withdrawal of the Trade Union Congress from that
organisation."
LEICESTER NO. I.-" The Leicester Branch believing that the system of working
in operation during 1920, in which payment by result with a guaranteed
minimum was the best policy, hereby claims that the Union should take
a vote on the following alternative, each member to have one vote only:-
Ist-Are you in favour of payment by results governed by the piece-
work or quantity statements without limit.
2nd-Are you in favour of set weekly wages governed by the piece-
work or quantity statements limited to the weekly wage.
3rd-Or do you prefer daywork pure and simple without statements."
LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move. "That the policy and method of
working in this Union be piecework or payment by result with a guaranteed
weekly wage and no restriction of output or limitation of earnings, with the
exception of what has been the custom for many years in the trade, the
sharing of work in slack times."
LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move. "That providing the same wages
and price per operation be paid all departments in the boot and shoe
trade be open for women to work in."
from time to time."
LEICESTER NO. I BRANCH to move.--"That we ask the Conference to give
further powers to local officials to deal with non-federated firms regarding
the different Awards given by the Union and Emplovers' Federation
NORWICH. - "That the policy of the Union be directed to securing a system
of weekly fixed wages guaranteed for every full working week."
NORWICH. "That in all matters of Union policy it be an instruction to all
Union Officials that differences of opinion be discussed through the Union's
Monthly Report; and that at no time should the public Press of the
country be used to promote individual views against the agreed policy
of the Union."
S
t
L


---
Here is the text from the image:

307

NORTHAMPTON NO. 2. "That this Conference is of the opinion that the
piecework or supplementary wage system of working is contrary to the
best interests of the operatives, and therefore instructs the National
Council to frame the future policy of this Union on the basis of day-
work system in conjunction with Quantity Statements."

UNEMPLOYMENT.

LEICESTER No. 1. "The Leicester Branch having already requested the
Executive of the Union to endeavour to make the Unemployment Benefit
payable at our offices and to be administered by our Union, hope that the
Council of the Union will persist in the effort to bring about a working
arrangement for our own industry, believing that such a scheme in which
we are to co-operate with the employers would be to the advantage and
convenience of our members."

VOTING.

LEICESTER NO. 1.-" The Leicester Branch requests that branches failing to
take votes of the Union on matters when requested to do so by the Council
shall be reported to each Conference of the Union, it being fully recognised
that all the obligation of carrying out the rules of the Union is not and
must not be confined to the officers and executive of the Union; that
Branch Officers and Branch Executives are equally responsible in their
respective spheres."

LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move.-" That the Council consider a different
method of taking the votes of members so as to insure a decision being
the voice and will of at least a majority of the members of the Union on
any subject."

LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move.-" That women members of the Union
be invited to take their share in the management of the affairs of their
Union, and where branches are composed of women and men there shall
be facilities given for one or more women on all executives and com-
mittees which in any way deal with the general affairs of the Union, they
to be elected on the same principle adopted by the Trade Union Congress
and the National Labour Party."

AMALGAMATION.

NORTHAMPTON to move.-" That we amalgamate with other Leather
Industries."

COUNCIL'S ADDRESS.

NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.

MEMBERS

should see that the members of their families, who are members of
the Union, should BELONG to their own Approved Society. All persons
belonging to the Union, upon attaining the age of 16 years, should
approve AT ONCE with the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
Transfers can now be dealt with.

E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
JOHN W. MURBY, Manager.
M


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

309
I unde visit to Arbroath, and find that all factories have not opened and the trade
ina very bad way. At Edinburgh also I found matters going very slowly and the opera-
I insert working part time.
The following is the result of my investigations at Newcastle-on-Tyne, with regard
in the weekly earnings and Piece-earnings of Repairers :-
Messrs Cummings (private firm), Newcastle-on-Tyne £3 155. for 48 hours.
Co-operative Society, Newcastle-on-Tyne
Co-operative Auckland
ton Co-operative Society
Co-operative Society
erdeen Co-operative Society
£4 weekly wage.
£4 4s. weekly wage.
£4 145. weekly wage of 44 hours.
£3 10s. weekly wage.
£3 10s. weekly wage.

Yours faithfully,
JOHNNIE BUCKLE.

RECENT BANK FAILURE.
C.W.S. Official Points the Moral for Co-operators.

ENCOURAGING STATEMENT.

M. G. Hayhurst presided over an attendance of 627 delegates, representing 131
Societies, at the London divisional meeting on Saturday.

The Chairman referred with satisfaction to the fact that the society was making great
progress. The report showed for thirteen weeks an increased receipts of 19 per cent.,
on the productive works an increase of 31 per cent. There was no business house
in the country which could show such a picture. (Applause.) “I fear no foes without,"
and Chairman added : "it is the foes within we have to watch.”

Strong Position of the Bank.

Mr. Goodwin stated that he should like to make a reference to the stability of the
Bank. I do so because a recent happening in the banking world-the failure of Farrow's
Bank-has rather brought this subject into prominence. A local bank manager recently
said to a member of a co-operative society, when talking about Farrow's failure, that the
C.W.S. Bank would be the next. (Laughter.) There have been a number of inquiries
which shows some disquietude of mind with regard to the strength of the C.W.S.
Bank. The C.W.S. Bank is a department of the society which has behind it the whole
resources of the Wholesale Society. In the first place the share capital is over £4,000,000 ;
we have a reserve fund of £3,500,000 ; and we have a depreciation fund of over £4,500,000,
making a total reserve at the back of any customer who puts money into the bank of
the Wholesale Society. (Applause.) Considering the size of the Wholesale Society, I do not think
any other bank-not excluding even the 'big five '-which has a backing
of the C.W.S.

I only want to refer to Farrow's Bank (proceeded Mr. Goodwin) beyond stating
what has been said-I believe by the Chancellor-that some estate of the real value of
what had appeared in the bank's accounts at ten times that amount, viz., £700,000.
How does that position compare with the Wholesale Society's position ? Every building
that has been put up or acquired before 1901 is standing at nothing in the society's books.
Every machine or plant or the fixtures which were bought before 1907 stands at nothing
though fully depreciated in our books by a sum amounting to nearly £400,000. I should
mention that in the society's books. In addition, while land will have appreciated very much,
like to repeat that there is no institution in this country which is in a stronger financial
position than the C.W.S., so that if you have any inquiry or any intimation that the C.W.S.
safe, it does not sound I think that you will be able to meet it very thoroughly.
I have great pleasure in stating (he continued) that the banking department is making
great progress by leaps and bounds. Trade unions are coming in as fast as we can deal with
them; and the past year has shown a most remarkable increase in that direction. I think
the relations with the trade union movement show that we are not only strong but are
able to meet all their requirements in case of need.” (Applause.)
-The Co-operative News, January 15th, 1921.


---
Here is the text from the image:

More Capital Needed.
310
MONEY TALKS.
Co-operation can only attain all that its members hope from it if it is kept well supplied
with Capital.
CAPITAL IS NEEDED TO PRODUCE GOODS.
CAPITAL IS NEEDED TO DISTRIBUTE GOODS.
Productive Capital cannot be obtained without Money. The demand for Co-operative
Goods is enormous, and for that reason the demand for Money to be invested as Capital
is also enormous.
Money From Members.
are mainly of the working classes, from whom Co-operative Capital must come. It is
The Money is only to be obtained from people interested in Co-operation. These
astimated that the working classes possess savings valued at from Five Hundred to Six
Hundred Million Pounds Sterling. But only from Sixty to Seventy Million Pounds are
invested in Co-operative Societies. It is essential that this state of affairs should be
altered. We want more of that Money in the Co-operative Movement.
CO-OPERATION COULD EASILY USE TWICE AS MUCH CAPITAL.
Farms and Factories.
It is not lack of custom that holds Co-operation back, but the lack of Capital to produce
the things that are wanted. The demand for Co-operative Productions grows from year
to year with increasing rapidity.
The Co-operative Wholesale Society has approximately £10,000,000 invested in its
productive factories and farms, and with that it produces about one-third of the goods
it sells. It could immediately find use for at least £20,000,000 more in the same kind of
work-producing goods for YOU and your fellow members, free from the taint of profit-
making or sweating.
More Worlds to Win.
Beyond even that may be seen vistas of further useful investment. The co-operative
ideal of trading is to sell at cost price of production and distribution. This cannot be
realised until every phase of production and distribution is in co-operative hands.
Take one example only: The Tea Department handles more tea than any other
wholesale house in the United Kingdom. The greater portion of this vast quantity-
over 50 Million pounds weight per year has to be purchased on the Tea Market. To
enable us to produce all of it on our own estates, we should need an additional capital of
Eighteen Million Pounds.
What Others Need.
Nearly every other department could tell a similar tale. Nearly all of them are.
at the present moment, handicapped in their work for want of more factory room and more
machinery as well as other supplies.
The Retail Distributive Societies are, to a large extent, sharing the experience of the
Co-operative Wholesale Society. From information received it appears that sixty-eight
out of every hundred Retail Societies are desirous of receiving new capital.
They need it for the purpose of opening up new Departments and Branch Stores.
With the added facilities that could be obtained, your own Society could give you
better service.
LIVING.
With more Capital the Co-operative movement could REDUCE THE COST OF
Where to get the Money.
to put your savings into the Co-operative Societies-either your own local Society or the
The money can only come from YOU and your friends. All you are asked to do is
Co-operative Wholesale Society. You are not asked for a gift, but an investment.
Bank.
You could withdraw your money when you needed it, just as you do from a Savings
Penny Bank. In each case you would receive interest round about five per cent. Inquire
Your local Society will receive your money as Share Capital, Loan Capital, or in the
of your local Secretary. He will give you full particulars.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

311
In the C.W.S. you can invest in various ways:-
By investments in the INDIVIDUAL DEPOSIT SCHEME you can earn from 4½
to 5 per cent., according to the length of notice required to withdraw -from 14 days
to twelve months.
On C.W.S. DEVELOPMENT BONDS you can earn 6 per cent. on Ten Year Bonds.
and 5 per cent, on Five Year Bonds.
The C.W.S. DEPOSIT NOTES provide a popular means of saving. The cash can
be withdrawn at any time, but the longer it remains in, up to four years, the more it earns.
First complete year, 5 per cent.; Second year, 5 per cent. on both years; Third year,
5 per cent. on the three years; Fourth year, 5 per cent. on all four years, compound.
Thus £1 becomes £1 5s. od. or £100 becomes £125 in Four years. A splendid investment,
and based on the unshakable security of the C.W.S.
At Once Go to the Secretary of your local Co-operative Society
for Particulars or write to the
CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY BANK DEPARTMENT,
1, BALLOON STREET, MANCHESTER,
(To MR. BURT WILLIAMS, C.W.S. Financial Propaganda Department, 99, Leman
Street, London, E. 1.
OUR OVERSEAS. TRADE.
FIGURES FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS OF 1920.
Exports of Boots and Shoes Advancing as Compared with 1919,
but Quantity Still Below 1913.
Abstract of the Board of Trade Returns for December so far as the shoe and leather
trades are concerned. It should be noted that comparisons are now given not with the
two previous years, as formerly, but with 1913, thus eliminating the war period :-
Exports of Boots and Shoes.
Month ended December 31st.
Quantities.
Value.
1913.
1920.
1913.
1920.
Doz.
Doz.
Of Leather-
Pairs.
Pairs.
£
£
To Germany
1,729
407
5,898
2,177
Netherlands
6,427
7,083
8,820
34,838
Belgium
3,762
780
15,044
6,861
France..
4,767
1,061
30,228
8,744
Italy
1,567
1,737
7,601
5,673
Argentine Republic
4,729
42
Egypt (including Anglo-Egyptian
14,584
736
Sudan)
British South Africa
2,896
2,206
9,934
21,054
British East Indies
30,991
10,763
94,774
94,105
Australia.
15,052
2,671
43,502
33,348
New Zealand
20,792
86
British West India Islands (including
27,861
1,487
6,625
1,801
21,458
14,034
Bahamas) and British Guiana
Other Countries
3,408
1,658
Total (of leather)
16,829
16,959
7,436
17,887
Of other materials (except rubber)
45,970
148,515
Of rubber
119,574
47,254
Grand Total
6,283
13,425
333,110
390,059
10,372
12,979
6,498
36,458
11,164
136,229
27,329
73,658
£350,772
£453,846


---
Conference demands the immediate adoption of τηε
(1) That a person for whom no work is available at the employ
,
or through his or her trade union, shall be entitled to maintenanc
(2) That the rate of maintenance (including other benefits) shall be at least 40s.
per week for each householder, and 25s. per week for each single man or
woman, with additional allowances for dependents.
ment--
Causes and conditions of unemployment, and warns the Government that both the un-
emploved and the employed workers are not prepared to remain the victims of the pernicious
conomic system which exposes them and their families to hardship and demoralisation
as a consequence of unemployment."
in support
of the policy of the Labour Party for dealing with the Irish question, and the Report will
also be on sale containing very valuable information collected by the Labour Commission
which recently conducted an inquiry in Ireland upon the state of that country and the
terrible events that have taken place there recently. As showing the nature of the inquiry
and their conclusions, the following report of the Commission upon the burning of the
City of Cork will give a clear idea of the procedure adopted.
Labour Commission's Report on Cork.
Two members of the Commission, Messrs. J. Lawson, M.P., and W. Lunn, M.P.,
were delegated to visit Cork City on Monday, December 13th, for the purpose of investigat-
ing the cause, extent, and general circumstances of the conflagration which occurred on
the previous Saturday night and during the early hours of Sunday morning.
The news of the destruction in Cork did not come as a surprise to the Commission.
During its stay in Cork the week before, the Commission could not avoid the feeling that
serious outbreak of trouble was probable. There were signs of increasing irritation,
provoked by the R.I.C. Auxiliary Division, which we were convinced at the time might
result in retaliation against the Crown Forces or in bolder or more intensified action on
the part of the Auxiliary Police.
The two members of the Commission who travelled to Cork for the special. purpose
of investigating the events of the week-end made as close an examination of the situation
as time permitted. They visited the ruined areas, and took evidence from responsible
itizens on the subject.
In view of the extended reports of the fire in the Press, it is unnecessary to specify
and describe the gutted buildings; but the newspaper accounts convey only a faint
impression of the terrible havoc wrought in the city. It would be difficult to conceive
a scene of greater desolation than that presented by the destroyed business premises in
the centre of Cork.
The whole Commission had an opportunity of seeing Cork before the latest calamity
which has befallen it. The contrast was striking and appalling. It is clear that the
incendiaries sought out the most valuable premises in the city. Large business houses
and massively fronted shops have been reduced to piles of smouldering debris, charred
woodwork, and wrenched and twisted iron girders. It was not possible even approximately
estimate the money value of the property destroyed, but business men informed the
members of the Commission that it might run into millions of pounds.
The disaster involves the unemployment of a considerable number of workers in
addition to those who will be indirectly thrown out of work as a result of the fire. The
commerce of the city has already suffered very appreciably as a result of the events of
Terent months and the incendiarism of the past week-end will strike a further blow at its
conomic activities.
Inquiries made and statements elicited enable the members of the Commission to
make the following statement, which a number of witnesses interviewed are prepared,
if given adequate guarantees for their future security, to substantiate on oath.
tions required.
Shortly after 9 p.m. on Saturday, December 11th, Auxiliary Police and
and Tans" appeared in large numbers in the streets of the city, and at the revolver point
before actual firing took place) drove people to their homes earlier than the curfew regula-
the work of destruction begun.
"Black
had been caused by the ambush at Dillon's Cross and the apprehensions of reprisals that
This was regarded by the citizens as ominous and increased the nervousness which
were naturally entertained by the people. The streets were soon entirely deserted and
and during the night new fires broke out. At 4 a.m. the City Hall was fired and the efforts.
The first of the burnings took place at Grant's extensive premises in Patrick Street..
of the firemen failed to save it. It was completely gutted. But a few days previously

---
316
The City Library, adjacent to the Hall, was also
the Commission had taken evidence in the City Hall of the unfortunate occurrences in
Cork during the past few months.
destroyed.
The members of the Commission made special inquiries regarding the origin and
cause of the fires and numerous witnesses were interviewed. They were unanimous in
the entry of members of the Forces into buildings which shortly afterwards were on fire.
stating that the fires were caused by the Crown Forces. Some persons had witnessed
In some cases explosions occurred. Others, again, saw them engaged in looting. The
smashing of glass and doors was heard as men forced their way into business premises for
the purpose of looting.
Firemen of the local brigade received assistance from the Military engaged on patrol
were engaged mainly in conveying information to the brigade of further outbreaks of fire
duty during curfew hours. The old R.L.C. men (as distinct from the "Black and Tans")
occurring from time to time during the night. Two members of the brigade were slightly
wounded by bullets whilst carrying out their duties.
The members of the Commission direct attention particularly to the following facts:
(1) The fires occurred after the Crown Forces had forced the people indoors. During
the greater part of the time that outbreaks of fire took place, the curfew regulations were
in operation. Curfew ends at 3 a.m.; but the Military on curfew duty patrolled the
streets until 5.30 a.m.
(2) Eyewitnesses, observing the fires from adjacent premises, positively state that
Black and Tans" or Auxiliary Police, or both, were the incendiaries.
(3) The choice of places which were set on fire indicate a pre-conceived plan of destroy
ing the whole of the centre of the city.
(4) An ambush occurred as reported at Dillon's Cross, on the outskirts of the city
and a number of Cadets were killed or wounded.
The Commissioners sought an interview with the Cork Military Authorities, in order
to obtain official information relating to the ambush and fires, but owing to the absence
of responsible officers at the time, they were unfortunately unable to obtain any statement."
We are, yours fraternally,
T. F. RICHARDS.
E. L. POULTON.
W. R. SMITH.
JAS. GRIBBLE.
JOHNNIE BUCKLE.
Delegates to the Conference.
UNEMPLOYMENT.
We are sorry we have no very strong faith in the method that has been evolved
by the Government for dealing with unemployment. A circular has been sent out,
which probably many of our readers will have received, suggesting that what work there
is should be divided out, even though it entails that no one will have a full week's work
to do. Of course, this is not a new idea, for it was put into practice some time ago in the
boot and shoe industry, and we believe it is also in operation in the cotton and other
industries. In neither, however, has it done away with unemployment.
It may provide a modicum of work for some numbers that at present have none
but it will lessen the wages of those who are at present working, and in the end will not
provide work for all those who are needing it. We recognise the force of the old saying,
Half a loaf is better than no bread," and it may be that a general and proportionate
sharing out of work might be a bridge over the awkward time until trade revives, but it
must be a very shaky bridge all the while. It may avert actual want, and so far it will
be palliative, but it will widen discontent, for it will make all the workers feel a pinch
the which they have not been accustomed, and for that very reason they will resent it all
but will operate just reversely. To run two separate shifts where one sufficed
The worst of the suggestion is it will do nothing to encourage a revival in trade,
before must necessarily be to increase costs, seeing that output will remain
the same. We had hoped the Government would have signalised the New Year with
be continued over another year, so the announcement that it would die with the end of
an announcement that E.P.D. was to be dropped. There can be no pretence that it will
the financial year would have cost nothing, and it would certainly have been some en-
couragement to manufacturers to try what better they could do than they are doing.
This, and the announcement of other retrenchments, which would mean less money out
of the public pocket, and more left in it with which to develop trade, would do more to
something that will be towards a positive cure, and not a palliation of the most
reduce unemployment than will a sharing out of the little work that is going. We need
extreme symptoms. -Shoe and Leather News, January 6th, 1921.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

318
SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC FEDERATION.

CENTRAL OFFICE,
100, FLEET STREET, LONDON, Е.С. 4.
January 10th, 1921.

TO THE SECRETARY,
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.

DEAR COMRADE,
THE EMERGENCY POWERS ACT, 1920.

During the Miners' Strike last year, the Emergency Powers Act (1920) was rushed
through Parliament, and is now on the Statute Book. It was opposed by the Parliamentary
Labour Party. Since its enactment, the emergence of many more or less important
issues aflecting the interests of the workers has tended to obscure the real nature of this
measure, and to prevent organised Labour from giving it the attention it deserves. In our
opinion, in view of the dangerous industrial position into which the Government has
allowed the country to drift, there is urgent need for the iniquitous character of this Act
being thoroughly understood, and the strongest effort being made, not only to expose
its authors, but to secure its condemnation and repeal.

On behalf of the Executive Council of the Social Democratic Federation therefore,
I beg to submit to your members the following considered opinion of the provisions of the
Act, and I shall be glad if you will inform me what steps your body has decided to take
to deal with the matter.

In addition to passing and publishing resolutions on the subject, we suggest that you
communicate your decision to your member of Parliament.

The main points to which we desire to direct your attention are :-

(1) The Executive Authority has absolute power, under Section I of the Act, to
determine whether or not a state of emergency exists, and to proclaim a state of emergenc
by Order in Council.

(2) The power of the Executive to proclaim a state of emergency, and to frame
regulations, is practically unlimited by any legal authority, or process. Section 2 (1)
gives the Home Secretary power to arrogate to himself (apart from the exclusion of power
to impose military or industrial conscription, and to make participation in a strike or
peaceful persuasion an offence) such powers as he deems necessary.

(3) The words used in the Act, to describe the purposes for which powers may be
arrogated (Section 2 (1)) are so vague and wide, as to afford no effective opportunity for
any Court to review acts done under cover of any regulations, by any Agent of the Govern-
ment.

(4) Regulations made as above, immediately operate as part of the Act (Section 2
(4)). They may be revoked, it is true, by resolution of both Houses of Parliament (Parlia-
ment having power to interpose within five days of the issue of the proclamation of a
state of emergency), but this limitation of the Home Secretary's power is vitiated by the
fact that all action taken under the regulations he has framed is valid even after the regu
lations have been revoked by Parliament.

To take by no means extreme examples, the Executive Authority may arrest and
imprison Strike leaders, and confiscate Trades Union funds, and any sentence of imprison
ment, or forfeiture of funds would continue to run, and be operative, after the repeal of
the regulations.

In addition to this, the five days' time limitation gives the Home Secretary ample
time if he cares to use it, to act unhampered by any Parliamentary criticism during the
vital period in any emergency. Besides, there is practically no hope of any regulations
of an objectionable character being revoked during a period of industrial trouble by a
resolution of both Houses of Parliament, as the Act requires.

(5) The Home Secretary and every Agent of the Government are completely protected
by the Act (Section 2 (5) ) against any legal action for compensation or redress, arising
out of the excessive or unreasonable exercise of powers under the Act. This amounts
to the withdrawal of a safeguard which in the past, to however small an extent, has pro-
tected Trades Unionists and the public against the arbitrary actions of a reactionary
Government and its officials.

If the above interpretation of the provisions of this Act is correct, we feel sure that
your organisation will realise the need for vigorous action to secure the repeal of the
measure.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

319

Hitherto, the right and duty of the Government to protect the community by means
of such measures as are reasonably necessary to insure public peace, has been recognised.
But abuse of such power by the Government, or its Agents, was safeguarded prior to the
passing of this Act, both by Parliamentary control and the supervision of the Law Courts.
Officials were personally responsible for excesses, and the Executive Authority itself
was answerable to Parliament, which had the power to grant or refuse indemnity, on a
review of events after they had happened. That constitutional position, however, has been
swept away by the Emergency Powers Act, and in view of what may reasonably be
expected as an outcome of the present serious industrial and social position, we feel very
strongly that the general body of British workers should be well informed of their present
legal status under the new Act, and that a vigorous agitation should be set on foot for its
repeal.

The Social Democratic Federation, with its limited means, is doing all it can in the
matter. May I express the hope that your organisation also will assist.

Yours fraternally,
THOMAS KENNEY, Secretary.

The Parliamentary Committee of the Trade Union Congress are taking high legal
opinion upon the powers of the Act.

LEICESTER BOOT AND SHOE TRADE BOARD OF CONCILIATION AND
ARBITRATION.

A Meeting of the Board was held on 4th January, 1921. Present: Mr. G. Parbury,
in the Chair. Messrs. A. Wilkes, W. A. Thompson, G. W. Hunt, J. A. Sabin and T. W.
Smith, representing the Manufacturers. Messrs. J. Wheeler, M. A. Parker, H. Cramphorn,
A. Hill, W. H. Lowe, G. Smith and Miss M. King, representing the Operatives; and Mr.
A. E. W. Chamberlin, Secretary.

The question of piecework prices for Lasting and Finishing Civilian Men's Boots was
referred back for negotiation between the Union officials and the firm concerned, failing
settlement the question to be re-submitted to the Enquiry Committee or the Board.

The Closing and Stockroom Piecework Statements for Nursery and Children's 2 x 8
Work prepared and agreed upon by the Nursery Closing and Stockroom Joint Committee,
were approved and confirmed by the Board, the prices to come into operation and be paid
from and including the working week commencing on the 6th, 7th or 8th January.

In the matter of the claim of the Workmen's side for an immediate advance of 25
per cent. for all dayworkers and pieceworkers owing to the continued increase in the cost
of living, the Secretary of the Board reported the communication received from the National
Joint Standing Committee in reply to the question of procedure submitted to them at the
last meeting of the Board, in which they expressed the view that the question as to whether
the claim should be dealt with nationally or locally could not properly be submitted to
them, their province being solely to interpret National Agreements, and that the question
is one for settlement locally.

The Secretary further reported the receipt of a communication from the Manufac-
turers' side of the Board, challenging the Joint Standing Committee's decision and stating
that they had referred the matter back to the Joint Standing Committee and claimed a
re-hearing of the case on the ground that the Committee had misconceived the nature
of the question submitted to them, which was not a question of interpretation of the language
of the National Agreements, but a question within their province arising out of or in
that it would not be possible to arrange for a further meeting of the Joint Standing Com-
connection with the Agreements; and that the Manufacturers had received a reply stating
mittee until after the New Year.

After a long discussion the Manufacturers' side said that they were prepared to submit
a formal statement of their views on the claim of the Union, but the Operatives' side
the matter that day and withdrew from the meeting, pending the re-hearing of the case
as to procedure by the Joint Standing Committee, at which representatives of both sides
from either side. In consequence of this the Manufacturers declined to further discuss
of the Board could be heard.


---
Here is the text from the image:

320
WELLINGBOROUGH.—IDEAL CLOTHIERS' COMING-OF-AGE.
Fitting Celebrations of the Event.
The coming-of-age of the Ideal Clothiers Ltd., Wellingborough, was celebrated in
fitting fashion on Thursday and Friday, December 30th and 31st, by entertainments
for the employees. About 500 of the younger employees attended on the Thursday
evening, when an excellent tea was provided, followed by an entertainment to which all
the items were contributed by "Ideal" workers.
A Good Record.
Mr. L. Jessop said as a society they made their start with about fifteen employees
in all, and during the year the number increased to about fifty. Their first year's trading
amounted to £4,766, and they were as proud of that turnover as they were of what they
did last year. Their wages amounted to £503, the profit was £179, and the dividend on
the wages was £36. This year the wages were £95,304, the workers numbered 1,050,
the trade done was £614,286, the profit was £42,262, the dividend on wages £9,530, and the
capital £87,919. The total trade done during those years was £2,614,000; the total
interest was £33,051 and the total dividend on wages was £43,904. Their provident
and endowment fund stood at £14,422, and the social and educational fund at £4,487.
There was no reason why their business should not multiply in the same proportion in
the coming twenty-one years as in the past. - Co-operative News, January 8th, 1921.

SWISS SHOE AND LEATHER INDUSTRY,
Informing Official Report for 1919 Issued.
The Swiss Association of Commerce and Industry has just issued its report on Swiss
commerce and industry for the year 1919. It is an exceedingly useful publication, and
contains, besides full general information, detailed reports on the various industries.
The pages devoted to the shoe and leather trade are particularly interesting, and
present an illuminating picture of the industry under Government control. The hide
and skin merchants had to provide for the needs of the Swiss tanneries at official fixed prices.
and only those goods which could not be consumed in Switzerland were allowed to be
exported. Similarly, tanners had also to deliver leather to shoe manufacturers and
leather merchants at prices fixed by the authorities. They were allowed to export only
those goods which were not required in Switzerland. In January, 1919, the price of raw
hides and skins was reduced by about 16 per cent., and a corresponding reduction was
made in the price of leather and shoes. It is stated that business during 1919, although
satisfactory, was not brilliant when compared with the volume of trade during the war
years. Tanning materials, leather, and shoes are all exhaustively dealt with in the report.
It is interesting to note that while the importation of sole leather into Switzerland declined
in 1919, compared with 1918, the importation of upper leather during the same period was
considerably augmented. The following table shows the value of the imports in the
periods mentioned :-
Francs.
1918. 1919.
Sole Leather .. .. 11,912,000 .. 4,910,000
Upper Leather .. .. 10,122,000 .. 24,100,000
With regard to the shoe manufacturing industry, it is pointed out that the intro-
duction of the 48-hour week has had an important effect on production. Contrary to
the hopes and expectations of many, there has been a diminution in the production of
footwear. The table given hereunder shows the total production for home and export
during the eight years 1912-19 inclusive :....
Number of Pairs.
1912 .. Home. Export.
1913 .. 4,679,340 .. 1,932,452
1914 .. 5,026,664 .. 2,327,552
1915 .. 4,041,986 .. 2,057,964
1916 .. 4,085,708 .. 2,723,273
1917 .. 4,680,950 .. 2,780,242
1918 .. 5,540,840 .. 1,702,023
1919 5,308,544 .. 1,191,272
1919 .. 3,400,000 .. 1,900,000
1918. On the other hand, imports of footwear rose from 1,670,000 francs in 1918 to
exported during 1919 was 60,357,000 francs, as compared with 16,283,000 francs during
It is stated that the reduction in output in 1919 was not due entirely to the limitation
making principally for stock, and that it was some time before these stocks were liquidated.
of hours of work, but also to the fact that in the last quarter of 1918 manufacturers were
At the end of 1919 stocks amounted to about 1,600,000 pairs. The value of the footwear

---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

322
SUBSCRIPTIONS TO THE HENRY SIMMONS' MEMORIAL FUND.

L	S.	d.	L	s.	d.
The Council of the National Union	Manchester	I	0
of Boot & Shoe Operatives..	50	0 0	Desborough	I	0 0
Stafford	25	0 0	Shepshed	I	0 0
Leicester No. 1	5	0 0	Stone	I	0 0
Leicester No. 2	5	0 0	Daventry	I	0 0
Norwich No. 1	3	0 0	Wellingborough	0 10 6
Leicester No. 3	2	2 0	Glasgow No. 2	0 10 6
Kettering No. 2	2	0 0	Liverpool	0 10 0
Norwich No. 2	2	0 0	Maybole	0 10 0
Wolverhampton	I	I 0	Newcastle	0 10 0
Worcester	I	I 0	Chesterfield	0 5 0
Kendal	I	0 0		
Bristol No. 2	I	0 0		106 to ο
London Metro.	I	0 0		

39, CORPORATION STREET,
STAFFORD.
The family of the late Councillor Henry Simmons, J.P., for twelve and a half years
Secretary of the Stafford Branch, desire to gratefully acknowledge the above subscriptions
to the Memorial Fund inaugurated by the Head Office.

They also wish to express their appreciation of the courteous manner in which the
present Secretary, Mr. R. Dunn, has conducted the necessary correspondence.

MUNICIPAL BANK SCHEME, NORTHAMPTON.
Statements made at a meeting in the Liberal Club, Northampton.

Councillor Taylor, O.B.E., alluding to the proposal of a Municipal Savings Bank
said he hoped it would come some day. On occasions he thought he had the Council
with him on the point, but at others he thought they were lukewarm. Of this he was
sure, however, that the Ministry of Health was heartily in sympathy with the idea, and
he had been assured of their influence with the Treasury.

PROGRESSIVE NORTHAMPTON.
Councillor Kilby added his congratulations, and eulogised the work of Mr. Taylor, referring to his achievements with regard to the War Savings Committee, and now as chairman
of the Savings and Investment Committee. Most of the Council, he thought, though not
committed to the details, considered the proposed Municipal Bank a step in the right
direction, and of benefit to the town. They were under tremendous difficulties, for they
had no powers under existing Acts of Parliament to establish it. They had, however,
decided to approach other Municipal bodies with a view of petitioning Parliament for a
permissive measure so that with other Boroughs, Northampton might inaugurate a Mnui-
cipal bank. Their local Chancellor of the Exchequer and Town Clerk brought the matter
forward at a conference of various boroughs in London, only this week, but did not receive
a single supporter. This showed that Northampton was the most progressive Municipal
body in the Kingdom, with others lagging woefully behind.—Northampion Echo, January
28th, 1921.

ERRATA.-On page 38, Sick and Funeral Expenditure, Yarmouth
should read is. 8d. and York 39.


---
```text
323
Reprint of Union Circular 231.

National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives.

34, Guilford Street,
London, W.C. 1.
21st December, 1920.

FELLOW OFFICERS,

VOTING.

It has been brought to the notice of the Council
that certain Branches count their votes as soon as the ballot
is closed, but in order to prevent other centres being
influenced by the vote of one district as against another,
the Council have unanimously agreed that in future ALL
Union votes MUST be counted on the 12th of the month
and returned to the Central Office AT ONCE.

Yours faithfully,

E.L. Poulton

General Secretary.
```

---
Here is the text from the image:

UNEMPLOYMENT ACT, 1920.
Instructions to Branch Officers.
CLAIMS.
As there seems to be a little misunderstanding amongst officials as to what
is, and what is not, expected of them in connection with the administration of
the 1920 Unemployment Act, the following instructions should be carried out,
because both in your own interest and those at the Head Office we want the working
of the Act to be quite clear.
First of all, the Minister of Labour was convinced that our Out-of-Work
Books were amongst the best in the country, and as a consequence he agreed
that only our own Unemployment Book should be used for both the Union and
State Benefit, rather than have one book for the Union and a State Vacant Book.
The member who is unemployed (and this does not mean suspended members
of any degree-THIS POINT SHOULD BE WELL NOTED), will report to the
Branch Officer in the usual manner, of course always assuming he is entitled to
the Union Benefit. The book will be signed in the usual manner, and the member
asked if he has lodged his Card with the Employment Exchange, and if so, the
Union's Unemployment Book will be stamped on the left-hand side with the
State Unemployment Rubber Stamp already in your possession. That ends the
business so far as the Branch Officers are concerned for at least a week. For
State purposes the week ends every Wednesday. Thus each Wednesday the
Branch Officers will fill in the form U.I.A. 75, OBTAINABLE FROM EMPLOY-
MENT EXCHANGE ONLY, and take a duplicate copy. What is required on that
particular form is for the Secretary to fill in the name of the Union at the top of
it and the name of the Branch. In Column 2 you must insert the name of your
Branch and then in Column 3 the name of the Member, whilst Column 4 will state
the days the member signed the book. This should be marked, at the top of the
columns, Thurs., Fri., Sat., Mon., Tues., Wed., and the details required will be
copied from the Out-of-Work Book. After filling in the form with an X, and
an O for the days not signed, this form will be signed at the bottom by the
Secretary in the parts 1 and 2.
These duplicate sheets will then be remitted to the EMPLOYMENT
EXCHANGE (and NOT to the Central Office), and in due course the list authoris-
ing payment, together with the names and the amount of money due to every
individual member, with a cheque for the total sum will be sent direct from the
Central Office. Thus the Central Office will take over the responsibility for pay-
ment of claims, as authorised by the Employment Exchanges. These forms will
be signed by the Members receiving benefit and returned by the Branch Secretary
to the Central Office.
It may be asked when will the money be sent along. That is an important
factor. It rests entirely with the Branch Officials as to how soon they remit
their forms to the Employment Exchange. For instance, in the Leicester
Women's case, the Claims are sent to the Leicester Exchange on Wednesday, and
after being checked are remitted to the Head Office. Cash is then remitted from
the Central Office on Friday and the Secretary is enabled to pay out on Saturday.
Another case-one of the London Branches, being on the spot, is enabled to get
their Claims through fairly soon, and they reach the Central Office on Thursday.
Cash is sent off the same day and the Secretary is here enabled to pay the Benefit
on Friday.
Another point is that the authority given to the Union clearly states that we
can only administer Benefit to THOSE MEMBERS who come under RULE 223.
A considerable amount of time has been spent on this Section of the Union's
work, and it has been the desire of all at the Central Office to try and make it as
simple as possible, and it is suggested that you will agree that now the Central
Office is taking on the responsibility of saying how many days will be allowed
and the total weekly rate of benefit, a great deal of the work has been taken off
the shoulders of Branch Officers.
February, 1921.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

345

idly stand by and see so much suffering due to the lack of employment, when the means exist, if only the will was there to carry out the schemes. The resolutions which were unanimously passed at the conference were as follows:

Resolution I.

That this Conference accepts and endorses the Report now submitted; and reaffirms the resolution unanimously adopted by the Conference on 20th December last --
Declaring that the growing volume of unemployment is largely due to the failure of the Government to secure the resumption of trade with Russia and Central Europe;

(ii.) condemning the Government for not having taken timely action for the prevention of unemployment, as suggested by Labour;

(iii.) calling for immediate action to provide employment at wages, and where this is not done, to arrange for the provision of maintenance at not less than 40s. per week for each householder, with 25s. per week for each single man or woman, with additional allowances for dependants.

The Conference, whilst not ignoring the more fundamental causes of recurrent unemployment, now concentrates attention upon the measures necessary to meet the present emergency, and calls for

A Trade Policy:

(a) The immediate adoption of the policy of unobstructed trade with Russia;

(b) such an application of the terms of peace with ex-enemy countries as will promote the restoration of their economic life and re-establish normal commerce;

(c) concerted international arrangements for the stabilisation of the exchanges, the extension of credits, together with the promotion of commercial intercourse, and an unobstructed transport system throughout Europe;

An Expenditure Policy:

The Conference, moreover, calls upon the Government immediately to reverse its policy with regard to expenditure-

(d) By bringing promptly to an end its military adventures in Mesopotamia and elsewhere in the East;

(e) by terminating its military oppression and lawless reprisals in Ireland, which are stopping productive industry and lessening the economic resources of the country.

At the same time, the Conference demands the reversal of the policy recently inaugurated of attempting to arrest the necessary growth of much-needed services of public utility, as for example-

(a) Postponing, as far as possible, the carrying into effect of the Education Act of 1918, and discouraging all developments by the Local Education Authorities;

(b) slowing down, and in many cases actually obstructing, the building of the urgently required houses;

(c) discouraging and forbidding Local Authorities from carrying out much-needed local works of improvement.

The Conference declares that, in a period of unemployment, the policy of the Government should be one of expansion, not of contraction, of rightful and economical public expenditure; and that the necessary public works and services which must certainly be executed within each decade, ought to be, as far as possible, concentrated on the years of industrial depression, so as to avoid the waste of keeping workers in one year in idleness upon unemployment benefit, and in another year on excessive hours of labour at overtime rates.

It further declares that at the present moment there is a vast amount of necessary work waiting to be undertaken, which it would be greatly to the public advantage to put in hand at once, and which would ensure regular employment at wages for hundreds of thousands of men and women, such as-

(1) The immediate ordering by all the Government Departments and Local Authorities of the stores and necessary works which will in any case be required in the course of the next three years;

(ii.) the prohibition of all overtime (except where absolutely necessary to enable other workers to be started) in order to minimise the number of workers to be discharged;

B


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

348
VOTING
meeting nights. Results are to be counted on the 12th prox., and the same
for the delegates to the First Annual Conference must take place at the MARCH
posted to reach the Central Office by the 15th prox. at the very latest, other-
wise they will be disqualified.
LONDON CONFERENCE AGENDA.
Details of the subjects to be raised at the First Annual Conference will
be found on pages 374-375-
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT, 1921.
depu-
Following up the statements respecting the above-named matter, a
tation consisting of the General President (Mr. T. F. Richards), Mrs. M. J.
Bell-Richards, Mr. D. McCarthy, and Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P. General Secre-
tary), waited upon the Ministry of Labour immediately after the January
Council meeting. The result of such interview was that we were granted
powers under the Act to administer the Government's scheme to our members
Instructions have been sent out to the branches regarding this question, and
It must be understood that this section
the method for dealing with the same.
of the Union's work will be separate from the other work in the Industrial
Department, and will have no connection with the National Health SICK
Insurance Department. This policy will be pursued so as to simplify matters
as far as it is possible in connection with the administration of the scheme.
We feel sure if the instructions, which are explicit and which have been issued
to the branches and will be supplemented from time to time, are followed,
branch secretaries will be able to carry out this work without taking up much
additional time, whilst the member will have the advantage of only signing the
Union's out-of-work book for both the State and Union benefit, and thus elimi-
nate any signing at the Employment Exchanges. Everything will be done in
the Central Office to help the smooth working of this section of our work, and any
help or assistance will be willingly rendered to enable branch secretaries to
work the scheme successfully. Five of the branches have been working the
Act during the month, one from the 3rd inst., and four others from the 10th.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of branch secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. Last month many returns were late.
Branches failed to send off their returns to reach the Central Office by the
15th of the month, and this tends to upset the organisation of the work in
the General Secretary's office. We trust in future every branch secretary
will endeavour to get in his returns NOT later than the fifteenth of every month,
and before sending them see that they are properly signed.


---
Here is the text from the image:

349
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches lias recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price od. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
more when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order
make a success.
Footwear
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade
Umon Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear.
T. F. RICHARDS. Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
E. LAW.
A. J. DOBBS.
L. SMITH.
ALEX. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
J. MANNERS.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
WHY CO-OPERATORS NEED MORE CAPITAL.
Why do co-operators need more capital at the present time? What special reason
is there why they should now make special efforts to increase their financial power? To
these questions answers are readily forthcoming. CO-OPERATORS NEED MORE CAPITAL,
FIRST, TO CARRY ON THEIR BUSINESS BECAUSE THE VALUE OF MONEY HAS FALLEN, AND
SECONDLY, IN ORDER THAT THEY MAY BE ABLE STILL FURTHER TO EXTEND THEIR BUSINESS.
The money invested in co-operative societies by workingmen and women forms the larger
part of the capital of the co-operative movement. This money is not kept idle in safes
or deposited in the strong-rooms of banks. It is invested in shops and buildings, in fac-
tories and warehouses, in fittings and machinery, horses and vehicles, and stocks-in-trade.
The capital is, therefore, in constant use, and it is by using it that co-operators are able
to carry on their trade and business and to reap the advantages of co-operative organisa-
tion. As a consequence of the war all of these forms of capital cost more than they formerly
did. Shops and warehouses cost more; horses and vehicles cost more; fittings and
machinery cost more; and stocks of all kinds also cost far more than they did a few years
ago. In short, CO-OPERATORS REQUIRE MORE MONEY TO CARRY ON THEIR BUSINESS SIMPLY
BECAUSE THEY FIND IT NECESSARY TO "LOCK-UP" MORE CAPITAL IN SHOPS AND BUILD-
INGS, FIXTURES AND STOCKS-IN-TRADE. Every business in the country is in exactly the
same position; every firm needs more capital. That is why private traders and manu-
facturers, great firms and businesses are raising more capital and making strenuous efforts
to persuade investors to lend them money. The Co-operative Movement needs capital
therefore, not because it is in any financial difficulty but simply because the times are such
that its business cannot be carried on if it does not control sufficient capital. Co-operative
Union News Service.
ALDERMAN ALFRED HILL, J.P.
Ald. A. Hill is President of the No. 2 Branch of the Boot and Shoe Union. Twice
President of the Leicester Trades Council. He sat for Wyggeston Ward, and was elevated
to the Aldermanic Bench last year. He is the new Chairman of the Parks Committee -
The Leicester Daily Mercury, February 24th, 1921.

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

351

February 2nd.---To Sileby, held open-air meeting in factory yard with firm's per-
mission, who are anxious these men shall become members, and impressed upon them
their duty. We still hope they will see the advantages of reinstatement, as the firm are
in this matter.

February 3rd.---Stafford, very good meeting on Unemployment. Members unanimous

February 4th---Bromsgrove, very good. They also endorsed the resolution with
to support the action of the Council.

February 5th---London No. 2, Whitechapel, 80 per cent. of the members of the Branch
acted wisely and well
attended. Perfect unanimity, and they believe the Council have acted wisely and well

February 7th---Sileby, meeting small, but unanimous.

February 8th---Leicester meeting of Nos. 1, 2 and 3 Branches at De Montfort Hall.
very good meeting, again unanimity prevailed.

February 9th---Northampton Town Hall. Very good meeting here with the same
encouraging results.

February 10th.---Kettering No. 2, very well attended, wonderfully appreciative

February 11th.---Rushden Co-operative Hall, very keen. Chairman said best meeting
they had had for years. Vote of sympathy to Will Crooks was unanimously carried.

February 14th---Worcester, very good meeting, members pleased. Hoped our visits
would be more frequent, unanimity again prevailed.

On the 28th of January we received a reply to our new claim put forward on your
behalf to the employers, and a copy of the same was immediately despatched to each
member of your Executive in order that they may advise as to an early meeting if required
before we place that reply and perhaps our opinions before you as members. One can
certainly say that the state of trade does not encourage either side, but the world cannot
stop.

The Council of the Union having decided to relieve our members in future from going
to the Labour Exchange, will, I hope, meet with the unanimity such a scheme deserves.
The object of Trades Unionism is the great amount of good we can do the membership.
We officials have no right to place our comfort and convenience before the services we can
render, and it is not pleasant to hear murmurings of the amount of work such will entail.
Our Union and Branches must cope with the work and be paid for the same, or other
men set on or engaged. A set of duties would be very useful to every official, from the
highest to the lowest.

TRADE UNION STAMP. One other word, I wonder whether our members are endeavour-
ing on any particular and every occasion to demand Trade Union Stamped Footwear.
There has been so little response to the many appeals made that one can only
come to the conclusion that we are very lukewarm on this matter as on many others,
where some interest ought to be exhibited.

Yours fraternally,

(signature)
W.J. Richards

34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. I.
FEBRUARY 18TH, 1921.

NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.

MEMBERS
should see that the members of their families, who are members of
the Union, should BELONG to their own Approved Society. All persons
belonging to the Union, upon attaining the age of 16 years, should
Approve AT ONCE with the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
Transfers can now be dealt with.

E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
JOHN W. MURBY, Manager,


---
Here is the text from the image:

3.  52
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.

I attended a Special Trades Union Congress held at Kingsway, London, when a
report of the Executive bodies of the Movement was presented to the Congress and carried
unanimously. I also attended the Council meeting held immediately after such Congress
me, this being my first opportunity of coming into contact with the difficult problems
It having been arranged that I should take up work in London, Mr. McCarthy initiated
with a view to considering necessary steps to be taken.
I found that there is a great effort to reduce wages that have been in operation during
the War. I interviewed the firm of Messrs. Goldklang, 219, Graham Road, Hackney,
the firm having demanded a reduction of 6d. per pair to lasters and finishers, the outcome
there
of which was a settlement of rs. 7d. per pair for Lasting and Finishing.
Meetings of the operatives concerned were held with a view to explaining the settle-
settlement is 150 per cent. over pre-war conditions, and the class of work is Louis Heel
ment arrived at, and they agreed to commence work on the following Monday. This
machine sewn.
Hackney, who wanted reductions on their good class of work, and the firm eventually
I further had an interview with Messrs. Cramer & Roberts, 67, Bentham Road,
on the understanding that, should a commoner class of work be introduced later such
agreed to allow the present prices to prevail, namely, Is. 6d. for Lasting and Finishing,
work be judged on its merits as regards prices by arrangement with Mr. Mason, President
of our London Branch. The men concerned to resume work Monday following.
per
I have attended the London. Branch Committee when several operatives were also
present asking permission to work at the rate of £4 165. per week, the firm having been
week bonus. This particular firm are desirous of consolidating the bonus and wages
paying them 45s. per week for 29 pairs of M.S. Ladies' Shoe work without heels and 55s.
into %4 16s. per week minimum for the above-mentioned amount of work. The Committee
refused to give necessary permission, to my very great surprise, for what it does actually
mean is this, that the minimum rate of the firm would have been £4 16s. per week.
However, arrangements have been made since the Committee's decision that the £4 16s.
minimum should operate.
Mr. Mason and myself visited Messrs Chiswick, Bethna! Green. This firm has been
closed down for the period of one month, and have now restarted a few of its former
employees. By mutual arrangement the men had commenced at 60s. per week, 8s.
less than our minimum. After meeting representatives of the firm we obtained the
national minimum rate of 68s. per week from the first day of commencing work. The
London firms that I have visited remind me of earlier days when I had much work to do
amongst the Jewish operatives, and is thereby a problem.
I also attended the London Branch meeting, the first I have had an opportunity of
attending. This meeting was well attended and I was very well received.
We have attempted to organise the workers at Messrs. Webber & Phillips, where a
large number of operatives work and not a single member of our Union. We have also
attempted to organise the females at Goodman's and held meetings outside the Factory,
when I feel an impression was made.
on without notice of
Meetings have also been held of the operatives in the Welting Department of Messrs.
been submitted to the firm asking for their consideration of the same, and, if necessary,
which has caused a little dissatisfaction. After going into the matter a list of prices has
to fix a date when an interview can take place.
employment being aroused.
Northampton No. 1 Branch, also Kendal Branch and the Northampton No. 2. The
I had to leave London for the purpose of attending a meeting at Raunds of the
meetings have been fairly well attended and some interest upon the resolutions on Un-
FELLOW MEMBERS,
JOHNNIE BUCKLE.
FEBRUARY 12TH, 1921.
My last report ended in an account of a number of small shops in the East End
of London, where attempts were made to reduce the wages of the operatives engaged on
hand lasting and finishing. Up to that time the President of the London Metro. and I
succeeded in preventing any reductions below the London Statement. We had several
to the satisfaction of the men. With the sanction of the Head Office we brought the men
cases in hand when my report finished, and all of them were closely followed up and settled
out in some instances and in others we managed where a reduction was offered to make a
settlement. According to the quality of the work the prices in every case were made as


---
near uniform as possible. It is remarkable how the news goes round from shop to shop
and employers and workmen become aware of what is going on.
is no "mug" in defending his position. His style of defence and protests of poverty are
The Jew employer
entirely different from the methods of the British employer. The Jew is so apparently
Slipper factory, and the owner is not a Jew. The men
guileless and innocent, but he can hold the fort for all that.
wages that I came across was at a
The worst case of reducing
on weekly wages were brought down to 3s, below the minimum and the men on piecework
well below this standard. Though things are very slack here we managed to secure the
minimum.
the
British people on this subject was presented to the assembled delegates that day. The
Hall on the 27th January. The most comprehensive programme ever presented to the
Government of rich men, wanted an enquiry on the question of Unemployment and asked
Labour to join in the farce. The awful problem is here, there is no need to make enquiries
about its reality. The multitudes outside the Labour Exchanges of London and the big
ashamed at their brothers and sisters being humiliated in this way.
The Anti-Waste Stunt.-The rich and middle classes have formed an Anti-Waste
family to be out of work with no hopes
League, but they are indifferent to the great human waste that is going on through unem-
ployment. It is heart breaking to a father of a
of getting any in the near future, but it is infinitely worse for the mother who is tied more
to the home and children.
After the Conference was over our Council had a long meeting on the policy to be
adopted in our Union to bring the matter before the members. It was agreed to hold
meetings in all the centres of the trade. On February 2nd Mr. Alex. Smith and I spoke
to a good meeting at Stone. The following night the General President and I had a fine
meeting of the members of the Stafford Branch. On the 8th Mr. Richards, Mrs. Richards,
Ald. Hill, Mr. T. Adnitt and I addressed the members of the Leicester. Branches. I have
had meetings also at Hinckley, Wolverhampton and Nottingham. In every instance
there was a unanimous vote of approval for the Joint Labour Programme on Unemploy-
ment. This work of propaganda should be continued until we touch the imagination
and conscience of the people on this hell of unemployment, as the great preachers and
missionaries did in days gone by on the hell of brimstone and sulphur.
D. MCCARTHY.
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
UNEMPLOYMENT.
Building Trades.
MR. J. DAVISON asked the Minister of Labour the number of men out of employment
in the building trades for the months of November, December, and January, giving the
figures in each branch of the trade separately?
dates :-
DR. MACNAMARA: The following table shows the number of men in the building
trades of the United Kingdom on the live registers of employment exchanges at various
Occupations.
19th Nov.,
1920.
10th Dec., 7th Jan.,
1920.
1921.
3rd Feb.,
1921.
Carpenters
Bricklayers
Masons
795
1,219
2,690
3,524
215
159
300
238
Slaters
306
436
800
740
Plasterers
91
76
142
154
Painters
153
135
218
228
Plumbers
11,836
17,367
25,493
Labourers
25,514
1,228
1,273
1,852
18,174
1,808
21,652
29,493
32,016
32,798
42,317
60,988
64,222
MR. T. GRIFFITHS asked the Minister of Labour the number of men at present out of
employment in the building trades, giving the figures in each branch of the trade separately?
C

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

356
BRANCH REPORTS.
BARNSLEY. Trade is very bad here at present, most of our members
working short time, and there is no signs of trade getting any better, for at
several of the collieries around here men are being put on short time, one and
two days per week, and the glass-bottle trade, which is one of our busiest
trades around here, is also on short time, causing a great slackening in the boot
trade both in new work and also in the repairing department. We have no
one that is unemployed at present and we have also a clean sick list. We are
sorry to see from other reports that very many other districts are worse off
than we are at present; let us hope that in the next Report we shall have a
brighter state of things to look at.
BELFAST. Trade still remains in a very unsatisfactory state, many of
our members working less than half time. We regret after all the appeals
that have been made to the members to take an active and intelligent
interest in the workings of the Branch that it seems to have no effect. We
can hear of plenty of criticism of the way the business of the Branch is con-
ducted and the way in which it could be improved by some of those members.
who seldom, if ever, attend the meetings. Now, if only those members would
it would be most gladly welcomed. We would urge upon all members who
come to the meetings and give the Branch the assistance of their help,
are in arrears the absolute necessity of putting themselves in a proper position
if they desire to claim the Union benefits.
BRIGHTON. Trade is bad and large numbers out of work. We are
looking for a good time in June, when the Labour Party Conference will be
held at Brighton. Book your holidays for June-Labour Party Conference
week, when we hope to give the delegates of the N.U.B.S.O. a welcome. Don't
forget Brighton, in June.
CHESHAM. Trade here is still very bad. During the month we have
had a dispute here owing to a small firm wanting to reduce the piecework rate,
and it became necessary to stop the factory working. Mr. McCarthy took the
matter in hand, and we are pleased to report, after a visit to the firm and a
lengthy discussion, the firm agreed to pay the Green Book Rates. We beg to
thank the Stafford Branch for their donation, and we are pleased to report
the amount collected for Comrade Badminton totals £65 13s. od.
CHESTERFIELD. Trade is still very bad. The future does not look
very bright at the time of writing, but we are hoping for the best.
EDINBURGH. Trade here is very quiet; the factories have had three
weeks' holiday and still working short time. At our Monthly Meeting the
members had under discussion the proposed agreement with employers. They
think that it is some improvement on present agreement. Some doubt exists
as regards Clause 16. Members ask if this means that all female labour in
men's department is to be done away with. The Repairing Section on Piece
Rates have now been paid for the first week under Wages Trade Board-better
late than never. Glad that Wellingborough has taken up the case of married
women working in factories, as we are of opinion that when a woman marries
her husband should have enough wages to keep her comfortably at home.
Unemployment and a Special Meeting to hear the Council's case regarding
We have arranged a Labour Policy; something drastic ought to be done
to try and find work for the unemployed. We had occasion to go to the local
men is the same as we observed, then it is not before time that the Unions took
Labour Exchange, and if the treatment meted out all over the country to the
over the working of the Government scheme. At time of sending our report
there is some talk of one of the repairing shops closing down; however, the

---
Here is the text from the image:

357
members involved may find work in other shops, but at present this is rather
difficult.
HALESWORTH. There is a slight improvement in trade--the lasters,
clickers, and finishers have made better time, and we hope it will continue.
Our Monthly Meeting was held last Friday and several members were present.
The members decided to nominate our President as a delegate to the Conference,
and we all hope we shall be the lucky Branch to send a delegate.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. --During the month we have had the services
of our respected M.P.. Mr. W. R. Smith, who addressed eight meetings in our
Branch and the members were encouraged by his wise advice, and we believe
has done a great amount of good. The Executive of the Branch thank the
Council for his services, which they consider most successful; also Mr. J. Buckle
had a great time at Raunds, where about 300 members listened intently to
his good advice. On Friday, February 11th, the General President addressed
crowded audience in Rushden Co-operative Hall, which was packed, quite
... number not getting in owing to the crowded hall. He delivered an eloquent
and rousing address, which will be long remembered. We thank all the speakers.
Trade has not improved but we are hopeful. We believe the working of the
nemployment Insurance will be a great benefit to us both as a convenience
members and in organising.
KETTERING No. 2.-Trade is still very pad; we have many out of
work and practically all the rest are on short time. Unfortunately, the position
at present shows no marked signs of improvement; one begins to wonder
where we shall end. A considerable number of our members have drawn their
full amount of out-of-work benefit and this number is increasing week by week.
What is to become of these members and their families with no means of
sustenance except charity? And this, forsooth, was to be a country fit for
heroes to live in! One listens with mixed feelings to some of our moderate
leaders criticising extremists' opinions, but it is becoming increasingly evident
that until we are all extremists and prepared to take extreme measures no
sound remedy will be forthcoming. One can call it direct action or any other
action, but action it must be if our members are to be allowed the right to live.
We deeply regret the death of our Burton Latimer Section President, Mr.
Will Issitt. Our organisation of 100 per cent. at Burton Latimer is in a large
measure due to his untiring efforts. His rugged nature and honesty of principle
made him greatly respected; he was ever to the fore in the fight for the uplifting
of his fellow men, and in these days we can ill afford to lose the services of this
type of man. His place at Burton will be very difficult to fill, but we are
hoping that someone, with a determination not to lose the grip of the situation,
will come forward and continue the good work done by our late friend. Our
deepest sympathy goes out to his wife and family in their sad bereavement,
but a great consolation to them should be the knowledge that for many years
he has laboured hard, and in the right direction, in doing that which is the aim
of all democratic workers, viz., to leave the world better and brighter than
they found it.
LEEDS.-Trade is exceptionally bad and the outlook at present seems
very black indeed, and as a consequence our out-of-work list is rather heavy.
We also regret to report that our sick list is also rather heavy, but we are still
hoping that a change for the better will take place before long. We would
urge upon all members to see that Statement prices are paid, and should any
employer attempt to reduce Statement prices, or want an increased output
of work without an increased remuneration, that such information should
be reported at the Branch office at once,
LEICESTER WOMEN'S.--We cannot report any improvement in trade
among our members. Systematic short time seems to be the arrangement in


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

358
most firms-three days on and three days off; this being an easier method
for Labour Exchanges for calculating what individual claims will require.
We have to report that on February 3rd we started to pay out Unemployment
entail, after the scheme had been worked out in detail and the greater part
claims from our Branch Office. Although told of the complications it might
done by Central Office, we found the Branch's share reduced to a minimum.
The question of married women
Systematic short-time members we cannot deal with without sanction,
Up to the time of writing we have found no difficulty with out-of-works.
in our industry has caused much discussion among our members, it arising
although we are dealing with odd-day cases. The question of married women
turned it down; a wise move, and we hope it will not rise again for many
out of the resolution sent from Wellingborough. We are pleased our Council
reasons. A resolution was passed at the Branch Meeting protesting against
the Council's interference with the reports of Branch Executives.

LIVERPOOL.-Trade in this district gets worse instead of better, and
at one time, besides two members on the sick list. The number of unemployed
we have more members on the out-of-work funds than we have ever had before
in the different industries is simply appalling. The time when this country
will be a fit place for heroes to live in appears to be a long way off. The
Capitalist Press are rejoicing at the Chancellor of Exchequer's announcement
that he intends to take off the E.P.D. tax, as they contend the present condition
of the workers is in a great measure due to the operation of this tax. Our
Secretary, with the Secretary of Burnley Branch, represented the Union on
the District Committee of the Trade Board for Lancashire and Cheshire, held
at Manchester on the 28th inst. What appeared to be lacking was the absence
of reliable statistics as to the amount of wages earned in a certain number
of hours since the Trade Board Scale came into operation, as the different
rates of wages paid in certain districts appeared a bit confusing; this applied
more especially to Lancashire. Our Branch made a grant of 10s. to Leicester
No. 2 in response to appeal on behalf of one of their late members. We have
been advised by our Central Office that they have made arrangements with the
Ministry of Labour to administer the Unemployment Act, 1920. We have
obtained copy of form U.I.A. 275, but fail to see how it will be possible to work
it in a scattered district like ours so that it will benefit our members, but can
quite realise the advantage in manufacturing centres; however, we must
have patience and "wait and see," as some people assert there is nothing
impossible under the sun, not forgetting the fact that spare-time officials have
their living to get and are away from home all day; with full-time officials the
case is different.
LONDON No. 2.-A Special Meeting was convened at Working Lads
Institute, Whitechaped Road, E.1, on Saturday, February 5th, 1921, to support
the policy of dealing with Unemployment as stated in the resolutions passed
at the Joint Labour Conference on January 27th, 1921. Councillor J. Sharp
presided, and Mr. T. F. Richards, the General President, gave an excellent
address to the members of the Branch and it was well received. The question
was also supported by various members of the Branch and the policy of the
Council was unanimously carried by the members at the meeting. The members
also expressed their desire that the General President should favour them with
his presence more often at their meetings.

MAYBOLE. - About thirty of our members are out of work and on the
funds and all the rest working short time. We had Mr. Bleakley here this week
explaining resolutions on Unemployment from the London Conference. We
had a good meeting, and Mr. Bleakley gave a good explanation of the business
on hand, and was accorded a hearty vote of thanks for his address. We are
making arrangements to have the vote taken this week.


---


---
360
We never remember such quiet times over so long a
period. The state of trade
is concerned we have not felt any benefit, many men still walking about looking
for work; the state of trade so far as repairing is concerned being stagnant.
in their contributions, which has been a burden upon the officers who have
interested to turn up at the Branch Meetings many of them getting behind
is reflected in the waning interest of the members, who do not feel sufficiently
of a repairer willing to work any number of hours per week for £2, and it is
would result in the payment of arrears.
One of the tragedies of the times in
which we live was evident in a letter which appeared in the local press recently
had no wish to scratch them, but hoped that a return of more prosperous times
this bartering of men's labour which nullifies the work of the Trade Board
mining factor in his employer's mind for discharging him after eight and a
his appointment on a District Committee of the Trade Board being the deter-
We regret that our Secretary has been discharged because of his Union activities,
half years' service. We request the E.C. to remove his name from the list
and nothing we desire so much as to increase the usefulness and sphere of
of firms using the Union Stamp. Although at present there seems no prospect
of a change in the general condition of things, yet we are not without hope
influence of this Branch, and see all the repairers of the district organised.
SHEPSHED. -Trade at Shepshed remains very bad. With so many of
the people here depending on the boot and shoe and hosiery industry we should
say that Shepshed has felt the slump as much as most places. At the ordinary
Branch Meeting we voted £I to the fund being raised by the Leicester No. 2
Branch for the benefit of the widow and family of the late R. A. Tildesler.
We also reviewed the proposed New Agreement, and the clause which seeks to
guarantee 52 weeks' pay in a year was greatly appreciated by the members
present. On February 8th we held a Special Meeting to consider the Labour
Policy in connection with Unemployment. Mr. Warner, of Hinckley, was
greeted by one of the best attendances of members we have ever had. In
an able and telling speech he put the position so plainly that we have no doubt
but what the members will vote strongly in favour of the policy outlined in
the resolution.
SOUTHAMPTON.-Trade amongst repairers still dull, shipping and
engineering trades showing no improvement; the joiners on shipping work are
still on strike, thereby causing loss of work to other contributory trades. We
are still hoping for improvement, but the outlook is not assuring at present.
STONE.-Trade very slack, our members only working half time, leaving
work daily at 12.30 mid-day; also a system is on the go suspending single
men, the object it is stated being to give married men with families more work
to do, so that they can receive a little more wages each week during this
depression, and in consequence putting the single men on the suspension list.
We are looking forward to some improvement as a new firm has just started,
in sending us the large amount we
present state of things. We cannot close this report without expressing our
respect for the confidence the Council placed in us during the 12 days' suspension
thought we should require; this action is
not likely to be forgotten in Stone for some time to come.
STREET. - We have to report that there in no improvement in the state
of trade in this district, and the prolonged depression is being keenly felt in
the homes of our members. The resolutions of the Labour Conference should
receive universal support from all boot and shoe operatives. Our Special
Meeting called for the purpose of consideration of these resolutions, addressed
his subject was much appreciated, and he has considerably enhanced his
approval was passed unanimously. The way in which Mr. Smith dealt with
by Mr. Len Smith, of Northampton, was most enthusiastic, and a vote of
position as Parliamentary candidate for the Division.

---
Here is the text from the image:

361
London Conference, Whitsuntide, 1921.
NOMINATIONS.

LIST OF PERMANENT OFFICIALS.
Branch.	No.	Names.
Bristol No. 1	...	One (1)	...	Mr. J. T. Osborne.
Bristol No. 2	...	One (1)	...	*Mr. J. Manners.
Daventry	...	One (1)	...	Mr. I. H. Johnson, J.P.
Wansborough	...	One (1)	...	Mr. S. J. B. Barnes, J.P.
Glasgow No. 1	...	One (1)	...	Mr. M. Gamble.
Wigham and Rushden	...	Three (3)	...	Messrs. *C. Bates, W, Langley and E. Batchelor.
Hinckley	...	One (1)	...	*Mr. W. Warner.
Kettering No. 1	...	Two (2)	...	*Messrs. C. Mayes and G. Chester.
Kettering No. 2	...	One (1)	...	Mr J. E. Chapman.
Kingswood	...	One (1)	...	Mr. A. J. Randall, J.P.
Leeds	...	Two (2)	...	*Messrs. A. J. Dobbs and J. Wescoe.
Leicester No. 1	...	Six (6)	...	Messrs. *T. Adnitt, J. Wheeler, M. Parker, A. Worth, G. Parbury and D. Astley.
Leicester No. 2	...	Three (3)	...	Ald. A. Hill, Messrs. G. Smith and W. H. Lowe, J.P.
Leicester No. 3	...	Two (2)	...	*Mrs M. J. Bell-Richards and Miss M. King.
London Metro	...	Two (2)	...	Messrs. A Mason and W. Bray.
Northampton No. 1	...	Three (3)...	Messrs. W. R. Townley, *Len Smith and W. Pitts.
N rthampton No. 2	...	Three (3)	...	Messrs. *E. Law, H. W. Lyne and S. Thompson.
Norwich No. 1	...	Three (3)	...	Messrs. *W. Hindes, F. C. Jex and A. Bird.
Norwich No. 2	...	Two (2)	...	Messrs. F. H. Segon and A, H. Folkard.
Stafford	...	One (1)	...	Mr. R. Dunn.
Street	...	One (1)	...	Mr. J. H. Hooper, J.P.
Wellingborough	...	Two (2)	...	Messrs. L. P. Poole and W. A. Wyman.
Wolverhampton	...	One (1)	...	*Mr. Alex. Smith.
*Council Members, and entitled to attend the Conference by virtue of their office.

MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
General President: Mr. T. F. Richards.
General Secretary: Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P.
Organisers: Messrs. J. Buckle, J.P. and D. McCarthy.
Council Members:
Mr. T. Adnitt, Leicester	Mrs. Mary J. Bell-Richards, I eicester.
Mr. C. Bates, Rushden..	Mr. W. Warner, Hinckley.
Mr. L. Smith, Northampton.	Mr. E. Law, Northampton.
Mr. C. Bleakley, Edinburgh	Mr. W. Hindes, J.P., Norwich.
Mr. C. Mayes, Kettering.	Mr. A. J. Dobbs, Leeds.
Mr. J. Manners, Bristol.	Mr. Alex. Smith, Wolverhampton.
Parliamentary Representative: Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P.


---
Here is the text from the image:

368
UNEMPLOYMENT. -A LABOUR POLICY.
MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P., Chairman.
Chairman's Address.
At the Special Labour Conference held in London on the 27th January, 1921, Mr.
Poulton said: It is to me a source of keen regret that another Special Conference has had
to be called, more especially having regard to the subject matter which is the reason for
the Conference, viz., the serious position that millions find themselves placed in owing
to lack of employment, or short time, and the prospect of the position getting worse rather
than better. I say millions, because we must always bear in mind the women and children
who are dependent upon men's wages for food, clothing and home. Moreover, when one
remembers the statements made by members of the present Government about an "AI
population," " " A land fit for heroes to live in," "Nothing too good for those who during
the war endured so much to bring victory," &c., &c., it is indeed enough to make men
feel desperate, and one need not be surprised at some of the strong things that are given
utterance to. So far from approaching to an Ar population, the present state of affairs
is rapidly tending to produce a C4 population. As to a land fit for heroes to live in, the
term is a mockery to millions, and only causes derision when it is used, seeing how entirely
absent in many lives are the elements which would give even a semblance of real meaning
to such a statement.
There is no necessity to enlarge upon the fact of the imperative need that something
must be done to assist those who are unfortunately without work with the means whereby
they and theirs can live. Too long, far too long, have we been told of the plans for meeting
the situation. The workers will not be fobbed off any longer with words and yet more
words, they call for deeds, actions, performance. It is indeed an ironic situation con
fronting one, that millions of people in this and other countries are clamouring for work
whereby wages are earned; millions are, alas, in many other cases appealing for the bare
necessities of life to keep them alive, and the materials to meet both situations are existent.
yet, owing to the absurd and out-of-date system which now obtains, both demands remain
unsatisfied. Meantime lives are sacrificed and vast suffering entailed for lack of the real
will to deal in anything like a statesman-like manner with the situation. Not many
months ago the cry went forth-loud, insistent, persistent-for more production and yet
more production. In many cases the cry was responded to; and increased production
became an accomplished fact. To-day the result is lack of employment of a vast multitude
of operatives. Yet the cry is a correct one; there is need for more production, whereby
the requirements of people in all parts of the world can be met. What, however, demands
and calls aloud for, is, drastic root remedies being applied to the system which now is in
being, and putting in its place a system which recognises that the paramount claim is,
that Humanity's needs have the first call upon the community. In my judgment, the
members of the present Government of this country are, on this vital question, guilty,
not only of grave neglect, they are also deserving of censure having regard to the lack of
foresight and the consequent suffering that has accrued to so many due to their inaction.
The portents have been plain for a long time past to those who have eyes, to see where we
were drifting to; moreover, it cannot be said that the representatives of labour have been
backward in calling attention to the growing seriousness of the situation. Time after
time both in the House of Commons, on public platforms, and through the Press, attention
steps to be taken in connection
dealt with by the various speakers, except to say that as far back as 1917 the question
with the matter. I do not propose to go into detail upon this point, because it will be
was taken up by the Labour Party and has been kept in the forefront since such date.
I want, however, to deal with the question which is being much talked about, viz., Labour
not accepting seats upon an enquiry committee, proposed to be set up by the Govern
ment, for going into the question of unemployment.
misunderstood or misrepresented by many of the writers who have taken upon themselves
It is quite clear to me that the position taken up by your representatives is entirely
the rôle of mentors to the Labour Party.
the Labour Party Executive were aware, fully aware, that their refusal to serve on such
The Joint Committee of the Parliamentary Committee of the Trade Congress and
fully discussing the whole situation, justified in the attitude taken up. You may ask
a Committee might lay them open to being misunderstood. They felt, however, after
why such an attitude was taken up. Shortly it may be said lack of confidence in the
Government (especially having regard to the recent past) and not because of any reluctance
to serve on a Government Committee. Attempts have been made to prove that in this
right wing against their better judgment to the decision arrived at in connection with
the question. No such thing happened. There is no left or right wing upon the matter
refusal to accept nominations for the suggested committee, the left wing has driven the
no moderate or extremist---but one united party. It might with a great deal of truth
be said that the fact determining the decision was, and is, the altogether unsatisfactory
manner in which Labour questions have been handled for the past year or two by the

---
Here is the text from the image:

369
Government, who seem to act upon the method, if method it can be called, of putting off
doing anything for meeting the problem of unemployment. What is the record of the
Government in connection with unemployment questions? In February, 1919, the
industrial situation was very black and the Minister of Labour called together a repre-
sentative body of workmen and employers to talk over the situation. This body was
addressed by the Prime Minister and a most moving appeal he made to the assembly to
do something to bring to an end the crisis then existing. At a later meeting the Prime
Minister again addressed the body set up, and those who were at such meeting in room B
of the Central Hall, Westminster, will not soon forget the appeal of the Premier. The
setting up of this body was heralded forth all over the world, and statements were made
as to how the British once again had surmounted their difficulties. What, however, is
the net result? After sitting almost continuously and presenting an agreed report so
far as the major part of the report is concerned and nearly two years have passed by,
it is in the main still a report. We cannot forget the Miners' Enquiry and the largely
negative result of the same. The Consumers' Council representatives have also felt
themselves compelled to withdraw from the Food Ministry because their recommendations
were constantly ignored, and it is of interest that at a recent meeting of the Committee
for trying to find employment for ex-service disabled men, the employers-even more
than the other section-were talking of resigning because nothing was done. Again,
in relation to the Land Settlement of ex-service men, a report issued on the 15th January
shewed there were nearly 16,000 applications approved, but not provided with holdings,
despite the known desirability of increasing the number of men on the land. Then there
is the case of the way in which the question was dealt with in London just before Christmas,
which really, if it was not for the tragedy behind unemployment, was farcical, when the
Prime Minister stated that the London County Council had the matter in hand, though,
as a matter of fact the letter stating what the Government were prepared to do was not
in the possession of the London County Council until hours after the unemployed deputation
had waited upon the Prime Minister. Deputations, time and time again, have waited
upon either the Prime Minister or responsible Ministers, and always promises, promises,
promises. We are tired of promises, and using these bodies for putting off the day of
performance, and your Executive were not prepared, under such circumstances, to accept
membership of the suggested Committee. The Government know quite well what Labour
wants. Our schemes have been placed before them-both in the House of Commons
and elsewhere, and we call for them to be put into operation.
We are aware of the sinister influences at work to try and take advantage of the
present abnormal circumstances to depress the standard of life even among those in
employment: this we shall resist. We are not unmindful of the suffering upon all hands.
This we say can be dealt with if there is the will so to do without making other workers'
lives worse in the process of dealing with the unemployed. The resources of the country
are such as will, if properly applied, meet the situation.
In the many proposals we make, there is, we are convinced, not only the way out for
dealing with unemployment, but also of actually adding, in the aggregate, to the real
wealth of the country. We cannot stand idly by and see children, women and men suffer-
ing for the lack of the bare necessities of life, knowing as we do that the means really
exist for supplying those needs, if there is the determination to find the remedy. Men
and women want WORK, NOT DOLES. They demand real help, to enable them to maintain
a proper standard of life. You will be asked by resolutions to support such demands
and to create such a feeling in the country as will ensure the Government acting at once
in a manner as will bring into operation the machinery whereby the present appalling
situation may be done away with, and all who want work shall be either provided with
the same, or, failing employment, maintenance supplied-and that without any degrading
conditions being attached thereto.
It is, to me, a monstrous thing that with all the world crying out for help in the way
of Food, Clothing and Employment, Statesmen either turn a deaf ear to the cry or find
paltry excuses for delay.
Let us here to-day, at any rate, by unity and determination in our ranks, make such
a protest on the one hand against the past delay, and a demand on the other hand for
immediate and adequate dealing with a situation which already has inflicted so much
unnecessary suffering upon vast multitudes of men, women and children.
At the Second Conference on Unemployment, held at Kingsway Hall, 23rd
February, 1921, the following Address was given by Mr. E. L. Poulton,
J.P., Chairman:
Short as has been the time between the previous meeting and this one, a good many
things in connection with unemployment have happened. Two especially I would call
attention to. One, the attitude of the Government towards the question as represented
by the totally inadequate provision they propose to embody in a further extension of the


---
Here is the text from the image:

Unemployment Act, and which ought to bring home to the people how signally the Govern- ment are failing in their duty towards so many of our unfortunate citizens. Second, wages, the sinister attempts, and in a number of cases successful attempts, of employers to reduce thereby making the position worse, because not only is there a smaller income per individual, as a result of such policy, but indirectly by reducing the income of the country and thereby restrict the trade of the worker they actually reduce his spending capacity and
It may be remembered that in the second resolution passed at the meeting in January, the Labour Members were asked to take certain steps
'satisfactory action by the Government. I imagine that in this Con- gress there will be unanimity that the Government has NOT TAKEN satisfactory action. request. They have day by day Labour Party in the House have complied
at the same time I venture to say that the
been putting up a good fight for putting into practice the proposals passed at the Con- that the vote in the House has gone against them. to the fact that the electorate in 1918 put we are now reaping some of the results of such meetings in all parts of the country have been held, and with us in our proposals and demands.

There is no need to explain in detail the proposals of the Government; they are in my judgment totally inadequate to meet the situation. I have no doubt at all that many proposals and methods can be propounded, and the authors of such, with full faith, believe that their particular scheme is the one to adopt, which if carried out, would solve the problem. For myself, owing to the very complex state of society and the increasing interdependence of not merely one part of the country to another part, but other countries to each other, I cannot but come to the conclusion that many methods and plans must be adopted: hence I am the stronger in my belief that our policy as outlined in the pamphlet “Unemployment: a Labour Policy," contains many of the methods which ought to be pursued. There are, I feel sure, delegates here who believe that the polics known as direct action should be the policy carried out. Such a policy it might be pursued would be, by its magnitude and impressiveness, sure to influence the commun and the Government. I agree: it would do both. Would it, however, impress in such a way as to bring about what is desired, viz.: work and sustenance for those at present out of work and without the means to purchase food? I venture to say it would not. Further, if such a policy is carefully examined, it would have an effect very different from what its sponsors so ardently desire. We should by our own action stop the wheels that are already working, and in my opinion the attempt to enforce employment by such a method would, instead of finding employment, very substantially increase the number of men and women without employment, and thereby increase the difficulties of our move- ment, by adding to the suffering already existing, and failing at the same time to bring relief to the unemployed. There is a further suggestion, that as a protest against the attitude of the Government a one-day stoppage should take place as a DEMONSTRATION, and thereby shew to the whole country the feeling of the workers upon the matter. This would have at any rate the merit of self-sacrifice of those in employment, and might show that spirit of good comradeship which it is so desirable should be shewn. A third policy, and this is the only other one I intend to name, is that we should, through the Press and by meetings and the continual bombardment of the Government both as citizens and through our Labour Members in the House of Commons, keep up, and if at all possible increase the intensity of the campaign for work or maintenance. I know that such a policy has nothing to commend it from the standpoint of any startling results. I know thar it means hard humdrum work. It would be, however, in my opinion, the most effective method, and the one most likely to bring relief to our unfortunate comrades. We have also, or should bear in mind, that Labour as represented by Labour Members in the House of Commons is in a very big minority. At the present time there is an opportunity of increasing the number of Labour Members in the House. If such is done, and I HOPE IT WILL BE, it will strengthen our case as proving that the people support our policy, because it is certain that to secure success for our policy support from the people must be forthcoming. I hope therefore that however strongly we may express ourselves, and indignant we may feel against the attitude of the Government, we shall, having regard to the paramount importance of the subject and the issues at stake, back up our colleagues in the fight they are putting up, and thus shew both to the country and the Government that whilst there may be, and will be, differences in our ranks upon both policy and tactics, once a certain method has been decided upon as the method, we are quite prepared to do our part in taking it up, and supporting those of our colleagues who may be called upon to decide the best procedure for putting into practice the ideas contained in our resolutions.

I have no doubt that some amount of disappointment will be expressed at the policy that it is suggested we should carry out. It is, however, much better to face the real position, however unpleasant it is; and the fact is the Government have not, nor does there appear to be any prospect of their adopting our proposals. Under such circumstances we believe the best policy is to carry on along the lines suggested in the resolutions.


---
Here is the text from the image:

bilities, or
371
Let us
Do not let us lose heart because of the failure of the Government to rise to its responsi-
or hesitate in our determination to carry on the warfare; rather let it act upon us
as an incentive to further and yet further effort let us by concentration upon the work
so rouse up the country and create such a revulsion of feeling as will bring about the down-
tall of the Government and put in its place one which will make it their business to place
tirst and foremost in their policy, the carrying into effect of such legislation as will ensure
is the time to shew the country the necessity for sending an ever increasing number of
te all tood, clothing and shelter without resort to any Poor Law authority. Now, if ever,
Labour Members to the House of Commons to fight therein the battle for Labour. Now,
if ever, there is need for that solidarity which we pass so many resolutions upon.
close up our ranks, and by unity, perseverance and persistence, so rout our opponents
that within the near future victory will attend our efforts on behalf of those who to-day
spending millions of money upon war and preparations for war, which money, properly
are in such dire need, but who are appealing in vain to the Government, which is still
spent, would bring into many thousands of homes not only food and clothing, but con
currently also, health, respite from care and relief from the worry and anxiety attendant
upon those who find themselves amongst the unemployed.
τη.
nd,
ace
me
the
the
ion
eps
on.
on.
ied
lay
on.
m;
Put
uch
and
in
any
eve
the
sing
ries
lust
the
tich
licy
be
pitr
uch
ent
pot.
tom
hat
ha
of
ve-
ing
the
0%,
Chis
how
Ecv,
and
and
ble
icy
nat
ive
ave
15€
of
PE
CY.
be
nd
ard
jes
ent
C5,
do
ed
ur
al
es
es
The folowing Resolutions were carried at the Adjourned Conference of the Trades
Union Congress and the Labour Party, held in the Kingsway Hall, Kingsway, London,
on Wednesday, February 23rd, 1921, at to a.m.
RESOLUTION I.
That this Conference, representative of the whole Labour Movement, is of opinion
that the Government's policy of merely extending the Unemployment Insurance Act is
amentably inadequate to meet the present situation, and bears little relation to the existing
human suffering: and emphatically reiterates its demand that comprehensive steps be
taken to restore international trade and to organise without delay national schemes of
work, and that those for whom no employment is provided should be found adequate
"The Conference concurs with the proposal of the Parliamentary Labour Party that
every possible step should be taken to press this question on the attention of the House
Commons, and to insist that the Government should take immediate action for the
benefit of the unemployed.
maintenance.
"The Conference further invites the Executive Committee of every Trade Union to
secure the affiliation of all its branches to the local Labour Parties and bring all its members
actively into political work, in order to take the earliest possible steps to promote a Labour
candidate for every constituency in which this has not yet been done.
"The Conference further declares that every opportunity should be taken to use the
Bye-Elections as a means of bringing pressure to bear on the Government by defeating
every Coalition Candidate.
"In conclusion, the Conference calls upon every wage-earning elector in East Woolwich,
Dudley. Penistone, and Kirkcaldy Boroughs to mark his or her sense of the callous refusal
of the Government to deal adequately with Unemployment by voting for the Labour
Candidates."
RESOLUTION II.
"That this National Labour Conference views with apprehension the apparently
inspired statements in the Press concerning the proposed legislation on Key Industries
and Dumping, and instructs the Executive Committee of the Labour Party and the
Parliamentary Committee of the Trades Union Congress :
(a) To consider the Government's Bill as early as possible in order to define the
attitude of the British Labour Movement towards the measure;
(b) To request the affiliated organisations to be on their guard against committing
themselves to support the Bill until they secure the report of their National
Committees; and
(c) To consult with the Parliamentary Labour Party with a view to the necessary
action being taken in the House of Commons."
DEATHS DUE TO CONSUMPTION.
of deaths due to Consumption should read-
On page 300 of the January Report the figures relating to the number
Members
Wives "
..
::
::
66
3
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

374
FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE.
London, Whitsuntide, 1921.

The following resolutions have been received for consideration at
the Conference at Whitsuntide.
UNION POLICY.
KILMARNOCK.-" The Kilmarnock Branch of the National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives call upon the Executive Council to take all necessary steps
to secure the proper election of delegates to the World Congress of Labour
Unions to be held in Moscow on May 1st, 1921, pledged to support a
revolutionary policy aiming at the world-wide dictatorship of the Prole-
tariat, and to affiliate this organisation to the Red International Council
of Labour Unions."
KILMARNOCK.-"To sever all connections of this organisation from the
Amsterdam Federation of Trade Unions, and to take all necessary
steps to obtain the withdrawal of the Trade Union Congress from that
organisation."
LEICESTER NO. 1.-" The Leicester Branch believing that the system of working
in operation during 1920, in which payment by result with a guaranteed
minimum was the best policy, hereby claims that the Union should take
a vote on the following alternative, each member to have one vote only :-
Ist-Are you in favour of payment by results governed by the piece-
work or quantity statements without limit.
2nd-Are you in favour of set weekly wages governed by the piece-
work or quantity statements limited to the weekly wage.
3rd-Or do you prefer daywork pure and simple without statements."
LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move." That the policy and method of
working in this Union be piecework or payment by result with a guaranteed
weekly wage and no restriction of output or limitation of earnings, with the
exception of what has been the custom for many years in the trade, the
sharing of work in slack times."
LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move." That providing the same wages
and price per operation be paid all departments in the boot and shoe
trade be open for women to work in."
LEICESTER NO. I BRANCH to move." That we ask the Conference to give
further powers to local officials to deal with non-federated firms regarding
the different Awards given by the Union and Employers' Federation
from time to time."
NORWICH." That the policy of the Union be directed to securing a system
of weekly fixed wages guaranteed for every full working week."
NORWICH.-" That in all matters of Union policy it be an instruction to all
Union Officials that differences of opinion be discussed through the Union's
Monthly Report; and that at no time should the public Press of the
country be used to promote individual views against the agreed policy
of the Union."


---
Here is the text from the image:

375
piecework or supplementary wage system of working is contrary to the
NORTHAMPTON NO. 2. "That this Conference is of the opinion that the
Council to frame the future policy of this Union on the basis of day-
best interests of the operatives, and therefore instructs the National
work system in conjunction with Quantity Statements."

UNEMPLOYMENT.
LEICESTER NO. 1." The Leicester Branch having already requested the
Executive of the Union to endeavour to make the Unemployment Benefit
payable at our offices and to be administered by our Union, hope that the
Council of the Union will persist in the effort to bring about a working
arrangement for our own industry, believing that such a scheme in which
we are to co-operate with the employers would be to the advantage and
convenience of our members."

VOTING.
LEICESTER NO. I." The Leicester Branch requests that branches failing to
take votes of the Union on matters when requested to do so by the Council
shall be reported to each Conference of the Union, it being fully recognised
that all the obligation of carrying out the rules of the Union is not and
must not be confined to the Officers and Executive of the Union; that
Branch Officers and Branch Executives are equally responsible in their
respective spheres.”
LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move.-" That the Council consider a different
method of taking the votes of members so as to ensure a decision being
the voice and will of at least a majority of the members of the Union on
any subject."
LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move." That women members of the Union
be invited to take their share in the management of the affairs of their
Union, and where branches are composed of women and men there shall
be facilities given for one or more women on all executives and com-
mittees which in any way deal with the general affairs of the Union, they
to be elected on the same principle adopted by the Trade Union Congress
and the National Labour Party."

AMALGAMATION.
NORTHAMPTON to move.-"That we amalgamate with other Leather
Industries."

COUNCIL'S ADDRESS.
PIONEER BOOT WORKS.
INCREASED TURNOVER IN 1920.
The annual meeting of the Pioneer Co-operative Boot Works Ltd., was held at the
Kingsway Hall, London, on Saturday, Mr. F. J. Green, J.P., presiding.
In his annual report, Mr. James Gribble, the manager, said the new addition to the
factory was complete, and machinery had been installed with a capacity to produce 1,000
pairs of boots per week. The turnover for 1920 was £18,901 85. 9d., which was £5,369
os. 2d. in excess of the total for the previous year. This had been done on a subscribed
capital of £4,834, which was not nearly enough; to carry a proper stock of boots and raw
material at least ₤8,000 was necessary. The share capital had increased during the year
to £1,572 Ios., and in the same period £1,906 125. was paid for plant and fittings and
completion of the building.
The profit disposable was £900 7s. 6d., and in accordance with rule the management
committee decided to apportion it as follows:-To the workers, £170; customers, £204;
shareholders, £204; education fund, ₤34; provident fund, 468; reserve fund, £200;
leaving £20 7s. 6d. to carry forward to the next account.-Northampton Echo, February
21st, 1921.


---
Here is the text from the image:

```text
Telephone No.
4438, Museum, London.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Telegraphic Address
"Natunishop, Molb., London."
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
NATIONAL UNION OF
koot and Shoe Operatives.
MONTHLY REPORT.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
21ST MARCH, 1921.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACT.
More Claims Settled.

During the month, through the efforts of Mr. Evan Barlow, five more cases
have been settled. At Leicester No. 1, A.M. secured £175; G.P. £300, and
J.B. £100 in addition to the weekly compensation. In the Leicester No. 2
Branch E.L. obtained £200 and H.P., of Kettering, £100; thus proving once
more the usefulness of having a powerful organisation at the back of the
members.
TRADE.
The state of Trade still remains bad in all parts of the country. The
amount of Out-of-Work Benefit paid out during the month was over £14,000,
and the number of members receiving benefit 11,027. The figures given in
the Labour Gazette are as follows:-
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
a large number of workpeople were totally unemployed; and the remainder, with few
During the greater part of February, employment in this trade continued very bad;
exceptions, were on short time. Towards the end of the month there was a slight improve-
ment at some centres, but other centres showed a further decline.
The aggregate wage-bill of the firms making Returns showed a reduction of about
24 per cent. as compared with a year earlier, in spite of the advance in rates of wages
in the number employed, and partly to a reduction in the average earnings, owing to short
granted last April. This reduction was due partly to a diminution of about 16 per cent.
time. Of the 32.000 workpeople covered by the Returns which gave information about
B
```

---
Here is the text from the image:

401
and Branch Labour Parties to take action in their several localities as requested
in the second resolution passed at the meeting held on January 27th, such
resolution being as follows:一
That the Report on Unemployment, together with the foregoing resolution, be:-
(1) Communicated to the Prime Minister for the consideration of the Cabinet;
(2) sent to every Member of the House of Commons;
or address public meetings
as they may think fit, and in particular, with the suggestion that they should take
the proposals before the
The Conference requests the Parliamentary Labour Party to take steps, if the Govern
on the subject, or by deputation, or otherwise.
ment has not in the meantime taken satisfactory action, to bring the matter before the
House of Commons at the very opening of the Session.
This Conference shall stand adjourned until Wednesday, February 23rd, to enable
the Executives of the Trade Unions to take the opinion of their members in order to decide
on any further steps that may be necessary to secure the adoption of its recommendations.
The proposals of the Government were made public in the early days of
the opening of Parliament, and it was at once seen that those proposals were
utterly inadequate to meet the situation. Regarding reports from Unions
and Labour Parties we cannot but express our regret that, judging by the
few reports given in to the Joint Committee, the resolution was not in any real
sense complied with as to local effort and influence being used to increase
the interest in this vital question. For ourselves we as a Union had between
50 and 60 special meetings, attended by thousands of our members and, as
previously reported, a vote was taken upon the question as to what we should
report to the adjourned Conference. The Conference after discussion passed
the following resolutions :-
RESOLUTION I.
"That this Conference, representative of the whole Labour Movement, is of opinion
that the Government's policy of merely extending the Unemployment Insurance Act is
lamentably inadequate to meet the present situation, and bears little relation to the
existing human suffering; and emphatically reiterates its demand that comprehensive
steps be taken to restore international trade and to organise without delay national schemes
of work, and that those for whom no employment is provided should be found adequate
maintenance.
"The Conference concurs with the proposal of the Parliamentary Labour Party
that every possible step should be taken to press this question on the attention of the
House of Commons, and to insist that the Government should take immediate action
for the benefit of the unemployed.
"The Conference further invites the Executive Committee of every Trade Union to
secure the affiliation of all its branches to the local Labour Parties and bring all its members
actively into political work, in order to take the earliest possible steps to promote a Labour
candidate for every constituency in which this has not yet been done.
"The Conference further declares that every opportunity should be taken to use
the Bye-Elections as a means of bringing pressure to bear on the Government by defeating
every Coalition candidate.
"In conclusion, the Conference calls upon every wage-earning elector in East Wool-
refusal of the Governmen ato deal adequately with Unemployment by voting for the Labour
reich, Dudley, Penistone and Kirkcaldy Boroughs to mark his or her sense of the callous
Candidates."
RESOLUTION II.
"That this National Labour Conference views with apprehension the apparently
and Dumping, and instructs the Executive Committee of the Labour Party and the Parlia-
mentary Committee of the Trades Union Congress:
(a) To consider the Government's Bill as early as possible in order to define the
attitude of the British Labour Movement towards the measure;

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

403
meetings to authorise us on their behalf to deal with those members who have
or no out-of-work pay on the
no income, whether from lack of employment
same lines and in the same manner as was done with those members who
joined the forces in the late war; each member must make his own claim for
exemption of payment under the cheme. Branches must send in the result
of their vote (which may be taken other than by ballot) upon the question
not later than the 14th prox. If the vote is in favour of giving us such authority
the instructions will at once be sent out as to date of applying same.
LONDON CONFERENCE, 1921.
The result of the Voting for delegates to Conference will be found on
pages 414-417.
HALF-YEARLY REPORT AND MEMBERS' NAMES APPEARING
THEREIN.
According to Rule 246, which reads as follows :-
2.46. All registered numbers shall be affixed to the names of the members who
have received sick pay, in the Half-yearly Report.
it is incumbent to name the individual amounts of money paid each
member during any half year in the Report. This method has also been
carried out in relation to Out-of-Work Pay. The recent Half-yearly Report
as a consequence of this regulation had no fewer than 243 pages taken up with
members' names and the amounts paid them. In our opinion this method,
which is very expensive indeed, is no longer necessary, and we purpose therefore
in future Half-yearly Reports to only put in the Report the aggregate amount
paid out by each Branch. We feel sure the Branches will support this proposal.
At the same time we hope every Branch will keep a detailed record of all moneys
paid out to each member upon a card system, so that the same can be immedi-
ately referred to when members claim benefit, and thereby ascertain if they
are entitled to the benefit they put in a claim for.
It must, however, be clearly understood by Branch Secretaries that the
FULL details of payments to members, whether Sick Pay or Out-of-Work Pay,
must still be sent to the Central Office (as at present) with the Monthly Returns.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENΤΗ!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of branch secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. Last month many returns were late.
Branches failed to send off their returns to reach the Central Office by the
15th of the month, and this tends to upset the organisation of the work in
the General Secretary's office. We trust in future every branch secretary
will endeavour to get in his returns NOT later than the fifteenth of every month,
and before sending them see that they are properly signed.
C


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

A.U.C.E.
407
We have also been very busy with a decision given in our favour and against the
Amalgamated Union of Co-operative Employees, who after accepting this decision at the
1012 Congress, afterwards refused to carry the same into effect, and ultimately withdrew
from Congress in 1915, but matters have been so unsatisfactory to them that they have
formed an amalgamation with a body already members of Congress, and have applied for
affiliation, tentatively. The Parliamentary Committee have been unable to refuse the
body already affiliated, but have not committed themselves in regard to the new body.
My own view is that as the body referred to, viz., the Amalgamated Union of Co-operative
Employees, was poaching our members as late as November of last year, we shall endeavour
at the earliest opportunity to wait upon the Parliamentary Committee, and also I expect
we shall be raising the question at the Trade Union Congress meeting in Cardiff in September
with other Unions affected. It will be a sorry day for the Trade Union movement if people
can unblushingly throw to the winds the principle of first of all organising on a selfish
basis according to the particular power which public opinion can exercise over the bodies
Employees. These bodies started originally with the confidence that the general public
in authority, such as Government Employees, Municipal Workers and Co-operative
Fould stand behind them, but in every instance of late years the movement has demanded
that organisations shall not be known by the Employers' Associations or Societies, but
shall be part and parcel of all employees of one particular craft, trade or calling.
Burley Boot Co., of Leicester.
On the 25th February I had occasion to visit the firm known as the Burley Boot
C of Leicester, where notice had been given of a reduction in wages. This firm not being
feierated an investigator was asked for. I attended, saw the firm, who immediately
saw their difficulty, decided to put Lasters and Finishers on Piecework, which met with
our requirements, and put the Dayworkers back at their old rates.
Lasting Committee of the County Board.
On Tuesday, March 1st, I attended a Lasting Committee of the County Board, in
respect of several disputes, and we appointed an Umpire owing to a deadlock.
WELLINGBOROUGH.-On Wednesday I had occasion to go to Wellingborough to
investigate a question regarding Unemployment, which was found to be quite satisfactory.
Trade Board Matters.
On Monday, the 7th, I was asked by the Ministry of Labour to meet the Secretary,
Sir David Shackleton, on several important points which we had referred to the Ministry
of Labour regarding our opposition to attitudes assumed.
The first was in regard to a Foreman at a certain firm. This matter has been on
quite six months, and although there has been three Inspectors to see the man in question,
they all admit the man so changes his position that if they put him in the witness-box
they would not be responsible for what he may say, and they don't think therefore it would
be a good case to take to the Courts.
Another case is one about which I have not only written to the Ministry of Labour but
have raised the matter with the Parliamentary Committee of the Trade Union Congress,
and the Special Committee appointed by the Parliamentary Committee who look after the
interests of Trade Boards, and I have also seen the Ministry of Labour before upon this point
regarding the right of an employer to deduct a receipt stamp of 2d. from a man's wages, as to
whether this is permitted by the law or not; and although this matter has been in the hands
of the Ministry since October, there is such a difference of opinion in the minds of lawyers
in general, that if I could give personal advice and take personal responsibility I should
tell our men that wherever this deduction took place to at once stop work until the money
was given back again. In fact I hope that if anything happens anywhere that the officials
or members will immediately write to the Central Office for advice, and the point as to
whether it is legal to deduct such from a man's wages in accordance with the Act, is not
yet settled, although Mr. Bowerman has asked the question for us in Parliament, as follows:
QUESTION NO. 69.
MR. BOWERMAN: To ask the Minister of Labour if he is aware that certain employers
in the boot and shoe industry are deducting from their operatives' wages 2d. for a receipt
stamp where their earnings exceed £2, whether a deduction of this nature in connection
with the payment of wages can be held to be legal; and, if not, will the department so
inform the employers in question upon being supplied with definite information ?
ANSWER, BY SIR MONTAGU BARLOW. The question whether such action would be
legal appears to be one for the Courts to determine. A case has been brought to my
attention in which a receipt stamp has been required by an employer in the Boot Repairing
trade to which the Trade Boards Acts have been applied. The question has arisen as to
whether the payment for the stamp by the worker constitutes a deduction within the
meaning of the Acts, and the matter is at present under consideration.


---
Our third question was a protest upon Non-Unionists being on the Trade Board,
the Government having geographical notions and not representative notions, and from
that point of view their action has not given us satisfaction, and we have warned them
that although the Boards are already set for this year, another year we shall refuse to work
on the Trade Board with Non-Unionists. I should like to make it clear that this only
happens in isolated places and on the District Boards. It does not apply to the Central
Board in London.
The Ministry has also taken up the question of a firm who tried to prevent His Majesty's
Inspectors from inspecting. They say it is illegal, and cannot be permitted.
Another question was one of our members who was discharged by his employer for
accepting nominations on behalf of the Government for a seat on the District Board.
Unfortunately in this case the Inspector did not see our member's employer, and therefore
it is believed that no good purpose would be served by pressing it further.
The sixth point I had to complain of was and is that the Government in sending for
a man from Scotland to do the work which a man in London could do. and much more to
our satisfaction because he happens to have a wider experience. My only complaint
against this is that the Government asks that we shall not waste money, and this recom-
mendation will cost £7 a meeting more than the other one would have done, if our advice
had been taken in the first instance.
We have been promised by Sir David that these matters shall be treated in a very
considerate and sympathetic manner.

Union's New Demand.
On Tuesday I had an interview with the President of the Federation in regard to
the scheme for Unemployment, and he is sorry to say that so far as he is concerned it will
be impossible for any member of his side, who spends some four days per week in London
now, to give any time to the unemployment scheme this side of Easter, but he hopes to
be able to arrange a meeting afterwards. As Mr. Marlow's statements are now public
property, it will be as well for me to say here when I pressed for a meeting with their side.
said privately as he has said publicly, that his side
thing they possibly can to keep the factories going, and in some instances are not able
are so upset owing to bad trade and other causes in fact many members are doing every-
to earn the wages that are required to pay the men that the present time is most in-
opportune, and unfortunately for us, to try and press upon his members a meeting. How
far and how long he cannot say, but his view is that it will be useless to attempt or endeavour
to hold a meeting before Whitsuntide. Whether the Council will agree with that, is a
matter for further consideration.

Sewer Boots.
On the roth I had occasion to visit Wellingborough, Rushden, and Kettering, with
the object of finding out what was the method adopted in making Sewer Boots, Firemen's
Boots, Fishermen's Boots, which are very often 36 ins. high, Napoleons, and other Boots
of a similar character, in order that our friends in Yarmouth and District may not be
placed at a disadvantage. I shall endeavour at the earliest opportunity to let our
members in Yarmouth know the difference between the two. Very largely, almost
exclusively, one district does their work entirely by hand and other districts are doing
it mainly by machinery. This is the old grievance and is likely to be a grievance for some
time to come. Some people prefer the hand-sewn boot, others prefer the lower priced
article even if it happens to be the more shoddy.

Stamped Boots.
I have one other statement to make, that is, there is a movement afoot for a boot
to be placed on the market bearing a particular stamp. I don't think that anyone con-
nected with the National Union would object to such a boot if the stamp would guarantee
its purity, but at the same time it must also guarantee that it is made under Trade Union
conditions and by Trade Union labour, and I hope members of the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives (who may be the only organisation in the Boot and Shoe Trade
that has a National Agreement with the Emplovers covered by a Guarantee Bond) will
insist upon their footwear bearing the Trade Union Stamp.

34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. I.
March 18th, 1921.
Rihards
General President


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

410
PARLIAMENTARY AGENT'S REPORT.
The House of Commons is once again in full working order, though perhaps viewed
from the standpoint of output it leaves much to be desired. The Government have claimed
all the time of the House up till Easter, and up to the present have been engaged chiefly
upon estimates.
There has been an amendment of the Unemployment Insurance Act whereby the
benefits are increased, to be followed later by an increased contribution. It is worth
noting that the rate of benefit now established is that which the Government refused last
year, though strongly urged to do so by the Labour Party. We shall be told of the enor-
mous number of Bills this wonderful Government has passed, but no mention will be
made of the fact that some have been necessary to correct their own failures.
The Labour Party took the fullest advantage of the various debates to press home
the policy laid down at the Special Conferences, and the passing of the 20s. benefit was
undoubtedly forced by the Party's amendment for 40s. It is however a poor amount
to face present-day needs upon, and further it would be much better had some schemes
of work been started whereby men and women could have earned wages rather than
receive benefit, and as I endeavoured to point out when speaking, to develop a foreign
policy which will permit of export trade, which at the moment is at a standstill.
It is with the greatest regret one is compelled to point out that there is little or no
prospect of anything like a general revival in trade; the productive capacity of the nation
can soon meet the demands of the home market, and with that market contracting as a
result of unemployment and under-employment, trade with other countries must be
made possible before the wheels of industry will turn again at full speed.
But the policy of this. Government and its Allies seemed to be designed to prevent
this taking place, and the debate upon the Coal Decontrol Bill shews conclusively what
effect the Peace Treaty is having in the Coal Industry. The export of Coal is practically
stopped, and the markets we used to have are being supplied with coal taken from the
Germans. The miners of Germany are working like slaves for comparatively low wages
to supply French capitalists with coal, who are using it to supply the markets that used
to receive coal from this country. What the Miners are getting out of the War at present
is intensified unemployment, and the country is being taxed to pay them out-of-work
benefit. But what matter, the man who won the war is still in charge and we must con-
tinue to trust him!
On Friday last the "German Reparation Bill" was introduced. This is an attempt
to compel Germany to pay for the War, and it aims at imposing a tax of 50 per cent. on all
German goods coming into this country. The English merchant who buys is to pay hali
the amount of his purchase to the British Government, and I suppose when sending the
remaining half to the German from whom he bought the goods he will forward a receipt
for the sum paid to the Treasury. We all know that owing to the rates of exchange,
Germany has an advantage in trading with this country, and bearing that in mind I would
like to submit the following to the consideration of our members. When once it is estab-
lished that every (I spent in buying goods from Germany means ros. paid off her debt to
us, it will I suppose be the patriotic duty of everyone to buy as much as possible from her.
All such cries as keeping out the German goods will cease. They must come here so that
we may receive the indemnity. Recently in the House of Commons I heard a member
declare that he knew of German goods being sold in this country at 6d. which could not
be produced and sold here for less than 3s. 6d. Only last week it was stated that German
gloves were being sold for 10s. 6d., which cost 25s. to be produced in England, and I may
add a strong appeal has been issued by those connected with the glove industry begging
that German goods may be kept out of this country.

Now, this is the point upon which I want some explanation. First let us bear in mind
we are taking half the selling price from the German producer. But suppose, in regard
to those articles that he can sell at 6d. as against our 3s. 6d.. he doubles the price, he will
still be selling 2s. 6d. below the British production, and in regard to the gloves, supposing
they are sold at 215. instead of IOS. 6d., they are still 4s. cheaper than our own goods.
and therefore because they are cheaper and because we shall get half the money they may
still be sold in this country. If this is so, what I want to know is, who is paying the
indemnity? A prize of 1 for the first correct answer sent in !
It is perhaps worth mentioning that Mr. Lloyd George declares that the Germans
must send their goods here or they will be faced with unemployment of an unprecedented
character in their own country. May I put another question: If Germany sending coal
to France put thousands of miners out of work both in France as well as England, what
will be the position of the workers in these other industries if Germany "must send her
goods here"? There is no prize offered for this answer, it's too simple.
accomplished that task for us is still at the head of affairs. God is in his heaven and all
But whatever else happens, let us not forget we won the war, and the man who
is well with the world.
a
C
i
t
a
E
P
a
S
te
it
[T


---
Here is the text from the image:

411
This question will be under discussion next week and I may return to it in my next
report.
Perhaps the most interesting happenings during the past few weeks have been the
bre-clections, where we have won three out of four. The three being distinct gains while
the fourth meant the loss of a seat to us. While Woolwich was a great disappointment
the others were most encouraging. With these results before us, let us realise that it
place, nor for that matter even the General Election. In every constituency Labour must
may be our turn next. We never know where or when the next bye-election will take
when unity and solidarity must exist. Many are the devices used against us; no lie is
be ready. This is not the time to magnify little, petty differences. These are the times
too foul, no slander foo great to use against the Labour man or woman.
that, and it is only by good, sound organisation prepared before-hand shall we win through.
Woolwich proved
”
Re-
The whole working-class position is in jeopardy, the nation is drifting towards the
rapids. Those in power have no conception of their duty or responsibility. The only cry
raised and apparently the only way out of the situation is to "reduce wages.'
construction" is to take the form of rebuilding once again the old world, with all its horrors.
All that was promised to a people called upon for a great national effort is forgotten now
the effort has succeeded. This is still to be a world based upon excess.
Excessive wealth
on the one hand, excessive poverty on the other. At least this is what it will be unless
we prevent it. Are we doing our best? Are we rising to our responsibilities? Some-
times I think not, and because of that negligence the others grow bolder and fiercer. Some
is the means adopted to settle differences, as though the folly of that method was not
sufficiently proven. There is less liberty now than ever.
Those who condemn the policy
of direct action by the people are adopting it every hour of the day. They are using their
power against us, power that we have handed to them or permitted them to take. In
the House of Commons they grow bolder and bolder. Only a few months ago when
industrial difficulties arose, they said to Labour, let us consult together, let us find a bridge
by which we may escape from the torrent, and Labour responded practically every time.
But now when the industrial circumstance is against us, they not only do not ask for
consultation, but refuse it. I hope the worst fears of the Miners' leaders will not be realised,
but if they are, then God help us! But what I ask is what are we doing and what are we
intending to do?
During the month I took part in three of the bye-elections as well as visiting my own
constituency.
WALTER R. SMITH,
March 13th, 1921.
FOOD CONTROLLER ON FALLING PRICES.
Ministry that has Cost the Taxpayer Nothing.
"In a few weeks' time the Ministry of Food will cease to exist.
"We have every confidence that food prices will continue to fall during the spring
and summer, and that better times are in store for the much-harassed housewife."
Such was the optimistic forecast of Mr. McCurdy, the Food Controller, at the final
meeting of the Labour Food Conference in the London County Hall on Saturday.
He said that for the last six months the Ministry had been engaged in the liquidation
of the world's greatest trading corporation. The business carried on by the Food Ministry
involved a turnover of more than a thousand million pounds, and on that enormous
turnover the Ministry's net profit amounted to less than one-tenth of 1 per cent.
He claimed that successive Food Ministers had substantially achieved their purpose
as trustees of the nation. The operations of the Ministry had cost the taxpayer nothing.
Exit the Food Ministry.
In a few weeks' time, as Mr. McCurdy reminded us on Saturday, the Food Ministry
will have ceased to exist as a separate department. But we must not forget the great
part that it played in the war, and indeed for some time after the war, in steering us through
a period of economic stress. At a time when food was dangerously scarce it organised
supply, and eked it out by an exemplary system of rationing, and by fixing prices pro-
tected the consumer from exploitation. Before the Ministry was created, food
prices were rising higher in Great Britain than in any other European country;
it stands to its credit that at the end of the war prices were lower here than any-
where on the Continent.-London Chronicle, February 28th, 1921.
[There is no sort of doubt that this Department, which had a Council attached to it called
"The Consumers' Council," saved the consumers, as against the distributors, millions
of pounds. What is wanted is a Council which could continue to protect the con-
sumers.-E.L.P., Gen. Sec.]


---
Here is the text from the image:

112
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.

FELLOW OFFICERS AND MEMBERS,
During the month I have attended the Trade Board re the Handsewn and Repair
Work question. A meeting of the Administration Committee has also been held, at which
I was present, to deal with the question of Trainees and Permits and Apprenticeships.
At the full Board meeting a long discussion took place on the increased minimum wage,
and it was agreed to recommend an increase from 65s. minimum to 72s. minimum per week.
At this meeting the question of piecework was deferred on account of the diversity of
opinion on the amount of earnings of pieceworkers. Investigations will be made in the
various areas, and this matter will have further consideration at the next meeting.
I attended the Special Trades Union Congress re the attitude of the Trade Union
Movement on the Unemployed question. The Congress fell very flat with regard to Direct
Action, and decided that political action was the proper course to pursue.
I have also attended a Special Conference held for the purpose of forming a Constitu-
tion of various Unions represented on the Trade Board, such constitution being agreed to.
With a view to organisation I visited Sileby. I interviewed the Secretary of the
Branch, and found that, with the exception of one factory, very short time is the prevailing
order.
I have held meetings at Syston of operatives working at Eatough's, a branch of an
Earl Shilton firm, who promised to become members of the Union.
At Shepshed, I had a conversation with Mr. Johnson, the Secretary, re amalgamation
with the Sileby Branch, in view of his expressed desire to be relieved of the Secretaryship.
I found he is now out of work, against above-mentioned amalgamation, and desires to
continue as Secretary for the Branch for the time being. The firm here is on short time.
Mr. Emmett Law and myself have visited Leicester to make investigations regarding
Ald. Hill's Candidature for South Leicester. According to instructions a report has
already been forwarded to Head Office.
JOHNNIE BUCKLE.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since my last report I have addressed meetings on Unemployment at Nottingham,
Derby and Melton Mowbray. The meeting at the last-named place was particularly
good considering the membership. I attended the Council meeting on February 20th
and 21st. On the 22nd Messrs. Buckle, Bleakley and I spoke outside three small factories
in Hackney. On the 23rd we had the Joint Conference on Unemployment. This was
the Adjourned Conference, where we expected to hear reports from the affiliated bodies
as to what action should be taken to force the hands of the Government and show them
at the same time that the Labour Party in Parliament had a real backing in the country.
The Conference was a great disappointment, our Union being the only one that went to
any trouble and expense to bring the question before its members in a business-like way.
On the 24th Mr. A. Mason and I had an interview with Mr. Levin, Mare Street, Hackney.
because of piecework rates to lasters being below the average. At night Mr. W. Bray
and I had a meeting of the men. On the 25th I talked to the workers of two shops in
Well Street. At night I attended the Branch Committee meeting. The position of
Levin's shop was discussed, and it was agreed to give every support to the men.
position at this shop was reported to the Head Office. On the 28th, Mr. Mason and I
E. L. Poulton, General Secretary, on the state of things at Levin's. He consented to the
again tried to settle over prices at Levin's, but failed to agree. On March 1st I saw Mr.
withdrawal of the lasters, there were seven of them, and advised that all others should
give a week's notice. Six out of the seven lasters obeyed our instructions and the weekly
wage men agreed to give a week's notice on the Friday. We continued our efforts in trying
to bring about a peaceful settlement, but it was only when the employer realised that
we had all of the men with us except one, that he came to a reasonable frame of mind.
On March 8th we settled the business to the satisfaction of the men. The advances that
cent. Before I came on the scene in this dispute, Mr. Mason and Mr. Bray had tried to
we gained compared to what was obtaining amounted to an all-round increase of 33 per
arrange prices on a fair basis. It was of no avail that they had a good case.
drawal of labour here strengthened trade union logic. On March 9th, Mr. A. Mason
and I went to St. Albans. We spoke to the workers at Freshwater's in the dinner hour.
This shop has fallen off of late. At night the members turned up in good numbers to the
monthly meeting.
the Union.
The with-
to work on the prices we fixed up here. I should say here, that as a result of the many
shop in Bethnal Green. My old shopmates at Leicester used to this work would be glad
On the roth we settled a dispute re prices on hand lasting and finishing at a small
small disputes we have had in London recently (with the exception of one shop), the
not a single instance 1 as there been anything but thanks from the men for the help of
membership has been increased and made more solid. Prices have been kept up and in


---
A firm named Chissicks which I organised
away, and to-day only three members are there. The workers have been reduced by a
week and other departments in proportion. I have visited this place several times and
for their want of interest in themselves. The clickers have been reduced by a
have called a meeting of them for the 18th.
Time cribbing. I have heard of this old practice of trying to pinch a few minutes
out of the dinner hour from the workers being still the custom in a few shops in London.
Workers are entitled to the full hour or whatever time agreed on for dinner. As workers
are not allowed to be outside the factory before the bell rings or the hooter blows (or is
it hoots ?) so they should not be expected to be inside the gates or door till after the last
hoot of the hooter. I don't believe in particular fractions on this matter, but it must not
be a one-sided affair. Branch officers could settle little matters like this easily if they
were only kept in touch with them by the members.
March 15th, 1021.
IMPORTANCE OF HEALTH.
Foundation of Efficiency.
D. MCCARTHY.
Discussions on health as a matter affecting personal efficiency were recently held at
the "Daily Mail" Exhibition. Sir Sims Woodhead presided, and said that during the
war a number of scientific men devoted the whole of their time and energy to keeping
our great armies in a fit condition to perform their task. The same thing had now to be
done for the army of workers in mills and mines and their wives and families. Health
was the foundation of efficiency. He deprecated the pressing of the anti-waste campaign
to a point which involved false economy. If we cut down expenditure on the health,
education, and training of the people we should impair our efficiency in the future.
Sir H. Baldwin read a paper in which he said that over 90 per cent. of the population
of this country was affected by dental caries-a condition which might result in chronic
poisoning and ill-health. The serious ravages of caries and its disastrous consequences
as met with to-day were entirely preventible. It was partly a question of education ;
partly of food and feeding ; partly of method of our hygiene; and partly of a little dentistry
at the right time.
Venereal Disease.
Mr. E. B. Turner read a paper in which he described venereal disease as one of the
most prominent factors in reducing the efficiency both of the individual and the nation.
Gonorrhœa was often not taken at its true value. It was both dangerous in itself, leading
to many other illnesses, and capable of causing far-reaching mischief to others. Practically
all the people who were seen begging in the streets with the placard "Born blind" were
not born blind, but became blind because their mothers were suffering from this illness.
Speaking of syphilis, he said that one of the worst forms of madness with which the medical
profession had to deal was found in the class of cases described as " general paralysis of
the insane," which only affected those who suffered from the late stages of syphilis.
Thousands upon thousands of pounds were paid out each year as sick benefit in cases of
these and other late manifestations of syphilis, and the after-effects of gonorrhea were
responsible for very many weeks of sick pay. Speaking of the conditions which were
favourable to fighting venereal disease, he mentioned temperance-alcohol lessened a
man's power of resistance both to temptation and to disease; better housing-they could
not expect people living 12 in a room to be moral; and the provision of suitable recreation.
In the case of soldiers he had found an appeal to chivalry successful.
Tuberculosis.
Dr. Latham dealt with the prevention of tuberculosis. As a proof that the disease
is preventible he pointed out that post-mortem records showed that practically everyone
who died from other causes had evidences in his body of cured tuberculosis. The essential
thing in the prevention of the disease was the provision of healthy conditions of life; as
long as we lived in healthy conditions we retained our vitality and could defy the tubercle
bacillus. The effect of devitalising conditions had been shown by the war. The death
rate from tuberculosis doubled in Berlin between 1913 and 1918, and in Vienna to-day
50 per cent. of the children under 10 were said to be suffering from tuberculosis. He
urged the importance of beginning the treatment of tuberculosis in the really early stages
of the disease before it became infectious. Pleurisy, which in the adolescent was often
regarded as a trivial complaint, accounted for 20 per cent. of our consumptives three or
four years later. Blood-spitting and increasing lassitude with fever were also too often
disregarded. A few months' treatment at this stage would often restore the balance and
lead to health.-National Insurance Gazette, 26th February, 1921.


---
Here is the text from the image:

418
CONDITIONS IN UPPER SILESIA.
The Interational Trade Union Bureau had before them recently the question of the
working conditions obtaining in such country. The Bureau decided to obtain if at all
possible, first hand information upon the subject. The Parliamentary Committee of the
Trade Union Congress appointed me to attend on their behalf. I had some difficulty in
securing the consent of the German authorities here in London to visit the country, they
raising the question as to it being a political mission. I was eventually able to satisfy
them that it was purely a trade union matter and the passports were granted to me.
Johaux from France was objected to by the French, but in his case the objections were
and Holland, and they met in BERLIN on the 6th March, 1921. It was then found that
overruled. The delegation consisted of representatives from Germany, Poland, France,
the German authorities objected to the delegation going at all to Silesia. This, I imagine,
was on account of the fact that the vote for keeping with Germany or selecting Poland as
their country was about to be taken. We decided to get there if at all possible, and there-
fore went to BRESLAU, a city not far from the borders of Silesia, where we tried to secure
local passports, but again failed. We also tried again in Berlin, through the French
We also found out that owing to the intensive propaganda
authorities, but without success.
going on that the Silesian authorities were objecting to strangers going over the border.
this on account of the fear of influencing the vote against what they wanted to obtain
Thus there was no other course but for us to adopt the idea of getting back to Berlin.
Several matters however of general interest took place which I venture to set out herewith.
to the trade union offices I
lorry with about a dozen police. The police still have revolvers and bayonets, and in some
cases riffes. In this case they had no rifles. About three minutes after passing this lorry
with the police in I saw a number of people in a procession and by this time found they
Then I found out that this was
were making for a building about 50 yards in front of us.
the building where we were going, and the police with others were defending it. The
procession was of the communist unemployed. They had defied their executive, the
executive had expelled them and they had apparently come down to forcibly take the
building. Fortunately Herr Wissell was with us, and as he is a member of the Reichstag
we had no difficulty in getting through when he produced his passports. These men had
a meeting outside the hall lasting for about an hour, and the distinctly humorous side of
it was the speakers used the motor lorry as a platform which had brought up the police.
In connection with the German propaganda for securing the vote in favour of con-
tinuing with Germany I may say all over Berlin are posters appealing for votes to be cast
in support of Germany as against Poland, and in one window in Breslau I saw an interesting
document of 14 pictures, seven representing German conditions and seven Polish, shewing
how much better the treatment is in Germany when in sickness, general conditions of
working, better conditions of agricultural labourers, houses, old age pensions, &c., whilst
in the Polish case the conditions were as bad as pictures could possibly depict.
We arrived back in Berlin about 10 p.m. on the 9th inst., and had a surprise, One
of the Polish delegates owing to our changing compartments in the train apparently left
his wallet in the previous compartment and did not miss the same until we got out of the
train at Berlin. He went to find his wallet and what happened I could not absolutely
ascertain, but at any rate he was placed under arrest. I did not see this because it was
with someone who had come to meet us in, because I saw a man with his head bandaged
and blood all
us.
I thought there had been a
nothing
As we did not appear to be leaving the platform I asked Fimmen which way we were
going out, and he said there was some difficulty and we had to go downstairs into a small
room and there found ourselves with seven policemen and three or four superior officials.
A good deal of talk took place which was all dumbshow to me (not knowing the language),
and ultimately Fimmen told me we had to go on account of this wallet to the Chief Com-
missioner of Police.
said I found out he wished to apologise but had to do his duty. We arrived at the head-
Two taxis were provided for us with an inspector who sat beside the driver and a
policeman inside. One sat opposite to me, and although I did not understand what he
regarding the offending wallet and its contents. Two or three separate interviews took
quarters of the Chief Commissioner of Police where further investigations took place
two stations before reaching Berlin. Fimmen insisted upon ringing him up and also Herr
place between the Poles and also Fimmen. We were without Wissell who had left us
Simon another member of the Reichstag, which seemed to make matters better for us.
give to the delegation which was purely on trade union work. Ultimately the Police
I understand Wissell gave them a bit of his own mind and the bad impression it would
were satisfied and said we could leave, and after apologising they took us in taxis to our
hotels. I understand they first of all thought it was a criminal offence and later a political
offence. We arrived at our hotels about 12.20 a.m.
1

---
Here is the text from the image:

419
The following day we had a meeting in one of the Committee rooms of the Reichstag
to talk over the general position, the result of which was to call a special meeting of the
Bureau to go into the whole question, and there being such a near inter-relation between
some of the things we contemplated doing and those taking place in London anent the
Treaty that we thought it best to see if some arrangements could not be made to swmount
the difficulties. Herr Wissell suggested it might be worth consideration that they should
pay under the Treaty arrangements, but meantime an independent commission should be
set up to go into the matter and whatever such commission decided it should be adopted
by all parties.
Upon leaving Fimmen I went to meet other delegates and Johaux also had business,
so I walked down the Unter den Linden, when I saw a crowd and about 50 soldiers marching
in column with rifles, and ultimately they scattered the crowd. Sceing I was by myself
and not being able to speak the language I made for my hotel, and found it was another
lot of unemployed who had broken bounds and the police were dispersing them.
I left Berlin on Friday morning and arrived in London about midday Saturday,
the 12th inst. I regret we were not successful in securing the ends set out, but it was
certainly not through any fault of the members of the commission itself, but was due to
the present unrestful state of the country, and also as stated earlier to the vote being taken
Silesia which the Germans are anxious to keep and the Poles are anxious to secure it
for themselves also. I noticed at some of the railway stations and at Breslau particularly,
they had already began to excite the people this being the first day those with permits
were allowed to cross the border and the stations were garlanded with flowers, flags,
lestoons, and some bands were playing, all this being done to excite interest in the matter
and so secure a majority for Germany.
E. L. Poulton.
EXTRACT FROM “VORWAERTS” OF 15th MARCH, 1921.
Return Journey of the International Trades Union Commission.
BERLIN, IOTH MARCH.-Last night, in consequence of a regrettable misunderstanding,
some members of the International Trades Union Commission returning from Upper
Silesia, were arrested at one of the railway stations here by an official of the Railway
Supervisory Service, and taken to the offices of the Chief Commissioner of Police. Here
the error was at once explained and the delegates set at liberty, being conveyed to their
hotels in cabs placed at their disposal by the officials.
We have now received further particulars regarding this unfortunate occurrence.
The Delegation, consisting of Comrades Fimmen (Holland), Jouhaux (France), Poulton
England), together with the Chief Reporter of the French Trade Union Paper" Le Peuple,"
Harmel, Wissell (Germany), and Comrades Zulawski, M.P. and Teller, M.P., Secretary
of the Polish Metal Workers' Union, had been instructed to carry out an investigation into
the present conditions prevailing in Upper Silesia, in view of the impending vote in that
country. As already announced, the delegates were refused passports at the express
command of General Le Rond. In spite of the lack of passports, however, the delegates
decided to travel as near the Frontier of Upper Silesia as possible, by going to Breslau,
and gathering there what information might be available. Yesterday afternoon they
returned from Breslau to Berlin, which city they reached about 9.30 in the evening.
Comrade Wissell who lives in the South-East got out at the Silesian Station. The
other representatives went on to the Friedrichstrasse Station. When they got out of the
train, the Polish delegate Teller found he had left his wallet in another compartment near
by.
When he had found it and was about to take possession of it, a railway supervisory
official, in uniform, declared that he must confiscate the wallet and arrest its owner. The
other Trade Union representatives, upon going up to enquire, were also placed under
arrest with him. Explanations having been given as to their identity, this intelligent
official said, "The German Michael must wake up again." The delegates were then
brought to the railway guard room at Friedrichstrasse, but although they showed their
papers they were not set at liberty, being brought by the police in motors to the office of
the Chief Commissioner of Police. Arrived there, they were taken first of all to the Criminal
Investigation Department, and Comrade Teller had to undergo an investigation lasting
lhalf an hour, during which the other delegates were sternly forbidden to speak to one
another. Finally, the Criminal Investigation Department declared it was not a case for
them, and the delegates were then taken to Police Dept. IA. There, in contrast with the
previous attitude of the officials, the delegates were treated with the greatest civility
and respect. At once the Commissioner got into communication with Comrade Wissell,
and after a few minutes, the delegates were released. The patriotic official who has acted
in this foolish manner should be held responsible for thus injuring German interests,
and diminishing the impression that had been produced by Le Rond's refusal to grant
passports to the members of the T.U. Commission. Extract from Vorwaerts, of 15th
March, 1921.
D


---
Here is the text from the image:

420
BRANCH REPORTS.
BELFAST Trade has become very much worse during the month, dis-
missals and short time being the general condition with us at present. Sickness
is much above the average. We can only hope that a change for the better
will soon come, although so far as it is possible to see the change is not in sight.
Again we would appeal to the members to take an intelligent interest in the
workings of the Branch. We would also draw the attention of all members
of being able to get the benefits when under eight weeks in arrears is most
in arrears; benefits can only be obtained by those in good standing, the margin
generous on behalf of the Union, and we do not think is conceded by any other
trade organisation, and if members fail to keep themselves right the fault
is theirs and not the officials. It would almost seem that it will be necessary
for us to take very firm action with those members who have lapsed. It is
difficult to understand why it is that some workers require to be compelled
to remain within the organisation, which has for its object their social better-
ment.
BRISTOL No. 2 AND KINGSWOOD. - We can only report that trade
is bad, worse than it was a month ago. In the Kingswood area we have
factories closing down firms of repute, who previously have always been
able to get orders, but now everything seems lifeless. At present there seems
no prospect of a lighter out-of-work bill, and the number who have drawn
their full amount and are still unemployed is increasing. A few are on relief
work, alternate weeks, but we have sufficient unemployed to build a " New
the reparation" committee
World," and we can supply a good number when the
start operations. We think they should start in Ireland; it is not far from
home, and our people could get home week-ends. We are under the impression
that there is a Reparation Department attached to the present Government
and that they really do intend to make this world a nice, quie, happy place
to live in.
CHESHAM.-Trade here is still very bad with no sign of improving.
Our Branch President and Secretary have been nominated, with two others,
by our Local Labour Party to contest four seats at the forthcoming U.D.C.
Election, and our members are being urged to turn up at the poll and use
their vote in the Labour interest. We are pleased to acknowledge further dona-
tions from Kingswood and Chesterfield Branches for Comrade Badminton.
CHESTERFIELD.-Trade is very bad, a good proportion of our members
working only 24 hours per week. The Repairing side seems to be as bad
as the making. Our sick list is heavy at the time of writing. We are still
members through the summer months. We do not think we can ever remember
trade being as bad as it is to-day.
out of work since last December.
CORK. - Trade remains bad here, the majority of our members being
Meeting which was held to hear Mr. Bleakley on the Unemployment question
EDINBURGH. - Trade in this district is still very quiet. The Special
was only moderately attended, the night being against a full muster. We are
What we should like to see is every member in one shop being given an equal
taking up the matter of distribution of work in one of our Repairing factories.
chance to earn his livelihood. There has been some misunderstanding in
benefit have to notify Labour Exchange of desire to transfer from a direct
claim to an indirect claim through their Union. Our Repairing Section are
t Scheme; the members already receiving
taking over the State Unemployment


---
Here is the text from the image:

421
rather disappointed at the new minimum wage agreed to at last Wages Trade
Board Meeting; they expected at least 75s. per week, which in all truth is
small enough at the present cost of living. The Labour Gazette reads that there
is a fall in food prices, but when the housewife does some purchasing it is not
very apparent.

HALESWORTH. - We find no improvement in the trade as far as heavy
work is concerned and the future does not look very promising at present;
all the operatives here are working just over 33 hours per week: for quite a
month we worked for 43 hours, several orders having to be got off quickly.
We are glad to say that as bad as trade has been we have not had one member
on the out-of-work list at present. There is one item in the proposed New
Agreement, and that is the clause which seeks to guarantee 52 weeks' pay in
a year, which was appreciated by our members.

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.---There has been very little improvement
in trade during the month. A considerable amount of discontent has been
manifested in the district with the stoppage of Suspension Benefit; some
employers have encouraged the members (out of work temporarily) to claim
their own money regardless of rule. We have made the matter clear to most
members at meetings of suspended members at Rushden, Wollaston and
Finedon, where meetings were addressed by Branch officials. Some trouble
has arisen at one or two firms in respect to Overtime Award, which has now
been referred to National Joint Committee for settlement.

KINGSWOOD. We record the fact that never in the memory of the
oldest operative has such a period of utter stagnation been experienced in
Kingswood; the situation steadily goes from very bad to utter hopelessness.
Firms are closing down, workers discharged, and the future points to destitu-
tion in many of the homes of the operatives. The one outstanding feature is
the splendid assistance rendered by the National Union during this period
of unprecedented depression, and if gratitude be an attribute possessed by the
average member, the receipt of the out-of-work benefit will be an unforgettable
tribute to the value of Trades Unionism. " As we have sown, so shall we
reap."

LEEDS.-Trade here was never known to be as bad as it is at present,
and the outlook for the future is not so hopeful; yet we do hope that at no
distant date we shall see an improvement, which would be welcome to all.
We are pleased to report that through the efforts of Mr. W. Wright, Solicitor,
he has been successful in getting two cases of compensation settled, viz., Reg.
No. 35340 for £20, and Reg. No. 35080 for £20; this has been a very long time
in the hands of Mr. Wright, yet at the same time it was a difficult case to handle,
but satisfaction was obtained at last.

LINCOLN.-Trade is very slack in the district owing to the thousands
of men in the Engineering trades being either unemployed or on short time.
Most of the shops in the city are on short time and the same thing prevails
throughout the county.

LONDONDERRY.-Trade is very bad. In the hand-sewn and repairing
ends there is nothing doing, and as a consequence many of our members, we
are afraid, are going to have a very bad time. Our Shirt and Collar industry is
very slack, the Shipyard is practically closed down, and unless matters take
a turn for the better we are going to experience the worst time we have
had for many generations. The sympathy of the officials and members is
extended to Shopmate Wm. Donnelly, who has sustained a sad bereavement
through the death of his wife.


---
Here is the text from the image:

422
LIVERPOOL. With regard to trade we can only draw a gloomy picture, as we are paying out more in benefits than what we are taking in by contributions, and instead of getting better it gets worse each week. The result of ballot for Branch Secretary, as revealed by the scrutiny, is—G. Bishop, 21, W. Ellis 10, St. Helen's Section arrived too late to count, otherwise the figures would have been 33 v. 10. We shall still carry on with a " Bishop" at the helm.

MANCHESTER.-Trade is very bad, very few working full time, and it gets worse every week, especially with Repairers.
MAYBOLE.-Trade is very slack and in consequence many are thrown idle and all the rest working short time. We are now paying out the State Unemployment Benefit, which it is hoped will be better for our members as they will not have to go to a Labour Exchange, where in some cases they do not get much sympathy and guidance. We are glad to see the Conference in London decided on Political Action through the Ballot Box as against Direct Action, which is the best method of doing anything for the Labour Movement, and we are hopeful the people are at last taking an interest in their own affairs, that is, if the elections of the past weeks are any criterion of the people's views.

NEWCASTLE.-We wish to make a few remarks on the report that was published in the last Monthly Report by our branch secretary. We are very pleased to think that there are more members in the country other than those in the Newcastle Branch, who are in accordance with the attitude taken up by us. From correspondence which has come to hand we are convinced that if the repairers up and down the country will only get more into communication through branch secretaries, we shall get more attention in the future than it has been our lot to put up with in the past from our Head Officials. It is only by good organisation and keeping our members in touch with every item connected with the Union that we shall be able to keep them together, especially in view of the increasing unemployment and the tendency amongst masters to lower wages, through workers not being in the Union. A case we will mention, and hope all branch secretaries in the country will follow our example: It was brought to our notice that the big firm of Woolworth's, who have a branch in every town, are selling cut soles at Is. per pair and heels at 6d. per pair. They have a man in the window fixing, that is, benching and finishing, and charge 3s. for the job complete. Along with the President of the Masters Association, we visited this shop, and saw the work that was being done, but we could see no signs of the Trade Board notices, which should be hung up. As we could not interfere with the management of the shop, we pursued the only course that was open to us. We went to the Ministry of Labour, the Trade Board Offices, and saw the District Inspector, who took our complaint down, and promised us he would send an Inspector round the next day to see that all the conditions under the Trades Board Act were strictly carried out. As far as we can gather this man working in this shop is a stranger to the town, and if he is working under, or against Trade Union principles, we shall have to bring this matter before the public and report it to the Trades Council. This incident only occurred recently, and we have had no report from the Ministry of Labour.

NORWICH.—Trade in Norwich is still very bad, although a slight improvement is discernible in one or two factories. As far as we can learn there is no probability of a permanent improvement during this year, and our members must look in vain for the "New England" of post-war days. We have not started the administration of the Government Donation Scheme at present, there being more work arising from our Branch administration than can be reasonably coped with. Unemployed claims are being reduced, not as a consequence of improved trade but because many of our members have exhausted their claims, coupled with the termination of the Suspension Scheme, and many


---
Here is the text from the image:

423
of our members are still out and likely to be, as in many factories no trade is
being done.
NORTHAMPTON No. 1. - Trade remains very slack here. This is a
serious matter for our members as we were in hopes of considerable improve-
ment by Easter, but it seems as though we are in for a long slump, and an
extended period of unemployment. This brings us to the point as to whether
it was advisable to be rushed into administering the Unemployment Act.
Our members considered the matter at the Monthly Meeting and came to the
conclusion that it would be in the best interests of the Union to wait until
the proposed Joint Scheme came into operation.
NOTTINGHAM. We have to report the death of one of our members,
T. Percival, who served in the late War. He was badly gassed and was sent
home in 1919 and had not been able to do anything since; he had been under
treatment and died in hospital. He was buried with military honours on
February 5th in a soldier's grave. There is no change around here in trade,
many of our members only working half time.

PLYMOUTH.-Trade has been bad during the month and some of our
members find great difficulty in maintaining their Union membership. The
efforts put forth during past years to organise and build up a new social order
are now being nullified by trade depression, which is now general throughout
the trade. Short time and unemployment with all its attendant misery haunt
the footsteps of our men until their lives become something like the realisation
of Dante's Hell. The Trade papers are most depressing to read, while the
Branch Reports in our own Monthly give one a fit of the "blues.” Our
splendid organisation, built up by the hard-earned coppers and untiring efforts
of our members, is now threatened by the creeping avalanche of unemployment
and poverty. Well might our brethren cry "What must we do to be saved ?
We may point to industrial action, political action, or any other kind of action,
but we must have action that will hold us together until the storm is over
and the danger past. Our Union did well during the war by keeping our
fighting men still on the books as members, then again by the Suspension
Scheme. Is it possible to again assist our members who are genuinely waging
a war against bad trade and poverty? We believe it would be beneficial if
some method could be devised whereby the membership of anyone of proved
loyalty and sincerity could be maintained, while our industry is undoubtedly
passing through a period of abnormal depression.

PORTSMOUTH.-It would give us the greatest pleasure if we could only
report progress, but stagnation is the only word we can use to describe the
condition of things in the repairing trade at present. Very few men are working
a full week, many are working only three days, and others stood off altogether.
A very brisk competition has suddenly sprung up among the shops, and they
are cutting the prices wholesale, many dropping from 7s. Men's Soled and
Heeled to 4s. 6d. This has meant many men being stood off through inability
to pay the rates. Then the employer is up against the one-man shops, who
in many cases can cut the price and work excessive hours. Many of this class
of shop have sprung up here, and it has had a baneful effect upon the trade
in general. Most of these men got a smattering of how to put on a pair of soles
and heels in the army shoe shops. If trade was brisk the effect of these shops
would not be felt so much. Some machinery is necessary to fix a minimum
price for all repairers, which shall protect the man who is endeavouring to keep
together a business, and keep on his employees. These things are the result
of experience, and help to create hostile opinion against the operation of the
Trade Board orders. We think the visit of an inspector to Portsmouth would
be productive of some good, as complaints seem pretty prevalent of a wide
ignoring of the orders. A systematic visit would either confirm or stop such
rumours. We still hold our oldest and loyal members, but to approach men


---
Here is the text from the image:

now to join up with us, oftentime brings down a storm of hostile opinion
against Unions and Trade Boards. Practically every man employed here has
been invited to join us.

REDRUTH.—Trade is bad, and the outlook dull. Being in the centre
of the Cornish Tin Mining Industry, we have seriously felt the closing down
of the mines, where thousands have been thrown out of work, due to the fall
to grant the sum of less than a quarter of a million pounds to enable them to
of the price of tin and cost of production, and the refusal of the Government
make new developments, and by so doing keep the mines working. During
the month we were favoured by the visit of our old friend, Mr. J. Manners,
who gave us an address on the Conference and the Labour Report. Mr. J.
Manners, who was briefly introduced by the Chairman, explained the object
attacking the Government for the inactivities in dealing with the problem.
of the Conference, and gave us details of the evils of Unemployment, afterwards
The remedy of emigration would not carry much weight here, for the Cornish
miner is found in every quarter of the globe, and being practically all young
viting and answering several questions, and our thanks are due to the Council
men, they are welcomed by other countries. Mr. Manners concluded by in-
for sending such an excellent speaker.
..5
SOUTHAMPTON.—All trades are dull in Southampton, shipping, ship-
building, ship repairing and engineering have all felt the slump, and this has
repairing has been adversely affected, but we are hoping that the worst will
soon be passed and that trade and commerce will take a turn for the better.

A BOOT REPAIRER'S MANAGER.

Trade Board Summons Heard and Dismissed.
At the South-Western Police Court last week, before Mr. Francis, John Charles
Hughes, 9, Vant Road, Tooting, appeared to answer a summons taken out by the Ministry
of Labour for failing to pay Albert Spence, 5, Grenfell Street, Mitcham, the minimum
rate of wages applicable to a manager under an Order of the Boot Repairing Trade Board.
Mr. G. P. Low, prosecuting for the Ministry of Labour, said Spence was employed
by the defendant to take charge of his shop, for which he was paid 65s. per week, of 49
hours. As Spence had sole charge of the shop he was a manager within the definition of
the Trade Board Order relating to the wages of foremen and managers, and should have
been paid the general minimum time rate applicable to such employment of 80s. per week.
of 48 hours, with an additional 3s. 1½d. for the 1½ hours' overtime each week. There were
four summonses, and the total amount the man had been underpaid was 60s. 6d.
Albert Spence said he was engaged by the defendant to take charge of his shop because,
The defendant undertook to pay him 65s. a week and 1s. in the £ commission on all takings
under the doctor's orders, he had to relinquish indoor work. This was on May 26th.
over £5. He started on May 31st, and was given the key of the shop. During the first
week defendant came in occasionally for a few minutes, and at the end of the week witness
he heard from the defendant at Brighton, and did not see him again for five weeks, during
took him the money he had taken and received his wages. On the Monday following
which time he took the receipts to Mrs. Hughes, and was paid by her. After that the
defendant sometimes came to the shop but did no work, and on September 4th he (Spence)
was given notice.
In reply to Mr. Low, witness said his duties were to take in work from customers,
to do the repairing, and keep the books. He bought grindery, but there was a stock of
Mr. H. L. Hanne (for the defendant): Was not this a little lock-up business taking
leather, and six bends were sent in while he was there.
on an average not more than £5 a week ?
Witness said that on one week in August it was £12 for three days.
and four summonses had been issued with total penalties of £80 against a small man with
a business taking £5 to £9 a week. If he got £5 he had 35s. to buy material, pay the rent,
Mr. Hanne said it was breaking a butterfly on a wheel. It was a little business,
and run the business.


---
Here is the text from the image:

425
In reply to further questions, witness said it was not an ordinary little one-man
cobbler's shop. A cobbler was a man who was no good at his trade. He (witness) managed
the shop and the people who came in and they wanted managing !
Mr. Francis: To be a manager he must have managed somebody.
Mr. Low: If you hold that it is necessary before a man can be a manager that there
should be other persons employed in the business it is no good my going on.
no one under him except the errand boy.
There was
or dealing with cus-
Mr. Francis: If there was nobody else, I shall hold he was no manager.
Mr. Low said he would complete the evidence and ask the magistrate to state a case.
He added that on the evidence Spence was a manager within the meaning of the Trade
Board Order, which laid down that a manager was one who, whatever the number of
persons employed, was responsible for the management of the shop
femers. There was evidence that Spence had financial responsibilities and was responsible
for dealing with customers, and although the only person employed, he was the manager.
Mr. Francis: I disagree.
Mr. Low: It is an important point for the trade.
In dismissing the summonses, Mr. Francis said he held the man was not a manager.
It was partly a question of law and partly a question of fact. --The Shoe and Leather Record,
March 11th, 1921.
Sequel to Case Heard at South-Western Police Court.
In the King's Bench Divisional Court, on Tuesday, before Justices Bailhache and
Shearman, Mr. Lilley, on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, moved for a rule nisi directed
to a Metropolitan magistrate calling upon him to show cause why he should not state a
special case in the following circumstances: - On February 15 information was laid against
Jolin Chas. Hughes, Vant Rd., Tooting, for not paying a minimum rate of wages under the
Trade Boards Act. Under the Act the Board of Trade had given power to promulgate
a minimum rate of wages. Under section 6 of the Trade Boards Act of 1909 it became an
offence not to pay such rate of wages, and an employer not paying them became on con-
viction liable to penalties. The amending Act, passed in 1918, empowered, in addition
to fixing the rate of wages, the fixing of the rate for managers. For the boot repairing trade
certain rates of wages were published by the order of the Ministry of Labour, which had now
become the proper authority for dealing with the matter. The information with which
their Lordships had to deal contained charges that the defendant failed to pay Albert
Alfred Spencer, who was employed by him as a manager, the regulation wages.
The defendant was the owner of a shop, and employed Spencer as his manager. He
was employed in this capacity from May 31 to September 11 last year, and there was no
other workers in the shop. His duties were to receive and execute work, take payment,
keep and render accounts, and he was in sole charge. Under the rules made by the Ministry
of Labour under the Act in part 2 of the schedule the general time rate for foremen and
managers, as defined under section 2, was 8os. for a week of 48 hours. There was also an
overtime rate of one-and-a-quarter of the ordinary rate. As defined under the Act, a
manager "shall be deemed to be a male person employed in the trade, who, whatever
the number of persons employed, is financially responsible for the management of the shop
or for dealing with customers." It was upon this point that the magistrate decided
against the Ministry.
Justice Shearman: There were no other persons employed ?
Mr. Lilley said that was so. The magistrate said he could not be a manager, dis-
missed the case, and refused to state a case.
Mir. Justice Shearman: It comes to this. If a man keeps a boot-repairing shop, and
puts a man in charge, he must pay him about £5 a week or else close the shop.
Mr. Lilley: If he leaves him in actual charge of the shop he must pay him the regu-
lation rate of wages.
Mr. Justice Shearman: Somebody employs a man to take in boots and "cobble "
them, and he cannot leave anybody there unless he pays him nearly £5 a week.
mission.
Mr. Lilley said he could not leave a man in charge as a manager. A man in charge
to mend boots might be a different thing. In this case the man received salary and com-
Mr. Justice Bailhache: The commission might bring it up to the amount.
Mr. Lilley said that was not so; the total was 68s. The Ministry were not anxious
to pursue this individual, but it had now been contended by a number of persons that a
business in charge of one man could not be a business conducted by a manager. In these
circumstances the Ministry desired the question decided under the Trade Boards Act.
The magistrate refused to state a case, saying the application was frivolous, but whatever
it might be, it was not frivolous, and it was desirable that the matter should be cleared up.
Mr. Justice Bailhache: Very well; take your order.
Shoe and Leather Record, March 18th, 1921.


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

4-ソ
and support of those unfortunate men and women who from time to time meet with accidents. We know how hardly hit they are, our great desire is that machinery should be
made so safe that accidents which unfortunately from time to time take place in our factories
and other works may be avoided. We feel, especially having regard to the very great
difference in money values between 1914 and the present time, that something ought to
be done on much larger lines than we are led to believe the Government are prepared to
do. Our friends the miners will bring this specific point before you. Mr. Hodges will
speak particularly to resolution No. 1.

MR. J. H. THOMAS, M.P.: There is just one point I desire to emphasise before we
come to the particular interests, and that is the policy involved. I do not for a moment
agree with the contention that the coming Session of Parliament is not a favourable one
to deal with what I may call comprehensive legislation, very many Bills which in Parliamentary
phrase we call contentious." It would look, if there is to be, as we believe there should
be-for if the new Session of Parliament would lend itself specially to that overhauling.
Act, as if the new Session of Parliament would lend itself specially to that overhauling.
You would be the last it would be necessary to convince of the many anomalies that have
grown up around the question of workmen's compensation, due to the changed economic
conditions. Therefore if, as I understand, the Government have themselves realised
the necessity of amendments to the Act, instead of tinkering with it by dealing with small
details, we suggest-for we are convinced-that the time has arrived for a general and
comprehensive overhauling of the workmen's compensation question in its multifarious
phases. It is because we believe that the coming Session of Parliament lends itself particu-
larly to such an overhauling that we hope that the Home Office will occupy the political
stage much more in the new Session than it has previously done. We quite realise that
the Home Office has been pressed during the war, and since the armistice, with many
questions that have arisen out of D.O.R.A. Now that these war problems have been in
the main solved, and the Home Office is going back to those domestic questions which are
its special care and protection, we do urge that in the new Session of Parliament very special
consideration should be given to these matters, and that, as I said just now, an exhaustive
overhauling of the existing workmen's compensation should take place. Purely in a
political sense I would urge it as being long overdue.

MR. F. HODGES: You will remember that a few short weeks ago I was here as part of
a deputation from the Miners' Federation of Great Britain. We urged upon you the
desirability of embodying the recommendations of the Departmental Committee on Com-
pensation in a Parliamentary Bill for introduction to the House this Session. We are only
too well aware of the answer you had to give us on that occasion, and I indicated to you then
that your statement that the Cabinet, much against your own wishes, had come to a
decision that they could not proceed with a Bill of such magnitude as that which would
be necessary by the introduction into it of the Holman Gregory Report, had caused pro-
found disappointment in the country. If I use the words "profound disappointment" I
use mild words. It has caused great indignation, too. People do feel that the Holman
Gregory recommendations might be described as a sort of new charter for injured workmen
and dependents of deceased workmen. They remembered, too, the replies of the Govern-
ment to questions in the House during the last Parliamentary Session in which, I think,
it was pointed out that the Government were urging the Departmental Committee to hurry
up with their recommendations.

MR. THOMAS: And waiting for them!

MR. HODGES: Yes. Those recommendations have now been before you for a long
time and we cannot accept the Cabinet view that no room can be found for the introduction
of this measure in the coming Session. Such a course might have been more justified,
perhaps, if the answer had been: "We cannot find room for it this Session." To be told,
however, there could not be any room found for it this Parliamentary year makes us despair
of having, for a very long time to come, the benefit of these recommendations. They are
well known to you, Sir, and I need not mention them one by one. Now that we are here
as a deputation representing a much larger body than on the previous occasion, this depu-
tation feels as we felt when you gave us your previous answer, which has been published
broadcast through the land, we now, I say, representing the Trades Union Congress, urge
you to lay our additional and bigger request before the Cabinet, with a view to the Cabinet
providing you with the time to introduce these recommendations. We think that such
legislation as we suggest for the benefit of the workers of the country is long overdue.
We do not think it will take up very much of the time of the House. A large number of these
recommendations, fortunately, will be agreed recommendations. There may be, as you
yourself indicated at the last meeting, disputation as to retrospective payments. There
may be some dispute, outcry, or controversy as to the expense of setting up further admini-
strative offices, but we cannot imagine that the sums of money mentioned for the depen-
dents of deceased workmen, or the sums mentioned to be paid to workmen totally or par-
tially incapacitated, would be subject to very much controversy. For these reasons we
ask you, as we feel sure on thinking sincerely about the matter you will do, to agree to lay
this proposal again before the Cabinet, with a view to having a different decision.


---
430
The HOME SECRETARY: Are you going into the details of this resolution at all?
MR. HODGES: No. Practically every one of these proposals arising in this resolution
have been met to some extent in the Holman Gregory Report. It is true that in some of
these we are asking for something in excess of what the Committee recommends.
The HOME SFORETARY: In one case less!
MR HODGES: Which case is that?
The HOME SECRETARY: The children.
MR. HODGES: £50 at least, we say.
The HOME SECRETARY: The Holman Gregory Report probably suggests better and
more adequate provision than that.
MR. HODGES: So far as I have been able to ascertain the Holman Gregory Report
in the instances of large families, might provide a widow with five or six children with
£1,100 or £1,200.
MR. J. H. THOMAS: Incidentally, it shows how Trade Unionists always endeavour
to be practical.
MR. POULTON: And reasonable !
MR. J. H. THOMAS: In connection with Resolution No. 2 (Workmen's Compensation
This arises very largely from our own union.
The HOME SECRETARY : This raises the question of vessels ?
MR. THOMAS: What we have found is this: When an accident happens there is no
question about the accident, and no question but that someone is liable: but what we find
is that the captain, in his over anxiety to get the ship away, say from Newcastle or other
ports on the North-East Coast, says: "Oh, yes, it is quite all right; we accept liability"
But immediately the ship has gone away the owners put forward the plea that there is
no proof of the accident. The only one that can certify and give proof is the captain, but
the ship is away. Then we have found that there has been a dispute as to who is really
liable, as to whether it is the North-Eastern Railway Company, who are normally the
employers, or the owner of the ship, or the captain. We have one classic case where this
victim is practically stranded and starving. We have had several cases of this kind.
dispute has been going on for about 18 months and in the interval, of course, the poor
The lawyers have looked into them for us, and we have come to the conclusion that the
law should be simplified in the interests of the workmen themselves; that it should be
clearly defined so that neither one nor the other can escape. We have had, as I say, several
cases on the North-East coast in this connection.

Workmen's Compensation (Foreign-time Charterers).

MR. J. W. MEGGISON (Trimmers and Teemers' Association) then spoke to the follow-
ing resolution:-

That the Parliamentary Committee be instructed to seek an amendment
of the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1906, Section 11, so that where an accident
happens to a workman on board a vessel which is in the hands of foreign-time
to arrest the ship, so as to enforce his claim for compensation. Further, that
charterers, such workman, or those acting on his behalf, may be given the right
where it is necessary to arrest any ship, whether in the hands of owners or time
charterers, immediate means of detention through the Board of Trade should be
provided, so as to obviate the risk of the ship sailing before the order for arrest
can be obtained from the court.

He said: We desire to draw your attention especially to Section II of the Workmen's
Compensation Act, 1906. You will know that section. It deals with the detention of
ships, and it makes provision that where the owner of a vessel is liable, or alleged to be
liable for compensation, steps may be taken to get the writ served upon the ship, and the
of our men on the North-East coast, and so far as the coal trimmers are concerned and
ship detained. We have had no difficulty, generally speaking, with regard to the claims
where we can clearly show that the owner of the vessel is liable. We have the force of that
law at our back, and we have power to detain the ship, and prevent a deadlock. When,
however, the ship is under a foreign-time charterer it is seizing the ship for another man's
in cases of that kind. It is true, as Mr. Thomas says, that there are times when we find
it difficult to discover the real party responsible. Then the ship goes out, and we do not
know whether it is in the hands of the owner of a foreign time-charterer, and it is only
after considerable delay that we discover. In one case we found that the vessel had been
chartered by the Italian Government. This case is not settled yet. The ship did not
belong to the parties, and we could not get at them. There was another case in which
the Danish Government was concerned. I managed to get that case settled through
debt. We have no means of meeting this kind of case. We have been rather hard hit


---
Here is the text from the image:

431
the good offices of the Danish Consul at Newcastle. He was good enough to take the matter
should be exonerated from all liability in connection with this matter. There is only one
up and make representations to the Danish Government. We feel that the Customs
thing which would be better than that. When we brought this forward it was in view
of the present Act and until a national scheme was evolved. In dealing with the shipping
the suggestion would be that there should be a certain percentage upon the tonnage going
into ports, and if such were paid into a national scheme it would obviate many of these
difficluties, and be more practical.
The HOME SECRETARY A national fund into which they all paid, and out of which
compensation should be paid?
MR. MEGGISON: Yes.
MR. R. ALLEN (Scottish Trade Union Congress) briefly urged the question of separate
ambulances at the docks.

Temperature of Rooms.
MR. POULTON: The next resolution, dealing with the temperature of rooms, is to
suggest how important it is that our factories should be properly warmed. Although
this resolution specifically refers to twisting and drawing, I can assure you that in my own
industry, the boot and shoe industry, we have had to strike more than once because the
women have found it impossible to work in the cold.
MR. W. C. ROBINSON (Beamers and Twisters' Amalgamated Association) spoke to
the following resolution :-
Owing to the sedentary nature of twisting and drawing, it is essential to the
interests of those following the trade that the minimum heat of these rooms
should be at least 60 degrees, and in the interest of the people working in them
this Congress instructs the Parliamentary Committee to approach the Home
Office requesting them to insert this in any amended Factory Act. During the
period of waiting, before any amended Factory Act can be accomplished, Congress
to ask the Home Secretary to give instructions so that factory inspectors will have
the power to insist that this temperature is maintained.
He said: I understand that you are about to amend the Factory Acts. I think
employers in the cotton industry, along with the representatives of weavers, have agreed
upon the 55 degrees, but that does not satisfy our people, from the very fact that they
have all their work to do sitting down. There is no means whatever of keeping themselves
warm except by artificial heat.
The HOME SECRETARY: There is no movement?
MR. ROBINSON: There is no movement except with their hands. We feel that the
55 degrees is too little. So far as the Home Office inspectors are concerned, you will find
they are pretty well agreed that the twisting and drawing rooms require more heat. A
worker handles thousands of ends per day smaller than thread, and like a hair. The hands
get cold and numb, and it is next to impossible to feel the stuff. We feel that the matter
should receive your attention, and that the Act should be amended. I hope you will
give us 60 degrees.

Employers not Insuring to be Penalised.
MR. J. A. GIBSON (National Amalgamated Society of Operative House and Ship
Painters) then introduced the following resolution :--
That this Congress urge that it be made a penal offence should any employer
of labour not be insured against workmen's compensation risks.
He said: I just want to urge the necessity of some such resolution as this being
brought into the Bill. There are employers who do not take the precaution of insuring
their employees. You may find employers who have not taken the precaution to insure,
with the result that the widows and family have had to tramp the street in abject poverty
owing to that neglect. We think such neglect is discreditable and should be done away
with.
to say.
MR. HODGES: This is one of the recommendations of the Holman Gregory Report.
The HOME SECRETARY: Yes, I know, and one of the most contentious, I am sorry

Compulsory Workshop Accommodation.
to enforce at the present. There is also the very great question of the health of the people
MR. POULTON: The law concerning workshop accommodation is exceedingly difficult
engaged. The Parliamentary Committee (apart from our friends the tailors) wish to press
very strongly this question of workshop accommodation.


---
Here is the text from the image:

432

MR. G. ROWLERSON (Amalgamated Tailors) spoke to the following resolution :-
This Congress instructs the Parliamentary Committee to urge upon the
Government the social and economic desirability of compelling all employers
in the tailoring industry to provide adequate workshop accommodation for all
their people, and that the factory regulation be so amended that it shall be
illegal to convert any part of an occupied dwelling-house into a workshop. Further.
pending such action, lists of out-workers, at present maintained by local authorities,
shall be open to the inspection of duly authorised and responsible Trade Union
officials, in order to assist in the carrying out of wage decisions arrived at under
the Trade Boards Act.

He said: We were before you last year and many years before. There is a principle
involved in this. In your reply last year you said that owing to the far-reaching nature
of our resolution you were not prepared to pledge yourself to do away altogether with
home employment. In view of your answer we have amended the resolution, and in the
resolution before you we now ask for compulsory workshops in the tailoring trade to be
limited to the industry that is particularly affected by the evils arising from home working.
The position has been considerably intensified since the coming into being of the Trade
Boards. Owing to the Trade Boards Act the worker in the workshop has a working week
laid down of forty-eight hours, with payment at a specified rate for overtime. The employer
who desires to escape from that position closes his workshop now, and employs nothing
payment of the contribution under the Insurance Act, except under one aspect of com-
but home workers, with the result also that he escapes payment of overtime, and also the
pensation. Home-work means that the workers work long hours at a lower rate than that
agreed to by the Trade Unions and their employers. It can be proved by the employers'
books that the workers concerned can earn the minimum fixed by the Board. During
the last twelve months we have had instance after instance of employers deliberately
closing up workshops to escape the provisions of the Trade Boards Act. One case is
particularly mentioned. We have knowledge of a firm which had workshops for years
deliberately closing down, and placing a large number of men out; and this large employer
himself has been lecturing to employers' associations as to the best means of escaping
from the Trade Boards Act. We say that that in itself has accentuated the evils arising.
There is not the least doubt that the position is made much worse by this sort of thing.
and as we have amended the resolution, and now confine the application to the industry
represented by ourselves, we sincerely hope that your answer will be more favourable
than it was, so far as the principle in the resolution is concerned.

Hackney and Stage Carriage Acts.

MR. A. SMITH (United Vehicle Workers) spoke to the following resolution :
That this Congress hereby instructs the Parliamentary Committee to draft
a Bill for the purpose of co-ordinating the whole of the Metropolitan Hackney
and Stage Carriage and other Acts and orders pertaining thereto, dating from
1831 to the present time, into one comprehensive Act of Parliament that drivers
and conductors of such vehicles may be able to understand. The same to be
applicable to the whole of Great Britain, and not, as at present, the Metropolis
only.

He said: What we are asking for is that the Home Department shall co-ordinate all
the previous Acts of Parliament dating from 1831-that is 90 years. It is very nearly
time, one would think, that these Acts were overhauled. There are eight Acts on the Statute
Book that specifically deal with stage carriages. There is the Railway Act, the Police Act.
the Passenger Act, the Motor-Car Act, &c. We, who are connected with this business,
come under the whole of these Acts to a greater or lesser degree. What we are asking for
is that, so far as the omnibuses, cabs, and trams are concerned, an entirely new Act shall
country, so that the man working in the North of England, or even Scotland, shall be
be drawn up, applicable not only, as to-day, to the Metropolitan Police area, but to the
were done it will make for better working and better feeling amongst the men. We think
it is necessary, at this time of day, that some of these Acts, which suggest offences such
working under the same conditions as in London. We also think, and believe, that if this
as negligence in driving and the like, might be revised. Some of these dealt with matters
90 years ago, when Putney was considered the country, while to-day Putney is practically
in the heart of London. But the same laws apply still in the case of thousands of our
men. We know that the introduction of the motor-cab has, to a very large extent, abolished
that character. Perhaps in the case of the motor-cars they are necessary, but certainly
the radius question. Then there are the identification plates and marks, and things of
badges and things of that character which our men have to wear are not at all necessary.
We have repeatedly asked for something to be done. We are asking for legislation. Seeing
our men are working so far as Bedford and other places, and the difficulty of getting their
county licence, we suggest that one licence should be sufficient. Every motor-cab and
omnibus driver in London is mulcted in the sum of 10s. per year for his licences, 5s. for the
county, and 5s. for the police licence here. County licences are 5s. wherever you are.


---
Here is the text from the image:

In provincial towns the equivalent driving licences may be uniform, so that
are asking that the Home Department should go into these various Acts and see what can
or London the same conditions should apply so far as the Government is concerned.
value. We are asking that the thing should be made uniform, so that
and many of the anomalies which exist to-day removed: the anomaly, for instance, that
be done to bring them more up-to-date, so that there may be some kind of uniformity,
a cabman cannot make a contract with a fare, though a fare may make a contract with
The bargain, if possible on one side, should be possible on the other. Both should
have the same treatment, or else bargaining should be made altogether illegal.
him

Home Secretary's Reply.

The HOME SECRETARY (Mr. Shortt) replied. He said: With regard to the first
resolution on the Workmen's Compensation Act, what Mr. Hodges has said is unfortunately
only too true. Of course I entirely support the Cabinet. Theirs is a joint responsibility;
but I accept full responsibility for my share in it. It is quite true that it is a very great
disappointment to me that we cannot carry out what we had intended. We had hoped
this Session to have a big Workmen's Compensation Act brought in and a Factory Act.
MR. J. H. THOMAS: And the difficulty is
The HOME SECRETARY: The difficulty ?
I am just coming to that. The Cabinet
have decided that it is absolutely essential for almost every Department that there should
be no Autumn Session this year. I need not go into the whole question of an Autumn
Session, but they have come to the conclusion that, in the first place, it absolutely divorces
members from their constituents, and, secondly, makes good administration impossible,
and good administration is just as important, and in many cases far more important, than
actual legislation. That is the intention. We have had two years of almost unparalleled
legislation. The Cabinet have come to the conclusion that they should have as little as
possible of controversial legislation this coming Session. That is their absolute decision.
I should be holding out absolutely false hopes if I held out any hope that it is likely to be
changed, and, therefore, so far as Workmen's Compensation is concerned, the Bill which
I was preparing and have brought before the Cabinet the Cabinet have finally decided is
too controversial to be brought in. I should have proposed to base that Bill entirely upon
the Holman Gregory recommendations. We certainly hoped to bring in a Bill which
went further than they did. I find, however, that in a great many quarters-the Whips
reported it, and I get it from all sorts of sources-that many of the Holman Gregory
recommendations are accounted most highly controversial. There is a very strong feeling
indeed against compulsory insurance.
MR. THOMAS: The Whips are not the best judges!
The HOME SECRETARY: Sometimes, no doubt. Personally, in my opinion, compul-
sory insurance is the key to the whole thing. I entirely agree with what was said about
compulsory insurance. I do not know why we have had so many cases where dependents
have got nothing. When I was at the Bar one knew numberless cases where there was
only a fifth taken to what we were entitled, or we got nothing. To my mind compulsory
insurance is the key to the situation. That would be highly controversial. I was sorry
to find what large support there was to Mr. Reginald Guthrie's Minority Report on the
question of amount. I do not think we should have much trouble in converting the half
to two-thirds. But we should have the greatest possible difficulty over the difference
between 50s. and £3, and many people would fight it. These are only examples of what
I found myself up against. There is no question about it, it was going to be controversial,
and for that reason it has been turned down.
What I am trying to do is this. Somebody, I forget who-I am not sure whether it
was not Mr. Thomas-said that the Government had proposed to bring in a Mining Bill
this year. I should like you to know-we are speaking confidentially-to know exactly
what the position is with regard to that. I have not brought anything with regard to that
before the Cabinet as yet, but when a Cabinet decision finally turned down one of my pet
children I set to work, with my advisers, to see what we could save out of the wreck. I
consulted with Mr. Holman Gregory, and he was of opinion that we might be able to get
small, but still some adequate improvements, without much controversy. On the question
of amounts, we are bound to get some improvements. There was no part of the Holman
shall be able to achieve that, but we shall have trouble with the employers' mutual insur-
Gregory Committee that did not advocate some improvement of some kind. I hope we
ances. I think there is no doubt that the insurance companies are awakening to the fact
that to pay £45 out of every £100 in compensation is simply preposterous, and that they
must make arrangements that at least £60 or £65 out of every £100 paid in premiums
must be paid out in compensation. If we can bring them into line we may get something
it would be non-controversial
of that kind. I cannot pretend I can put everything you ask for in the Bill. To pretend
the only reason why Twisters' cramp has not been scheduled is that we were
advised that there ought to be conditions attached to the schedule, and that delay has
been caused by the failure of both parties to come to an agreement. Departmental Com-


---


---
I think, at any rate in regard to the existing law.
Compensation Bill.
conciliatory, and consists of agreed amendments to the existing law.
will be non-controversial. This is a question which will have to be carefully cons
when we come to deal with the Bill to see what it will be possible to do. There is the other
degrees.
But does anyone who has not tried to sit in a room with a temperature of 50
There is a standard, but it is limited to 50
example in the Cotton Factories Act, 19II.
question of employers not insuring being penalised. I have told you it is one of the most
degrees to write letters, or do anything else know what it means? I have dealt with the
highly controversial parts of the proposals of the Holman Gregory Committec. One
member of Parliament, with whom I was discussing it, described it to me as a scheme
for endowing profit-making concerns, the insurance companies. That is one of the lines
upon which they will go. Of course any proposal to take it out of the hands of the insur-
troversial and extremely difficult. Therefore it is difficult to know quite which is the best
ance companies and make it part of a National Insurance Scheme would be highly con-
line to adopt the line of least resistance when dealing with that subject. I am afraid
I must be perfectly frank with you. I do not see the slightest chance this Session of making
I am afraid not.
MR. BOWERMAN: The introduction of a State scheme ?
insurance compulsory.
The HOME SECRETARY: That would be highly controversial. But that is the only
other alternative against insuring against bankrupting the State. It seems to me this is
personal opinion, and not that of the Cabinet, that the Holman Gregory proposal is far
better and far more likely to work simply and fairly than to have it part of a State scheme.
The question of compulsory workshop accommodation is an old question. Really
behind it all, even with your conditions, it is still a question of the home worker. There
are difficulties and grave defects in the present system. Everybody admits that. At the
same time it would be very difficult indeed to insist upon much alteration in workshops
at the present time. There is the difficulty in these times of the cost of building, and all
that sort of thing, putting employers to any kind of expense. I am afraid it would not
be very easy to put in proposals to meet the suggestions contained in resolution No. 8
to put any of these into the Factory Bill. The matter is having our consideration, but,
as I say, the difficulties are very great, and it is very difficult to see how anything can be
done that would not involve putting employers to any expense, and this is not the time
However that may be, your
that any such suggestion is likely to meet with support.
interests are the same as those of the employer, but to suggest action which could be repre-
sented as a proposal to put an end to home-work would, and I am sure you all know it,
be very highly controversial.
MR. ALLEN: What about improvements in the administration of the Trade Boards Act?
The HOME SECRETARY: I beg your pardon. That is a matter really for the Ministry
of Labour. The proposal is that Trade Union officials should go and see the list in order
to ascertain that the proper wages are being paid ?
MR. ALLEN: Yes.
The HOME SECRETARY: That is really a matter for the Ministry of Labour. They
have appointed inspectors for the purpose of ensuring that the decisions of the Trade
Boards are carried out. That you will have to discuss with the Ministry of Labour. We
here do not deal with that at all. As to Mr. Smith's proposal, I quite agree with him that
it would be a very good thing indeed if we could have all the multifarious Acts dealing
with hackney carriages and other vehicles in London consolidated and brought up-to-date.
Of course I quite agree with him that there are all kinds of obsolete, out-of-date, pre-historic
provisions which ought to be done away with.
I have heard before now of such a thing as losing a badge and getting a new one.
(Laughter). If the men are suffering from little matters like that and will only let me
know, I will go into the thing, and see that it is put right. As to making the legislation
for the whole of the country, I am in doubt as to whether that can be done owing to the
varying circumstances in different parts of the country. Lots of places have their own
private Acts, with their own private bye-laws. In London the Commissioner of Police
is the person responsible for carrying out all these Acts, and in the provinces it is the
local authorities. This in itself is a very vital difference, and certainlyone which I am sure
the local authorities-
MR. SMITH : The local authorities have got this power, but it can be taken away.
The HOME SECRETARY: Parliament can do anything, but it does not follow that
because Parliament can do a thing it is a right or a wise thing to do. You will find that
the local authorities who now have control would fight hard against any attempt to take
that control away from them. Really that is the least important part of your proposals.
What help will you give us? Has your Union thought of drawing up a report on these
anomalies of the Act and the things that press upon you ?
Bill drafted.
MR. SMITH: Yes, sir, we have done it. We sent it to your predecessor, but it seems
to have been forgotten, at least up to the present. We have gone a step further had a

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

439
11. The Committee shall make an annual report to the respective Congresses, contain-
ing full particulars relating to the number, nature, and result of each dispute inquired
into and dealt with during the preceding year.
12. Co-operative factories, workshops, and stores shall pay at least the recognised
trade union rate of wages and work not more than the recognised trade union hours pre-
vailing in each particular branch of industry in the district in which such factories, work-
shops, and stores are situated.

WAGES POSITION IN THE BOOT TRADE.

Economic Causes that Affect Out-Workers.
We have received several communications with regard to the statement recently
made that handsewn bootmakers employed by high-class firms in the West-end boot-
making trade had agreed to accept a reduction of 25 per cent. on making and 15 per cent.
on repair work.

Strenuous Denials.
On the one hand, several firms with first-class reputations have denied that they
are paying less wages.
This is no doubt inspired by the fact that customers are demanding a decrease of
25 per cent. in the price of boots.
At the same time we have been informed by Mr. Peter Brennan, the General Secretary
of the Amalgamated Society of Boot and Shoe Makers, and Mr. J. W. Dixon, Secretary
of the London and Provincial Union of Handsewn Boot and Shoe Makers, that no reduction
has been agreed to.

Firm's Proposal.
One firm in Dover Street had proposed to make the reduction, but it had not been
accepted.
According to Mr. Peter Brennan, the men were more likely to ask for an advance
than to accept a reduction.
The explanation of this discrepancy is that certain West End firms give out a portion
of their work to small masters.
These have in fact accepted lower rates in order to get work allotted to them.

Workmen who are employed by them have accepted lower wages,
no doubt without the knowledge or consent of either Union.
Some of these men may be non-unionists, but is is impossible to see how this may
affect the trade.
When trade is falling off the employer has been known to use the possibility of in-
creasing the output of out-workers, and their acceptance of a reduction as a means of
reducing the wages of the men directly employed by them.
That has not been successfully carried out yet, and, therefore, the reduction is a
partial and not a general one. The Star, February 24th, 1921.

BENEFITS PAID SINCE THESE FUNDS WERE STARTED.
Out-of-Work
Benefit.
Sick and Funeral
Benefit.
Amounts paid up to-
December, 1920
January, 1921
February, 1921
£ s. d.
132,530 6 3
18,582 3 11
19,243 2 6
£ s. d.
525,867 7 1
2,483 5 10
2,788 2 11
TOTALS
£170,355 12 8
£531,138 15 10


---
Here is the text from the image:

441
CO-PARTNERSHIP SOCIETIES.

Leicester "Equity" Society.
The Trade for the half-year amounts to £108,181 118. 6d., an increase as compared
with the corresponding period of last year of £26,880 145. od.
The Total Trade for the Year amounts to £218,837 185. 7d., an increase over the year
1919 of ₤64,572 6s. 2d.
After fully depreciating Fixed Stock ₤213 145. 3d., Lasts and Knives 100 os. 6d.,
Buildings 2104 35. od., Paying Interest on Loan Capital ₤427 158. od., and Interest on
Provident Fund 124 19s. 7d., there is a Divisible Profit of 48,338 5s. 5d., which we propose
to disburse as per Statement :-
To Interest on Shares, ₤442 138. od.; Donations-Leicester Royal Infirmary, £5 5s. od.;
Leicester Children's Hospital, £4 45. od. St. Dunstan's Hospital for Blinded Heroes,
4338. od.; Leicester Guild of the Crippled, ₤3 3s. od.; National Seamen's Hospital Society,
12 25. od.; Productive Federation Share, £60 IOS. od. Workers' Holiday Fund, £75;
(approximate), £1,842 5s. 5d. Remainder, according to Special Rule, as
follows-Customers at 6fd. in the £, £2,950 os. od.; Workers at 2s. in the £, £2,065 os. od.;
Reserve Fund
Share Capital at 4d. in the £, £295 os. od.; Provident Fund, £442 10s. od.; Educational
Fund. 4147 ros. od.; Total, £8,338 5s. 5d. Extract from Report and Balance Sheet for
the half-year ending December 18th, 1920.

Midland Boot Society.
The sales for the last half-year are £65,490, this being an increase of £10,394 on the
corresponding period of 1919. The sales for the whole year have increased by more than
133,000 The surplus for the half-year is £3,989, of which £572 goes to the shareholders
in Interest and Dividends. Customers receive a dividend of £2,113 at 8d. in the f. Workers
receive a dividend of £675 at 1s. 3d. in the f on wages; £167 is added to the Provident
and Pension Fund, and £83 to the Education and Social Fund. A special sum of £3,000
is placed to Accident Insurance Fund, and £370 to the Reserve Fund, which now stands at
£3.432. Co-partnership, February, 1921.

Ideal Clothiers.
The sales for 1920 were £614,286, which is an increase of £196,435 over 1919. The
progress of this Society is certainly noteworthy: 1901 £11,000 trade, 1904 £20,000: this
was doubled to £40,000 in 1907, which was doubled to £80,000 by 1911. It was just over
£100,000 in 1912 and doubled to £200,000 in 1917, which was doubled to over £400,000o last.
year and now is more than £600,000.
The profit for 1920 is £42,976, of which £5,427 goes to the shareholders in Interest
and Dividends. The Customers receive £22,910 as dividend at 9d. in the f (or 34 per cent.)
on purchases, and the workers receive £9,530 as dividend on wages at 2s. in the f. The
Provident Fund receives £2,000 and £1,000 is placed to the Education Fund. The addition
of £3,043 to the Reserve Fund brings its total to £25,000.- Co-partnership, February, 1921.

Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Ltd.
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE. - The Sales for the half-year amount to £34,843 15s. od.,
an increase of £4,415 195. Iod. over the corresponding period of last year. The Total Sales
for the year amount to £73,516 17s. 8d. After providing for Interest on Share and Loan
Capital to the amount of £778 10s. IId., and Depreciating Fixed Stock and Buildings
£710 145. 5d., there is a Net Profit of £1.775 145. 7d. The Balance of £712 155. 5 d. brought
forward from last half-year has been temporarily placed to the Reserve Fund, but since
the close of the half-year Excess Profits Duty amounting to £509 35. 9d. has been paid
and will be deducted as usual. We recommend that the profits of this half-year be allotted
as follows:-
Reserve Fund, ₤200; Employers' Liability Fund, £50; Co-operative Productive
Federation, 20; Workers at 6d. in the f on Wages, £350 I2S. 6d. Customers at 3d. in
at 2d. in trade, 4435 ros. the Balance of £375 1os. 6d. to be carried forward.

The need for additional Share Capital is still a pressing one, and we again take this
opportunity of appealing for new or increased investments from Societies. Trade Unions
and Individuals. We would also remind present and prospective holders of Loan Capital
that the Interest has been raised from 4 per cent. to 5 per cent. Full particulars will
be sent on application. Extract from Report and Balance Sheet for the half-year ending
January 31st, 1921.

---
Here is the text from the image:

442
WAGES IN THE BOOT AND SHOE REPAIRING TRADE.

Prosecution at Brighton.
At the Brighton Borough Bench this morning, George Blunden, 32, Sillwood Street, was summoned for failing to pay wages at not less than the minimum rate under the Trade Boards Acts, also for failing to keep the necessary records, failing to produce records, and failing to keep posted copies of notices relating to the above.
Mr. S. P. Low prosecuted for the Ministry of Labour, and Mr. F. S. Gentle represented defendant, who pleaded not guilty to the second summons and guilty to the others.
The Magistrates were Alderman Colbourne (in the chair), Mr. Clayton, Mr. Gillett. Mrs. Smith, Mr. Wallis, and Alderman Wellman.
Mr. Low withdrew the summons for failing to keep necessary records.

The Facts of the Case.
In laying the facts before the Bench, Mr. Low said the Trade Boards Acts applied mainly to trades in which the workers were not properly organised, or in which they were not localised. The Acts provided that Trade Boards should be set up consisting of an equal number of employers and workers, with certain members appointed by the Ministry of Labour. The Trade Board sat and issued notices of proposal with regard to the rates, both time and piece, which they thought were necessary for their particular trade. These notices of proposal were sent to all the known employers in the trade, and the employers were entitled to send in to the Trade Board objections to the rates. After a period of two months, the Trade Board considered the objections, and then proceeded to fix rates which they considered should be paid in the trade These rates were then sent to the Ministry of Labour for confirmation. If confirmed they became the rates legally binding in the trade and must be paid by all employers. Failure to pay them was not only a wrong to the worker, but unfair to competing employers who complied with the law. The Trade Board concerned in the present case was the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board, and the Order under which they fixed their rates was dated 8th April, 1920. Defendant was a boot and shoe repairer, and he had an outworker named Paul, who was a cripple, living at 15, Carlton Hill. The work done by Paul was piecework, and the rates paid by defendant had been agreed between them some time before the Order came into operation. Early in April, 1920, shortly after the notice of fixing was issued by the Trade Board, Paul spoke to defendant about the rates. Defendant told him that the rates fixed by the Order were time rates and did not apply to him. At the end of April Paul again spoke to defend- ant, who said he would look into the matter. In May Paul sent him a copy of the piece- work rates, but in spite of this defendant did not make any alteration in the rates he paid. In June and December last year, Mr. Muir, one of the Ministry's Inspectors, called on defendant, who said he paid his workers what they earned and could not pay more. He refused to produce the records, asking what right Mr. Muir had to interfere and said he was not going to plaster his walls with notices like a little shop in a back street. "The Act," he added, "is only to give you a soft job of walking about the streets interfering with workpeople." Mr. Low stated that during the four weeks in November and December last, in respect of which defendant was summoned, Paul was underpaid to the extent of £1 6s. 4d. He asked for penalties for non-posting the notices, for failing to produce records and for underpaying, with an order for the payment of arrears due since the rates came into force.

The Defence.
For the defendant, Mr. Gentle mentioned that this was the first case of the kind in respect of the boot and shoe repairing trade in Brighton. Both Paul and defendant were 70 years of age. Defendant had to cut his prices to meet the demands of the neighbour- hood, and if he paid the rates fixed by the Board his own profit on soling and heeling a pair of boots would only be 5d. With regard to the effect on competitors of failing to com- ply with the order, defendant's nearest competitor was a man who did his own work and consequently could cut Blunden to pieces. If Paul were to go into the witness-box he would say he was satisfied, and it must not be overlooked that for the rates he was now asked to pay, defendant could employ a young man able to do much better work. Mr. Gentle explained that the failure to produce records and post notices were due to misunder- standings on defendant's part.

Magistrates' Decision.
After a lengthy consultation in private, the Chairman said the Magistrates had decided to deal with the case in a somewhat lenient manner as it was the first heard in that Court Defendant had only himself to blame. He had flouted the Order in such a way that he


---
Here is the text from the image:

443
practically compelled the prosecutors to bring the matter into Court. The Magistrates
imposed a fine of 20s. for failing to pay the proper rate of wages, plus fr 6s. 4d., the
amount due for the four weeks in respect of which the proceedings were taken, and £2 25.
costs. Fines of 5s. for failing to produce records, and 5s. for failing to post notices were
also imposed.
After consultation between Mr. Gentle and Mr. Low an order for the payment of £15
for arrears due since the date of the Order was agreed to, payment to be made at the rate
of 5s. a week. Brighton Argus, February 24th, 1921.

UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BILL.
Dr. Macnamara announced, in response to appeals from all parts of the House, the
consent of the Government to the raising of the Unemployment Benefit to 20s. per week
for men and ros, for women.

A Success for the Labour Party.
The Government would certainly have avoided conceding the increase if it could,
and credit is therefore due to the Labour Party for the manner in which it has hung on
to the flank of Ministers on this matter and harried them from the very opening of the
session.

The discussion actually took place on Mr. Clynes' amendment to raise the benefits
to pos, for the head of a family and 25s. for others, with 5s. for each dependent.
Mr. Clynes insisted that 18s. a week was insufficient for the maintenance of the
humblest home in Britain.

He admitted that there were some people who were tempted even by the existing
benefits to shirk jobs that they should properly accept. But the cure for that was not
a low rate of benefit, but to strengthen the regulations and administration.
A Real Economy.
The future welfare of the community depended upon the efficiency of its working
members, and that depended upon adequate housing, feeding, and clothing.
The great lesson for the Government to learn was to

Pay at the right time.
Let them do the right thing now.
-Daily Herald, February 25th, 1921.
One more clear point in favour of keeping the Labour members in the House of Commons.
-E.L.P., Gen. Sec.]
20,517 MORE OUT OF WORK IN ONE WEEK.
Official figures of Unemployment for the United Kingdom show that for the week
ending February 18th the total was 1,169,400, compared with 1,148,883 for the previous
week.

The total for the week ending February 4th was 1,111,314, and the increase in the
following week was 37,569. There was an increase for the week ending February 4th
of 45.994, compared with the week ending January 28th.

Last week's total was made up of 762,700 men, 299,100 women, 50,700 boys, and
56,900 girls.

Adding those who do not register, we may estimate that out-of-works and their
dependents number between five and six million suffering privation.
These figures are exclusive of short-time claimants, who, on February 11th, numbered
696,900.-Daily Herald, February 25th, 1921.

MR. E. L. POULTON IN SILESIA.
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., General Secretary to the National Union of Boot and Shoe
is now in Upper Operatives, and Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee of the Trades Union Congress,
meet members of the International Trade Union Congress from Italy, France, Holland Silesia, investigating labour conditions. It is anticipated that he will
and Germany. - Daily Herald, 5th March, 1921.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

447
LABOUR'S BUSY DAY.
There were doings in the Labour world yesterday. The leaders of the great trade
mischievous activities of the middle-class theoretical Socialists who consider themselve
unions had a very busy day and as is usually the case when they are free from the
the heaven-sent apostles of the New Order, they considered some national question
with sound sense and with due respect to the welfare of the community as a whole. Direct
action, that pet of the ruddy-hued admirers of Leninism, has been killed stone dead.
The pleasure felt in Leicester by this excellent piece of work will be intensified by the fact
that the Lord High Executioner was Mr. E. L. Poulton, the general secretary of the National
well-balanced mind and immense abilities. Leicester predicted when the headquarters
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives. Leicester knows and appreciates Mr. Poulton's
soon become equally familiar with Mr. Poulton's powers. At the National Conference
of the Shoe Operatives' Union were removed to London that the country generally would
at Trade Union
Dr. Poulton, in his presidential address, pulverised the case for direct action with a com
pleteness that left no room for further argument. He made it perfectly clear that a policy
of direct action to enforce legislation would inflict the greatest hardships on the very
class it was designed to benefit, and would, moreover, be bound to break down by reason
of its own unwieldiness, or develop into civil war of the most terrible kind. Mr. Clynes
and Mr. Thomas endorsed Mr. Poulton's view. After that it was inevitable that the
resolution in favour of renewed Parliamentary effort should be carried by an overwhelming
majority. This result can be accepted as the trade unions' final word on the subject
of direct action. For a long time past the "hot air merchants," as they are called, have
claimed that the great trade unions were far in advance of their leaders on this question,
and that when the time came the country would receive an unpleasant awakening. On
the contrary the direct actionists have been put to sleep by a knock-out of a very definite
kind. Interest in Labour's legislative efforts will not be lessened because constitutional
methods are to be adhered to. It will indeed be much easier to extend sympathetic
co-operation to Labour in its struggles towards a brighter and happier existence now
that it considers the health of the body politic of more importance than that of any of its
members. The Leicester Mail, February 24th, 1921.
TUBERCULOSIS IN THE BOOT TRADE.
Necessity for Greater Preventative Measures.
COUNTY INSURANCE COMMITTEE.
Mr. F. Holliday presided over a meeting of the Leicestershire Insurance Committee
yesterday.
In moving the report of the Sanatorium Benefit Sub-Committee, Mr. J. W. West
voiced his thanks to Dr. T. Robinson for his excellent report on pulmonary tuberculosis
in respect of insured persons as from 1912 to 1919.
Dr. Burkitt observed that at present they had to deal with a great number of tuber-
culosis cases, and in his opinion more should be done to stay the advance of this dreadful
disease.
People engaged in the boot and shoe industry were specially subject to the disease,
and greater measures should be taken to prevent the malady spreading in this particular
sphere. He suggested that the report be referred to the Sanatorium Benefit Sub-Committee
so that they might be able to take action in the matter.
Reference was made by the Chairman to a statement reported to have been made
by Mr. J. W. Black at a recent meeting of the County Council. to the effect that out of
281 insured persons, half of them had been cured of tuberculosis. The speaker thought
they could not accept this statement as correct. Personally, he did not think so many
cases had been cured outright. He would like to see a full-time tuberculosis officer appointed
for the county.
Mr. West thought that what Mr. Black intended to say was that half of the cases had
considerably improved, and were back again at their employment.
Dr. Robinson mentioned that from 15 to 20 persons had been cured outright. Schemes.
that meant the spending of money had been held up by the County Council, and conse-
quently a scheme they had in hand for the treatment of consumptives had also been held
in abeyance. It would take two or three years before a sanatorium could be completed.
Dr. Burkitt formally moved that the report be referred to the Sanatorium Benefit
Sub-Committee, and this course was agreed to.--Leicester Daily Mercury, March 3rd, 1921.
i


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

450

LACK OF TRADE BOARD INSPECTORS!!
The Minister of Labour says "No Vacancies."
In view of the fact that much dissatisfaction exists at the lack of inspectors to enforce the rulings of the Boot Repairing Trade Board, and that in answer to a deputation on the subject the Minister regretted the staff was inadequate, but said something more than a mere technical knowledge of the trade was required, as the inspector would be expected to act as prosecutor in any cases that arose and would therefore have to be possessed of elucation and some acquaintance with legal methods, we make no apology for publishing the following correspondence between an applicant for the post of Trade Board inspector and the Ministry of Labour. We have seen the actual application and the Ministry's reply, and there is no doubt of the genuineness of either document; nor, we believe, are the qualifications of the applicant in any way open to question.
The application was as follows:
"January 24, 1921.
"Sir, I am a master man in repairing and retail boot and shoe trade, and would be glad if my application for an inspectorship under the recently constituted Trade Board could be considered by the proper authorities.
"I have been in the boot and shoe repairing trade for more than twenty years. I am 37 years of age. Before joining my father in business, I served two years in the office of Mr. Mark Attenborough, solicitor, of 35, Walbrook, E.C. I was educated at St. A
School, London, and after leaving gained an exhibition from the L.C.C. to sit for the Diploma in Literature at the University of London, under the extension scheme. After four years' study at the University I took my diploma, gaining certificates of merit at three out of the four annual examinations, besides being awarded honours for submitting an essay on Shakespearean research work. Conjointly with my study for the Diploma in Literature I obtained certificates from the University for three short courses in Biology Psychology, and Sociology.
"After my University course I attended a session at the London School of Economics and spent some months in France to perfect my knowledge of the French language. 1 served in France in the R.G.A. as a battery commandant's assistant, and after the Armistice as an instructor in French.
"My long, extensive, and practical connection with the repairing and retail boot and shoe trade, combined with my knowledge of the law, and my educational attainments should, I venture to believe, make me in most ways an ideal candidate for the post of inspector under the Boot Repairing Trade Board, and I trust that my application will receive favourable consideration.-Yours faithfully, S. W. J."
To which the Secretary to the Ministry of Labour returned the following reply:
"Ministry of Labour.
"Establishments Department,
Richmond Terrace, Whitehall, February 14, 1921.
"Sir,-With reference to your letter relative to an appointment as inspector in this Ministry, under the Trade Boards Acts (Boot Repairing), I am to say there are at present no vacancies for which you could be considered.
"I am to add that in accordance with the decision of H.M. Government, vacancies for temporary posts in Government Departments are now ordinarily being filled by discharged and demobilised sailors, soldiers and airmen, who are selected in order of merit from lists of candidates submitted by Employment Exchanges and the Appointments Department, preference being given to those disabled by war service.
"Any persons eligible under the foregoing decision will, on application being made to any Employment Exchange or office of the Appointments Department, be considered for such temporary appointments in the Government service as may be available from time to time. If a candidate is either ineligible or found to be of unsuitable qualifications for Government service, or if no appropriate Government post is vacant, every endeavour will be made to assist him in obtaining other employment, but it should be understood that whilst applications will receive every consideration, the Department is not in a position to give any guarantee of eventual employment. I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
The applicant, in forwarding the reply to a friend, writes:-"My application was made because I saw in the reports of various meetings complaints as to the want of in- spectors, and the reply of the Ministry of Labour that suitable men from the boot trade were not available. Remember, I have twenty years' experience of the trade, a knowledge of the law, and a University diploma-and am a discharged soldier. But the Ministry say in effect no inspectors are needed; yet the boot trade are crying out for them and would like some at least appointed from amongst themselves. I suppose the Ministry have the final word and that my appointment may be considered very unlikely." -The Shoe Trade Journal, February 25th, 1921.


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

453
NORWICH.-"That in all matters of Union policy it be an instruction to all
Union Officials that differences of opinion be discussed through the Union's
Monthly Report and that at no time should the public Press of the
country be used to promote individual views against the agreed policy
of the Union."

UNEMPLOYMENT.

LEICESTER NO. 1." The Leicester Branch having already requested the
Executive of the Union to endeavour to make the Unemployment Benefit
pavable at our offices and to be administered by our Union, hope that the
Council of the Union will persist in the effort to bring about a working
arrangement for our own industry, believing that such a scheme in which
we are to co-operate with the employers would be to the advantage and
convenience of our members."

VOTING.

LEWESTER NO. 1.-"The Leicester Branch requests that branches failing to
take votes of the Union on matters when requested to do so by the Council
shall be reported to each Conference of the Union, it being fully recognised
that all the obligation of carrying out the rules of the Union is not and
must not be confined to the Officers and Executive of the Union; that
Branch Officers and Branch Executives are equally responsible in their
respective spheres.”

LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move.--" That the Council consider a different
method of taking the votes of members so as to ensure a decision being
the voice and will of at least a majority of the members of the Union on
any subject."

LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move." That women members of the Union
be invited to take their share in the management of the affairs of their
Union, and where branches are composed of women and men there shall
be facilities given for one or more women on all executives and com-
mittees which in any way deal with the general affairs of the Union, they
to be elected on the same principle adopted by the Trade Union Congress
and the National Labour Party."

AMALGAMATION.

NORTHAMPTON to move." That we amalgamate with other Leather
Industries."

COUNCIL'S ADDRESS.


---
Here is the text from the image:

Telephone No.
4438, Museum, London.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
"Natunishop, Holb., London.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NATIONAL UNION OF
Boot and Shoe Operatives.
MONTHLY REPORT.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
34. GUILFORD STREET,
TRADE
LONDON, W.C. 1.
25TH APRIL, 1921.

has, to some small extent, improved during the past month. The statements
which are constantly appearing in the newspapers about large orders for this,
that or the other district might lead one to suppose that the shoe trade was
once more normal, but-we beg to state that these orders for boots and shoes
in the great majority of instances only exist as "paper" boots and shoes in
the form of newspaper paragraphs; they are, therefore likely to give an
entirely wrong view of the state of the trade, hence this paragraph. The
figures given in the Ministry of Labour Gazette are:-

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
In this trade there was a slight improvement on the whole during March, but employ-
ment was still bad, with much short time and unemployment. The improvement was
chiefly shown in the Midland district (particularly Leicester and Stafford) and in Norwich;
while other districts showed a further decline, and some (particularly Bristol and Kings-
wood) reported very severe depression.

The aggregate wage-bill of the firms making Returns showed a reduction of about
24 per cent. as compared with March of last year, in spite of the advance in rates of wages
granted last April. This reduction was due partly to a diminution of about 16 per cent.
in the number employed, and partly to a reduction in the average earnings owing to
short time.

Employment at Leicester and in the surrounding district showed some improvement
during March, and on the whole was moderate; most of the factories at Leicester closed
for only two days, as usual, at Easter. At Hinckley employment was still bad, but a
slight improvement was reported. At Northampton nearly all the factories were still
on short time. At Kettering and Wellingborough employment was reported as bad;
most of the factories in the Kettering district were closed for the whole of Easter week.
A slight improvement was, however, reported in this district. There was a further improve-
ment at Stafford, following on that noted last month. At Norwich employment was,
on the whole, slightly better than in February, although many firms were still very slack;
three-quarter time was common. At Bristol and Kingswood employment showed a
further decline, and was extremely depressed : several factories at Kingswood were closed

B


---
entirely at the end of the month. Employment was also very bad at Street. At Leeds


---
Here is the text from the image:

At Leed
a further
generall
narnock
: than i
ort time
rent and
mploye
477
prepared to
people were properly shod. This is but typical of many other industries
and calls aloud for drastic treatment that treatment can be effectively applied
in this country by each one using his or her vote to put into position and
authority those who, secing the evils of the present system, are
people instead of vested interests. We urge each one upon all occasions to
bring in such legislation
use their vote in such a manner as will bring about the time when right, equity
and justice shall prevail. Meantime, much can be done without further
legislation if further support is given to the co-operative movement. We are
aware that such movement is not perfect, but it is a movement which, fully
developed, would alter enormously the environment of many thousands of
jives, and that for the better; give it your support and thus add one more
to the army of those who believe in mutual help and assistance, in bringing
into life more of the sunshine, in developing to its utmost the method whereby
the whole of the people shall be raised in their economic and social life and have
more and more time to devote to those pursuits which will strengthen the
moral and intellectual capacities of the people as well as improving the material
as would place first and foremost the welfare of the
Vorkpea
(+) c:
-)on
Year
Per cent
231
2
-20:
-105
-24
-541
-19:
359
25
-30%
-234
-219
ونا
-237
pairs
an i
lo
rest
hose
the
rill
ted
hat
er
he
side of life.
REVISION OF 1919 AGREEMENT.
We are still in correspondence with the Manufacturers' Federation relative
to this question and hope to have a meeting of both sides next month.
GENERAL ELECTION.
It is
Rumours are constantly heard that the Government are only waiting a
favourable moment to declare for a General Election. We urge upon all to
put their machinery in order so that whether it comes in the near future or
is delayed for some time, the workers may be found ready for the same.
of no practical value to complain after an election if it turns out contrary to
what we desire. The workers constitute the overwhelming majority of the
electorate, and should see to it that their vote is so used as will ensure those
Members being returned who will bring into existence just and equitable laws
whereby the people will be enabled to live under good conditions.
THE INDUSTRIAL OUTLOOK
is, at the time of writing, a very serious one indeed. The one outstanding
case, however, above all others is that connected with the coal industry.
In our judgment the Government are largely to blame for the situation that
has been brought about, and which threatens the whole industrial life of the
country. When one remembers the result of the Sankey Commission and
the attitude of the Government thereto, along with recent legislation for
decontrol, it does certainly have the appearance that no sort of appreciation
of the real situation had been comprehended by those in authority. Having
had experience for many years past of the advantage to the industry of setting
up a minimum rate of pay, we feel that on such a matter the miners were only

---
asking for something which is just in principle. The method of the employers
in the Mining industry in sending what amounted to an ultimatum in their
proposed new wage list could only have one result: resistance to the same,
having regard to the tremendous reductions (in many instances) the proposed
scale would mean in the weekly drawings of the miners. In our judgment
the old scale of payment should have continued until a new one agreed to jointly
was determined upon, as is done in the boot industry. It may be said that
this would result in a great loss to the owners in certain cases, seeing that
the State had withdrawn its support. Here we think the Government are
again to blame in leaving the two parties as they did. Coal is one of the
essentials in the industrial life of this country; surely therefore the question
is, is it necessary that coal which is obtainable, but expensive to raise from
the bowels of the earth, should be raised? We think the answer would be in
the affirmative. From a national standpoint the question naturally follows
are the miners who work as hard and long as other miners to work for less
because of the lack of success financially of any given mine? Here we feel
confident the answer would be "No." How then is the position to be met:
We suggest that the example which the Government set in the matter of the
Dye industry be followed a subsidy from the State in such cases. It may
be answered that this is a form of payment of wages which is pernicious; we
think not; coal is, as already stated, one of the vital things of this country,
and we cannot afford to leave coal in large quantities in the earth simply because
of the financial aspect only. Moreover, any such cases calling for a subsidy
would be proper cases for enquiry by the Government into all the causes
why the mine does not pay, and it might conceivably be that the result
of changes in the management and administration would prevent any
loss being sustained. The general situation, industrially, is one of constant
anxiety and will continue to be for some time yet. Under the circumstances
it surely is the duty of each one to, as far as possible, render assistance in getting
out of the maze in which we find ourselves and which threatens to engulf us
unless there is a statesmanlike treatment of the world-wide tragedy which
has come upon mankind as a result of the terrible war which we have just
emerged from. We urgently appeal to all our members to so work as to bring
into being that state of society which, in the words of the Labour manifesto
will make it for ever impossible for there to be any more war."
The sudden cancelling of the notices for a strike of those connected with
the Triple Alliance in support of the miners has undoubtedly caused a good
deal of strong language to be used and a great many statements to be made as
to why such cancellation was decided upon. It is not for us, who are no parties
to the Triple Alliance, to pass judgment upon the matter. It has, however,
left the movement in a state of bewilderment and doubt why such a course
Mr. Hodges at a meeting of members of the House of Commons. The situation
thus brought about is one which calls for the best efforts being put forth by
was finally decided upon. We are of course aware of the statements made by

---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

482
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
UNEMPLOYMENT. As intimated in my last report in respect to the Unemployed
Conference held on the 23rd February, at Kingsway Hall, where our Union put before
the Conference their view of a one day's stoppage which practically met with no support,
it was a prelude to what happened last week. We predicted then that there was not the
least doubt that the Trade Union Officials and Leaders of this country would do probably
more than they ever had done to avert a stoppage. This culminated in differences
that appeared in the attitude of the Triple Alliance on Friday, the 8th of this month.
Opinions differ as to what attitude should be taken when one's organisation is out on
strike. Some think everybody should stop. If that spirit prevailed whenever there was
a strike everybody would stop every time, but as the proof of the pudding is in the eating,
the movement was put to the test and failed to respond on the date above-mentioned.
on a matter patent to everyone and helpful to all.
Now as to the Miners' position. One's whole sympathy goes out to the Miners, and
we ought to give them all the help we possibly can. They have been outrageously treated
by the sole authorities in this country for good order and in governing, that is the Govern-
ment itself. What are the motives behind the Government? I can only add two. One
is ignorance, the other is carelessness, probably I could say dishonesty too, and there
would be no trouble in proving that for the first time in history a British Government
has gone back on what appeared to be its pledged promise to a great portion of the working-
class community upon whom they were first of all depending during the late great war.
Thanks to the business foresight of Mr. Arthur Henderson, who contributed an article to
one of the Sunday papers, we find there something which has never before appeared in
favour of the Miners. In the past we were told that the Miners demanded either Nationali-
sation or a Pooling of profits. The Owners we understand wanted 17 to 20 per cent.
The Prime Minister refused. We also understood that the
Miners were willing to concede them 10 per cent. This the Prime Minister also refused
to concede, but Mr. Henderson tells us that the pool out of which poor mines were to have
wages paid to the miners equal with good mines, was to be provided by a tax per ton
on all coal, which would mean that the miner who got the biggest wage, who hewed the
greatest amount of coal, would contribute most towards the tax. This is a view which
does not appear to have come out in the discussion between the Mine Owners and the
Miners' Representatives. Speaking for myself, I believe that from whatever source the
wages might come, no one in this Kingdom has a right to expect a Miner, or for that matter
any other class of worker (but we are speaking of Miners at the present) to work unless
he gets a reasonable living wage 52 weeks in the year, and if coal must be obtained and
we have it in our midst, then we ought to be willing to subsidise the bad mine with the
most efficient machinery and organisation that can be produced, with that difference
between the wages earned and a proper wage. I am pleased to say that the head of one
of the largest Engineering firms in industry agrees with this particular view. I wish the
Miners success and hope the Prime Minister will have the common sense to deal with this
matter in a common sense manner, which has not been the case up to the present. The
Miners and Mine Owners ought to have had proper notice, and they ought to have been
advised by the Government to endeavour to bring about a settlement, without the Govern-
ment itself trying to force a wage upon men, which they have rightly refused to accept
because in many districts it is below a reasonable subsistence level.

COUNCIL MEETINGS. - On the 20th and 21st ult. we held our usual Council Meetings
and made preparations for the coming Conference, Whit Week, in the Kingsway Hall
London, where we hope to have a most successful gathering.
LONDON. - On the 15th ult. I attended a meeting of one of our firms in London who
were endeavouring to transfer from Handsewn work to that of Machine Welted, and
although for the moment the work is in a transitory stage, the men who have been accus-
tomed to work in their homes much prefer this system of what we call working indoors,
so much so that I hope we may give encouragement to indoor working and at no distant
date get the Government to discourage home employment for able-bodied persons.
STREET. - On the 16th ult. I paid a visit to Street in Somersetshire, to endeavour to
encourage a little more robustness among the members. Conditions down in Street are
very bad owing to the fact that the men are working as little as a day and a half per week.
I had a very nice meeting, very encouraging meeting, although some of the members
would have liked to have seen a larger number present. Still I should guess there were
70 to 80 present, probably 100, and I think that is very well for an ordinary branch
meeting of a small branch. However, our good friend the Secretary quite properly expects
a bit more loyalty.
I had occasion to see the management when there, because their rendering of the 85s.
minimum did not coincide with my own views, and whilst we have no complaint whatever


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

that it is not our or their intention to forego to allow
increase in wages at any time without appealing to al
was thoroughly understood, and they were advised of later on.
it is for the present, and the same will not be lost sight
the whole of the position, the Party appreciated the action of the Council, and I fully
and fully explained our visit to the Executive the week before, and after carefully explaining
On the 14th Mr. Law and myself waited on the Leicester Labour Party Execativ
believe when we report to the Executive of the Union, that an amicable arrangement will
of the Federation, at Tavistock Square, and we have arranged for two meetings, the most
NATIONAL CONFERENCE. On the 15th I had arranged for a meeting with Mr. Marlow,
on the question of the National Agreement at 2 o'clock on May 24th. Also the sub-
important of all being that our side are to meet the Employers in National Conference
committee is to meet their side at Northampton on the question of the Unemployment
Scheme between ourselves and the Federation at 2.30, on May 4th, at Gold Street.
be arrived at.

TRADE UNION STAMP. The question of Stamped Boots will again come to the fore
Elsewhere in this Report will be found some correspondence respecting the Trade Union
Stamp. The employers are anxious to put a stamped boot on the market. I am anxious
that we shall at least make it known that all good boots are only good when they have been
made under proper conditions and Trade Union rates of wages have been paid. This
reminds me of a request we have had this very day from a very large firm to supply them with
the Trade Union Stamp. This may be due to the interest we are showing in this particular
subject, and we may yet hope that we may bring more pressure to bear upon our own
members. Perhaps it would not be bad if we were at the coming Conference to ask all the
delegates to say whether their boots had been made at Trade Union Stamped Shops?

34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. I.
April 19th, 1921.

ihands
General President.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.

Herewith is my report for the month. I have visited Guiseley with a view of organising,
but once again have to report that trade is in a very bad state, and although I had con-
versations with operatives employed at the three respective factories, have been unable
to arrange for any meetings owing to the condition of the trade.
I have also visited Sileby for the purpose of organising. I met the Branch Com-
mittee with a view to discussing the position and making arrangements for getting at the
operatives. After considerable discussion it was decided to take one shop at a time when
the opportunity presents itself. Trade is very bad here and with the holiday intervening
it has interfered with our work. Messrs. Bray's has been closed down for four weeks and
Messrs. Swan & Preston's three weeks, but both firms have re-commenced operations.
I had an interview with Messrs. Moyers. This firm commenced on the County Statement
on April 9th. At a meeting of the employees I advised them to give the same a fair trial.

I have also visited Rothley and had conversations with operatives on the reason for
declining membership, and found the explanation is the very bad state of trade. The
firm of Messrs. T. G. Hunt has been closed down for two months, and Messrs. Stead &
Simpson's for the same period. Both firms have now re-commenced operations and the
workers are only too anxious to commence paying contributions to our Union again as
they recognise that a great deal has been done for them. The other firm are working
three and four days per week only.

Mr. Leader and I have visited Mountsorrel and found trade there only very moderate.
As a result of conversations with operatives we feel they will continue membership of the
Union.

Mr. Richards, Mr. Law and myself, in accordance with Council's instruction, attended
before the Leicester Labour Party Executive re Ald. Hill's South Leicester Candidature
and a permanent Election Agent for the Division. The position of the Council was put
before the above-mentioned body, and after questions were answered we were informed
that the Party's findings would be forwarded on in writing.


---


---
Branch, visiting shops.


---


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

491
BRANCH REPORTS.

BARNSLEY.—Trade was very slack here, and owing to the Miners'
Strike it has become very bad,
BELFAST.—Trade continues to remain in a very unsatisfactory con-
dition; short time is being worked generally, while many of our members
are still on the unemployed list, without any prospects of being employed in
the near future; the position at the present time is most depressing.
BRISTOL AND KINGSWOOD No. 2.—Trade is still very bad with us;
our unemployed list lengthens, and at present there is very little sign of a
trade revival. The busiest places in Kingswood at present are the offices
of the N.U.B.S.O. and the Labour Exchange. We are playing an important
part in the life of the community. Everybody is wishing for a speedy settle-
ment in the coal industry, and hope when it comes it will be permanent ;
until that is achieved there cannot be any stability in any other trade, and
at the present time the great need of the people is to find work which will
enable them to live.
CHESHAM.—Trade is very bad, worse than a month ago, and members
are still being discharged. We have a large number signing the out-of-work
hook in addition to a large number of members who have drawn their full
amount of benefit. We are glad to report that our Branch President and
Secretary have been returned members of the local U.D.C.
CHESTERFIELD.—Trade is very bad, several of our members have
been given a week's notice to finish work for the firm on the 16th April. With
the Miners' lockout and the slump brings us nearly to a standstill, but we are
hoping for a speedy settlement of the lockout, and that ere long we shall
see the arrival of better things than the last few months have provided. Surely
some time we shall see people better off so that they can buy our products
and put the trade on a better basis than it is to-day. The opening of our
Foreign Trade ought soon to make an alteration for the boot trade at least.
CORK.—Trade here is a little improved, some of our members having
returned to work. It is with regret we have to report the resignation of Mr.
W. W. Cooper, Manager of the Lee Boot Company; we hope that he will
be spared long to enjoy his well-earned rest.
EDINBURGH.—The absorbing topic at present is the mining crisis.
Of course opinion differs on the case put before the public, but in our opinion
the reduction is too great according to level of cost of living. We have again
received notice to attend a District Committee meeting of Wages Trade Board
to consider minimum wages and re-adjustment of piece rates. It is nearly six
months since our claim was put forward and now we are only meeting as a
District Committee to consider these items. The local Advisory Committee
have taken up the matter of the Education Authority training adults in the
Boot Repairing Trade, but up till now they have been told to mind their own
business. Now, in the present state of the Repairing Trade, the teaching of
disabled sailors or soldiers is just putting the men into a blind alley as there is no
prospect of them receiving employment when their training has expired. Our
members are anxious about the new Agreement and when the Federation
and our Union are going to meet to discuss the proposed terms.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.—We regret that during the last week the
wife of our old colleague and fellow Official (Wm. Bazeley, J.P.) passed away
after a long and painful illness ; the Monthly Meetings passed resolutions of
sympathy. Also one of the oldest and respected members, Solomon Upton,
has died. Mr. Upton was an energetic worker in the Labour cause for years,
and was a member of our Union for over 30 years; member of Branch Executive
C


---
Here is the text from the image:

492
and Vice President of the Branch. There seems some slight improvement
in trade in some factories, but no improvement in the general run of firms.
The feelings of our members are with the Miners in their struggle we trust
that by the time this report is printed that the attempts to reduce the workers'
standard of life will be defeated.
KETTERING No. 1.
doing unto other
To maintain clearness of vision is surely one of
the hardest tasks of the ordinary trade unionist and particularly the trade
union official at the present time. Experiencing as we are, the appalling
it is no wonder that the general attitude is more concerned as to how to make
evils of economic oppression, in the worst form of extensive unemployment
ends meet, rather than as to how one should live. The principle has its refle
compel the greatest consideration being given to meeting the minimum demands
from ordinary times, for even then it is sadly true that economic circumstanc
of life. It is only on rare occasions that the life that should be enters into the
thoughts of the ordinary worker. Very largely, too, it is this factor which
therefore, at the present time, is to keep our slight grip on the vision--th
the weak link in the Trade Union movement. One of our greatest problem
vision of a community ennobled by the common purpose of "
as one would be done by." This principle has found its echo in a Study Grouu
organised by the Branch, as arising out of the Resolutions on Education passe
at the Edinburgh Conference. The group has just completed a course of th
meetings on Trade Union Problems. From first to last the keynote of ou
debates has been the fostering of true social and industrial principles. More
movement must concern itself with many factors of life which come not ar
present, or very little. within its scope. And of these factors EDUCATION S
one of the most important. We believe, by our experiences during the session,
that the development of study groups, in and through the Trade Union move
ment, is of immediate and vital importance. We commend the need to other
Branches of our Union, in the certain hope that once established such group
will perform more useful service to the Labour and Trade Union movement
than all the Conferences which have ever been called. To all unemplove
comrades we send sympathetic and fraternal greetings.

LIVERPOOL.-The benefits paid out during March beat all previou
records in the history of the branch. Since the Easter holidays trade with
boot repairers has slightly improved, but in view of the present crisis in the
labour world (which we hope will not last long), the prospect for the future
is not very bright. The District Committee of the Trade Board for Lancashir
and Cheshire met at Manchester on April 5th, our Union being represente
by the secretaries of Liverpool and Burnley branches.
MANCHESTER.-Trade is very bad; it gets worse each week and no
signs of improvement, and now the Coal Strike will make it worse still. The
members that are working are all on short time.

MAYBOLE.-Trade is very slack, a number of our members having
drawn the full amount from the funds. We are pleased to see the Council
are taking up the question of keeping the books clear in the same way as they
did during the War. We are sorry we have had no word about the proposed
New Agreement as the time is now passed for expiry of the Old Agreement.
it is the quietest time we have experienced for fifteen years, but we hope that
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.-Trade here all round is very quiet, in fact,
night last we had a visit from our Executive Council District Representative,
speedy settlement of the Miners' Strike trade will revive. On Thursday
Mr. A. J. Dobbs, of Leeds. Owing to unforeseen circumstances connected with
should have arrived in Newcastle at 6 p.m., did not arrive until 8.45 p.m.
the withdrawing of a certain number of trains on the N.E.R., Mr. Dobbs, who
thereby the meeting, which should have commenced at 7.30, did not commenc


---
Here is the text from the image:

493

until 8.45. and under the circumstances, the members, who numbered about one
hundred, consented to Mr. Dobbs addressing them without delay. This he
did and he spoke for one hour on a programme which had been drawn up by
the Committee. The questions he spoke upon were " The Government Un-
employment Scheme, and why it was taken over by the Boot and Shoe Opera-
tives Union"; "What are our officials doing for us as Repairers in the Trade
Boards?"; "Do Repairers get the same considerations at Council Meetings
as members who work in Factories on New Work get?"; "Why were the
increased Benefits in the Union, for which members had to pay 3d. per week
extra, delayed for twelve months before coming into operation?" Now Mr.
Dobbs gave a very satisfactory and interesting speech, which was of too short
duration, and the members in attendance were denied that interesting part
of any speech-the question time. After our few remarks in last month's
Report to Woolworth's, we are able to state that the workman was withdrawn
two days after our reporting to Trade Board Office. We sincerely hope that
if this display takes place in any other town our members will now know what
line of action to take, and we wish them every success.

NORWICH. It is with extreme regret that we have this month to report
the death of our late secretary, James Mason. Members of the Union will
remember that Mr. Mason retired from office February, 1920, with his health
greatly impaired. We joined with him in the hope that skilful nursing and
close medical attention would be sufficient to bring about a return to reason-
able health and opportunity for many pleasurable years of life. With much
patience and steady optimism he lived through thirteen months of pain
and suffering, to pass away suddenly on March 31st. Mr. Mason reached
the age of seventy years after a very hard and strenuous career. Active in the
shoe trade from the age of eighteen, his life was spent continuously for and on
behalf of the worker. During the thirty years of branch secretaryship he
encountered many difficulties, and with a determination that was an outstand-
ing characteristic he succeeded in building up a strong force in the shape of the
Norwich Branch. We in Norwich wished sincerely that he would have been
spared to enjoy the evening of his days, in comfort and repose, being able to
observe the working and use of the weapon he gave his life to forge. Difficult
though the present may be, we may be assured that it is immeasurably easier
for the work done by the pioneers in the days that are gone. James Mason was
of that band; his memory is left us as an inspiration to the things he believed
in. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his widow and family.

PLYMOUTH.-Trade is still quiet, but all around we see signs of activity
and measures being taken to cope with the industrial situation. Battalions
march equipped for battle, mighty ships plough the seas and make ready to
preserve the life of the community, and we wonder what the end will be;
things look foreboding. We hope our comrades will rely on the justice of their
cause and the intelligence of our race to bring about a just and lasting settlement,
rather than enter into a trial of strength with the powers that be, for who could
doubt what the end would be.

We heartily support the Council in their proposal to exempt unemployed
members from payment of contributions, as we earnestly desire to see our
Union forces remain powerful and strong, ready to march forward when trade
revives and the opportunity arises. We hope the Council will deal liberally
with this question, and all members who have the good fortune to remain
employed support them in their efforts to preserve an organisation which will
compel respect, ready and competent at all times to maintain a standard of
life worthy of our trade and calling.

PORTSMOUTH.-Trade is showing signs of improvement, and not
before it was necessary. We cannot say there is any improvement in the interest
of our members in the affairs of the Union.


---
Here is the text from the image:

495
THE MINERS IN THE POLITICAL SITUATION.

By J. RAMSAY MACDONALD.

I look with some apprehension upon a new outbreak of hostilities on the coalfield.
With the demands of the miners I am in full agreement. District agreements are wrong,
Coal production is a national concern, to attach low wages to difficult work is wrong.
and the wages paid in making it up to the required total should be upon national standards.
The miners have both justice and common sense on their side.

But justice and common sense do not win battles. The time of fighting and the
conditions of fighting must be studied. The men were perfectly right to say that they
do not agree to the owners' proposal. What next?

A strike at present would only play into the hands of the masters and the scaremongers.
Capital would not suffer very much if every mine in the country were closed for a week
or two. The major markets are overstocked and this is a good time for a holiday, and the
chance for high prices and any shortage that might be felt could be put upon the miners,
who are always unpopular when they are doing anything but slaving at the coal face.
The Capitalist will be relieved of trouble, and a good text will be provided for his
next by the Prime Minister, for his next scare speech.

It will undoubtedly hamper the Labour Party at the present moment, as the last
stroke did, and will do anything but help the general labour movement, the success of which
must be a grave concern for the miners.

Important as these considerations are, there is still a bigger one to be considered.
Capital mining capitalism, from its very nature, cannot accept a national pool into which
profits are to be put and from which wages are to be paid. It must fight against that,
because it will have the support of Capitalism in general. What a strike would therefore
amount to is this: It would be an attempt to get the benefits of nationalisation by action
that would not result in nationalisation.

This seems to me to be poor fighting. Whatever may be the ostensible quarrel,
the one issue upon which the miner should fix his attention is nationalisation, for that is
the pivot round which he is moving all the time. Until he has got that he can get little
worth having. In order to get that, he must help the Labour Party and do nothing to
give a set-back to its political victories. If the miners know in their hearts that this is
the time for a big successful industrial fight, well, let them bide their time. The
persistent and watchful man gets there first.

The miners have rejected the owners' proposals, and that decision will be placed
before the owners. The owners may refuse to budge-probably will. Then there will
be no peace, no heart in work, no harmony in the coal field-only preparation for a struggle.
That will be far more disconcerting to Capitalists than a fight which they believe will end
in their victory, in broken Unions, in depleted funds, and in dispirited men. By such
actions as this, Capitalism is digging its own grave and is rousing such bitter enmity that
its system cannot last.

The miners' concern is with public opinion. They cannot win without that, because
nationalisation is an issue that that has to settle one way or another. I was very dis-
appointed with the way the nationalisation campaign was handled. Jericho walls will
not fall now by parades and blasts of trumpets. Steady persistent work must be put in
and difficult questions ought not to be dropped like hot potatoes. If it is made easy for
the great mass of uninstructed electors to believe as gospel the balderdash uttered by the
Prime Minister after that lunch, then reason and honesty will have no place in public
affairs.

The deception practised by Mr. Bonar Law, the conduct of the Government regarding
de-control, the deliberate appeal to class prejudice and interest by the Prime Minister,
and similar things, are driving the miners into a position where only considerations of how
to have their own back can move them. Unless there is a change, to talk to the miners
of honest work will be to mark one's self off as a great saint or a confounded hypocrite.

I hope the miners will address themselves to the public on the larger moral issue,
and through the Labour Party to the same public on the larger political issue, and not
obscure both by a strike that on merits would be wholly justified but as business would
be a colossal blunder. Forward (Glasgow), April 2nd, 1921.


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

500
DEATH OF MR. JAMES MASON.
The citizens of Norwich, and especially those who are connected with the shoe trade.
will regret to hear of the death of Mr. James Mason. He was at one time a member of
the City Council, and was still better known as a leader in trade unionism. Mr. Mason
was seventy years of age last January. A little more than a year ago he retired from
the Norwich secretaryship of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, and took
over the sick secretaryship. On Wednesday night he was taken alarmingly ill, and he
died in the earlier hours of the following morning.

It is literally true to say that Mr. Mason was connected with the boot and shoe trade
throughout his life, for his father was a journeyman shoemaker before the introduction
of machinery. When 15 he went to London to learn the American peg work, but soon
returned to Norwich. Afterwards at intervals he worked at Newcastle, Leeds, Halifax,
and Manchester, whence, after more or less unsatisfactory experiences, he returned to
Norwich, and for eight years followed his trade there. Then his activities as a member
of the union made it impossible for him to find employment in his native city, and after
being out of work four months he went to Leicester, where he eventually settled down
comfortably in a factory in which his knowledge and experience in dealing with light
ladies' work secured for him warm recognition. His career as an operative came to an
end in 1890, when his position as secretary of the Norwich branch of the Union was made
a full-time office. Ml. Mason, from his early youth, was a keen supporter of the Union
and his efforts on its behalf were recognised some twelve months ago by the presentation
of a cheque for £150.
"So
Mr. Mason had some curious experiences in the early days of his secretaryship. "S
only," he said, was my house an office, always open for the reception of members, but
members used to call me out of the factory to give them advice, and I rarely went to a
friend's house without a neighbour popping in to ask me to solve some trade problema
Eastern Evening News, 2nd April, 1921.

FUNERAL OF MR. JAMES MASON.
Trade Unionists' Tribute.
The funeral took place at the Norwich Cemetery this afternoon of Mr. James Mason,
formerly a member of the City Council, who died at his home in Angel Road, on Thursday
Deceased retired from the local secretaryship of the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives about a year ago, and since then he had held the office of sick secretary. His
long association with the Boot and Shoe Operatives Union and Trades Unionism generall:
was recognised by the attendance at the funeral of many well-known union leaders. The
Rev. Geo. Stone, who conducted the service, spoke eloquently in appreciation of deceased's
public work.

Among the leading officials of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union who were presen:
were Mr. E. L. Poulton (National Secretary), Messrs. W. Hindes, F. Segon, F. Č. Jex
A. H. Folkard, H. Frazer, A. Bird, and T. Lawn. Mr. G. F. Johnson (secretary of the
Norwich Labour Party and Industrial Council), Mr. E. J. Manning (Typographical Associa
tion), Messrs. A. M. Stevens, G. Cleverley, and J. Newman (Carpenters and Joiners
Union) were among others present. Mr. B. J. Hanly represented the Boot and Shoe
Manufacturers' Association, and Mr. W. B. Greenfield represented Norwich Co-operative
Society, of which deceased was a prominent member.

The principal family mourners were the widow, Mr. and Mrs. D. J. Mason (son and
daughter-in-law), Mr. and Mrs. John Mason (son and daughter-in-law), Mr. Arthur Mason
(son), Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Mason (son and daughter-in-law), Miss F. Mason (daughter
and two sisters of the deceased
The floral tributes included wreaths from the Labour Party and the officials of the
Branch of the Boot and Shoe Operatives. The Labour Party's wreath was inscribed
All these have not fought in vain, for we reap where they have sown." Another wreath
was from the staff of the Thorpe Hamlet Boys' School, where one of the deceased's sons
Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union, and a wreath from the members of No. 1 Norwich
is engaged.
News, 4th April, 1921.
and A. Mann, all members of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union. -Eastern Evening
The bearers were Messrs. R. Norman, A. Carey W. Smith, R. Breed, B. Chapman,
"

---
Here is the text from the image:

501
DEATH OF OLD UNION MEMBER.
By the death of Mr. Solomon Upton, of Higham Ferrers, who was 68 years of age, the Higham Ferrers Co-operative Boot and Shoe Productive Society Ltd., has lost one of its founders For 10 years he was the president of the society, a position he occupied ee to the time of his death, and he had served on the committee ever since the formation Root and Shoe Operatives, and was one of the first to join the Rushden and Higham
the sorely in 1801 Deceased was also an ardent worker for the National Union of Ferrers branch. For a long period he had a seat on the branch executive committee..
Trades Journal. April 15th, 1921.
1
1
CORRESPONDENCE.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
TO THE EDITOR, Leicester Mail.
The idea of a Stamped Boot or Shoe as a guarantee of its wearing qualities mimized a good one, but the same will be incomplete unless the stamp also carries with the fact that it has been produced by Trade Unionists under proper conditions and in onformity with the National Agreements covering the Industry as arranged between
the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives and the Employers' Federation. Such article would strongly recommend itself with this proviso to the eight million Trade mionists and their families in this country. - Yours faithfully,
10TH MARCH, 1921.
(Signed), T. F. RICHARDS, General President.
In a letter printed elsewhere in this issue Mr. T. F. Richards discusses a point of some interest in connection with the scheme in question. A fortnight since he suggested that boots bearing the quality mark also bore the trade union stamp the support of eight million trade unionists and their families would probably be secured an idea which is
certainly worth consideration. But our counter-suggestion, that the National Union mught in return very properly instruct its members to refuse to make boots which did not comply with the specifications adopted by the Joint Committee, brings a characteristic reply from Mr. Richards, to which we direct attention. He contends that the adoption our proposal would involve securing a share in the management of boot factories to the
operatives employed. But it does nothing of the kind. If it were understood that no Tmember of the Union would perform any operation on boots containing paper or cardboard, no employer of Union labour would use such materials. The attempt to link up our sug-gestion with the question of joint management is ingenious, but there is no real connection
between the two things, as Mr. Richards must be aware. We are glad to hear that no shoddy boots are made in any of the co-operative shoe factories. That fact probably accounts in part for such success as these enterprises enjoy, for it proves that the policy of producing only sound goods is the best, no matter where or by whom it is practised.-
Shoe and Leather Record, April 8th, 1921.
Mr. T. F. Richards would like the Committee on Shoddy Footwear to impose the Condition that boots bearing the quality stamp should also carry the trade union stamp. But he still contends that our proposal that members of the National Union should refuse
39 make boots which do not comply with the specification adopted by the Committee Would involve securing a share in the management of the factories in which they were employed. The reasons he gives in his letter, which we print elsewhere, are singularly unconvincing. The specifications are explicit enough, and are not beyond the com-
is unable to distinguish leather from cardboard, and that is all that would be required.
prehension of the average operative. There is not a member of the National Union who If the Union stamp would help to popularise boots bearing the guarantee mark, there is
no good reason why it should not also be applied. There are, however, good reasons why the Union, in return for such a concession, should assist in making the campaign instituted for the purpose of eliminating shoddy successful. We do not question Mr.
Richards' sincerity, but may point out that, while he appears able to deceive himself, he will deceive nobody else by the flimsy objections he puts forward. - Shoe and Leather Record, April 22nd, 1921.


---
Here is the text from the image:

503

HEALTH NOTES-TREATMENT OF CONSUMPTION
By T. CREW, A.F.I.
Recently, we had the important news of the Spahlinger treatment of tuberculosis, and now it is all the more pleasing to record that a distinguished medical man, Dr. Nathan Raw, M.P., has advanced certain definite views as to securing immunity from this terrible scourge. After long continued research and clinical experiment, he is convinced that there are two quite distinct forms of tuberculosis, and that it is possible to secure immunity from either disease by a vaccine prepared from the bacillus of the other. He states that human and bovine tuberculosis are separate and distinct infections, producing a different set of symptoms in the human body and that the one form confers immunity in the body from the other form. It is gratifying to know that medical science is surely attacking this great problem, which has baffled us for so many years.

The New Minister.
One regrets for various reasons the disappearance of Dr. C. Addison from the position of Minister of Health, and yet one cannot be surprised inasmuch as support accorded to him from his own profession (medical) has not been generally given. With a medical man at the head of such an important post, one would have thought that the medical fraternity would have been more united than ever to advance the cause of health in all its spheres. The appointment of Sir Alfred Mond does not suggest any greater progress than that made by the late Minister, although with his business acumen, the solution of the housing prob- lem may be greatly facilitated.

Tuberculosis.
From May Ist. the county and borough councils will deal comprehensively with the treatment of all tuberculous persons, and accordingly the grants already payable for the provision of institutional and dispensary treatment will be considerably increased, con- sequent upon the discontinuance of the contributions from the insurance committees. An important factor is that Parliament is to be asked to vote money for grants in aid of the provision of extra nourishment to those tuberculous persons under domiciliary treat- ment. Lack of funds for the provision of ancillary foods has been the chief set-back to insurance committees in the following up of suitable cases, who have received and bene- fited from institutional treatment. Nevertheless the application of extra nourishment requires the most careful administration, as only those who have experienced such can fully appreciate. Undoubtedly with the provision of full residential treatment, with the concurrent vocational training, and the wise application of after-care, there is every reason for making definite inroads into the terrible scourge of consumption. Of course, what is really needed among the community is the greater knowledge of the elementary laws of health and the understanding that it is up to the individual to play his or her part in this health problem.

Hot Water.
Do we ever realise the full virtues of hot water? Read and digest the following. Take hot water some time before breakfast, as it is a good antidote against indigestion. If you are exposed to a chill, drink plenty of hot water mixed with lemon juice and sugar added. Hot water applications will relieve the pain of a nervous headache, and also inflamed eyes. Sprains and bruises are greatly relieved by the application of hot water, which will also stop the hemorrhage of a bleeding surface. Those who suffer from insomnia can regain good sleep to a great extent after a full bath.

Range of Services.
Last week I referred to the question as to whether certain operations or other service came within the definition of range of service, and I gave instances. Decisions have now been given by referees which place the following outside the range :- Testing the eyes for errors of refraction, operation of tonsillectomy on a man aged 43 years, operation of radical cure of hernia, removal of abdominal tumour, operation for empyema, cauteri- sation of the pharynx, examination of urine for lead poisoning, operation for ischio-rectal abscess, removal of aural polypus, &c.

It is interesting to note, that where a complaint is made by one practitioner against another, involving any question of the efficiency of the medical service of insured persons, the matter is referred to the Local Medical Committee. It is possible for the latter com- mittee to make representations to the Minister of Health that the continuance on the panel of the practitioner against whom the complaint is made will be prejudicial to the efficiency of the service.—Leicester Mail, 7th April, 1921.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

504
REPARATIONS. THE MANIFESTO OF THE INTERNATIONAL.
To the working class organisations and Parliamentary Parties.
The working class organisations of the countries that were neutral as well as of th
that were belligerents during the war have been viewing with grave concern the increas
revengefulness has been continued since the peace, with the result that the reign of anar
is prolonged, and justice, both in spirit and form, is kept out of the councils of the natio
power of militarism and reaction since the armistice. The spirit of war, its hatred
appetites and Capitalist interests are in control of these negotiations, and unless the work
class organisations combine to put an end to this madness still greater ruin stares Euro
This is seen with dramatic force in the controversy regarding reparations. Imperia
and Amsterdam (at which Parliamentary representatives were specially invited and attend
The Executive of the International has therefore held special sessions in Lond
and German sections together with neutral representatives to devise solutions upon whi
from the countries immediately concerned), and has brought its French, Belgian, Brit
the working classes of the countries more immediately affected might agree. It rejoic
that a complete agreement has been reached, and is embodied in the following declaratio
in the face.
the Bureau of the Trade Union International, which was also meeting to discuss the sam
Before the Committee left Amsterdam it met and communicated its resolution
subject, and found that the Federation and itself were pursuing a policy similar in princip
and sympathetic in detail.
The Executive of the International therefore calls upon all working-class organisation
in all lands to study this declaration, and to take what action they can, in conjunctio
with their Parliamentary Groups, to influence their public opinion and their Government
to support and pursue a policy in accordance with this resolution.
THE RESOLUTION.
J. RAMSAY MACDONALD.
This Conference of representatives of the Executive of the International and the
Parliamentary Parties of the countries concerned has met in consequence of the deadlock
between the Governments of the Allies and of Germany at London, and the events that
have followed.
The Conference takes note of the declaration of the German delegates that they, in
harmony with the decisions at Geneva, accept liability for all legitimate reparations.
The Socialists of the Allied countries recognise that this duty is limited by the capacity
of the German people, and should not be pushed so far as to crush the country or prevent
its economic, political, and moral reconstruction, and so condemn the working class to a
form of economic slavery.
The amount and mode of reparation should be determined by agreement between
the interested parties. Measures of coercion can never lead to a really satisfactory result.
An appeal to military force, so far from furthering the work of reparation, merely prolongs
the period of uncertainty and gives Reaction and Militarism an opportunity to strengthen
their position, to revive feelings of hatred among the peoples, and to embroil Europe
in fresh adventures. The Conference considers that the check to the London negotiations
is due to the Capitalist Powers, which, unable to prevent war, are also unable to secure
peace, and declares that only on the basis of the principles affirmed at International
Working Class Conferences can it look for a concrete solution which will re-establish a
normal situation and obliterate the material and moral traces of the war.
its ideas, ought to guide the negotiations into more fruitful channels, including arbitration
The Working Class, being more disinterested, less Jingo, and more international in
on questions of law or fact if agreement is found not to be possible, and press its decisions
upon the Governments with all its available influence.
The Conference, after having examined the concrete conditions of equitable repara
tion, has reached a unanimous agreement on the following points :-
would be jeopardised.
Germany should undertake to pay.
I.
part of the reparation without which their economic, political, and moral reconstruction
It is necessary that the devastated regions should promptly obtain completely that
To collect the sums which are necessary, one or several great international loans
should be floated within the next five years and guaranteed by thirty annuities which
The interest of the Allied nations requires that this great credit operation should be
The Conference is glad that the French and German workers in the building trades,
reconstruction of the devastated regions, and in so doing eliminate especially the private
under the guidance of the International Labour Bureau of the League of Nations, have
enrichment of capitalist groups in the countries concerned at the expense of the suffering
declared their willingness to organise a co-operation of French and German labour for the
facilitated by the co-operation of all nations.
peoples.


---
Here is the text from the image:

505

The parties represented here pledge themselves to remove all obstacles that stand in the way of the realisation of far-reaching plans for reconstruction.
To ensure the necessary speed in the reconstruction of the devastated regions, a mixed system of delivery in kind, labour, and money should be adopted. The deliveries made by Germany should be placed to the credit of the reparation account.
With regard to the reparations in kind, it is essential to ensure, with the co-operation of the trade unions, that they will not injure the workers in either the delivering or the receiving country.

II.

The Conference notes that the German Social Democracy agrees with the principle that German payments for reparation should be increased in proportion to the growing economic prosperity of Germany.
The Conference declares its opinion that indemnities over and above those relating to the restoration of the devastated regions can be fixed so as to guarantee payments to the Allied countries, and also security to German economic life, and should be made in accordance with German prosperity. In order to do this, every effort should be made to restore international trade to its normal conditions of production and exchange. The German Government should agree that annual sums of a fixed minimum be paid bearing a proportion to the condition of the country. This sliding scale should not be created on the basis of exports only, but, like internal taxation, should take account of national wealth and income, and the Conference calls upon the working-class organisations and the Parliamentary Parties to consider how this is to be done.

III.

The Conference takes note of the disagreement between the Allied and German Governments on the subjects of (1) the value of the goods which Germany has already delivered under the provisions of the Treaty of Versailles, and (2) the amounts which Germany can pay for general reparation. It is strongly of opinion that disagreement on such things should be referred for settlement to an expert Commission appointed by the League of Nations or other authority acceptable to both sides, and requests the working-class organisations and the Parliamentary Parties of the countries concerned to press upon their Governments that business disputes on matters of fact and of legal and accepted obligations should be referred for decision to the same kind of authority as would be used when similar disputes arise between individuals. It is of the greatest importance not only that the spirit of justice should be restored in international affairs, but the forms of justice itself.
The League of Nations, to which Germany should be admitted, will not achieve its purpose, and will forfeit the hopes that the world democracy has reposed upon its development, if it fail to interest itself in the financial problems essential to the peace settlement or in those of deliveries in service and in kind in the solution of which the International Labour Bureau can play such an important part.

IV.

But the working-class does not confine its hopes for an enduring peace to the increasing activity of the League of Nations. The working-class itself, through its own organisations, should devote itself to this task.
After having established in the present meeting a unanimous agreement on the important points referred to above, the Executive Committee of the International intends to continue its investigations and negotiations until it has reached even in detail a solution of justice and of international fraternity, capable of securing the enthusiastic endorsement of all the workers.

V.

The Conference notes the declaration of the Dutch delegation that neutral countries have an interest in a speedy, peaceful, and lasting reparation agreement.
The Government and Parliament of the Netherlands have already granted credits and loans for this purpose.
If circumstances show that it is necessary to go further in this direction, the Dutch Party will gladly take the initiative in proposing a common line of action to the other neutral countries.
The delegation points cut that the intervention of the neutral countries will become more important as armaments are more and more restricted.
The Conference draws the attention of the Parliamentary groups in every country to this point.
The Conference upon Reparations which made the above declaration was composed of :
GREAT BRITAIN. A. Henderson, M.P., J. Ramsay Macdonald, Thomas Shaw, M.P., and J. H. Thomas, M.P.
BELGIUM.-Louis de Brouckere, M. Colleaux, M.P., and Camille Huysmans, M.P.
GERMANY. Otto Wells, M.P., Hermann Müller, M.P., Otto Huè, M.P., and H. Silberschmidt.
FRANCE.-A. Rozier, M.P., Brunet, Jerome Levy, Jobert, and Vaillant.
HOLLAND. - P. 1. Troelstra, M.P., and Vliegen, M.P.
It met at Amsterdam on March 30th and two following days.


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

508
necessary for me to go into details as to the dangers they must be fairly obvious. If
you want further evidence of the dangers I suggest a perusal of the inquests that are being
held up and down the country and the comments of coroners. Many of these I have got
with me, but I do not propose to read them to you. They suggest, at any rate, that the
danger is pretty considerable and requires the immediate attention of this Department.
supply of a third man to be responsible for the rear vehicle. In addition though this
We feel that separate braking is absolutely essential, and consequently, of course, the
may not be altogether germane, nevertheless it should be of interest to the Ministry--
we should like to point out that a departure from the present practice, that is of leaving the
rear vehicle in the street unattended whilst the wagon itself, the propelling vehicle, has
been severed from it and taken away to unload. Then there are the difficulties of turning
street and shop corners, getting up narrow gangways and passage ways. Here the absence
of a rear man may be more or less dangerous. The driver will very often sever his connec-
tion between the two vehicles, leaving his rear wagon unattended in the street, and pro-
weeding with his own car further along the street. That of course, leaves anything that
may happen to your imagination owing to the interference of boys and so on with the brakes
Numerous accidents can be traced to that. This uncoupling also makes it necessary for
the driver to re-couple and in the re-coupling of the permanent apparatus some little thing
runs the chance of being neglected, especially on a wet, foggy, or particularly cold night.
All this adds to the possibility of accidents. It might not appear to be much, but
my experience suggests it may be more important than it appears at first sight. I do not
like to use the word because it is hackneyed, but the psychology of the whole thing is more
important than it might appear. Commercial motor vehicles are responsible for a huge
proportion of the present street accidents. On the other hand, accidents from other
classes of road users are on the decrease, with the increasing experience of the drivers
Apparently, in the case of the ordinary passenger or private car, we are experiencing a
better time than formerly. The exception is in the commercial car, and I think it is very
largely due to this question of braking and to the overloading, upon which point, I believe
you have a Committee investigating at the present moment, and that will enlighten you
to a much greater degree than I can.
Overcrowding of Omnibuses and Tramcars.
MR. A. SMITH (United Vehicle Workers) then referred to the following Congress
resolution :
That this Congress hereby instructs the Parliamentary Committee to approach
the responsible authorities with a view of abolishing the present practice of
omnibuses and tramway cars carrying an excessive number of passengers.
He said: I am not going to deal with this resolution. Mr. Hirst will deal with it.
and Mr. Sanders from the omnibus point of view. The point I want to make is that I
do not quite understand how we have come to you with this resolution.
The MINISTER OF TRANSPORT: I was asked to see you about it.
MR. A. SMITH: I can understand that, and that if you are going to administer the
Act why we have been referred to you. Omnibuses and trams are overloaded morning
and evening, as well as the tubes, and there is not the slightest necessity for it. I had a
letter from one of our lodges telling me that at Chiswick or Hanwell depots 40 men have
been displaced because there was no work for them to do. Surely when there is an un-
employment crisis so great as to-day it is rather bad displacing men and keeping cars in
the yard.
The MINISTER OF TRANSPORT: Though I have no powers, and although the over
crowding of vehicles is a police matter, that is no reason at all why I should not be in-
terested in the question of the provision of additional vehicles. I am very directly interested
in the charging power of the statutory companies. If you will make your statements in
and tell him what my own views are, so that you shall suffer no inconvenience that I can
can do any good in passing a note over to the Home Secretary, I certainly will do that,
respect to any case I will look into it, and see what I can do. If I can do anything, if 1
save you.
MR. S. HIRST (United Vehicle Workers): Your explanation will simplify many things,
mentioned.
that I was one of the representatives some two months ago that met you along with the
and it is no use labouring the point about overcrowding. You will probably remember
Municipal Tramways Association as to the increased charges which you have just
The MINISTER OF TRANSPORT: When you met the Whitley Council?
MR. HIRST: That is so.
to meet their liabilities, &c. We do think that that was an exceptional time. They are
managements when they were in difficulties, in order to get power to increase their charges
We have shown on the union side our assistance to the
should put more cars on the road. It is only by putting more cars on the road that they
now getting over their difficulties gradually, and we believe the time has come when they
will reduce this overcrowding.

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

509
MR. G. SANDERS (United Vehicle Workers): 1 represent the 'bus workers. We re-
member how, at the beginning of the war, an Order was made, and any number of 'buses
were required in France. We used our influence with the men to allow the overcrowding
to take place. Thousands of London 'buses were taken over to France, and proved very
useful, and that had the effect of driving the 'bus passengers into the trams, and thus there
was overcrowding on the trams as well as the 'buses. The most peculiar point is that
if we take the Combine, the London General, which is the biggest concern in the country,
we find they can quite easily obviate this overcrowding if they wish to do so. They have
introduced on the London streets two new types of 'buses, the K and the S types, with
better seating accommodation, and they have taken off the streets rattling good 'buses
which could carry passengers, and sold them to the provinces, where they are now carrying
passengers. I want to say, on behalf of the union, if they have as much affection for the
welfare of the public as they make out in their pamphlets they would not have taken off
the old type 'buses until they had got more of the new type on the streets. The position,
however, is not only as I describe it in London, but in places like Bedford. I was at Bed-
ord a few weeks ago on a Saturday night. I stood at one of the termini and saw 66 grown-
up persons get off a 'bus licensed to carry 36. I got the driver and the conductor to con-
firm this, and they both agreed that that was the number. One hesitates to think what
would happen in the case of an accident with all those people in and on the vehicle. What
I have described is a common occurrence on a Saturday night at Bedford. I think, as it
is agreed that we, as a union, helped the authorities very considerably in the time of war,
that now, two years and three months after the armistice was signed, it is quite time that
overcrowding of that description was done away.

MR. W. THORNE, M.P.: Although the question I want to raise is not contained in the
resolution, 1 think you will agree when I say it is a very, very old-standing grievance. It
has been so ever since I have been a Member of Parliament since 1906. Before your
Department was set up we had bombarded the Board of Trade about overcrowding in
the East End of London, and, by the way, I am not quite sure whether you, Sir Eric, have
carried out your promise that you would come down to Barking and find out for yourself
about the overcrowding ?

The MINISTER OF TRANSPORT: You and I are not going to much reduce the over-
crowding.

MR. W. THORNE, M.P.: As a matter of fact I want to submit quite frankly that in
certain trains in the morning neither you nor I could get in. It would be quite impossible.
It is very serious. Of course you know about overcrowding in the West. You see that
every day of your life, but down in the East the position is really much worse, and more
especially below Bow Road. I will tell you the reason. It is simply because, to start with,
you have got a number of trains that stop at Whitechapel. Then you have a number
which stop at Bow Road. The people get out there, and the train goes back. Below
Bow Road the overcrowding is becoming very excessive, more especially in the morning.
I quite admit that perhaps within twelve or eighteen months there has been some little
improvement. There have been a number of extra trains put on which does not meet the
position at all. What is going to be done with the overcrowding at the East End of London
I do not know. I am told there are some engineering difficulties in constructing a Tube
below the District Railway, and that neither the Government nor any company would
start to spend upon that business now. It would take them a great number of years,
and the population has grown enormously every month, and what is going to be the posi-
tion in another twelve or eighteen months-well, I can tell you it is becoming very, very
serious! I leave Upton Park Station every morning. It is one of the worst, simply
because they have got a bay at Plaistow where trains stop and people have the chance
every now and again of getting a seat. At East Ham you have a kind of terminus where the
trains go into. People there have a chance of getting a seat. The same thing applies to
Barking. Unfortunately, however, at Upton Park, the station where I have to get in
at morning and night, there is no possible chance at all. At certain times during the
morning, and between 8.20 and 8.25, two trains pass through Upton Park Station. The
result is when the next train comes along it naturally causes overcrowding, because you have
so large a crowd gathering while the two trains have passed through. In some of the Tubes
I think they only stop at every other station. Whether that would be a remedy in our part
of London I do not know. At any rate, it might ease the situation in the East End.

The MINISTER OF TRANSPORT: As regards what Mr. Thorne has said, Mr. Nash tells
me that the matter is one which he has been going into, and he has made notes about it
and will see what can be done. Of course, there and it is largely the same thing in the
trams and though the 'buses are not quite in the same position, it is much the same thing
are now, under present conditions, merely that profits must not stand in the way, but profits
in the way, but profits
it is private or State capital, it must get a wage. If you do these things and have to spend
is private or State capital, it must get a wage. If you do these things and have to spend
that. It may be that things could be better managed by the companies and Corporations,
and as regards the London County Council-I do not want to be quoted, because I may
capital on them, whether it is to provide additional 'buses or trams, and none of these
undertakings are paying, the State will have to pay. We cannot do it. We have to face


---
pany is in the same position.
fixed charges to day.
is the difficulty I am up against everywhere.
510
ments can be made, but there is no money.
There is no railway company that is spending
We have got to face up to that. I do not
There is hardly an undertaking which is meeting its ordinary
not be quite accurate but I think they are losing at the rate of a million. Every com-
I am not going to enter here into what is controversial, but that
any capital it can possibly avoid, We have great difficulties on the railway, great difficul-
ties in store in the next few months in the light of the experience of the last seven years
their shareholders anything like a return that the State pays on its loans to-day, so that
the State could not do the thing anywhere from the point of view of money. I see a great
and their position in the future. None of them are within measurable distance of paying
know to-day what the position of any of these undertakings is going to be in six or eight
many things. I had ideas, and there are plenty of directions in which I can see improve-
sold their old 'buses and were putting on the streets the new K and S types. He suggests
that there was no reason why in time of unemployment they could not keep the old 'buses.
A member of the deputation said that the London General Omnibus Company had
ploying men, and it really makes no difference whether they are employed in London or
elsewhere. The second point is this the company sold the old ones in order that they
He knows, however, that in the first place if the 'buses are running anywhere they are em-
We know pretty well the position of that London Combine. What-
ever parts of it may be doing, as a whole, and on the whole. I am satisfied it is not doing
well, but it is improving. There, again, you have the difficulty of money at the present
this difficulty. For instance, one of the greatest difficulties in getting any corporation
time. We must hope things will improve. It is not the private companies that are causing
or any local authority to put the roads around London in better condition is that the
trams cannot afford to do their part of the roads. They have a statutory obligation to
months' time.
might buy new ones.
maintain the roads between the rails.
MR. GOSLING: About 18 inches on either side.
MR. A. SMITH: Why are the trams not able to do it?
MR. GOSLING: We ought to insist upon them doing it.
The MINISTER OF TRANSPORT: It is part of their statutory obligation, you mean
If you say the State has to pay, it has to come out of taxes, and someone has to pay it.
We are getting £8,000,000 this year in order to reduce the burdens of the local authorities.
that is the beginning. I trust before many years it may be two years that that £8,000,000
will be ₤12,000,000. As to the overcrowding of trams, of course the case at Bedford
sounds very bad, but I have no power over Bedford and its 'bus company. It is a matter
entirely for the local police. We can communicate with them about it from the Home
Office, but no one-
MR. W. THORNE, M.P.: They would take notice of your communication, surely?
The MINISTER OF TRANSPORT: It has nothing to do with me, but the Government
will communicate about that and other matters. I will consult with the Home Office
about it and the other overcrowding. Certainly in London, with the exception of the
Metropolitan Electric Tramways, others are making a resolute effort to improve their
accommodation. It may not be adequate. Mr. Thorne, or some other speaker, men-
tioned fares. He said: "We should get some extra comfort, or some reasonable comfort,
for our increased fares." I am very glad of this opportunity before such an important
deputation of making this point clear. There is practically no undertaking in the country
think I might take it that is so. Every one of them has come to me for increased charging
of any size carrying passengers that has increased its charges more than roo per cent. I
power, and in every case, with the accountancy staff I have I claim that there has never
been a better in the public service-they are as clever a lot of accountants at that class
of work as you will find in a Government office-every single case is investigated and in no
100 per cent. is all they can have. Every
case are we giving them any generous provision.
thing has gone up more than 100 per cent. I do not know whether it is
MR. J. H. THOMAS, M.P. : Lecture the others on that side.
keep fares down, and say:
we may lose the traffic.
66
the additional fares are only half as much up compared to everything else. A civil engineer's
The MINISTER OF TRANSPORT: I am not lecturing you, but you cannot expect to
We are entitled to the same or improved comfort," because
work has gone up 200 per cent. mechanical engineering, 225 per cent. fares, too per
cent.; and the charges for your goods are just, roughly, up roo per cent. It is no use
talking about improving the comfort. You ought to be very thankful it is only up 100
per cent. I do not know how it can be kept at that. The only thing is if we put more oll
The MINISTER OF TRANSPORT: We have to pay for it somehow. You cannot expect
and I have great sympathy with your point, and I want to do anything I can to improve
ought not to try to have a reasonable standard,
MR. W. THORNE, M.P.: Free travelling ?
additional comfort. I do not say we
t
C
is
e
t
ra
b
다
라
dr

---
Here is the text from the image:

511

the position. But we have to act reasonably in these matters. If your fares are only up
100 per cent. you cannot expect to get something better when things are at 200 per cent.
However, I will see what I can do, and I will pass on the shorthand note to the Home
Office. More than that. I will see that the Home Office understands the spirit of the con-
versation we have had, at any rate, in the worst cases : but we have got to look at the
money. It is no use shutting our eyes to facts. It may be that the conditions and the
cost of living may become different. I certainly hope they will improve.

On this question of overcrowding vehicles, so far as the regulation goes, we think it
is quite possible because the Home Office have
can be dealt with by that Committee.
men on that Committee, and that is the reason they said you had better see the Ministry
additional man on the trailer, braking power, and so on, so far as I know, statutory
of Transport about these matters. However, on the subjects you have raised, an
authority, at any rate, does not exist to-day to deal with what you urge about the heavy
motor-cars. If you will give the particulars to the Committee it is the best body to deal
with these matters. It has a great task ahead of it to consider and settle the taxation
which is giving its very welcome assistance now to the local authorities. If you will tender
evidence to that Committee on these subjects that will be the best way to advance
matters.

MR. A. SMITH : Write to whom?
The MINISTER OF TRANSPORT: Sir Henry Maybury.
MR. POULTON : Thank you. We trust you will use to the utmost extent those powers
and pressure you have. We know you have difficulties, but we are here to ask that those
difficulties should be removed as soon as possible so that the good work we suggest may
be carried out.

The proceedings then terminated.

MINISTER OF LABOUR
(RT. HON. T. J. MACNAMARA, M.P.).
Friday, February 11th, 1921.

PRESENT : For the Department-Right Hon. T. J. Macnamara, M.P. (Labour Minister),
who was accompanied by Sir Montagu Barlow, M.P. (Parliamentary Secretary), Sir David
J. Shackleton, C.B., and Sir James Masterman-Smith (Joint Permanent Secretaries), and
Messrs. T. W. Phillips, H. J. Wilson, and H. Wolfe (Principal Assistant Secretaries).

For the Parliamentary Committee : Messrs. E. L. Poulton, J.P. (who introduced the
deputation), J. Sexton, M.P., W. Thorne, M.P., H. Gosling, J.P., F. Bramley, and C. W.
Bowerman, M.P. (Secretary); also Messrs. M. Byrne (Tailors' Society), J. Turner (Shop
Assistants), and R. Allen and J. Murdoch (Scottish Trades Union Congress).

MR. POULTON : You have, Sir, I think, got the resolutions to which we shall speak
this morning. In view of their very reasonable character we hope that we shall get an
affirmative answer to each one of them. The first one is in relation to Trade Board in-
spectors. Complaint was made very strongly in more than one quarter at our last Congress
in September that, although from time to time the rates are fixed, those rates are not paid
in very many parts of the country. That is attributed to the fact that there is a lack of
inspectors to see that employers carry out the regulations laid down. We look upon this
as a very serious matter from our standpoint. It is true to say we have got regulations,
and they are supposed to be the law of the land. We find, however, as a matter of fact,
that the law is ignored, and although Ministers from time to time state that there is, at
any rate, a minimum rate of wages fixed in a particular calling or industry, as a matter
of practice there is no rate fixed because there is no one to enforce it and see that it is
carried out. We feel that this matter should be dealt with at once. Economy we know
is the great thing at the present time, but we believe that it would be the greatest possible
economy to increase the inspectors, so that those people concerned shall receive the wages
that the boards from time to time determine shall duly be paid that is at least a minimum
rate. I hope that we shall be able to secure from you such assurances that the staff will
be increased in sufficient numbers adequately to deal with these matters. Mr. Byrne will
speak to you in detail upon the point. I understand that his society has sent a number
of communications to this Department; still there is no redress. Speaking for my own
trade, although not a member of a Trade Board, my colleagues are constantly complaining
that in various parts of the country where our organisers, secretaries, and other officials
go, they find constant complaint about employers who say they know nothing whatever
about this, and "we shall not pay until somebody comes from the Government."
do not dispute," they say-

The MINISTER OF LABOUR : It is all posted, is it not ?
"We


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

said, ignore the Act altogether, and who flagrantly tell us tha
laid down by the Trade Boards until they are compelled by some Gove
Ther talk to us as though we knew nothing at all about the matter, and they will not
omplaints which have been forwarded from towns such as Ipswich, Winchester, and
any cognizance of what we put before them. We have sent here to this Department
everal others. Mr. Rowlerson has brought here to you this proof that the rates paid by
the employers concerned are entirely inadequate for the people working a forty-eight
hours week, and who thus cannot earn the minimum rate laid down by the Trade Boards.
we appreciate the work of the
Points have been put by our Chairman in regard to the increase of the inspectorate.
society and our neighbours because it has been the means of lifting up the rate from
behalt of our society that while the Trade Boards have done, and are doing, good to our
He has done it sufficiently well, and far better than I could do it but I wish to say here on
what it was in other years before the passage of the Act.
Boards on the other hand, we are not able to cope with employers who are built that
We ask you to take this matter into consideration, for we believe that when and your
way and who will not recognise our position and our rights under the Trade Boards Act.
olleagues come to consider the point that I am trying to put before you, that you will
do your utmost to increase the inspectorate so that we can get what are our rights.
from different parts of the country to help the Department to bring about the result we
far as our society is concerned we are prepared to give all the information that we can
desire so much. Therefore I just leave the matter as it is now, and hope that we shall
table to hear from you some encouraging remarks with respect to this question, shall
is a burning question with us.

Trade Boards for Distributive Trades.
MR. J. TURNER (Shop Assistants) spoke in support of the following resolution :-
So
This Congress regrets the delay on the part of the Ministry of Labour in
dealing with the low wages so frequently paid to those employed in the distri-
butive trades, particularly in respect to women and children. It is of opinion
that the Temporary Wages Regulation Act should have been applied to women
employed in shops, the same as in the case of dressmakers, and in the alter-
native considers that a Trade Board or Boards should long since have been
brought into existence and minimum rates of wages fixed for the whole of those
employed in the distributive trades.

He said: There are several points connected with this resolution I should like to stress
before vou. In the first place I would remind you-not that it is necessary-but I think
I should that an amendment to the Trade Boards Act to make it possible to bring the
distributive trades under it has now been on the Statute Book for over two years. It
took a long time to get it, but we have got it, and it seems to take a long time to get boards
set up and to get that relief which we had hoped would be secured when these boards were
projected for the regulation of wages. The next point to draw attention to is that almost
immediately the Act had been amended, and while the Wages (Temporary Regulation)
Act was still in existence your Department was written to asking whether it would not be
possible to bring the women employed in shops under that Wages Regulation Act. We
had correspondence. We had an interview. Members of our society from the North of
England, Scotland, the Midlands, and the South, came to your Department to urge very
strongly the desirability of that being done. You know that the Wages (Temporary
Regulation) Act on its expiry on the first occasion was continued. We again urged that
the women employed in shops, whose position was now being accounted badly affected by
the returned men should be brought in. We know how the women swarmed into the shops
to take the place of men who had gone to the war, and that occupation behind the counter
was entirely unprotected during the war, and that even shop managers who had been
thought previously to be key men, towards the end of the war were taken out, and women
had to do their best to carry on the shops. Men had been promised their positions again
when they went to join the army, and many of them got their positions back, and the women
were turned off, but the competition that ensued badly affected both the men and the
of the women, already terribly low, and asked that the Wages (Temporary Regulation)
women. We brought evidence to this Department to show the effect it had upon the wages
Act should be made operative. Matters dragged along until towards the time that the
before the close, that it was now too late and that nothing could be done.
Wages (Temporary Regulation) Act finally came to an end, and we were then told, just
"
all the time when we asked for the application of the Temporary Act to cover the women
Our complaint is, if I may use the word without offence, that we were "fobbed off
and eventually were told that it was too late. Deputations have been asking the Depart-
ment to hurry up and set up the Trade Boards. Over two years have gone and so far we
have only two more set up. These are dealing with the milk and grocery distributive
trades, but there is only one in which the rates, I believe, are operating, and that is in the
milk distributive trade. A Board for the grocery trade has been set up for eight months.
You will shortly have the figures from that Board before you. I am on that Committee
as chairman on the workers' side and we shall be coming to see you particularly because


---
the rates that were first adopted by the Board were adopted in the teeth of united oppo-
sition from the workers, who thought they were far too low. The number of objections
they received were a large number, but on those objections coming before the Board,
alterations were made in the rates which to the impartiality of the " appointed persons. "I
much below the rates which had been previously adopted by the Board
assumes of the case of the American who stood so

The Minster of Labour : It is generally the other way.
Mr. J Turner: The dice are loaded on every occasion by the "appointed persons" against the worker.
We are coming to that they will fix rates that will be terribly low.

Evidence has been submitted to your Department that the rates of wages that are being paid 7s., 8s, and 9s. per week with the increased cost of living - girls of 17, 18, and 19 years of age being always found out as a light - are quite insufficient to keep them in food. Shop life has however, attracted a very large number of women and children, sons and daughters of the working classes.

---
Here is the text from the image:

515
that they are compelled to ask for a more reasonable wage, when they are turned out to make room for other young people to come in. I would remind you that employers in the grocery trade, with the concurrence of the appointed persons, have practically agreed to pay rates from 14 to 16 years of age which will still leave an inducement to young people to go into the grocery trade, so that boys and girls of 14 and 16 will still swarm into the shops and with no protection. We think these matters ought to be brought to your notice, so that you will not only give them your attention, but your sympathetic consideration.
May I say, since we know how keenly you are interested in the case of the ex-service men, that we have endeavoured-although I know we were not strong enough to have prevented ex-service men coming into our occupation if we had wished to do so-but representatives of cur society served on a committee, and we tried to make suggestions bearing on this matter. While, however, that is so, and while we are not likely at the present time of day, when there is work with more money to attract ex-service men into it to have much competition-the great point we want to urge upon you is that at any rate the rates in the distributive trades should be dealt with. We believe in this method composed of women and children until after many, many years of organisation for us to become so powerful that the organisation will be able to regulate conditions for women and children. We have done a great work in our organisation. We have undoubtedly made great improvements, but we have always to think of the women and children remain- ing as competitors at very low wages, and that is why we regret the women were not brought under the Wages (Temporary Regulation) Act. We agree if you had done that you would have done one of the greatest possible works to safeguard the lives of the women and children who follow the occupation. I do not think it necessary to say more except that we are anxious on this matter.
MR. POULTON: The representative appointed for this resolution (Revision of Employment Exchange Regulations) is not here, but I propose to show the justification for bringing it by reading a very short statement made at the Congress by one of the delegates :
Should the employer wish to secure cheap labour he can apply to the Employment Exchange for a man at a wage below the district Trade Union rate, and the Exchange send a man along. There is also the anomaly that while on the one hand the Ministry of Labour sets up Trade Boards and makes their findings legal and binding on the whole of the employers in any given industry, vet, on the other hand, where there is no Trade Board, they are, through the Employment Exchanges, prepared to supply an employer with labour, no matter what the rate offered. This assists employers in playing off the unemployed against the employed, more especially during the present temporary bad period.
That statement by Mr. F. C. Langton, of the Leather Workers, may be found in the Official Report of the last Trades Union Congress, page 362. I think you will agree that upon a statement of that kind we are fully justified in bringing this matter to your notice and asking you to deal with it.
Revision of Employment Exchange Regulations.
MR. W. THORNE, M.P., next spoke in support of the following resolution :-
That this Trades Union Congress strongly protests against the continu- ance of the practice whereby workpeople are being submitted, through the Employment Exchange, to vacancies where wages are below the Trade Union rates agreed upon between the bulk of employers and the Trade Unions con- cerned, and that we call upon the Government to immediately revise the regu- lations, in order that this method shall be immediately stopped.
He said: I am extremely sorry that Mr. John Hill, the General Secretary of the Amalga- mated Union of Shipbuilding, Engineering, and Constructional Workers, is not here to put the case. It was one of the delegates of his association that moved the resolution at the Trades Union Congress. We have had this or a similar resolution at a number of our Congresses with a view to getting the matter rectified. We are not here to-day to plead that when men are on strike they should be in a position to receive unemployment benefit, but we do suggest that when men are not themselves on strike and have no quarrel at all with the employers that they should be in a position to receive unemployment benefit. The bulk of the labourers are hit harder than anybody else. When the second Amending Bill was being piloted through the Committee of the House of Commons a very old friend, Mr. John Burns, was, I believe, President of the Board of Trade. I know that the Labour Party on the Committee at that time put up a tremendously big fight. Mr. Burns was opposed to any extension in the particular direction we wished, for, he said, if unemploy- ment benefit was granted, say, to moulders' labourers or engineers' labourers, or any other labourers working for any particular craftsmen that might be out on strike, it was going to cost the State a good deal of money and be the means practically of eating up all the money that had been paid for unemployment benefit. Personally, I do not think that applies at all. As you know, that fund accumulated to the extent of some £19,000,000.


---
and was handed over in accordance with the terms of the amended Unemployment Act.
Therefore, as it hits the labourers' unions pretty hard, because they are not in a position to
get unemployment benefit, we put forward this suggestion. We all remember last year
that on account of the unfortunate trouble with the moulders we had a very large number
of members affected. There were several unions which had a large number affected, and
in the name of common sense we, as organised workers, have never been able to say why
if engineers, or moulders, or any other craftsmen are out on strike, that the labourers
working in that particular department, who have no quarrel with their employers, should
be prevented from receiving unemployment pay. There is no argument against us, with, perhaps, the exception of the
leg to stand upon. That is the only ground for refusing these men pay. We do hope that you will
be able to see your way to do something in this matter.
Personally, I do not think you have a
cost.
You may say that it means an
amendment to the Act. I am not quite sure whether you have the power to remove these
grievances that we are asking to be removed without-
The MINISTER OF LABOUR: Without amending the Act?
our suggestion I think you could get that amendment. However, I am not at all sure
MR. W. THORNE: Without amending the Act. But if you are sympathetic towards
that your Department is in favour of what we are putting forward. I think you are opposed
to it. We shall have to keep hammering away at the thing until we are in a position to
amend the Act ourselves. That may be perhaps a long way off, but I am afraid there is
indirect evil effects when strikes or lockouts take place. You all know this as well as we
no possible chance of persuading any Minister to amend this Act, which leads to such
do, and there is, therefore, no need to labour the question, and we can only hope for some
sympathetic consideration.
MR. POULTON: There is one point not on the agenda which we feel ought to be brought
unfortunately are unemployed, and whose position now is rather worse than better in the
to your notice to see whether you can do anything to help those men, a great many of whom
Engineering, and Constructional Workers asks that this point should be brought before
circumstances of the case. This letter from the Amalgamated Union of Shipbuilding,
you this morning, because they were unable to be represented as part of the deputation:-
We have a good many members who through dislocation of work in the
drawn all their 15 weeks' State donation, and these men are still out of employ
latter half of last year and the state of employment since Christmas have already
ment. We think their case is just as deserving as the new entrants to Insurance.
who will come on benefit without previous contribution or the qualification of
working six weeks for every one week's benefit. All our members have been
contributors under the old Unemployment Act, and are, therefore, entitled to
some consideration out of the £19,000,000 surplus which accumulated under that
Act, and we respectfully ask that this point shall be clearly submitted to the
Minister by the Parliamentary Committee on Friday.
You will see, Sir, that there is a distinct difference here, and that there are persons, as in
my own society, to use it as an example, who never came under the Insurance Acts pre-
viously who are now receiving benefit, although they may not observe the probationary
period. These men who come under the 1911 Act have been paying continuously, and,
therefore, as they say, there is that £19,000,000 accumulated surplus. They submit to
you why they should be treated-if you look at it in that way as being in a preferential
position.
MR. W. THORNE, M.P.: May I be allowed to bring forward another case so as to pre-
vent the matter being brought before the House of Commons? I think Mr. Jones brought
the matter to your notice before the House adjourned. That is the length of time to wait
before getting authority to pay.
The MINISTER OF LABOUR : You are referring to the trade unions?
as I understand it, very nearly all the authorisations to pay come from Kew. We quite
MR. W. THORNE, M.P.: Yes. In some cases Form U.I. 75 is sent forward, and then,
of employment that these authorisation forms will require a huge staff to deal with them
recognise that in consequence of the hundreds of thousands of men and women who are out
at once. At the same time, and as a matter of fact. I think I am justified in saying that
all the societies are pretty well in the same position as the Department. The present
Labour Exchanges, for in some cases it has been between three and four weeks before the
position is causing a tremendous amount of ill-feeling against the Department and the
authority comes to pay. The result is that our union, along with others, have to pay out
the unemployment benefit, and we cannot afford it owing to the numbers of unemployed
until we get the authorisation. There is growing resentment in this matter. I am led to
understand that some of the managers of the Employment Exchanges have got discretionary
power in some cases to authorise payment at once. We suggest, if you can in any way
speed up these authorisations to pay, that you will remove, I assure you, a tremendous
grievance. As you may know, men storm at you and call you by all sorts of names they

---
Here is the text from the image:

can think of in Billingsgate, and we have sometimes to
do suggest that you should help us in this direction.
We tell them it is not really our fault, but they do not seem disposed to
There is the
There is another complaint, and that is in consequence of many of the unions having
State 155. to pay, which goes through our own unions at the rate, in the case of my union,
to pay out thousands of pounds, they have not enough money of their own.
2,000 per week. This money we pay over on behalf of the Government, and the result
that we have got outstanding moneys being used to pay State aid until we get a cheque
Sent along-not the total sum to which we are entitled, but a cheque as part payment until
the time when the whole matter is squared up. If you can help
be glad. It is a tremendous burden upon our funds.
us in that matter we shall
MR. 1. TURNER Thank you, Sir, for allowing us to raise this question, which is, I am
do complain, as Mr. Thorne has complained, about the delay. There is a growing number
fraid, a little out of order. I happen to be secretary of the Shop Assistants' Union. We
or Employment Exchange managers who are now allowing the sending of Form U.I. 76,
giving us preliminary power to pay, the same power that they had to pay out locally, and
there is no reason if they cannot pay locally why it should not be sent direct to us.
serious point is this This money, Government money, would have been paid over to these
members themselves. The Government would have parted with the money. The com-
plaint is that we have paid out the money and it is not yet refunded.
The MINISTER OF LABOUR: Your people have paid the benefit out of their own pocket?
MR. TURNER: That is so.
The MINISTER OF LABOUR: And your point is that you ought to be reimbursed ?
MR. TURNER: Yes. I do not want to bring a complaint unduly. We have always
rned to work in harmony with the local exchanges, but there are some managers that, in
opinion, seem to think that because the union is paying out this money to its members
is taking the job from them, and there is some resentment amongst our members, who
seem to think they have been misinformed. There has been, too, a general feeling, of re-
sentment almost, that this matter was being taken from the Trade Unions and endeavours
made in some cases to get the payment made direct. We made a lot of direct payments
trora information given by the clerks at the exchange. Time, however, will put the matter
right. There is a growing amount of money, some £1,600 or £1,800, owing by the Govern-
ment, money paid out by us weeks ago. The point I want to urge upon the Government
is that they would have parted with the money. There ought to be no hesitation in re-
bating it as soon as possible. We do not keep a large amount of money idle. Our trustees
as quickly as possible invest our money so that it can be used to the best advantage for the
members. If this goes very much further we will have to realise some of our securities to
pay Government money. If the Government is prepared to reimburse us or to allow
Interest upon our investments we shall have nothing further to say. If, on the contrary,
because we have been paying out Government money which would have been paid out if
it had been given direct, I fail to see why there should be a moment's hesitation in rebating
it promptly to the society, and until the authorisation has been sent along.

Dr. Macnamara's Reply.

The MINISTER OF LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara) replied. He said: I am glad to see you.
It is the first time I have had the opportunity of meeting the Trades Union Congress
Parliamentary Committee as Minister of Labour. We have had many friendly conferences
in the years now behind us when I was Financial Secretary to the Admiralty. Therefore
I do not by any means meet you for the first time. Let me take your resolutions one by
one. Take the matter of Trade Board inspectors and inspection. The whole question of
the number, quality, and method of control of Trade Boards' inspectors has been under
careful consideration by a Committee which I appointed in November last. On that
Committee there are four representatives of trade unionists on Trade Boards. I expect
to have their report before me quite shortly.

In the meantime, during the past year, the number of inspectors and inspections
has largely increased. As a matter of fact, in addition to 16 whole-time inspectors there
are now at work 18 part-time employment inspectors trained by the Trade Boards Division.
The average number of inspections per week is about 250. Beyond that I am waiting
for the report of which you have heard of the Committee I have appointed, and which will,
I think Mr. Wolfe agrees, be in my hands within the next few weeks
they had under the Wages (Temporary Regulation) Act?
MR. J. TURNER: Is there any hope that the unions will get similar powers to what
and of their quality and capacity to do the work they are called upon to do.
The MINISTER OF LABOUR: I do not want to mix things up. I am talking of inspectors
MR. I. TURNER: That means that the unions would be able to exercise a great deal
of inspection themselves if the same powers were.
MR. T. W. PHILLIPS: I do not think they had any powers. Inspectors have power
to prosecute. That is what you mean.


---


---


---
worked very, very hard indeed to make matters go well. It is only fair for me also to
say here and now how glad I am to be assisted by so many union people, and how much
obliged I am for the efforts they have been making.
MR. BOWERMAN, M.P. When Mr. Sydney Buxton introduced the Bill he intimated
that Labour Exchanges would be built.
The MINISTER OF LABOUR: I know; but I find we have to pay a rent and to acquire
premises which are not suited for our purpose by reason of passages, and exits, and en-
We have had the great advantage in recent weeks of getting the assistance of
local authorities and others who have placed buildings at our disposal, so that these poor
people might be kept under cover. My immediate point is this: I have been very much
struck by the great efforts which have been put forth to try and reduce their hardships
to a minimum.
MR. F. BRAMLEY: Referring to Resolution 5, may I ask a question with respect to
the Exchange Regulations ? Supposing a man is offered a job below the standard rate
in another town, what are your instructions to your managers in reference to travelling
frances.
expenses if he makes an application?
MR. T. W. PHILLIPS : If the rate offered is below the standard?
MR. BRAMLEY: Yes.
MR. PHILLIPS : The practice is not to advance the railway fare where the rate is below
the standard.
The MINISTER OF LABOUR: That is set down in the regulations, is it not?
MR. PHILLIPS : It is in the instructions. It is not a regulation.
The MINISTER OF LABOUR : I have read you two out of the recommendations which
bear on the point and which are now under our consideration relating to the question of
the Unemployment Insurance Act and trade disputes. It is a difficult and a very often
debated subject, as you all know. I do not suppose the last word has been spoken upon
it. I need not rehearse the facts. The law as laid down in Section 8, Sub-Section (1) of
the present Act, is substantially in the same terms as Section 87, Sub-Section (1) of the
original Act of 1911. It was arrived at after some considerable discussion, was this
Act, and we really lifted that clause out and put it into this Act. It was a compromise
between the opposing views of the employers and organised Labour. It has, on the whole
worked smoothly, but there have been occasions where it would be difficult to say that
equity has been satisfied. Mr. Thorne raises the case of the general labourer who finds
himself, because of skilled craftsmen's disputes, out of work and deprived of any assist
ance in respect to a strike for which he was in no way responsible, and about which he has
nothing to do whatever. I might just take the moulders' strike, for instance. The
moulders' labourers were disqualified. There have been several cases comparatively
recently of a like nature in connection with iron and steel works where the labourers have
been disqualified through a stoppage. There is the case of the bricklayers, or some other
small group in a particular trade. I do not say that the last word has been said on the
matter. When this new Act was under discussion Mr. Clynes particularly, with very
great ability and great persistence, raised the points you are now raising in your last reso
lution, both upstairs in Committee and in the House. An amendment was moved on
behalf of the Labour Party to confine the disqualification to workpeople who withdrew
their labour in order to participate in a trade dispute. On a division that was lost. It
was brought up again on report stage in the House, and I find I said this : -
If the employed and employer get together and can agree on a form we
consider workable, although it is too late in the House of Commons, and I have
no control over the House of Lords, nevertheless, I do not suppose there will
be any difficulty.
MR. A. SMITH: We may, one of these days, have control over them.
agreed upon between the parties I would use my good offices to get it put into the Bill
The MINISTER OF LABOUR: You never know your luck. I said if a form could be
in another place. I said that. I repeated it, that if a form of words could be found which
we as a Ministry of Labour were agreed was workable, that I would not necessarily or
gratuitously put difficulties in the way. I would do what I could to secure, so far as I
could secure, that any such words should be embodied in the Bill. In default of that, I
said, I knew nothing better than the earlier Bill. I endeavoured to see, and you endea
voured to see, if some form of words could be arrived at. I am afraid that is where the
matter stands to-day. Though I do not suppose the last word has been said about it,
and I recognise, although it is very difficult to take a course of absolute equity, I recognise
all responsible, and have nothing to do with the dispute, and in consequence of the dispute
it is a matter which I certainly think requires remedy. I am quite prepared at any moment,
are deprived of the benefit to which they themselves had contributed. Well, gentlemen,
that cases arise, and have arisen, where it is a hardship to the poor people who are not
if Mr. Clynes or anyone else can get this agreed form or a better method than that of the

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

Telephone No.:
4438, Museum, London.
Telegraphic Address:
"Natunishop, Holb., London."

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.

Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our corres-pondents being men on whom we can rely: should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members, the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NATIONAL UNION OF
Boot and Shoe Operatives.

MONTHLY REPORT.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit St., London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
23rd MAY, 1921.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE

has improved slightly during the past month although work has been seriously curtailed owing to the Coal Dispute. The figures given in the Gazette of the Ministry of Labour are as follows:

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.

The slight improvement noted in the previous month continued during April in certain districts, including the two principal centres of Leicester and Northampton, as also at Stafford and at Norwich; and the industry does not appear to have been so severely crippled by the effects of the coal stoppage as some other industries.

Nevertheless, the state of employment at the end of April was bad, and much below the level of April last year, even in the most favourably situated districts; while at some Centres, particularly Bristol and Kingswood, and in some of the villages of the Northampton County District, the industry was still in a state of very severe depression.

The number of workpeople in these trades whose unemployment books or out-of-work donation policies were lodged at Employment Exchanges at 29th April was 23,073. In addition, there were 17,884 claimants for benefit in respect of systematic short-time working.


---
Here is the text from the image:

545
COAL DISPUTE.
We have already subscribed £200 from the Central Fund to the Miners'
Fund and have received a fair amount of money from Branches in answer to
our appeal, which, together with a collection by the delegates at the Con-
ference, has enabled us to send over £520 to the Miners' Fund. In this
connection the Conference unanimously decided that we should ask the
Branches to agree to allow us to subscribe £1,000 from the Central Funds and
to put Rule 110 into operation, thereby allowing the vote to be taken at
Branch Meetings and not by ballot. We trust Branches will send the result
of their vote AT ONCE so that the money can be remitted at the earliest
possible moment. The following resolution was sent to Mr. Frank Hodges on
the instruction of the Delegates:
"This Conference of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives extends
its greetings and expresses its heartiest congratulations to the members of the
Miners' Federation of Great Britain, on the unexemplified spirit of solidarity they
have displayed throughout the present struggle.

We wish you a speedy success and assure you of our fullest individual and
collective support."
The following acknowledgment has been received:
THE MINERS' FEDERATION OF GREAT BRITAIN.
55, RUSSELL SQUARE,
LONDON, W.C. 1,
18th MAY, 1921.
Mr. E. L. POULTON, J.P.,
34, GUILFORD STREET, W.C. 1.
DEAR SIR,
I am in receipt of your letter of the 16th instant, and thank you most heartily for
the Resolution contained therein.
Yours faithfully.
FRANK HODGES.
FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE.
The First Annual Conference is now a thing of the past. An official
report of the proceedings will be issued next month. The Conference unani-
mously endorsed the policy of the Labour Party in regard to Ireland and its
findings as follows:-
(a) That the British Army of Occupation be withdrawn.
(b) The the question of an Irish Government be relegated to an Irish Consti-
tuent Assembly elected on the basis of proportional representation by free, equal and
secret vote.
(c) That the Constitution drawn up by the Assembly be accepted provided-
(1) it affords protection to minorities; and
(2) prevents Ireland becoming a military or naval menace to Britain.
The delegates also agreed to the Labour Party's policy of War indemnities
and Reparations. The Conference showed full approval of extending our work
on the political side whilst not ignoring the industrial policy of the Union.
Upon the latter a discussion took place for more than a whole day on the

---
546
unanimously endorsed :
proposals we had submitted to the Manufacturers' Federation and ultimately
tion was
the following Resolution
This Conference gives full power to the Executive Council to revise if necessary
and adjourn the time of meeting with the Manufacturers till such time as circum.
present conditions be discussed fill a special conference has been held"
tances
should appear more favourable for negotiation, but that no reduction of
An expression of opinion was also agreed to that the Council should
endeavour to so frame the policy of the Union as to ensure a daywork method
of working with quantity statements.
The following Resolutions were also agreed to :-...
NORWICH "That in all matters of Union policy it be an instruction to all
Report; and that at no time should the public Press of the country be used to
Union Officials that differences of opinion be discussed through the Union's Monthi:
promote individual views against the agreed policy of the Union."
UNEMPLOYMENT.
of the Union to endeavour to make the Unemployment Benefit payable at our offic
LEICESTER No. 1. "The Leicester Branch having already requested the Executi....
and to be administered by our Union, hope that the Council of the Union will persi
in the effort to bring about a working arrangement for our own industry, believin
that such a scheme in which we are to co-operate with our employers would
to the advantage and convenience of our members."
VOTING.
LEICESTER NO. 1. "The Leicester Branch requests that Branches failing to ta
votes of the Union on matters when requested to do so by the Council shall be
obligation of carrying out the rules of the Union is not and must not be confined to
reported to each Conference of the Union, it being fully recognised that all the
the Officers and Executive of the Union; that Branch Officers and Bran
Executives are equally responsible in their respective spheres."
LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH. - "That the Council consider a different method
of taking the votes of members so as to ensure a decision being the voice and
will of at least a majority of members of the Union on any subject."
UNEMPLOYMENT ACT.
The question of payment for the work in connection with the administra-
tion of the Unemployment (Government) Scheme was again considered by us
after reviewing the position we have decided that the question should stand
adjourned for six months. It must be understood that the payments now
being made for the said work, cheques for which are sent on monthly, should
be paid into the Branch Funds and determined as to the method of payment
for services in the various districts by the Branch Committees.
CIRCULARS.
during the past month: the answers asked for should be sent along to the
Several Circulars dealing with important matters have been sent out
Central Office without delay.
SPECIAL SICKNESS SCHEME.
June, 1920, Report, the purport of which was to render further help to those
A good discussion took place upon this question, which was set out in the

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

5-17
who unfortunately had long continued illness. Eventually the Conference
decided, by a majority, that we should endeavour to put the scheme into
operation as early as possible.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!

Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch
secretaries to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest
day for returns reaching the General Secretary. Last month many returns
were late. Branches failed to send off their returns to reach the Central Office
before the 15th of the month, and this tends to upset the organisation of the
work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg to intimate that unless
returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary has been instructed
to put into force the Rules governing the same.

TRADE UNION STAMP.

This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that “Stamped
Footwear” should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade
Union Stamp. Members and their families should wear only “Union Stamped
Footwear.”

We remain,

Yours fraternally,

THE COUNCIL.

T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President. W. WARNER.
T. ADNITT. W. HINDES.
C. BATES. C. BLEAKLEY.
E. LAW. A. J. DOBBS.
L. SMITH. ALEX. SMITH.
C. MAYES. J. MANNERS.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS. E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.

£2,700 FOR MR. WILL CROOKS.

FUND TO REMAIN OPEN TILL JUNE 1st.
A sum of £2,700 has been received up to date for the Will Crooks Testimonial Fund,
and, in accordance with the wishes of Mr. and Mrs. Crooks, £2,500 of that amount has been
invested in Six per Cent. I.L.C.C. Housing Bonds.
In order to give the many friends of the popular ex-M.P. for Woolwich, who may
not yet have contributed, an opportunity of subscribing to the fund, it has been decided
to keep it open till June 1st.
Subscriptions should be sent to Mr. Arthur Henderson, at 33, Eccleston Square,
S.W. 1.
Mr. Crooks is still in Poplar Hospital, and a slight improvement is reported in his
condition. From source not stated.


---


---
548
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE. We have just concluded our first Annual Conferenc
of the members more than ever. We are still in the throes of doubt among ourselves as
gathering, which has lasted three days, and I believe has cemented the opinions and ideas
to which is the best system to adopt by our operatives in the factories, and upon ou
point we are united, that is as delegates and as representatives. There appears to be
great unanimity that statements shall be worked to, in other words, piece work with a
set wage.
have none of it, and what they are aiming for is a better distribution of the work
other words a more regulated weekly income for all concerned, if that can be brought
about. Some talk of the control of Industry; some day that may be an accomplisher
fact. At present they believe we can influence and better regulate the quantity of
work that each operative has to do. Whether we shall be successful in this matter, time
alone will show. At any rate this is a case we want the Employers to consider and
agree to.
We have had correspondence with the Employers. We are meeting them on the
24th May, with the intention of doing our very best for the membership at the present
time.
I am pleased to say that to all intents and purposes the Council of the Union have
been advised in a direction that I think will tend to the benefit of all concerned. One
greatest trouble at the present time is bad trade; unemployment and these things don't
help or encourage when improvements are contemplated. Perhaps it would not be
saying too much if I said that this is one of the best Conferences we have held so far as
the keenness of interest taken in several very debatable subjects was exhibited, and
although we have this advice from the delegates to the Conference as to the future policy
of our Union it will involve some districts making a very great change, especially those
firms who have not adopted any statements in the past. These are the factories that will
be mostly concerned and perhaps cause the greatest trouble. Still, we hope that there
will be no difficulty in getting out of this, in time.
Will our members please observe that under no circumstances must they agree to
the introduction of piece-work or quantity statements without first of all satisfying
themselves and their officers that the National Agreement which grants a 25% increase to
the piece-worker or the man on quantity statements is duly observed and, as far as
possible, guaranteed ?
LABOUR PARTY. It was my duty to fill a gap created by the Auditor of the
National Labour Party, who could not for some reason or other attend to that work, and
for four days I was engaged on this work with Mr. Robert Young, M.P. When one
takes his memory back to the time when the Labour Representation Committee was first
started, before it became the Labour Party, he feels proud of having had a hand in
starting such an organisation whose body can boast 3½ millions Trade Unionists. The
comment I want to make in this connection is that I am looking forward to the time
when the other 4½ millions Trade Unionists will belong to the Labour Party, and
although we are a great body in the Labour Party we certainly ought to be careful in the
choice of our language and ways in which we are going to approach these other Unions
to join up with us in our Political sphere. It goes without saying that we have a large
number of friends, and I would strongly recommend my Socialist friends and others when
approaching Trade Unions and Trade Unionists to endeavour to get their assistance and
support rather than indulge in constitutions; sometimes that don't help and are often
hurtful and harmful and thereby prevent the movement becoming solidified. I hope the
time is not far distant when the Labour Party will be able to claim that it has as many
members in its ranks as have the great Trade Unions themselves.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE. - We have held a meeting at Northampton of the
Employers on the question of Unemployment. This matter is pretty well on the road
to bring about a working agreement with a joint body formed of ourselves and the
Manufacturers, in which we fully believe our members will benefit considerably.
LONDON. On the 6th, I had occasion to meet the Metropolitan Executive of the
London Branch, the wish of the Council being to endeavour to bring about some unifica-
tion of the Branches in London. We think that much good can be done, will be done, by
this policy to prevent overlapping.
REPAIRING. On the 10th, we had our last meeting of the Profiteering Committee,
and whose duty it was to enquire into the Repairing Industry, and we have issued our
report to the Board of Trade. When that report has been accepted, I hope to be able to

---
gave our members some of the benefit or advantages that we have gained as a con-
sequence. Just to use one short statement, our investigation gave us the idea that prior
to the war the average earnings was 25 per week that was when men worked, of
course The 65 now being paid by the Trade Board for 48 hours shows an increase of
and a reduction in hours. I hope our members will please note that the Repairing
Trade Board has been no small lever to retain, to maintain, and to get the conditions
that the Wholesale Trade has brought about.
We held a special Council Meeting on the 15th, and as I said in the commencement
of this report, the rest of the time was spent at the Conference.
TRADE UNION STAMP. One other word, I wonder whether our members are
endeavouring in any particular or on any occasion to demand Trade Union Stamped
Footwear. There has been so little response to the many appeals made on this occasion
that one can come to the conclusion that we are very lukewarm on this matter as on
many others, where some interest ought to be exhibited.

4. GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. L.
20th May, 1921.
Yours fraternally,

General President.

SHOE TRADE PROBLEMS.
The old-time cobbler never did stick to his last; he was always ready to help set
the world in order. That is equally true of the modern shoe-hand. He holds entertaining
views on all sorts of subjects, and expresses them with refreshing candour. There is
little of the autocrat about him, too. He is quite willing to allow the other man to have
an opinion, and is ready to concede that there may be something in it. Hence meetings
or Leicester shoe operatives are usually productive of lively debate, often of a provocative
character, though in actual practice there is no body of men more conciliatory in their
industrial negotiations than those employed in our footwear factories. At the annual
meeting of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives in London yesterday the
subjects discussed ranged from a possible settlement of the Irish question to a distribution
of boots and shoes “ at wholesale prices” as a means of diminishing unemployment. We
agree with the Council of the Union that it is advisable for the operative to have "an
outlook more and more world-wide." By all means let the shoehand look towards the
stars, but he must not forget that his feet are still on the ground. The things near at hand
are apt to be neglected when men adopt telescopic lenses. A world-wide outlook is useless
if the knowledge gained is not applied to the conditions in which the spectator exists.

The shoe operative knows that what his industry needs just now more than anything
else is a revival of our export trade; he knows that in nearly all overseas markets our
manufacturers are meeting with competition keenly organised and strongly directed;
but does the operative realise that his conditions of employment are directly affected
by the selling prices of boots and shoes in overseas markets? The advocates of the limited
output can hardly be aware of it, nor can those who profess to believe that payment by
results is the cause of existing “chaos” in the industry. Nor can we imagine that an
incursion by the Union into the sphere of footwear distribution is going to help. Dis-
tribution, like manufacture itself, calls for specialised knowledge and skilful organisation.
Even if the existing means of distribution were inefficient which they are not there
still remains the greatest difficulty of all, the fact that people are extremely short of money,
their purchasing power being compulsorily limited. The salvation of the boot and shoe
trade is not to be found in the assumption of managerial and distributing duties by the
operatives' trade union, but in the recovery of the world's credit, backed by a steady
replacement of the wealth wasted during the war. It will be a painfully slow process;
of that there can be no doubt. Trade unionists can help to hasten the day of deliverance
by getting rid of the notion that they can have higher wages and shorter hours and plenty
of employment without any corresponding increase of production. The boot and shoe
industry can stand better wages than were paid in 1914, but it cannot survive smaller
production, for the lower ratio of production per worker the higher the cost, and the more
limited the demand. This is the problem the industry has to tackle, and a solution does
not present itself on the lines of the 45 a week minimum wage recently demanded by the
operatives, in face of rapidly falling wages in other industries and of prices generally.
The Leicester Mail, May 17th, 1921.
0

---
Here is the text from the image:

FELLOW MEMBERS,
550
ORGANISERS' REPORTS,
On April 24-25th, I attended the Council meetings. On April 26th, the President of
the London Metro, and I visited several shops. At the firm of Goodman's, Columbia Road
anything equivalent being given in piece-work rates, also that those on weekly wages were
Bethnal Green, we found that the 15/- war bonus was taken from the workers without
prices and the minimum re-established. On April 27th, we went to some nondescript
shops for organising purposes. We had the bonus restored until it is embodied in
working below the minimum wage.
On April 28th, I attended a meeting of the South Eastern District Repairing Board
The business of the meeting was to consider Proposals to Fix or Vary Minimum Rates
We had a long discussion on the item of increasing the minimum wage from £3 53. To
But not
The master repairers agreed (in words) that £3 12S. was a reasonable request, bus
came to the vote they voted in a body against us. As the Chairman did not vote the
matter was passed on to the Central Repairing Board. Mr. Orchard, from the worker:
side, moved that the Central Repairing Board be asked to press on Parliament the need for
Registering Repairers, with a view to seeing that workshops are fit for men to work in.
to enquire into the number employed there in repairing. I found there was nothin
beyond the one-man business.
In answer to a note from the General Office, I went to Romford on April 29th
took a few fresh ones with them.
been on. At the firm of Steads', Mansfield Street, the women in the stock-room had from
On May 2nd I took up the work of organising the women, which I had previous
one cause and another got heavily in arrears or had dropped out. I visited the place
and am pleased to say that all went to the office and put matters straight. They als
Conference, I visited a good many shops, and here and there I found a few young
who were not members. At one shop there were six men non-members. A shop president
was elected here, and the outsiders joined. The lack of shop presidents in some of the
small shops is a great cause of the little looseness that exists in this way. At another
shop I got the men to elect a shop president. In many cases the women told me that if
work picked up a bit after the holidays they would again renew their connection with the
Union. I have mentioned repeatedly in my reports the importance of having a shop
president in every shop. Many of the women have fallen out of the Union through shop
presidents leaving and others not being put in their place. To the credit of the men who
act as shop presidents, in a good many shops at Leicester good work has been done in
taking the women's contributions. I hope this interest may be extended.
From this date up to the time of going to the
May 18th, 1921.
D. MCCARTHY
PARLIAMENTARY AGENT'S REPORT.
The Miners' lock-out is still the one topic to which all conversation seems to turn.
This is not surprising having regard to its effect upon the industries of the country, and
the general paralysis that follows in its trail. For all this the Government must be held
responsible; they were told both publicly and privately what would happen if the huge cut
in the Miners' wages were sought to be enforced. On the floor of the House they were
appealed to in terms that could not be stronger, not merely in the interests of the Miners
themselves but in the interests of the country, but all in vain; it seemed they desired to
associate with the coal owners in an attempt to smash the Miners' Federation, and which
at the moment is not meeting with success. The only thing that looks like being
smashed is the trade of the country, and the Government, like Nero, "fiddles while Rome
is burning."
But I ask our members to keep this clear in their minds, everything possible was done
by labour to prevent this trouble. Those in authority were told this big reduction in wages
would never be accepted without a struggle, which when started none could say where it
would finish nor where its effects would reach. The Government deliberately choose to
back the coal owners, though not a single one of them, when challenged by Mr. Clynes,
dare get up in the House and justify the wage offered to the men.
They had expected excess and rioting would take place and so the Reserve Force was
mobilised and a Defence Force brought into being, but up to now the only disturbance of
note is among the Reservists who want to go back to their families and their work. Their
places were to be kept open for them, but the other day I was talking to one of them who

---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

553
BRANCH REPORTS.
BELFAST. - In sending our returns we have to report that there is no change in the condition of trade in so far as any improvement is concerned ; of-work expenditure. In reference to the State Unemployment Benefit we it is simply going from bad to worse, which means we have a very heavy out-
desire to enter a very strong protest against the quite too long delay there is in the claims of members being acknowledged. We are not referring to our own Head Office but to the officials in the Labour Exchange. We also regret
to report a heavy sick expenditure. We have also to record the deaths of two members: J. Wilson, of the Ballymena Section, and B. Kelly, Belfast, to whose sorrowing relatives we tender our sincere sympathy. Shopmate
Kelly's death will be a great loss to the Branch. A number of years ago he held the position of Branch Secretary ; he had also served on the Branch Committee: he was one who always took a deep and intelligent interest in
the welfare of the Branch and the interests of the members.
BRISTOL No. 2. Trade is, if anything, worse than it was a month ago. There is no demand for heavy footwear, and the position in the Kings- wood area is deplorable. Factories which closed their doors several weeks
ago are still in the same position, and the prospect of getting our members back to work is very remote. Our claims for out-of-work benefit during the
month have been very heavy and, at present, the only prospect of a lighter bill is when members have exhausted their benefit. Then the problem
becomes worse for our members as they have lost a good proportion of what they have existed upon for weeks past. Members who are working two or
make the lighter grades are in a better position, but in the best of these there three days a week are called "lucky." Fortunately the few factories which
is room for improvement. Manufacturers cry "give us markets," and the operatives, "give us work," yet we are assured that a great many people want
the boots which we are anxious to make. It seems to us that the people who want our products have not the ability to pay for them, and if their spending power is still further restricted the outlook is not cheerful. One thing we know
is that during the war the workers were able to get a living easier than they can now. We are told that the prosperity was artificial, but to us it was very
real while it lasted, and somehow we can't help thinking that if the resources of the nation were pooled there is still enough to go round and supply the
reasonable wants of us all.
CHESHAM.-Trade is still very bad here, with no sign of improvement for some time to come.
CHESTERFIELD.-Trade very bad. Most of our members are working 24 hours per week, and with the Miners still without a settlement things don't
seem very rosy at the present time.
CORK.-Trade still remains bad, the majority of our members working short time.
DESBOROUGH. We have pleasure in reporting this month that our President, Mr. W. Whymant, has been elected the new Chairman of our Urban
Council. It is an honour that he richly deserves for the many years of public service he has given. For 16 years he was Secretary of the Desborough
Branch at a time when it was not an easy thing to take a prominent part in Trade Union work, and to him, together with a few other old members, Des-
borough Trade Unionism owes a great deal, how much we shall never know. Now that the highest honour that a town can confer upon any of its citizens
has come to his lot, we congratulate him and trust that his example in public work will be followed by the young Trade Unionists who are growing up to-day.


---


---


---
pleased the Council are paying the contributions of unemployed members, as this
will keep members in the Society who would otherwise have dropped out.
NORWICH. Trade has continued to improve during the month, although
it appears to be quite temporary. Evidence from all quarters points to the fact
that orders are not placed well ahead but require to be delivered strictly to time.
such being the case it appears that wholesale houses having been supplied
during the slight fillip we have experienced recently, are not now placing
sufficient orders to allow factories to continue to run even up to the standard
(a low one) of the last three months. Unemployment pay has fallen to a point
lower than we have seen during the past ten months. Sick pay in Norwich is
now lower than has been the case for many years.

PLYMOUTH. Trade is still very quiet, short time being general througi-
out the district. We have collected the sum of f1 15s. and made a grant of
IOS. as a first effort for the "Miners' Children's Fund," and the Council's
grant of £100 has been noted with pleasure by our members. Our Secretar
has attended the South-Western District Committee of the Trade Board, and
is pleased to report that although trade and conditions in general have made
the task of getting advances and improved conditions a very difficult one.
the workers' side maintained a solid front for the 72s. minimum and a guaran-
teed hourly minimum time rate for piece-workers. The proposal to vary
minimum rates for male apprentices was agreed to, and the suggestion that
the employers should, whenever possible, inform their workers over-night
whether there is or not work for them to do at starting-time next day, and that
some rate of pay be paid when such information is not given, was passed with-
out dissent. The Committee and especially the workers' side were fortunate
to have the presence of the Co-operative representative, whose views upon the
72s. minimum caused just a little flutter within the employers' manly breasts.
We look forward to some useful work being done by the South-Western Com-
mittee, for we feel that even among the employers there is a desire to do more
for the workers.

SILEBY.—Early in April Mr. J. Buckle visited Rothley and found two
of the three shops temporarily closed down, but the Section Secretary was of
the opinion when trade was better we could do some good here. However,
the coal strike has materially retarded the improvement which was manifesting
itself at Mountsorrel, Sileby and Rothley, and at Mountsorrel we had great
difficulty to get the members to talk to us at all, and our open-air meeting
was mostly a failure.

STAFFORD.—Trade in this centre is still improving, and we sincerely wish
that our members in other centres could report the same. Owing to the coal
dispute the manufacturers in this district have orders from the local Gas and
Electric authorities that no power can be used during the coming Whit-week.
thus throwing our members out for another unnecessary period when things
generally were turning very favourable. Will the workers, when the oppor-
tunity presents itself in the Ballot-box, remember who are responsible for this
state of things: the Government in conjunction with the mine owners, or the
miners who, in our opinion, are fighting a battle for the whole of organised
workers? The answer is simple. Our members voted £5 5s. od. as first
grant to the Daily Herald appeal on behalf of miners' wives and children.

SOUTHAMPTON.—Trade very slack. Unemployment in most trades
is a very serious consideration, and we re-echo the hope that a way will be
shortly found to settle the coal strike on terms that may be of a lasting
character, thus giving a chance to all interdependent trades to get "going
and lessening the appalling amount of unemployment.

WATERFORD.—Trade is very bad; just restarted with less hands.

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

557
CO-PARTNERSHIP SOCIETIES.
Silcby Excelsior.
The sales have increased by £15,213 over the corresponding period of 1919 and stand
at £50,802 for the second half of 1920. The profit is £3,404. The distribution of profit
last July was: Workers' dividend £1,082, Customers £795, Social and Educational Fund
the Provident Fund £302 and £300 was added to the Reserve which amounts to £2,851.
Calderdale Clog Sundries.
The sales for latter half of 1920 were £4,980. There was a small loss of £94 on the half
year, but the balance for the year is distributed. The shareholders get 5 per cent. per
annum and a dividend of 2½ per cent. amounting to £45. The other two dividends are also
et od. in the: that on Purchases amounting to £116 and that on wages to £33.
Higham Ferrers Boot.
The sales for the last half of 1920 were £20,879, an increase of £1,204 over the corres-
rending period of 1919. The profit was £936, of which £287 goes to shares as Interest
and Dividend, £320 goes to the customers as a dividend of 3d. in the £ on purchases and
02 goes to the workers as dividend on wages at 6d. in the £. In addition £107 was added
to the Reserves, making a total of £4,135.
Union Boot.
The sales for the latter half of 1920 were £24,731 and the profit was £1,130, of which
dividend at 4½d. in the £ on purchases and the workers receive £214 as dividend on wages
300 goes to the shareholders in interest and dividend. The customers receive £448 as
at od. in the £. The Education Fund receives £30 and the Provident Fund £80, £100 is
added to the Reserve and £100 to the Interest Guarantee Fund.
Leather Supply Association.
The newly-formed Education Committee of this society has, through the kindness of
Mrs. Stanton, acquired nearly 200 volumes from the library of the late George Stanton.
This will be a valuable asset to the workers and a great help in their educational work,
as well as being a most suitable memorial to George Stanton.
Crompton Boot.
The sales for the second half of 1920 were £45,398, and the profit is £3,460. The
Shareholders receive £351 in interest and dividends; the customers receive £1,796 in
dividends on purchases at 9d. in the £ and the workers receive £590 as dividend on wages
at Is. 6d. in the £. The Provident Fund gets £205 and the Education Fund £12, while
$500 is placed to Reserve.
Wigston Hosiers.
The sales for the second half of 1920 were £53,533 and for the whole year £113,696.
The profit was £1,160, of which £682 is used for interest on Shares. In 1912 the sales
were under £12,000.
Glenfield Progress Boot Society.
The sales for the last half-year were £28,670. The profit is £1,896, of which the Shares
receive £221 at about 8 per cent., the workers receive £600 as dividend on wages at 2s.
in the £, and customers receive £600 being dividend on purchases of 5d. in the £. Of the
remainder £50 is added to the Provident Fund, £50 to the Educational Fund, £50 to the
Employees' Holiday Fund and £200 to Reserve. The Society has commenced an extension
of its factory.
Leicester "Self-Help" Boot.
The trade for the second half of 1920 was £36,860, and the profit £1,043. Of this £274
went to shareholders as interest and dividends at 6¼ per cent. Customers received £446
and the workers £171 at about 6d. in the £. In addition to various grants to charities
£20 was added to the Holiday Fund, £30 to the Education Fund and £5 to the Provident
Fund. The society has recently extended its premises and the extension is now in working
order.
Northants Productive Society.
The sales for the second half of 1920 were £34,233 and the profit is £852, of which
£204 goes to the shareholders and £450 to the customers.
B


---
Here is the text from the image:

558
REPORT
OF THE
Conference of Labour Women, Manchester.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
The Conference occupied two days, commencing April 27th, at 10.30 at
the Milton Hall, Manchester. About 600 Women Delegates from all parts
attended, representing Women Sections of local Labour Parties and other
National Organisations containing women members, which were affiliated to
the National Labour Party. Miss Margaret Bondfield was in the Chair.
After the usual welcome to Delegates from the Manchester Trades Council
and Labour Party, the business commenced. Names for Standing Orders
Committee and Tellers were submitted from the Chair for our approval. This
undemocratic action the Conference by vote disagreed with and proceeded to
nominate and elect its own Officers. Also much feeling was shown re The
Standing Joint Committee of Women's Organisations taking so large a part in
the constitution of a Labour Women's Conference, when a section of that body
was not affiliated to the National Labour Party, the feeling of the Conference
being if we are to have a Labour Women's Conference on constitutional and
democratic lines, its platform must be elected by the popular votes of the
Delegates assembled.
The greater part of the Conference time was taken up in condemnation of
the Government for its broken pledges and the deliberate delaying of reforms
long overdue, with which we entirely agreed.
Prominent among the resolutions, which numbered 67, were the Miners'
trouble. Miners' wives and daughters from all parts spoke of their conditions
of existence, of the children's often cheerless lives and surroundings in some
districts, and a strong feeling of resentment was manifested against a Govern-
ment that put the Military down in the midst of a peaceful people, all being
determined to stand by their men folk to the finish.
A resolution on Ireland demanding that this Government shall give to
Ireland whatever constitution the Irish people desire-a withdrawal of all
troops, &c. This resolution was taken up by Irish women who spoke of the
horrors perpetrated on their own kinsfolk and friends.
Unemployment and education were also discussed at some length.
Pensions for Mothers, calling upon the Government to introduce
immediately Legislation of the Washington Maternity Convention, which it
has violated, and which provided in one of its clauses 6 weeks' full mainten-
ance for nursing mothers, besides other needed reforms.
Many resolutions dealing with the removal of Sex disqualification were on
the Agenda, also Equality in Industry, equal opportunity with equal pay, and
further that Woman should be permitted to enter any occupation, Industry or
Craft, or Profession which she regards herself fitted for, and that old customs
the remuneration is the same for the work done.

---
Here is the text from the image:

559
A long discussion took place on a resolution sent from several Labour Women's Sections asking that the Constitution of the National Labour Party be altered so that the four women representatives on the National Executive be nominated by Women's Sections of Local Labour Parties and elected by votes of Labour Women only. The above was a recommendation to the National Conference. It also appears in the form of a resolution on the Brighton Agenda. This recommendation we voted against, as it excludes Trade Unionists from nominating or voting for Women on the National Executive. We feel the ordinary Labour Party women in local sections are not aware that in a National sense numerically they are a very small minority against the thousands of Trades Union women affiliated to the National Labour Party. We believe, underlying the discussion on the above resolution itself according to conversation around us, the women at the Conference felt they are not being represented (only in about two instances) by women who understand the life of the working woman as it really is with all its difficulties and therefore cannot represent them.

Altogether the Conference was a struggle after knowledge and usefulness, from the old woman over 70 years of age, who could give us the history of the mines, to the girl without a vote who flashed her youthful oratory over the Conference.

The Address given by the Right Hon. Arthur Henderson, M.P., was listened to by a crowded audience of enthusiastic women such as we have never seen before, and we feel the labour cause all over the country will grow stronger and more useful and will justify more gatherings of the kind we have just had the privilege to attend.

In conclusion, we have been glad of the opportunity to attend this Conference, and we hope the members of the Union will endorse this action of the Council in sending women to a Women's Conference, and trust that in future our members will be allowed to take nominations through the Branches in the constitutional way for delegation to Conference.

Yours fraternally,

M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Executive Council & Leicester Women),
A. GUMSLEY (Kettering),
A. BILLINGTON (Wellingborough),
E. PHILLIPS (Bristol No. 2),
F. COREY (Northampton No. 2),
F. MASON, (Norwich),
E. PEBERDY (Leicester),

Delegates to the Conference.


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

564
duction organisations which could undertake the work of reconstruction In this con
of their own accord and under their supervision should form both the labour and pro
nection a similar organisation known as the Social Building Guild, now extant in German
and conducted under the auspices of the Building Operatives' Trade Union has bee
thought of.
It is indubitable that the German Trade Union movement will se its entire influenc
pon all interested authorities in question with the object of accelerating the compl
of the work of restoration. The undersigne
ed declare that they are willing to work in
abatedly to this end.
(Signed)
GRASEMANN and Her
SCOTTISH TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
DELEGATES' REPORT.
The Twenty-Fourth Annual Meeting of the Scottish Trades Lитой Согя
was held in the Coliseum Kinema House, Belmont Street, Aberdeen on 20th
subsequent days. Mr. James Walker, Iron and Steel Workers' Federation, presid
Aberdeen Trades Council, Councillor David Palmer, Chairman of the Northern c
The delegates had a hearty welcome from Mr. G. R. McIntosh, president
operative Society, also welcomed the delegates on behalf of the Scottish Section
Co-operative Union, who said that the Trade Unions and Co-operative movemen
be termed twin sisters in the great working-class movement.
The general business of electing Standing Orders Committee, Scrutineers, Tellers,
was quickly disposed of.
The Congress was a record one, over 240 delegates, representing 560,000 membe
attending.
The Chairman, addressing the Congress, said they met this year with the La
movement facing one of the most critical periods in its history, and confronted wit
a depression in trade, that most of the big exporting industries were about stagnan
The trade slump was not confined to one nation. All over the world trade had slome
down and he felt that before any industry had a reduction of wages, the cost of living
must first come down.
The Parliamentary Committee's Report was submitted, and after some questionin
of various items the report was adopted.
Congress then proceeded with the Agenda. Resolution No. 1, amending Standing
Orders, was carried by a large majority. The effect of this alteration will be the sub-
stitution of Id. per member" instead of £1 for every 500 members or fraction thereof.
As the most important issue confronting the community at the present time is the
Miners' dispute, it was decided that we should deal with it at once.
Alliance delegates having arrived from London, it was agreed that Congress should hear
reports from these delegates regarding the present crisis. The case for the Miners was
Four of the Triple
stated by the Miners' delegate, who first of all dealt with the finding of the Sankey Com-
mission, and how the Government had ignored the recommendation of that Commission
for Nationalisation. He also pointed out that the coal dispute of six months ago hai
terminated by the Government promising to recognise the terms of a national wage.
This promise they had failed to keep; therefore, in face of these facts it was very evident
that not the Miners, but the Mine Owners and the Government were responsible for the
present dispute. With regard to the trouble with the Triple Alliance, he stated that so
far as the rank and file of the delegates were concerned there was absolute unity. He also
stated that the Miners were very much annoyed at the delay on the part of the Triple
Alliance to let the Miners know the decision they had come to. He said that the Miners
only got word about the strike being called off at four o'clock in the afternoon, when they
instructed Frank Hodges to 'phone and ask for it. By that time the news was pretty
well all over the country.
The Railwaymen's delegate then gave his views, and corroborated what had been
said with regard to the solidarity of the rank and file of the delegates of his own union.
The delegate for the Dockers' Union and the delegate for the Distributive Workers' Union
both declared that the delegates of their respective unions were also united instead of
being divided as the Press would like to make the public believe. However, they would
not say who was to blame for the failure of the Triple Alliance to act, until further informa-
tion was forthcoming.
The Congress left this in the hands of the Parliamentary Committee of the Congress
to deal with, when further particulars were received.


---


---


---


---
Here's the text from the image:

571
Just because we are so much concerned in oversea trade we are especially affected by world troubles. If there are bad harvests in Argentina we feel it. If there is depression in Russia we feel it. Conversely, world prosperity gives us trade and comfort. British export trade as a whole is a sensitive measuring instrument of the world's prosperity.

**Our Home Trade Depends on Exports.**

Some people fondly imagine that we can find in an increased home market compensa- tion for loss in the export market. That is a grave fallacy. For what is our home trade? Lanca- shire folk buy food and clothes and other goods that is home buying or home trade. But how do Lancashire people obtain the means to buy? By working upon cotton - a. foreign material and by exporting cotton goods to all parts of the world. If the foreign trade fails, Lancashire" home trade" fails with it.

So with the "home trade" of a place like Hull or Newcastle or Cardiff. It hangs upon foreign trade and shipping; declines when they decline; improves when they improve.

**Good Wages and Good Production.**

Lower wages can only help us in so far as they aid cheaper production. Cheaper and greater production we certainly must have, but wages are one factor and one only in

The curse of low wages falls not only upon the receiver, but upon the payer. The low wage industry tends to be an ill-conditioned industry, with a false economy based on sweating. The high wage industry tends to be an economic industry, because the better- aid labour is used more carefully. Where wages are low appliances are bad: where wages lish appliances are good. And a well-paid man using a good method can produce adds to the general fund of wealth the only fund from which wages or profits can be more stuff than an ill-paid man using a poor method. The higher production obtained drawn, and so the wheel comes full circle. When there is a big wage fund, there is sense in expecting a big wage from it. The results of poor production must be a poor wage, even if profit be entirely eliminated.

Too often I hear it contended that there is plenty of wealth, and that all that is needed is a better distribution. Indeed, it is not so. We have never yet in this country produced enough for a universal high standard of life. We need both a better production and a better distribution, as I endeavoured to show not only in "Riches and Poverty" in 1905, but in "The Nation's Wealth" published in 1914, and in "The Triumph of Nationalisation published in 1920.-The Labour Leader, May 20th, 1921,

**IMPORTANCE OF OVERSEAS TRADE.**

A Reuter's Trade Service message from Cape Town, dated the 13th inst., says the official Gazette announces that the importation into South Africa of boots, shoes, and slippers is now prohibited except under licence, and it is added that consignments already on the water are exempt from the prohibition. This will be unpleasant news for British boot manufacturers, having regard to the importance of the South African market. For the year 1920 the imports of boots and shoes into the Union totalled 4,091,273 pairs, the chief shipments being :-

From the United Kingdom .. 3,017,000 pairs.
the United States .. 591,000
Switzerland .. 235,000
Australia .. 233,000

The exports of boots and shoes of leather, rubber, and other materials from Great Britain to all destinations during 1920 totalled 14,601,636 pairs. It will thus be seen that South Africa took over 20 per cent. of our total shipments. The above figures, by the way, will correct the mistaken impression in some quarters that America is the chief exporter of boots and shoes to South Africa. It is British footwear that is preferred, and this explains the large shipments which have been sent by our manufacturers for several years past.

In a review of the South African shoe industry in the March-April issue of the South African Journal of Industries, reprinted in another column, it is stated that the Union's total requirements of boots are estimated at 7,000,000 pairs per annum. Factories already in operation can produce about 4,000,000 pairs, and if the building and equipment of new factories, commenced before the slump, had been completed the output would have been raised to 5,000,000 pairs per annum. Apparently the heaviness of recent imports has caused work in connection with these new factories to be stopped, so that the productive capacity of the manufacturers in the Union remains at 4,000,000 pairs. This leaves a balance of 3,000,000 pairs to be supplied from abroad. There was a surplus of imports

---


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

576
places of the men who had brought back the ship on the last voyage, of many prepared
to go on the next voyage. I can see the revolutionary spirit that Mr. McVey speaks about.
All the elements of revolution are there. It is due to the activity and tact of a great many
of the officials keeping the men in hand or there would have been an outbreak before the
made will be carried out.
I hope something will come of this interview, and that some of the promises which have been
Men are walking the streets and drawing State unemployment pay while the employer
being employed at all. That is one aspect of the subject. The other is that men must
are being allowed to bring in Chinamen to take their places. If only as a matter of relief
to the Government in the expense one would have thought it desirable to prevent Chinamen
live, and the pittance they get in unemployment benefit is not sufficient to keep a man alive,
want to impress upon the Board of Trade that we have in Scotland a phrase that talks
do something and that very quickly, for this is not a thing which will brook delay.
about "the heather being on fire." The Clyde is nearly on fire with this question, and I
For these two reasons, therefore, we think you ought
the present price of commodities.
would like you to take it into serious consideration.
Mr. W. R. SMAILES (Ships' Stewards, Cooks, &c., Union), spoke in support of the
Accommodation on Board Ships.
following resolution:-
That this Congress considers the accommodation for seamen on board ship
entirely inadequate and insufficient, and requests the Board of Trade to see
that all possible facilities are complied with regarding light, space, sanitation
and ventilation.
He said: Coming to the general question of accommodation on which Mr. Henson spoke a
question, as the Chinese question, is an old one, but quite as important. What we are
the previous deputation that was here in February of last year. A letter in the hands
of the staff will show that Mr. McVey and Mr. Henson have submitted plans, as I under
stand, to Mr. Hipwood as to what we would consider adequate accommodation on board
ship, and we expected something more in the nature of a reply to-day to our previous depre
funny position to have to go over the whole question again. That was on February
tations to Ministers," Mr. McVey went fully into this very question. That was on February
6th, 1920. I could hardly say anything at all about it without repeating what has already
been said.
What, however, has been said relating to the sailors and the firemen applies equally
to the stewards, if anything, more so. The sailors and the firemen do live on the level
of the deck and have the benefit of some fresh air in the forecastle. In many cases the
men live two decks below that. We have laid stress, as Mr. McVey has, as to the necessity
of the sailors and firemen keeping clean. Passengers, I believe, would expect stewards to
keep even a little bit cleaner than the sailors and firemen of a ship, but the accommodation
they give to our department is so inadequate that it is impossible to get washed very often.
In the company's vessels I have sailed in, I have known 180 men having to wash in four
basins, and the water has had to be used over and over again. From a sanitary point of
view that is bad. I do not think the passengers would like to know that the steward who
hands out their eggs and bacon in the morning has had to wash in a basin with 14 or 15
other men. Apart from the washing accommodation the lavatory accommodation requires
attention. There are perhaps, four w.c.'s for 250 stewards. That part of the business is
wicked. On any number of ships at the present time, the British or European steward
has to sleep with possibly a nigger above him and another one below. I daresay you
gentlemen know very well that consumption is very prevalent amongst the Goanese.
For 14 or 15 years, while I was with the P. & O. Company, I had to sleep with a Goanese
sleeping above me and spitting all night from the bunk above me on to the floor. Those
conditions are bad. We have spoken about that in previous deputations and we had
hoped that something would be done. Let me here in justice to the P. & O. Company
say that lately they have made some improvements, not anywhere near adequate, but they
have attempted to make some improvements. In some of the older ships we suggest that
the insanitary accommodation should be done away with and sanitary plumbing fittings
should be placed in the ship. We hope, on behalf of the cooks and stewards of the country,
that something will be done in the matter.

President's Reply.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF TRADE (Sir R. Horne): I appreciate very highly
which he gets from the Parliamentary Committee of the Trades Union Congress at the
ward, so far as my short experience goes, in the most moderate terms, and have invariably
beginning of each Session. The propositions which you have to make are always put for-


---
contained certainly a kernel of genuine complaint in reference to conditions which in the
coness of the world may be bettered. Now the question which Mr. Smailes referred to is
ich has been exercising our attention at the Board of Trade for some months, but
the conditions of life at sea have, I think, been materially improved as time has gone on.
see attained. Human progress is always a matter of gradation, and you do not get things
Ther have not, by any means, reached the stage of perfection which we should all like to
of view of an ordinary citizen of the country, and as President of the Board of Trade.
the P. & O. service are already to some extent, although he does not say to any great
would like to see conditions under which the seamen live improved to the very greatest
with human feeling as being such as none of us would like to live under for any length of
posible extent. Some of the things Mr. Smailes has described will appeal to anyone
considerations of space and size, into the kind of craft which one would hope to see in order
ame. As Mr. Smailes has very correctly said, you cannot make old ships, in view of the
give sufficient accommodation to the seamen. From that point of view one can only
go gradually, but we have had a Committee of the Department dealing with this matter
now for some months and I am not wrong in saving, I think, Mr. Hipwood, there have been
some representations.

MR. HIPWOOD Representatives of the Seamen's Union have discussed matters with
our technical advisers and draft instructions are now being prepared.

The PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF TRADE: What we hope to do as soon as we get
Seamen's Union and the shipowners with a view to getting the accommodation made such
the instructions duly drafted is to put them before the accredited representatives of the
as we all desire to see it. I am perfectly certain that there is room for improvement in
this matter. I do not doubt that for a moment.

MR. POULTON: In the near future, will that be ?

The PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF TRADE: We are now, as Mr. Hipwood said, drafting
instructions, and these meetings will take place as soon as ever we can arrange them.
representatives both of the seamen and of the shipowners. From that we shall have to
men's Union, and this will be dealt with as soon as we get the draft instructions by the
As I have said, we are drafting new instructions upon the representations of the Sea-
make up our minds as to what legislation is required. That to-day is the position, and I
am afraid that I can only leave the matter there.


---


---


---


---
unnel."
an say
s some.
r name
there is
true.
ing. If
seamen
Connage
rease in
581
If we had this
on the one hand, and possibly reduce the
As regards the second part of this resolution, we feel that there ought
tume have upon their panels.
0
illness and who require not only special food, but food that will cost more than the ordinary
before you to make any special plea for those who are unfortunately laid on one side by
declare upon the funds by giving them some amount of financial relief we feel we ought to
food. If we can help our unfortunate men and women who from time to time have to
do it, and wе hоре we shall secure your assent to that proposal.
As to the second proposal that relating to a full and efficient medical service- bere
again we feel that if the resolution were put into effect it would increase the efficiency and
number of weeks which from time to time persons unfortunately remain ill
resolution put into effect it would possibly have a beneficial effect on the whole of the United
thus reduce the amount of illness in the country.o11
treatment going on by doctors as against panel patients, in the sense that panel patients
Kingdom. Regarding the third resolution, we believe there is an amount of preferential
to submit to conditions which the private patients of the doctor do not have to submit
I understand Mr. Hicks is putting this matter particularly before you, and will deal
be still further regulations regarding the number of patients that doctors may from time
and reasonable. In respect to the fourth resolution, dealing with unhealthy and danger-
a doctor cannot efficiently give that attention to the patient which seems to be necessary
das occupations, it really means pooling the funds so as to help those unfortunate men and
women who are now in some of the more unhealthy trades. I refer to those liable to a large
amount of sickness. This is one of those matters which we know involves a very great
mestion the question of nationalisation - but I am assured by my friends who introduced
suppressed. They mean nationalisation in the sense of the nationalisation of funds, but
if that they do not mean nationalisation in that sense of the societies themselves being
that the administration shall still be kept in the hands of the individual society. They
think that those persons who may be rendering the very necessary services to the community
-services which in many instances are indispensable, and because of their indispensability
have much greater risks of illness connected with them ought not to be penalised in the
way our friends think they may be, particularly in view of the valuations coming out.
sh ships
building
Marin
biggest
latert
mili
ad thre
alarise-
as quite
of the
Οροπίας.
oportion
Chinese
oportion
observa
pass on.
be some
hance of
Health
J. Smith
uced the
Gosling,
Francis
nters!.
solution.
ngthened
t appear
!
have
detail with it.
It must be perfectly obvious that beyond a certain point
National Insurance Act (Increased Benefits)..
MR. F. FRANCIS (London Society of Compositors) spoke in support of the two follow-
ing resolutions :-
That the Parliamentary Committee press for the payment of increased
benefits under the Insurance Acts for sickness of £1 for 26 weeks and 10s. for
remainder of sickness or disablement, and all members attaining the age of 70
and becoming uninsurable shall receive 10s. disablement pay for remainder of life.
Full and Efficient Medical Service.
That a full and efficient medical service be instituted by the provision of
clinics, dispensaries, hospitals, doctors, and nurses throughout the kingdom
under the Ministry of Health. That all the present hospitals, dispensaries, Poor
Law infirmaries, and institutions be taken over for the purpose, and the moneys
necessary be provided by Parliament and local authorities.
He said: There is no need for me to say much, but I desire to emphasise the latter
part of the resolution, that all members attaining the age of 70 and becoming uninsurable
should receive 10s. per week disablement pay for the remainder of their life. That seems
to me to be a very necessary alteration in the National Insurance Act. Men are taken
entirely out of the fund at 70. They may have been contributors to it for years, and they
get nothing, with the exception of the medical treatment. It seems to me that that is
not equity at all. In the National Insurance scheme it is compulsory, up to the age of 70,
to pay contributions, and it seems to us that some more benefit or payment ought to be
In regard to the fi a week, I still take my stand
made out of the funds to these old men.
is
on the position of the man who is ill, that this 15s. a week in the case of a man who is sick,
with wife and family, and the high price of living to-day is a very small amount to give.
It is true it runs for 26 weeks, and then it suddenly drops to 7s. 6d. There are cases where
a man's illness may be a very prolonged one, and 7s. 6d. a week, and with other societies
running out, you do not get far. We are paying a very high premium-Iod. per week
rather a high amount to pay. In consequence of the high cost of living the 15s. per week
is not sufficient. We shall doubtless be told presently by the Minister about the valuations,
and that they have taken effect upon the assumption that a lot of the societies will be in
a position to pay a higher rate of benefit. That does not answer the question. This is
only for a period of five years, till the next valuation. We are also told in the valuers'
report that certain conditions that have obtained during the war have given a chance to
valuation. My
the question. We do not want an increased benefit for five years. We want something
for the whole of the period an increase now and an increase later. There is plenty of money
in the National Health Insurance funds to pay this increase for which we are asking. If
it lay with me I would ask for a
considerably higher grant.

---


---


---
schemes, to which I shall refer in a moment, in reply to Mr. Hicks, and leading towards a
and means to make it a model service, mainly resolves itself into a question of cost and per
population, mainly resolves itself, apart from any discussion between us as to the way.
more efficient service at the disposal of the population generally, and particularly the poorer
time I have been in my present office, to improve the nursing equipment of the nation, an
time I have been in my present office, to improve the nursing equipment of the nation, and
that was one reason for the adoption of the Nurses Registration Act. For that reason,
that was one reason for the adoption of the Nurses Registration Act. For that reason,
too, we obtained grants which have been freely used for the training of additional nurses.
too, we obtained grants which have been freely used for the training of additional nurses.
is a shortage of trained personnel, but we do not get these things simply by saying we want
is a shortage of trained personnel, but we do not get these things simply by saying we want
them. We only get them by training efficient people who can render the service required
them. We only get them by training efficient people who can render the service required.
In the nursing profession, just as practically every other, there
In the nursing profession, just as practically every other, there
At the present time there is not a sufficient supply available in the country. Nurses have
At the present time there is not a sufficient supply available in the country. Nurses have
been grossly underpaid in the past. I am doing what I can to improve the position, and
been grossly underpaid in the past. I am doing what I can to improve the position, and
have done a great deal in the last 18 months. The result is that there is an increasing
have done a great deal in the last 18 months. The result is that there is an increasing
number of women taking advantage of the training facilities we are providing. There is
number of women taking advantage of the training facilities we are providing. There is
various districts. But you can only steadily pursue a policy of that kind over a series
various districts. But you can only steadily pursue a policy of that kind over a series
years before you can arrive at any great personnel, and before you can found an extensive
years before you can arrive at any great personnel, and before you can found an extensive
mind it may be in consequence of the hot water I got into recently for making quite
mind it may be in consequence of the hot water I got into recently for making quite
In regard to the other question while it is fresh in my
In regard to the other question while it is fresh in my
been a great increase in the past year or so.
been a great increase in the past year or so.
scheme of medical assistance.
scheme of medical assistance.
modest proposal with regard to hospitals.
modest proposal with regard to hospitals.
More nurses have been made available in
More nurses have been made available in
MR. J. H. THOMAS, M.P.: It was a heated Press, not hot water:
MR. J. H. THOMAS, M.P.: It was a heated Press, not hot water:
The MINISTER OF HEALTH: Yes. I think that is a better description. A good
The MINISTER OF HEALTH: Yes. I think that is a better description. A good
of it was hot air criticism from people who had not even read the proposals. For a good
of it was hot air criticism from people who had not even read the proposals. For a good
that, you know how this matter is hedged about with difficulties. I am doing what I can
that, you know how this matter is hedged about with difficulties. I am doing what I can
and, consistently with the possibilities of the time, shall certainly continue to improve
and, consistently with the possibilities of the time, shall certainly continue to improve
and extend hospital facilities. I regret the fact that we have 25,000 or 30,000 or whatever
and extend hospital facilities. I regret the fact that we have 25,000 or 30,000 or whatever
beds. It is a standing discredit to the nation. I regret it, and I regard it as gross waste.
beds. It is a standing discredit to the nation. I regret it, and I regard it as gross waste.
exactly the figure may be I shall deal with that probably next week-empty Poor Law
exactly the figure may be I shall deal with that probably next week-empty Poor Law
I have said so many times, and I propose to stick to that opinion. But when you come to
I have said so many times, and I propose to stick to that opinion. But when you come to
the ways and means of making use of that accommodation, then our difficulties begin mostly
the ways and means of making use of that accommodation, then our difficulties begin mostly
of them have begun already, as you are aware. Therefore, I have just put to you some
of them have begun already, as you are aware. Therefore, I have just put to you some
service. At all events, within the limitations open to us and, certainly, opportunities
service. At all events, within the limitations open to us and, certainly, opportunities
improve them. These things, as you must know, take a long time. Now I come to some
improve them. These things, as you must know, take a long time. Now I come to some
of Mr. Hicks' points. May I speak, in the first instance, with regard to limiting patients
of Mr. Hicks' points. May I speak, in the first instance, with regard to limiting patients
on the doctors' lists. I did for the first time last year prescribe an outside limit. It was
on the doctors' lists. I did for the first time last year prescribe an outside limit. It was
in my opinion, higher than it should be. I said so. And it was for that reason that we
in my opinion, higher than it should be. I said so. And it was for that reason that we
permitted, and, indeed, encouraged local committees to fix a lower limit. The limit that
permitted, and, indeed, encouraged local committees to fix a lower limit. The limit that
we fixed on a medical man's list was 3,000 persons. Of course, they are not all sick persons.
we fixed on a medical man's list was 3,000 persons. Of course, they are not all sick persons.
The percentage of persons sick from time to time is as familiar to you as to me. A large
The percentage of persons sick from time to time is as familiar to you as to me. A large
number of committees notwithstanding that, I am glad to say, have fixed a lower limit.
number of committees notwithstanding that, I am glad to say, have fixed a lower limit.
In one-third of the areas of the country the maximum has been fixed at 2,500. In many
In one-third of the areas of the country the maximum has been fixed at 2,500. In many
other areas it has been fixed as low as 2,000. So that, at all events, we have made a start
other areas it has been fixed as low as 2,000. So that, at all events, we have made a start
in limiting the lists, and you know how difficult this kind of thing is. You cannot say that
in limiting the lists, and you know how difficult this kind of thing is. You cannot say that
the patient shall have free choice of a doctor and at the same time say he shall not. You
the patient shall have free choice of a doctor and at the same time say he shall not. You
can only do this thing gradually. The private patient gets efficient treatment from the
can only do this thing gradually. The private patient gets efficient treatment from the
doctor he chooses. Our system provides that a man is entitled to have it. All we require
doctor he chooses. Our system provides that a man is entitled to have it. All we require
is that the doctor shall not take more patients on the list than he can bona-fide give attention
is that the doctor shall not take more patients on the list than he can bona-fide give attention
to. Now, with regard to complaints.
to. Now, with regard to complaints.
For investigating the complaints we have gone out of our way and adopted all sorts
For investigating the complaints we have gone out of our way and adopted all sorts
of suggestions to make the investigation of complaints easy for the society which puts
of suggestions to make the investigation of complaints easy for the society which puts
it forward. You know only too well what are the subjects of complaints from your
it forward. You know only too well what are the subjects of complaints from your
own members. I have no doubt of that. When you get those complaints you want the
own members. I have no doubt of that. When you get those complaints you want the
facts. We have fairly elaborate and pretty complete machinery for investigating the
facts. We have fairly elaborate and pretty complete machinery for investigating the
complaints, but I shall be glad, for all that, to receive any suggestions which you may
complaints, but I shall be glad, for all that, to receive any suggestions which you may
have to make which we can consider with regard to the improvement and making
have to make which we can consider with regard to the improvement and making
easier of that machinery. I think it is a pretty good machine as it is. As to the
easier of that machinery. I think it is a pretty good machine as it is. As to the
drugs, there again you want the facts. The facts are that the drug list contains over 100
drugs, there again you want the facts. The facts are that the drug list contains over 100
medicines. When I used to be in medicine, once upon a time, I do not mind telling you I
medicines. When I used to be in medicine, once upon a time, I do not mind telling you I
never had a special faith in drugs. I have often preached the doctrine that if only people
never had a special faith in drugs. I have often preached the doctrine that if only people
would get out of the pernicious belief that a bottle of medicine was going to cure them
would get out of the pernicious belief that a bottle of medicine was going to cure them
whilst they had a bad habit of life.
whilst they had a bad habit of life.

MR. W. THORNE, M.P.: Take the doctor's advice and put the medicine down the sink!
MR. W. THORNE, M.P.: Take the doctor's advice and put the medicine down the sink!
The MINISTER OF HEALTH: That often might be very desirable if people would only
The MINISTER OF HEALTH: That often might be very desirable if people would only
take that advice Nevertheless, there are very many medicines on the list an ample choice
take that advice Nevertheless, there are very many medicines on the list an ample choice
for those who want to swallow the beastly things-but I should not want to go much out-
for those who want to swallow the beastly things-but I should not want to go much out-
side 20 better-known drugs for myself. Even then a doctor is fully entitled to go outside
side 20 better-known drugs for myself. Even then a doctor is fully entitled to go outside
this list if the necessities of the case require it.
this list if the necessities of the case require it.

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

586
MR. J. H. THOMAS, M.P.: It is only fair to say that of the Ministers we meet there is none that we appreciate more or who give us more hope of support than yourself. Incidentally, sir, I do not think you ought to treat too seriously at the present time this economic stunt because it is a stunt.
The MINISTER OF HEALTH: Absolutely!
MR. J. H. THOMAS, M.P.: You will find it is that... Above all, we hope that the Free will not deter you from realising that this is a Ministry of Health and not a Ministry for Economy.
MR. POULTON: I wish to support what Mr. Thomas has said, and thank you for the way you have received us. The cases to which reference has been made we shall send you, resting assured that you will receive them in a sympathetic fashion.
The deputation then left for the Ministry of Transport.

MINISTER OF MINES
(W. C. BRIDGEMAN, ESQ., M.P.).
Wednesday, February 9th, 1921.
PRESENT: Mr. E. L. Poulton, O.B.E., Mr. H. Gosling, C.H., Right Hon. C. W. Bowerman, M.P., for the Trades Union Congress Parliamentary Committee. Mr. W. Frowen, Mr. H. Clarney, and other members of the General Federation of Firemen's Association. Mr. J. Strachan (Scotland Under-Managers).
Mr. Bridgeman (Minister of Mines) was accompanied by Mr. W. Brace (Permanent Secretary).
MR. E. L. POULTON, having introduced the deputation, said that yesterday the Home Secretary had referred them to the Mines Department. Mr. Frowen would deal with the following resolutions :-

Mineowners' Benefit Schemes.
That this Congress expresses its disapproval of any actions which seek to take away the freedom and right of citizenship from any class of workers, and that immediate steps be taken to ensure that the coalowners of Great Britain shall withdraw any scheme which prevents deputies, firemen, or examiners, or clerical and administrative staffs from enjoying the full privilege of Trade Unionists.

State Employment of Colliery Deputies.
That, in the opinion of this Congress, any legislation that has for its object an attempt to diminish the number of accidents in mines would be most likely to accomplish that object if the official who is responsible for the daily inspection of a district or mine was so placed under the protection of the Government as to enable him to make an unbiased report as to the condition of the district. We therefore instruct the Parliamentary Committee to press that the State em- ployment and payment of deputies be included in the amended Mines Bill.
And Mr. Strachan would speak to the resolution dealing with :-
Certificates of Competency (Mines).
That, in the interests of safety and efficiency, it is essential that men filling the position of the official defined in the Mines Act as superior to the fireman but inferior to the under-manager should hold at least a second-class certificate of competency under the Act, and this Congress calls upon the Government to make the necessary alteration in General Rule 47 without delay.

MR. FROWEN said that there were individuals in each colliery area who, as officials of their union, were placed at a disadvantage by reason of the mineowners' benefit schemes. The mineowner penalised the men who did not join. He did not definitely refuse them employment, although there were one or two isolated cases where that had occurred, but the men had pressure brought to bear upon them. The reply they had received from

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.

Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NAT TELI 4438 MUSEUM, LONDON.
Tel Address NATUNISHOP, HOLD., LONDON
National Union of Operatives
Affiliated to the Trader Unine Chester the General Federation of
Trade Uniors and National Labour Party
Approved under the State National Health Insurance Acts. Approval No. 281
General President
T.F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
EL POULTON J.P.
SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
34, GUILFORD STREET
LONDON. WC.I.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Ofice:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
27TH JUNE, 1921.
TRADE
has improved slightly during the past month although work has been seriously
curtailed owing to the Coal Dispute. The figures given in the Gazette of the
Ministry of Labour are as follows :-

LEATHER TRADES.
In the leather trades employment showed a decline, and many workpeople were un-
employed and short time was general.

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
Owing to the coal dispute, and the consequent restriction of power, the slight im-
provement noted in recent months in this trade was not maintained; employment on the
whole was bad during May, and worse than a month earlier. In practically all the principal
districts there was much short time in various forms, and extensive unemployment.

The number of workpeople employed in boot, shoe and slipper making and repairing
establishments whose unemployment books or out-of-work donation policies were lodged
at Employment Exchanges at 27th May was 22,744 compared with 23,073 at 29th April
and 21,989 at 24th March. In addition, there were 17,962 claimants for benefit in respect
of systematic short-time working, compared with 17,884 at 29th April and 16,711 at 24th
March.

At Leicester, owing to the effects of the coal stoppage, employment was worse than a
month earlier, and the majority of the operatives were on short time. At Hinckley there
was a slight improvement. At Northampton and Kettering employment generally con-
tinued bad. At Higham and Rushden there was a further slight improvement, some firms
being on full time; speaking generally, however, employment was still described as bad in
this district; and in some of the neighbouring small towns of the Northampton country
district employment continued to be very bad.

At Stafford the improvement noted in several previous months continued, and only
a small amount of short time was being worked at that centre at the end of May. At
Norwich there was an improvement in some sections and a decline in others; taking the
city as a whole, a good deal of short time was still being worked.
lighter grades of boots are made.
At Bristol and Kingswood large numbers of factories were still closed down, and
Employment for those who were still working continued to be very depressed, except in a
ployment was still very bad, and a further decline was reported; there was much total un-
ment was also very bad in the Rossendale Valley.
Employ-

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

608
In Scotland generally employment continued bad, and was worse than
Some works were closed down, and the others were generally working short t
Aberdeen, however, there was a slight improvement.
in
The following Table summarises the information received from those emplo
furnished Returns:

Nunber of Workpeople.
Increase (+) or
Decrease (Jona
Total Wages Paid to all o
il
Week ended
28th May,
Wreckended
Month ago. Year ago.
1921
Increan C
Uncrease
22 May,
121
Montigo
ENGLAND AND WALES :----
Percent. Percent
London
Leicester
1,869
9.159
+06
-115
+2.2
4,531
Percent. Pero
-14
Leicester Country District
2,392
+14
Northampton..
7,098
+ 07
20860
5,309
17,118
2
-79
-105
Northampton Country
6,902
+ 2.0
-18.7
2-
District
Kettering
2,858
- 12 -14.9
6.539
Stafford and District
2,350
+ 0.3
-101
5.718
79
Norwich and District
3,315
0.2
-24 4
7,381
Leeds and District
1,665
0.8
-14.3
2,875
Lancashire (mainly
2,150
--16.7
-34.6
3,065
Rossendale Valley)
Birmingham and District
Other parts of England and
918
+ 1.2
-
64
1,959
2,045
4.T
-50.8
3,778
Wales
ENGLAND AND WALES
SCOTLAND
IRELAND..
42,721
- 12
-18.7 93,851
2,601
435
UNITED KINGDOM
45,757
..
2.2
-14.0
+15.7 -26.5
-18.5
II
- 6:
4,752
8.3
88999
99,492
- 6:

1919 AGREEMENT.
In accordance with arrangements made we met the Executive of the
Manufacturers' Federation on May 24th, 1921, at their Offices, Tavise
Square, W.C. 1, to consider the question of the 1919 and 1920 Agreements
and the letter from the Manufacturers' Federation as to the matter standing
adjourned for at least six months.
Bearing in mind the discussion at the recent Annual Conference and the
resolution passed thereat, viz. :–
"This Conference gives full power to the Executive Council to revise
if necessary, and adjourn the time of meeting with the Manufacturers till
such time ås circumstances should appear more favourable for negotiation,
but that no reduction of present conditions be discussed till a special
conference has been held,"
the following resolution was agreed to unanimously :-
"
That this Conference of the Manufacturers' Federation Executive
and the Executive Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Opera-
tives having considered the question to amend the terms of the 1919
Agreement, and the revised 1920 Agreement, hereby decide to adjourn the
matter for six months. It is to be clearly understood the existing Agree-
ments will remain in full operation. Each side agrees to submit amended
terms within the six months' period."


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

610
HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT. VALUATION REPORT.
The Valuer's Report upon the Health Insurance Department up to December
31st, 1918, has been received by us.
The Report is set out on pages 625-63
Annual Conference was held at Whitsuntide we presented a report to th
We have fully considered the Report, and having regard to the fact that the
Conference upon the points named in the Actuary's Report, which was unani
The result is that as and from uly benefits to insured
mously adopted.
members will be increased as follows:
Sickness Benefit by One Shilling per week.
Sickness Benefit (Class K member) by Sixpence per week.
Disablement Benefit by Sixpence per week.
Maternity Benefit by Two Shillings.
These increased benefits will cost the Society about £10,000 per annua
and represent therefore to that amount increased help to the members, h
we feel sure will be appreciated by those who have from time to time
upon the funds.
The members entitled to participate will be all members on the
books of the Approved Section on 5th July, 1920, who have been
continuously insured since 1st January, 1919; and the rates of benefit
to such members will be, on and after the 4th July, 1921 :-Sickness Dement
(Males), 16s. per week; Females, 13s. per week; Disablement benefit, bs, per
week; Maternity benefit, £2 25.
The above recommendation received the unanimous sanction of the
Conference. The Council trust that this demonstration of the sound financia
position of our Health Insurance section will induce the vast majority of cur
members to become members of this important branch of the Union's
activities.
A full report of the business transacted at the Conference appears in the
Special Conference Report. We beg to appeal to the insured members to do
all in their power to increase the membership of the Society, especially amongst
the young people who are constantly coming into the industry. Any member
joining up a new member will receive a commission of sixpence for each member
so joined.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACT.
We are pleased to report that through the efforts of the Union's Solicitor
(Mr. Evan Barlow, of Leicester) two further cases of Compensation have been
settled. In one case, B., of Leicester No. 2 Branch, the sum of £200 was
secured in addition to a weekly sum of compensation and part costs; whilst
in the other case, T. of Kettering, the sum of fio was recovered.
We beg to point out, however, that lump sums are not obtainable by law,
but only by mutual consent of the operative and the Insurance Company.


---
Here is the text from the image:

611
TRADE BOARD.REPAIRERS WAGES.
As is well known, we through our Reports have, along with the other
workers' representatives on the Trade Board, been endeavouring to secure
an increase in the rate of pay for time workers, Circumstances have for the
time being, been of such a character as to militate against us being successful.
We put up the best possible fight, but with so many trades having to agree
to reductions, we found ourselves ultimately put in the position of having to
reconsider the situation industrially, and ascertaining that it was not possible
to secure an advance, to so act as to leave the position one wherein we could
at a future date renew our application; it was therefore ultimately agreed to
postpone the application indefinitely. We regret that our efforts were not
successful; at the same time we have been able to prevent any reductions
taking place, which should not be overlooked by anyone who might feel
inclined to indulge in adverse criticism.
CIRCULARS.
Several Circulars dealing with important matters have been sent out
during the past month; the answers asked for should be sent along to the
Central Office without delay.
CANADA.
During the month a letter has been received by the General Secretary
from the Toronto Branch of the Boot and Shoe Workers' Union of America,
stating that they have a strike in Toronto. They also state that-
"Trade conditions are very bad in Canada, with the prospect
of their becoming much worse. Many Shoemakers who have been
brought to this country from England are having a very bad time
getting along."
Having regard to these facts, we hope members will make very full enquiries
before going to Canada. We trust our comrades will be successful in their
struggle, and that a period of good trade will shortly ensue with them as
well as with ourselves.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEEΝΤΗ!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. Last month many returns were late.
Branches failed to send off their returns to reach the Central Office before the
15th of the month, and this tends to upset the organisation of the work in the
General Secretary's Office. We beg to intimate that unless returns are in
before the 15th of the month, the Secretary has been instructed to put into
force the Rules governing the same.

---
Here is the text from the image:

612
UNSCRUPULOUS MISREPRESENTATION BY THE PRESS.
Statements have recently appeared both in the London and provincial
newspapers which have not only been misleading but calculated to create
prejudice both against the Union and the boot operatives generally. In one
instance a case was reported that although work was offered in a certain dis
trict at trade union rates of wages, despite the large numbers out of employment
operatives refused to accept the positions. In another case it was reported
that at Northampton women were earning I per day for three days and then
declaring on the State Unemployment Fund. We at once enquirer into
these cases and in the first instance neither the local officials, the Manufacturers
Federation nor the Employment Exchange knew anything of the matter, and
the newspapers would not give us the information as to where this statement
was obtained. In Northampton the General Secretary called the attention
of our officers to the statement and a Board of Arbitration meeting was called
and after fully considering the same the following resolution was passed
"That this Joint Board, representing the Northampton Boot Manufacture
Association and the No. 2 Branch of the Boot Operatives' Union, desire to correct
the statement made at the meeting of the Northampton and District
Employment Committee in respect to the wages earned by female operatives,
and wish to correct the impression created that women are able to earn fantastic sums."
It will thus be seen how misleading certain reports in the Press are, and that
an injustice is done to the operatives generally.
FINES.
We regret to report the fact that a fine has been levied upon ARINGATE
DUBLIN, and YORK, whose returns were not in the Central Office on
the 18th inst., despite the fact that they were due BEFORE the 15th
is essential that returns should be in the Central Office prior to the 15th.
of each month to enable the work, which has considerably grown of late, to
be kept up to date.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade
Union Stamp. Members and their families should wear only “Union Stamped
Footwear."
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.


---
Here is the text from the image:

613
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Trouble and trial is very prevalent in the industrial world owing to the great dearth
of employment in this and other countries. It would be well if the powers that be would
pull together to protect wages rather than to attack them. You cannot have good trade
with bad wages, and you cannot have peace if you make war on the sections of the com-
munity who work for you and help you to enjoy the life that is. Rumours are current of
many attempts to cut wages in certain places. Although most trade unions wish to be
law-abiding, no union worth its salt will quietly submit to this, and it is rumoured that some
employers in various trades are leaving the Emplovers' Federation in order to escape their
national agreements. It is also quite proper to remind these gentlemen who have taken
this course that each union affected will undoubtedly make note of this proceeding, and at
once take the initiative to see no departure takes place. The loyalty of the men who
belong to the great 8,000,000 trade unionists must see to it that their homes are not attacked
and reduced to pre-war conditions.

1020 AGREEMENT TO CONTINUE FOR SIX MONTHS. On the 24th May, 1921, we met the
Emplovers' Federation with the result already known, but we do hope the information
asked for several months ago, and NOT YET COMPLETE, will be sent along by those
Branches who have not complied with the request. One realises with so much unem-
ployment this task has been a difficult one, and now that matters are easier in this part
of our organisation we hope to receive the most useful data obtainable.

GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS. This meeting was held on the 25th May,
when it was reported that over a quarter of a million Cotton Operatives had been notified
of a reduction.

UNEMPLOYMENT SCHEME. On the 26th May I attended a meeting between the Em-
plovers' Federation and Mr. Nathan, the expert on the Unemployment Scheme, when a
further stage was advanced.

WELLINGBOROUGH was visited on the 27th May owing to a firm outside the Federation
entering into an agreement contrary to the National Terms with their operatives. We are
still negotiating with the firm. The operatives' action has been severely criticised by
the Branch.

On Sunday, the 29th inst., we had a very fair meeting of the repairers at the Friars'
Hall, Blackfriars Bridge, London, on the need of further organisation, but I would have
preferred to have had the meeting much larger.

On Monday, the 30th, I had occasion to go to Nottingham to settle a matter between
our own members, and not with their employers, and believe that the visit will conduce to a
more harmonious spirit.

TRADE BOARD. On May 1st and 2nd I attended the Trade Board, when we discussed
at great length our claim for 72s., but after a very lengthy discussion we were advised by
the appointed members that they could concede no advance; so we have it that appointed
members have the deciding voice. We acquiesced in a postponement.

LONDON NO. 2-LONDON METRO. - On May 4th the Council advised a meeting of the
No. 2 London Branch with the object of recommending them to join up with the London
Metropolitan Branch, the reason being that after 9 years the Branch is but 156 financially
strong, and all Organisers and Council Members visiting the London Branch during the past
two years strongly recommend this course. Should the sew-round makers wish to hold
meetings sectionally we would strongly recommend the Metro. Branch to carefully con-
sider such request, as when one recalls the fact that we already have 500 members having
Hebrew names, the language difficulty, since the war, has become impotent.

BOZEAT.-May 7th included a visit to Bozeat, where probably four out of every five
in the village are unemployed, and after holding a meeting of the men and then seeing the
employers, we may be in a position after reporting to the Council to ease the situation
within the National Terms. We also attended a very interesting meeting at Finedon of
the Section there the same evening, and addressed the members on several matters.

On May 8th I went to MOUNTSORREL and held an open-air organising meeting at the
School Boot Co., and hope the same may be attended with beneficial results. On the same
day I went to SILEBY, when we met the principal of one of the largest firms who had promised
us to help in telling the men the duties to their fellow workers.
EARLS BARTON was visited on May 13th owing to a difficulty on one of the firms which
has a very good reputation for fair dealing, but shall be compelled to take the advice of
the Council on the outlook at this place.

LEICESTER. -On May 14th I visited Leicester owing to the policy of the firms sending
work to each other. Negotiations are not yet completed.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

616
while at one Section trade seems at an absolute standstill. We regret to report
that a disastrous fire occurred at Ringstead, when the Unity Co-operative
Productive Society's premises were absolutely destroyed; estimated damage
£20,000. This is all the more deplorable because it is the only factory in
Ringstead, most of our members having been on short time or suspended
for a long period, and just as they had secured orders and were looking forward
to a period of regular work this disaster occurred. We are having a visit of
the General President to Bozeat and Finedon to clear up several matters that
might develop seriously; one of the matters that has arisen is the refusal of
some employers to continue the "Holiday Payment Scheme" on the ground
that this is now met by the Government.
KENDAL.-We are pleased to report that our members resumed work
on Wednesday in Whit-week, thus having a very brief holiday. If the Coal
dispute reaches a speedy settlement the prospects of full-time working are
very bright. At the Monthly Meeting the members responded with enthusiasm
to the Council's request empowering them to grant £5,000 to the Miners'
Relief Fund. Our delegate to Conference (Miss G. Bland) gave a most interest-
ing and lucid report of the proceedings thereat, which was much appreciated
and earned for her a most hearty vote of thanks. The Circular from Council
conveying the information that at a Joint Executive Meeting called to consider
the question of amending the Terms of 1919 and 1920 Agreements, and that
a decision had been reached to adjourn the matter for six months-the present
conditions to remain in force meanwhile-is looked upon as a wise step in view
of the threatened tremendous reductions which will probably take effect in
the principal industries of the country. Five pounds has been granted from
our Branch funds in support of the locked-out heroic Miners, and we hope
and anticipate a generous response has been made by all Branches.
LEEDS No. 1.-Trade is considerably worse this month than last. One
of our largest boot firms here has closed down indefinitely, and we are afraid
that if there is not a change for the better in the near future we shall be having
more firms closing down, which we hope will not take place.
LIVERPOOL.-The coal crisis is causing a lot of unemployment and
short time, more especially in the St. Helens' Section of this Branch, which
is a colliery district, and but for the fact that the majority of our present mem-
bers are Trade Unionists from principle and deny themselves certain luxuries
in their efforts to keep their contributions paid, we should soon cease to exist
as an effective Branch. We subscribed through our Central Office the sum
of ten shillings towards the Miners' Relief Fund, which is like the widow's
mite, not very much to feed hungry women and children, but is all we could
afford, as it takes us all our time to pay our way. The proposed increased
postal rates for postcards and printed matter will not improve the position.
in fact, we are of the opinion that from a business point of view it is a false
move and one that ought to be checkmated if possible. The number of Reports
we shall be able to send out by post will be very limited; members will have to
get them at the Branch Meetings or when they call to pay their contributions.
We note it has been reported in the trade press that at a recent meeting of the
Trade Board the proposed increase of wages has been postponed indefinitely,
also the guaranteed minimum time rate, which we assume refers to piece-
work.
MAYBOLE.-Trade still very slack; some of our members have drawn
their 10 weeks' money and still out, some are on the funds just now, and the
remainder :re all working short time. We are hoping for a speedy settlement
of the Coal dispute and a speedy recovery of trade.
NORTHAMPTON.-Trade with us is slack; this is only to be expected
when we consider the general state of the country. Some of our members
have been unable to find work for over 12 months; most members are having


---
Here is the text from the image:

617
to attend the Labour Exchange several days each week ; some are being
present, but with the constant under-feeding that must be operating we may
emploved by the Distress Committee on Relief Work. Sickness is light at
Relict Fund, and in addition are making collections in the factories where they
are doing fair time. Collections amounting to £160 have been subscribed in
look forward to a reaction
this way. Let us hope by the time these notes are in print the men will have
won reasonable conditions and thus help round the wheels of industry.
Our members voted £5 per week to the Miners'
PLYMOUTH. Trade is still very quiet, short time being general through-
decision of the Trade Board upon the proposal for a 725. minimum wage for
out the district. We had been looking forward for several months to the final
machinery of the Board, and the cost of living being on the ebb, the result
our trade, but owing to the delaving tactics adopted by the employers, the slow
seemed to be a foregone conclusion, and we were not surprised to hear that
the Government-appointed members after taking a broad view of the industrial
situation were unable to support the proposal at the present moment, but our
experience during the last six months will probably be put to good use in the
near future. The question of a guaranteed minimum for piece-workers is one
advantages should be thrashed out at our Branch Meetings and the position
our trade would do well to pay a little attention to its advantages and dis-
of every worker, whether slow or aged, clearly understood, for apparently
there are a number of workers not quite clear upon these points, and if this
principle is to be won for our trade there must be understanding and unity.
REDRUTH.-Trade remains bad, but at the time of writing the outlook is
brighter, for apparently the Coal Strike is nearing its end, and, locally, some effort
is being made to re-open the Cornish Tin Mines (the staple industry of the
county), which, closed for a considerable period, has compelled several thousand
workers to accept the unemployment dole. We regret having lost, during the
wear, several of our members, despite the efforts of the Branch to retain them,
but we feel sure of re-instating many of them when conditions are improved.

SILEBY. The coal stoppage is still having a depressing effect on the
trade in this district, those factories not possessing their own gas plants being
greatly restricted through the depletion of the local gas company's stocks
of coal. Quorn and Mountsorrel closed down three weeks ago, and Sileby
Gas Co.'s stock is nearly exhausted. There is a hopeful feeling in the district
that a distinct revival of trade will follow the settlement of the coal dispute;
and it is anticipated that trade, speaking generally, will be better than it has
been for the last eighteen months.
eigh
SOUTHAMPTON.-Trade very slack; out-of-work members increasing
rapidly. We hope that by next report a turn for the better will have set in.
STREET. There is no improvement in the state of trade in the district,
and the prospects of working full time is still very remote. The loss of export
orders is being severely felt here, as a considerable amount of our normal busi-
ness was for overseas. It was unanimously decided at our Branch meeting
to agree to the Council making a grant of £1,000 towards the Miners' Fund.
Our members, realising the tremendous sacrifice the miners are making in
resisting the organised attack upon wages, also voted ₤50 from Branch funds
to the North Somerset Miners' Distress Fund. We have accommodated two
bands and two choirs from Wales during the month, and have arranged con-
certs and dances for the purpose of raising funds. The effort has been very
successful, and considerable sums of money have been sent to help to feed the
women and children.
Einemployed.
to settle the present industrial disputes so as to give a chance to all trades
WATERFORD.-Trade very slack; we hope a way will soon be found
to get going, which would act most beneficially in lessening the amount of


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

621
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
Out-of-Work Donation and Unemployment Benefit.
MR. CLOUGH asked the Minister of Labour the aggregate amounts distributed each
wock since January, 1021, in memployment donation?
DR. MACNAMARA: The approximate aggregate amounts distributed each week from
January 1st to April 20th, 1021, in ont-of-work donation and unemployment benefit are
stollen
Week ended
January 7th
14th
21st
28th
February 4th
11th
Sth
25th
March 4th
11th
18th
25th
April 1st
Sth
15th
22nd
20th
£
671,400
723,700
758,200
778,800
775,000
8.3.3,800
802,500
840,400
9.32,200
1,148,200
1,256,600
1,342,300
1,239,800
1,323,000
1,484,900
1,587,800
1,682,000
£18,241,200
Of this total, £14,340,000 was unemployment benefit paid out of the unemployment
und, and £3,900,600 was out-of-work donation paid out of the Exchequer. As my hon.
Friend will be aware, out-of-work donation has since March 31st, been payable only to
ex-service men and women whose "original" policies have not expired. The weekly
amount of out-of-work donation now expended is less than £25,000.-Parliamentary
Debates, 11th May, 1921.
Unemployment Benefit.
SIR WALTER DE FRECE asked the Minister of Labour the number of men and women,
respectively, who have exhausted their unemployment benefit in the present industrial
trouble?
THE MINISTER OF LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara): As I have already explained, the
Unemployment Insurance Act, 1921, made provision for the payment of benefit, subject
10 certain conditions, for 16 weeks in the period between 3rd March and 2nd November,
1421. Accordingly, the earliest date at which the rights to benefit under the Act can be
exhausted is 22nd June, in cases in which the conditions for the receipt of the full amount
are satisfied. There are certain exceptional cases in which applicants who are not entitled
to the full amount under the Act of 1921 have exhausted their rights. I am unable to
state the number of such cases, but relatively to the whole number they are not
numerous.
MR. HAYDAY: Those who became entitled to 48 days under the Act of November,
1920, only got a further 48 days' extension as from March or February under the 1921
Act. Surely, a large number of these must have exhausted their benefit. Is not the
percentage something like 15?
DR. MACNAMARA: Under the Act of March, 1921, the official precedent followed was
that an applicant should be able to show that he or she had been in insurable employment
for 20 weeks during 1921. That qualification is not very onerous.
MR. C. WHITE asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware of the great delay
in payment of unemployment benefit at the employment exchange, Matlock, where many
applicants entitled to such benefit have not received any pay for 8 to 10 weeks; and
whether he will take such steps as may be necessary to facilitate the payments due, as
much suffering and privation prevails amongst the applicants ?
DR. MACNAMARA: I am having inquiry made and will inform my hon. Friend of the
result.-Parliamentary Debates, May 26th, 1921.
B


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
Unemployment Insurance.
622
to bring in a Bill to vary the rates of contributions and the rates and periods of beneht
THE MINISTER OF LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara): I beg to move. "That leave be given
under the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 and 1921, and otherwise to amend t١٢/٠٢٠
Acts."
became gloomier than ever.
and unemployment last September. There was no rift in the clouds through the winter.
As the House knows, we began to run into the heavy weather of trade depression
In March there was a promise of a break on the horizon in one or two quarters. But at
that moment there came the coal stoppage, now 60 days in existence, and the outlook
have endeavoured to adapt the scheme of unemployment insurance to the needs of the
Throughout the present grave period of trade depression w
situation. On 3rd March, by calling in aid the Insurance Fund, which had accumulated
during and since the War, and by prospectively increasing the contributions, we planner!
an emergency scheme which was intended to give 16 weeks' benefit between March and
July next. We originally proposed that the rates of benefit should be 18s. for men and 15
November of this year; and another 16 weeks' benefit between November this year and
But in deference to the wish expressed in all parts of the House, we raised
for women.
to 20s. and 16s., respectively, during the passage of the Measure.
of that period, we could have reached July next year, our funds exhausted, it is true, be
Given an average of os per cent, unemployment amongst insured persons for the whole
free from debt. That was our reasonable hope and expectation. But all these calculation
have been upset. To-day the percentage of unemployment amongst insured perso
is 23 per cent. Two millions of men and women are wholly unemployed; another millica
income from contributions of less than $350,000. The insurance fund, which in Marc
are on short time. We are now paying benefit at the rate of 2 millions a week with an
last stood at 22 millions, now stands at 8 millions. As things are going it will last
to meet a most serious situation. The state of the National Exchequer is known to the
only for about another month. Therefore, I must make serious alterations in my schere
House. When, in my distress, I turn to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he overwhel
me with jeremiads of his own.
These, then, are the plans hard necessity compels me to ask the House to approve
I must reduce benefit as from 4th July to the rates of the 1920 Act-155. for men and 12
for women, with proportionate reductions for boys and girls. I must increase contribution
from employed persons, employers, and the State. Taking men only-women, boys
and girls follow on similar lines-the contributions from men and their employers are now
a fourth to the two. On 4th July,
4d. each a week, the State adding
Act of March last, the contributions would in any case have been 5d. for the employed man
6d. for his employer, the State adding a fourth. Those figures will now have to be as from
as provided by the
4th July, men 7d., their employers 8d., and the State still adding a fourth.
I said we provided 16 weeks' benefit from March to November. The ever-deepening
unemployment has compelled a large number of persons to draw those 16 weeks without
intermission. So that many will have no assistance from the Fund during part of Jui
August, September, and October. If things do not improve, the same experience will he
encountered with the second 16 weeks designed to cover the period November, 1921. 10
July, 1922. I must, therefore, even in my present embarrassed position, do what I can
to make some further provision for these two periods. I shall ask powers to give, if it prove
to be necessary, an extension of six weeks' benefit to the 16 of the Act of last March icr
each of the periods to which I have just referred. I can sanction no further special schemes
of contracting out of the Act till solvency is reached, and I am compelled to ask that the
three days' waiting period shall be made six.
Given an average of 1,250,000 of insured persons unemployed over the whole world.
July, 1921, to July, 1922, the maximum deficiency which these readjustments would give
at any period would be about £16,000,000, which must meanwhile be advanced by the
Exchequer. That is the maximum liability which, in present financial conditions, the
Treasury can incur. We impose it upon the Exchequer with great reluctance. It will be
repaid as circumstances become normal. The limit of £10,000,000 borrowing power which
I have in the Act of last March-and which I have not yet drawn upon-must, therefore,
to carry me on to July, 1922, be increased to £20,000,000, a manifestly regrettable and
costly expedient; and the scheme of reduced benefits, side by side with increased contrn-
butions, must stand till the fund is again solvent. These are the main lines of the scheme
of the Bill which continuous trade depression, acutely accentuated by the coal dispute
makes absolutely necessary.
MR. CLYNES: There may be no Standing Order in the way of the right hon. Gentleman
introducing this Bill under the Ten Minutes Rule, but there is a standing practice which
proportion in what they do. There never has been a Bill involving such big considerations,
Governments in the past have observed, and that is the practice of having some sense of
financial and otherwise, which ever before in the history of Parliament has been introduced
under the Ten Minutes Rule. I cannot in the few brief moments that I have even approach
the underlying problems out of which this Bill has arisen. It is a most amazing step even

---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

626
accordance with certain tables prepared for the purposes of the Act, as represen-
being employed in the case of men and women respectively. Information as
tative of the general average experience of insured persons, separate tables
First Report of the National Health Insurance Joint Committee (Cd. 6997), but
to the methods of calculating these tables will be found in Appendix III. to the
it is necessary to add, in regard to women, that certain changes have followed
have been increased to an extent corresponding with the additional contributions
the Act of 1918, and that in particular the rates of sickness originally assumed
carried to the Benefit Fund in respect of women members under Section 1 of
that Act.
5. The following is the
VALUATION BALANCE SHEET
as at 31st December, 1918.
LIABILITIES.
£
Present Value of Future
Benefits*
890,823
Balances at credit of
Contingencies Fund
12,537
Administration Account
4,494
Other sums owing by Society-
Debits in Commissioners'
Account
16
Administration Liabilities
507
Married Women's Credits
Account
584
Amount due to Reserve
Suspense Fund
940
State Grant Overpaid
(Benefit Suspense A/c.)
2
ASSETS.
£
Present Value of Future
Contributions for Benefits* 500.074
Present Value of Future
State Grants to Benefits 201,511
Total Funds as per Balance
Sheet
Reserve Values due in respect
of women who married
during 1918 and were
deemed to be still em-
ployed at the valuation
date
Interest accrued but not
due
228,362
Other sums owing to Society-
Estimated Value of Con-
tributions due in respect
of members assumed to
have joined the Forces
Credits in Commissioners'
Account
Income Tax Recoverable
Estimated Value of Bene-
fits paid by way of
Advance
851
377
179
23
29
Surplus
35
Recoupment (1918) in
respect of discharged
soldiers, &c.
726
22,600
Women's Equalisation
Fund (1918)
330
£932,503
£932,503
The valuation thus shows the present value of the liabilities of the Society
n respect of benefits to be £890,823, and the present value of the assets applicable
thereto to be £913,423, the balance being a surplus of £22,600.
6. The surplus is not large in relation to the number of members and the
liabilities of the Society, and much of it appears to have arisen from sources
*Including cost of administration.


---
Here is the text from the image:

627
due to the exceptional conditions which prevailed during the War. Prominent
among these sources are:
(1) the relief resulting from the decline in the birth rate and the con-
sequent fall in the number of claims for maternity benefit;
(2) the release of the Society from liability in respect of which it had
received reserve values, by deaths among male members of
military age; and
3) the high rate of interest secured on investments.

In addition, the cost of Disablement Benefit has been below the provision
made in the financial basis of the Act, and it is probable that this experience
is at least partly due to the War.

It should be noted that the sickness claims during 1913 and 1914 were con-
siderably in excess of the valuation standard and necessitated the intervention
of the Insurance Commissioners. Subsequently the experience exhibited an
improvement, doubtless in part due to the temporary influence of War conditions,
and, on balance, a small profit has accrued in respect of this benefit.

5.  Fluctuations from time to time in the sickness experience, in the rate of
mortality, and in other elements affecting the financial position of approved
societies are inevitable, and should invariably be kept in view when the distribu-
tion of surplus is being considered. The conditions under which the present
surplus has been produced, as explained above, emphasise the importance of
this point and lead to the conclusion, after proper weight is given to the pro-
visions of the Act respecting the Contingencies Fund, that £12,907 of the surplus
should be carried forward, leaving £9,693 as now available for additional benefits.
I certify, accordingly, that of the surplus disclosed by the valuation the sum of
£9,693 is disposable surplus to which the provisions of Section 37 of the Act
of 1911 apply.

6.  Having regard to the amount of the disposable surplus as certified above,
the attention of the Society is directed to the provisions of Section 37 of the Act
of 1911, and to Appendix C. to this Report.

P. N. HARVEY,
Valuer appointed by the Treasury under
Section 36 of the National Insurance Act, 1911.

Government Actuary's Department,
Buckingham Gate, London, S.W. 1.
12th April, 1921.

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

631
5. The other additional benefits in the list do not fall within the scope of
actuarial calculation and schemes to provide any or all of these benefits must
operate through the medium of separate funds created by transfer from the
disposable surplus. It should be observed that where such a separate fund is
set up it is entitled to its due proportion of interest as from 1st January, 1919,
and it will be supplemented by the usual State Grant so calculated that two-
ninths of the payments out of the fund will be provided by the Exchequer.

6.  In cases where the disposable surplus is sufficient for the purpose it may
be desired to provide additional benefits of more than one type. Thus, instead
of increasing the money benefits to the full extent indicated in par. (3) above,
it might be desired to increase these benefits by smaller amounts and to transfer
the part of the surplus not used in this way to a separate fund to provide other
benefits as explained in the last paragraph. For instance if the additional sick-
ness benefit were 1s. a week less than the sum named in par. (3) (with corres-
ponding reductions in the additional disablement and maternity benefits), the
amount to be transferred to the separate fund would be such proportion of the
total disposable surplus as 1s. bears to the additional sickness benefit specified
in par. (3).

NOTE.--For the "numbers" of the additional benefits mentioned in this Appendix,
reference should be made to Part II. of the Fourth Schedule to the Act of 1911.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

635
Ministers to place the views of the people before them in the hope that those views will not
merely receive a sympathetic hearing, but will be translated into action so far as they are
practicable; and these kind of things tend, not merely to make people dissatisfied, but
to bring about those other things that we all wish to avoid if at all possible.

I hope, therefore, that we shall not be told this morning that there is to be still further
economy in regard to this question of education. I know I am well aware, and the workers
are also well aware, of the fact, because the amount of income that they have makes them
pay their share towards this important question of properly qualifying our boys and girls.
aware of the great demand that is made upon their pockets but they are prepared to
If this nation of
wears, taking our places in the nation when we shall have passed away.
These boys and girls who are now passing through our schools will be, within the next few
ours is to keep up its efficiency and to keep up its place amongst the foremost nations of
the world, I submit, on behalf of my colleagues, that the greatest help, the utmost assist-
ance, and the highest point of efficiency should be devoted to developing their brains
whilst they are in the schools. No question of a few pounds extra expenditure ought to
stand in the way of that kind of education being given to these boys and girls, because 30
vears hence these boys and girls will be carrying on the work and the traditions of this nation
ences may be in our outlook on social questions, we are all united, at any rate, in this.
to which we belong, and whatever our differences may be politically, whatever our differ-
can only be obtained if we give to the boys and girls that adequacy of training during those
that so far as our country is concerned, we want it always to be in the front rank, and that
earlier years of their lives.
In relation to the second resolution, we had not the advantage last year of you being
with us, but we have no doubt that your colleague faithfully represented to you what took
placeat, something would have been done to meet what we consider the reasonable requests
place at that particular gathering. We were hoping that from the representations made
placed before the Department in regard to what are termed the “ Uncertificated
Teachers." I have been speaking to Miss Walsh, who was the principal speaker last year
on this matter from the standpoint of the practical teacher, and she informs me that, so
tar as she knows, nothing has been done regarding the matter.

Now, sir, without going into details-because Miss Walsh has them these teachers
have the same kind of work to do, they have the same kind of responsibility, they have-
despite the Code itself and the Regulations in very, very many instances, if not in all,
the same number of scholars under their control. And I would call very serious attention
to the fact that many of these Uncertificated Teachers are in that position, not because of
their lack of desiring to be fully trained from the standpoint of going through our colleges
but because up to the present time the Government itself has not provided sufficient
accommodation in the colleges for them to be trained, even if they desired so to do.
I wish, sir, further to add that for twelve years I was a member of a fairly big Edu-
cation Committee in the country, and my experience was that amongst some of the best
teachers that the Authority had under its control were the Uncertificated Teachers. I do
not speak on this without some knowledge, because I had to take a very practical part
in the work of the schools, and I saw it, and I know that it cannot be disproved, and I do
hope that something will be done to give our friends some satisfaction regarding this
matter.
Regarding the third point, you will see there that we have and I am quite certain
that my colleagues would not have brought the matter before the Trades Congress unless
they had very good reasons. We have some suspicion that the classes which have been
set up in some of the larger industrial establishments of the country are classes which we
believe are set up, if not in antagonism to the Continuation Classes under the Act itself, at
any rate, such classes as do not meet from our standpoint what we understand to mean
Continuation Classes under the Act, and we trust that we shall receive your practical.
support here that that shall not count as against the Continuation Classes themselves.
Whilst they may give these boys a very good training upon the technical side of that particu-
lar industrial establishment, we do not want, nor do we desire, that the education of these
youths shall be confined only to the technical work in connection with their industry.
We want them to be so trained in our Continuation Classes that every man will be developed
generally all round, and they will have that wider view of citizenship so that when they
arrive at manhood or womanhood, as the case may be, they will go out fully equipped so
far as our schools can equip them.
I do not propose to say any more now, except to add that we do trust not only that
we shall receive your sympathy, but be able to have some statement which will send us
away with some hope that something practical is going to be done rather than what has
obtained unfortunately on the other days of the week-we have gone away and nearly the
first remark has been that we have really got nothing from the Ministers whom we have
met, except, of course, what we naturally expect, courtesy; that will always, I am quite
sure, be accorded to any deputation, courtesy and kindly feeling. Other than that, when
the statements have been examined, we have found that we have got nothing which we can
lay before our colleagues as the result of our work during the week.


---


---
a Government Committee-and, of course, it is not thoroughly representative-still it
has affected the teachers we represent so very strongly that last year when we met you the
teachers' salaries were poor then, but the difference between them has widened still further
too.
Now, we feel that that is very wrong, because the work is exactly the same, and we
feel that there should have been no greater difference than existed at that time, but there
is now a difference of £3 a week between teachers in the same school doing exactly the same
work. I have read the numbers of teachers from the Seventh Report of the Select Com
mittee, and I find that the supplementary teachers are not included. The majority of
people judge the supplementary teachers from their name, and, somehow or other, they
not included, although they do exactly the same work. We do think that there has
been some-1 hardly know how to express it-determination that we should not be repre
sented, and we think that is wrong. We do not mean to say this is done officially on the
part of the Board itself, but it has been due, perhaps, to representations made to the Board,
and we think that those difficulties might have been overcome and the representations
might have been granted. Now there is one point which affects the salaries very greatly,
and that is the method of counting children for the purpose of staffing schools. We find
that the classes of uncertificated and supplementary are quite as large, and sometimes
larger than those taught by certificated teachers, but in any case, throughout the country.
unwertificated or a supplementary teacher is given a smaller class, on account of being called
unecertificated or supplementary. It is due to the fact that the scholars are not in the schools.
and I include Wales, there is not a school, not one school in England and Wales, where an
In no case have we found that uncertificated or supplementary teachers are given smaller
classes.

Now, on the counting, had there been a new method, as asked last year, this £90 to
be added to the £50 would not have been made, because Education Committees say the
teachers do not count. Now, that has pressed very, very heavily on the supplementary
teacher. I admit that the supplementary teacher might be graded into three sections-
the teachers over 18 years of age who went to school until they were 17 or 18, the teachers
who served an apprenticeship, and a very small section who followed other callings from
15 to 18 years of age.

Now, just to show you that these teachers who follow other callings and go into the
schools have had influence in the school-we have not one of them in our union-they are
chiefly teachers who have relatives school managers and head teachers, with the exception,
perhaps, that during the war there have been other cases. But up to 1914 there were no
teachers, except those who served an apprenticeship and those who went to school until
they were 18. who went into the schools without influence, and we do feel that this is
another point.

It is often said that the supplementary teacher teaches in infants' schools. Well,
largely they went into infants' schools. There is nothing in the Elementary Certificate to
fit a teacher for infants' school teaching. If a certificated teacher wishes to be an efficient
infant teacher, she requires special training. That also applies to special schools. In
Manchester, for instance, the Manchester Education Committee adopted a scheme by
which certificated teachers only might go into a college for special training for special
schools. Now, those teachers went into the Manchester training schools and received a
practical training from uncertificated teachers, while those uncertificated teachers were
denied the right to go to this college.

Now when the period of training was over, I believe that out of the whole number
of certificated teachers who were trained for special school work only ten have availed
themselves of the opportunity of teaching in the special schools, and you will find that the
special schools are largely run in Manchester by uncertificated teachers. Even the men from
the Manchester Day Training College, the ex-Service men who have come in for special
training, went to these special schools, and all the instruction they received was from the
uncertificated teachers teaching in the special schools. And that has happened also in
Lancashire. These men have gone into schools and they have gone to women teachers,
not men teachers, so you will understand it is quite unjust to these teachers to be termed
"uncertificated teachers."

There is also another point about uncertificated teachers becoming head teachers.
Officially, the Board recognise that, under certain conditions, in small schools an uncertifi-
cated teacher may become a head. Well, I would just like to quote a case that has lately
occurred. We have an uncertificated teacher who is very fitted and very capable for
headship. In the school in which she teaches the head teacher has been in failing health
for many years, and she waited till a few months ago for the purpose of getting her pension,
and the uncertificated teacher was to have the post of head teacher. The managers knew
that for some years, at any rate, the uncertificated teacher had practically run the school,
and they were desirous of appointing her as head of the school. They found, however, just
what I have been told, and the teacher is ill as a consequence, so that I think there must
be some truth in it; they found the Board would not acknowledge her as a head; that they
could not appoint her for the numbers that would be followed out by the regulations, and


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

639

There is another point that we feel. The Select Committee, whom you would imagine
would consider national burdens, and I am sure they do, have recommended in their Report
the extension of the Teachers' Superannuation Scheme to all teachers in efficient schools.
Acting Teachers'
Examination, and they feel, they are very bitter, that they do not come
and we feel that those supplementary teachers should be included in that remark; should
rou feel that you would require to think about it and have further evidence, and the Select
Committee would sit again, we would like to be allowed to give evidence to that Com-
mittee on this point, because we feel that would help you considerably in putting them
under the Superannuation Act. We feel it is only due to them that this should be done
Another point. We do feel that young teachers coming into the school should not
be placed in the position of these older teachers. There are young teachers who sit for the
out successfully. They do not feel that it is due to their mental attainment, but that it is
due to some restriction, and we do think that something should be immediately done
whereby all teachers should take the same course, whatever that course may be whether
We very strongly feel that there should be
one door open to the teachers and that they must be compelled to go through that door.
it is through a college or in any other way.
We do not want this distinction to continue we feel that the time has come for it to be
ended.
This is often put to us: "Now you do not want to improve your teachers." If you
for improvement in a great many clementary school teachers, and I think they would
were to consult your own inspectorate they would admit that there is a great deal of room
admit they would find more among the certificated than among the uncertificated who
would require this improvement, for this reason, that they come out of the colleges-I do
not blame the colleges very unprepared for their work; they are paid as certificated
teachers; there is nothing to spur them on to improve themselves in the school; they
simply take life as it is, put the time in, and take the money, and nothing is done. Any
scheme that the Board would adopt to improve the general body of teachers, if it is done
generally, and uncertificated teachers and supplementary teachers are not singled out
for it, we have from time to time told our colleges we shall whole-heartedly support them
17.
We are quite willing, perfectly willing to do that.
I say,
wronged and deeply aggrieved, and if there was a public inquiry where they could give
evidence, and where they could state the position in which they have been placed within
the school, they believe that this system of uncertificated and supplementary would dis-
af teaching fewer scholars, they are entitled to a public inquiry, or they are entitled to an
appear without more ado. Their claim is this: If the Board insists upon counting them
appeal. We do not care by what method it is done. We might have an appeal if the
Board would help us in any way to get through any committee. I want to put this very
clearly. Individual teachers have tried to take the case to Court, and those individual
teachers have been told they must have a petition of right, which is very costly. Some of
them are in the schools still as uncertificated teachers. They were not able to take it;
still they feel they have lost all that money in salary. Their work has been quite as good.
Ther say: Why not ask the Minister at the present time to send us to the Courts, to let
us have a petition of right if we cannot do anything else? But, so far as I understand it, only
one person takes a petition of right, and, of course, one person on behalf of a great many.
That has been done before. But we feel that some other method might be adopted. You
may not see your way this morning to grant a public inquiry, but I do think a public inquiry
would do good for the children, as well as for the teachers. We feel that some method of
appeal should be set out.

I am afraid I have taken a long time, so I think that, for the present, having placed
the case so often before you, I might leave it at this point, and perhaps some of the other
representatives would like to say something.

There are three points that I would like specially to mention. That is, the represen-
tation, the counting of the scholars, and the superannuation for the supplementary teachers;
that they should be placed under the Act and have the right of appeal. Unless something is
done they feel that they ought to be entitled to the right of appeal. Even criminals and
murderers may appeal, but the teachers have been unable to do so.

MRS. JESSIE WOOD: Mr. President, I feel I have not much to say beyond what Miss
Walsh has said. With regard to the uncertificated teachers, I would just like to speak
of their work in the schools. I can say that their work is quite as efficient as that of certifi-
cated teachers in the schools; there is no discrimination in their work at all. When I say
there is no discrimination, sometimes I find that some uncertificated teachers get more
than their share of work in the schools; they are given larger classes than simply young
certificated teachers who come into the schools now, as they have to have their training
in teaching before they can do anything like the older ex-pupil teachers.
you represent?
The PRESIDENT: May I ask what is your experience what part of the country do
I am going round for the Union, organising uncertificated teachers. During the last twelve
MRS. WOOD: I have been a practical teacher in the schools. At the present time


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

61.1
undesirable that the education of a young person of that age should be subordinato
the material interest of the employer. It is further impossible to predict what the futu
at that early period of life, it is possible that a great part of that education vill blir
away it will be perfectly useless in stubsequent years; and, therefore, so far
of a boy or girl at that age is going to be, and if you give them too specialisel an olueatis.
seents should be on wide and liberal lines, I am cutirely with yo用. But I would
resolution implies a belief in the broad educational principle that the education of ado..
that you go a little too far when you proceed to
employers for their own young people altogether. I believe
to object to schools being etabli hot
ve that such school
adequate and proper safeguards, will be, and are indeed already, valuable adiunett
Let me remind you of the safeguards which are already in the Act:
educational system.
Any school attended by
a young person at or in connection with the
..
of his employment shall be open to inspection, either by the local bucat
authority or by the Board of Education at the option of the p۰۳۲۰۲۱۲۱۴۲
responsible for the management of the school.
school satisfies the Board as to its curriculum, as to the qualifications of the tearte
So that you have the guarantee of inspection by the Board of Education, and unde
does not qualify for grant, and it does not qualify as a continuation school. I
therefore, that the security which you get in the Act of 1918 is quite adequate to
the objects that you have at heart.
MR. BOWERMAN: Can you say, Mr. Fisher, whether the inspection is really A
taken to any great extent by the Board itself?
under the Act is only very partially in operation. We have the system in operat
The PRESIDENT: Well, of course, at the present moment the continuation Sy
London. London has its "appointed day"; Rugby has its "appointed day"; Strat
established on a voluntary basis in different parts of the country: I think 100.
appointed day" and then there are a certain number of isolated
MR. BOWERMAN: May we take it that it is intended that the Board shall reepa
eye upon them, so as to prevent the dangers referred to this morning.
on-Avon has its "
The PRESIDENT: Oh, that is essential; we shall require, of course, to be satisfer
the curriculum is adequate.
MR. BOWERMAN: It will not be a perfunctory matter.
The PRESIDENT: NO; we shall have to be satisfied of that. Let me, perhaps,
to the deputation some words from Mr. J. H. Thomas when this question came up
the House :-
"I do not think," says Mr. Thomas,
works' schools, because there will be a very general admission that many of te
schools already in operation are schools that were instituted by men genuinel
" one ought to criticise the prese
anxious for the success of education; indeed, many of us will frankly recomi
that they have been a pattern to many other schools."
And then he goes on to point out the dangers which have been already mentioned here
this morning.
I feel that, provided that the Board is able to insist, steadily insist, upon an adequat
broad, liberal curriculum in the works' school, and upon a real equivalence between the
education given in these schools and the education given in those schools provided br
public authority-because that, of course, is very important-provided those obiects are
obtained, as I think they will be obtained, I think there is a great deal to be gained by
encouraginig employers to interest themselves in the provision of education for the youn
people committed to their charge. It is important to get the employers enlisted on the
side of education instead of against education, and if you can get an employer to come
forward and spend liberally upon a school for young people in his charge, well, education
receives an additional endowment, which is valuable, and anybody who has visited the
schools, for instance, at Bourneville, established by the generosity of Mr. Cadbury, or the
school at York, established by the generosity by Mr. Rowntree, will realise that here you
have magnificently equipped schools, far exceeding in quality and equipment anythine
which a local authority is likely to provide. I think, therefore, it would be unwise to pro-
test against the institution of works' schools as such.
Now I think I have covered the three resolutions, and in case the deputation should
go away saying that they got nothing out of me and that I am as bad as my colleagues.
I would like to make one final observation.
The Education Act of 1918 is unlike a great number of Acts of Parliament. It is a
great scheme, which will take about a generation to work out. It gives to the country
opportunities for great development on democratic lines within the four corners of its
provisions. At present we are only at the beginning of the developments which are fore-
shadowed in the Education Act. We must not be too impatient; we must remember

---
Here is the text from the image:

645

promise some of the great objects that we have in view. We have to train new teachers;
that education ought not to be shoddy, that if we go too fast we may be likely to com-
exist, and all that requires time, but if I am not, therefore, in a position to promise you any
we have to build new schools; we have to improve the quality of the schools that already
new legislation, that is because really you have got all the legislation that is required for
the moment.

It is perfectly true, as Miss Walsh pointed out, and pointed out, I thought, with
great effect that the religious divisions in this country do involve us in a system which is
unreasonably costly. You have to pay for the luxury of religious variance. You find a
perhaps one school could do as well for the whole neighbourhood. But, of course, as you
small Church of England school, a small Catholic school, a small Council school, where
realise, the solution of the religious question, which no doubt would enable economies to
be effected, touches very highly controversial issues, and I cannot promise at the present
moment any legislation on that subject.

But, apart from that, I think that you ought to be satisfied with the provisions of the
begins to see the immense opportunities which are opened out to the children of this country
Act of 1918, and I believe that the longer those provisions are studied and the more labour
under the provisions of that Act, the more clearly will they realise that nothing further is
mally necessary, and what we have to do now is to support the administration of the Act
and to rally public opinion behind it, and to see that the Act is really carried out and is
not left to be a dead letter.

You will be the first to recognise, I
MR. BOWERMAN: Organised labour, Mr. Fisher, is grievously disappointed that the
general application of the Act should be hung up.
am sure that organised labour gave you the fullest possible support it could. Now we
And that the important provisions of that splendid Act are to a considerable extent sus-
pended. When they are to be put into operation nobody seems quite to know.

MR. POULTON: In Resolution 2, Mr. President, it is not so much a question of legis-
lation. in
ment without any legislation, and I should like you if you can to give us a little more
Explicit information or answer upon two of the points which were raised. One is in regard
to the counting the number of children in the class for the uncertificated teacher, and the
other. representation upon the Advisory Committee. I take it, sir, that that does not
require legislation: it is Departmental.

MR. PURCELL: Nor does the question of their salary.
MR. POULTON: And the question of their salary, which has not been touched upon.
Then there is one other point which I approach with some kind of hesitation, because I
have had the opportunity of speaking to Miss Walsh about it. It did strike me in the
course of the morning. We went to the Mines' Department yesterday upon this question
of competency and certificates, and that Department agreed with the case that was put
before them, that men holding a certain position in the mines and you can, I am sure,
appreciate how important it is in connection with our mining that we should have every
possible safeguard for efficiency there, because of the large number of lives that are con-
stantly in danger-their experience should be counted as the equivalent of the certificate.
You will remember, sir, a number of years back, in connection with many of our medical
The older men did not hold
officers of health, the same thing was granted to those men.
the certificate of the Department, but their experience was considered the equivalent of
the new or the young men, because they have had the opportunity. Many of these teachers
have not had the opportunity. The Department, the Government itself, never made
provision for these people in their earlier days, and I should like to press that point.
The PRESIDENT: Well, I will ask Sir Edmund Phipps to say a few words on the
question of the numbers.
SIR EDMUND PHIPPS: One is always glad to have an opportunity of explaining the
numbers in the Code, because the present position is often not understood as compared
with the past. The object of giving larger numbers to the certificated teacher, the number
of 60 as compared with the number of 35 for the uncertificated teacher, is obviously to
Induce local authorities to employ the best qualified teachers that they can get. If you
employ certificated teachers counting 60, you can obviously manage large schools over
an area with fewer teachers than if you had to employ uncertificated teachers counting 35.
The Board, in the Code, laid down a minimum number for each school which is, as a matter
of fact, the same number as the average attendance.
That is a very low standard; it is only an absolute minimum. If you apply that
over a whole area you get more than the minimum on the total and have a balance in hand,
because the numbers do not fit the school exactly, and each school has some excess.
is the object of the numbering. In the old days that was followed up by saying that the
That
uncertificated teacher must not teach more children than the number assigned to her.
That was removed a good many years ago now in order that the uncertificated teacher
might be used to the full extent of her ability, whatever it might be, in the school. If the
best class to give her to teaxtent of class of 40, 50, or 60, she should have that class, and that

---
meant she was given the best opportunity of doing justice to herself. I cannot help think-
ing that was a proper and fair thing to do. If a teacher is once admitted into a school,
surely he or she ought to be able to do what they are best capable of doing.
MR. POULTON: That is exactly our case. We say, having done that, they ought to
have the same salary.
MR. PURCELL: They are under the same body, are they not?
MR. POULTON: But they do not get the same salary.
MR. PURCELL: Taking the whole of the school system in the Manchester and Salf-
area, they would earn the same amount of grant.
SIR EDMUND PHIPPS: The grant is paid on a totally different basis. It is paid on
number of children in attendance, with certain other sums added in respect of total am-
of teachers' salaries, and so on.
MR. PURCELL: The result is the same.
Government grant.
SIR EDMUND PHIPPS: But no particular teacher earns any particular part of
MR. POULTON: That makes our case stronger. We say that, if you give to the
same number of scholars and you use them, they should have the same salary
admitted, and we fully agree, that if they have the ability they should have the
number of scholars, or you lose teaching power.
MR. PURCELL: The John Street School has three uncertificated teachers and a
of the others, but it is as if they were all certificated teachers in result.
SIR EDMUND PHIPPS: No; an authority's performance of its duties is judged
here, as one consideration, by the proportion of certificated teachers that they ha
have often had to talk to authorities and say: "You are dropping behind the wo
Whereas other people are getting a continually larger proportion of certificated teac
you are content to have half, or more than half of your teachers below that grade
were bringing them up to it on the question of the grant. We have written lete
authorities lately on the same sort of question.
MR. PURCELL: My point is that this is how it is done. When they opened a
school, in a better-class district on Lowden Road, they ran all certificated teachers
there all of them.
SIR EDMUND PHIPPS: This is a new point. Certificated teachers in better
districts?
MR. PURCELL: There is no question about it. Most working-class children could
get up there. They cannot afford to keep the thing running. They are out of the disin
but when it comes to taking the whole of the field they have a larger number of certifie
teachers there, probably almost entirely, and in other districts they are mixed, and
times there is a majority of uncertificated teachers. My point is, therefore, that a
it over the whole field, the result is the same.
SIR EDMUND PHIPPS: The result is not the same. As I say, the Board's standa.
that, unless you have a proper proportion of certificated teachers which ought to be a..
stantly increasing one, we press you, and say that, under the terms of the Act, your eficien
is dropping, because we take it as an axiom that the certificated teachers in the whole
the lump, do better work for the children than the other. The only thing to be challeng
in the whole system is whether that is true or not.
MR. PURCELL: We challenge it. They must have a difficult task in the poorer
tricts, where there is a question of poor feeding and precariousness of employment among
the parents. That is a thing you must have some regard for. Take the outlying disinat
in Manchester and Salford, like Green Lake and other places of that description; ther
are poor, poverty-stricken districts; there the task must be much more difficult than
other districts. Yet in those districts there is a less number of certificated teachers. C
sequently, my point is the work is harder for them.
SIR EDMUND PHIPPS: This is the first time in ten years' experience that I have en
heard that argument, that there is any tendency among authorities not to put certificate
teachers in the poor districts.
MR. POULTON: I should say that is fairly general.
The PRESIDENT: I asked Sir Edmund Phipps to intervene, but we must not all
this to degenerate into a discussion.
MISS WALSH: May I say this. Sir Edmund Phipps says that is not so, but I say!
am a practical teacher, and I was put into a school in a very low-grade district from a good
district. I grumbled to the inspector, and he said: "It is the method of the Board of
Education that the teachers of a better grade shall go into the poor district to uplift the
children."

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

649
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (No. 2) BILL, 1921.
This Bill which provides for a reduction in the rate of Unemployment Insurance
Benetit and an increase in the contributions was introduced into the House of Commons
and read for the first time on the 8th June. The Minister of Labour, in introducing the
Bill, explained that the Act of March last had been based on the assumption that the rate
unemployment would not exceed an average of of per cent. for the period ending fuly,
March Act as from July next, and with benefit at the rate of 20s, for men and ros. for women
able to discharge all liabilities, and have been free of debt at July, 1922.
half-rates for boys and girls), that, on this basis, the Unemployment Fund would have been
estimate. The present rate of unemployment amongst insured persons is 23 per cent M
has been falsified owing to the fact that unemployment has very greatly exceeded the
and benetit is being paid out at the rate of 42,000,000 per week against an income from
contributions of less than 2,350,000. The Unemployment Fund, which amounted in March
10 sed millions, now stands at 84 millions, and will have been practically exhausted
His calculated, taking into account the increased contributions imposed by the
100%
It
at the end of the present month.
This calculation
The March Act provided for the payment of not more than 16 weeks' benefit in each
"special periods," ending respectively 2nd November, 1921, and 2nd July, 1922.
have exhausted the full 10 weeks' benefit payable in the first special period.
Owing to the severe depression, a considerable number of unemployed persons will shortly
y the financial difficulty and to make benefit available for more than 16 weeks the
Bell proposes
In order to
to reduce the rate of benefit from 208. a week to 15s. in the case of men, and from
10s a week to 12s, in the case of women, with corresponding reductions in the
case of juveniles who are entitled to benefits at half the adult rates;
n' to increase the joint contributions of employers and employed as from 4th July
from the rates IId. (men) and 9d. (women), as provided by the Act of 1921,
to Is. 3d. and Is. Id. respectively; with corresponding increases in the case of
juveniles;
qui) to increase the "waiting days" from three to six;
to give power to the Minister to provide, in case of necessity, for two periods of
benefit of not more than six weeks each, additional to the two benefit periods of
16 weeks each provided, up to 2nd July, 1922, by the Act of 1921;
(v) to suspend the provisions of the Act of 1920 with reference to special schemes for
particular industries;
(vi) to increase the borrowing powers of the Unemployment Insurance Fund from
£10,000,000, as at present provided, to £20,000,000.
A report with regard to the financial effect of these proposals has been prepared by
the Government Actuary and published as a White Paper. During the first part of the
veriod ending July, 1922, it is anticipated that the power of borrowing from the Treasury
Ender (iv) above will have to be exercised up to a maximum of 16 millions. As employment
returns to normal the deficiency will be made good, and the Unemployment Fund should
have repaid the whole sum advanced by the Treasury by July, 1923. The Labour Gazette,
June, 1921.
* Including an allowance for short-time claimants.
3
METAL FOOTWEAR INVENTED BY A BLIND FRENCH WORKMAN.
Paris, June 3rd. A blind man employed in a factory in the Department of Vienne
claims to have invented a new material from which exceedingly durable footwear can be
made. The material used is an alloy of various metals, the secret of which has not yet
been revealed by the inventor. Shoes made with this substance weigh just under fifteen
Cunces a pair, and are, it is stated, attractive in form. It is claimed that they are as re-
sistant as iron to fire and water.-Renter.
that his name is Paul Michel. The metal footwear has, it is said, the appearance of ordinary
Another message states that the workman referred to is employed at Marseilles, and
boots, is extremely light, and costs one-tenth the price of leather. It will last almost for
ever and parts can be replaced.
A pair of these metal boots was taken to pieces and refitted by a child in twelve minutes.
-Shoe and Leather Record, June 10th, 1921

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

650
OUR OVERSEAS TRADE.
We give below an abstract of the Board of Trade Returns for May so far as the shoo
trades are concerned. It should be noted that comparisons are given with 1913 and 1920,
Exports and Imports of Boots and Shoes still declining.
thus eliminating the war period.
Exports of Boots and Shoes.
Quantities.
Month ended May 31st.
1913.
1920.
Value.
1921.
Doz.
Doz.
Doz.
1913.
1920.
1921
Of Leather---
pairs.
pairs.
pairs.
f
f
To Germany
3,479
143
156
10,978
Netherlands
4,254
14,327
3,122
6,609
945
Belgium
4,118
2,579
634
20,485
92,748
3.72
France
4,920
12,366
650
33.265
18,045
19,381
Italy
2,177
149
6
9,819
107,252
6,358
Argentine Republic
4,408
183
47
10,928
971
7
2,564
22
Egypt (including
Anglo-Egyptian
Sudan)..
2,666
2,975
413
9,294
British South Africa
30,281
21,004
4,079
British East Indies
10,470
5,055
558
89,140 189,413
28,100
3.521
29,413
Australia
12,616
128
57.498
33.7
18,239
FR
New Zealand
::
4.488
1 682
2,603
336
T4.349
7,532
British West India
British Guiana
Bahamas) and
Islands (including
2,715
711
360
5,404
7,022
Other Countries
15,628
17,174
9,696
45,576
2,521
130.476
54.
Of Leather
102,220
77,876
20,057
303,499 645,178 140
Of other materials (except
rubber)
9,278
24,584
6,234
8,070
6,842
13,752 6,640
7,722
62,330 1640
30,852
15,700
Of rubber
Grand Total
118,340
116,212
32,931 £319,291 1738,360 172
Our exports of boots and shoes (of leather) from the United Kingdom during the mon
of May last to “ Other Countries," were as follow:-

Country of
Destination.
Doz.
Pairs.
Value.
Country of
Destination.
Doz.
Pairs. Value
Finland
Esthonia
£
675
4,627
United States of
21
Sweden
Norway
160
America
740
4,673
Peru
73 2,01
Iceland
644
I
20
4,451
Chile
Denmark
171
1,165
15
200
Uruguay
S
SI
Poland
441
3.636
Channel Islands
468 3.74
Java
2,490
9 671
Gibraltar
ISO
1.43
Belgian Congo
37
466
Malta
20 res
Algeria
39
195
Palestine
+5
3,0
Tunis
::
132
339
Sierra Leone
9
125
10
28
French West Africa
Gold Coast
218
37
Spain
Portuguese East Africa
3
48
Nigeria
21
231
II
21
151
St. Helena
2
Spanish West Africa
23
Kenya Colony
25
234
200
6
22
Austria
Nyasaland Protectorate
12
Greece
2,183
7,338
Mauritius
50
1,050
38
2
..
Roumania
17
Mesopotamia
134
II
218
Smyrna
Turkey, European
1,935
Hong Kong
11
4
33
Bermudas
2,144
329
..
13
166
Canada
781
Morocco
++
..
Liberia
7
77
Newfoundland
930
81
..
10
165
British Honduras
Siam
..
..
35
394
9,696 £54,889
China
42
645
Total
Japan
13
254

---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

716
are evading the Wages Trade Board conditions. The great difficulty is to get
the men employed in certain shops to stand up for their rights. We hear
reports, but when one goes to investigate no proper proof is forthcoming.
Rumour has it some managers in small shops don't receive the £4 per week.
If these men would only join the Union then we could fight their battle for them
The Government have thought fit to reduce the Unemployment State Benefit
and to increase the contributions. If any trade union had advocated a policy
like this the Yellow Press would have made a great howl. The papers are
pressing for all subsidies to be taken off, as doles are very bad for trade. A
workman must do something for money received. Of course the employers
are not to sacrifice any surplus profit, only the worker must suffer. If work
men at Election times would remember all these attacks made against them
then some of the head ones would go into oblivion. More of Lord R. Cecil's
kind would certainly give a fillip. Lloyd George angry at being reminded
that he had abused the workers! Every dog has its day.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.—Trade has not improved much during the
month. The Branch has paid £50 in weekly grants of £5 to Miners, and £5 5s
on Final Appeal; also members' unemployed contributions have been paid
from Branch funds, which, during quarter ending May, amounted to 1,000
members, 6,768 weeks; total branch £135 5s. Iod., which with £170 17s. 11d.
amounts to £306 3s. 9½d. Benefit received by members' contributions only
This in addition to £4,966 16s. 9d. unemployment pay for quarter.
KINGSWOOD.—We are pleased to report a little improvement in trade,
and trust that industry generally will steadily improve. We have voted the
sum of £15 to the Miners' Children, £5 Bristol Association, £5 Somerset Associa
tion, £5 to Kingswood Distress Fund. We have been unable to grant larger
amounts as we have been hit very hard in this district during the past 18
months.
LEICESTER No. 1.—During the month we made a second grant of £5
to the Miners' Fund. Trade is still very bad with our members, but now the
Miners' Strike is settled we sincerely hope there will be an early improvement.
LEICESTER No. 2.—In response to the appeal on behalf of the Miners'
Dispute Fund we made a further grant of £3.
LIVERPOOL.—Trade is still slack and we are paying out more in benefits
than we are taking in by contributions. The only thing that is bright is
the weather, which is ideal for holidays, but not for boot repairers.
MAYBOLE.—Trade is still slack, but sickness light. With the Coal
Dispute settled we are looking forward to better times. Some of our members
are getting started after six months' idleness, with the prospect of more starting
after the July holidays. We hope after the assistance that the Union has been
to its members, that everyone will be convinced of the absolute necessity for
a strong Union, and in view of what is likely to be an attempt to break our
wages, we would again urge every member to rally round the Union, as it is
their only hope of securing decent conditions.
NORWICH.—We have observed in Norwich unmistakable signs of declining
trade during the month, many of our members being discharged after a very
short period in the factory. The outlook is very little better than the worst
period last winter, although our members can find compensation in the fact
that the Government are attempting to meet their difficulties by reducing
benefit to 15s., after waiting a full week with no pay. Now that there appears
to be no opportunity of securing complete control of the National Unemploy
ment Insurance (as originally expected) we in Norwich are wondering whether
or no any useful purpose is being served in continuing a very loose, disjointed,
and partial administration of the Government's scheme. Our experience in
Norwich is not altogether a happy one. In many instances we have to meet

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

717
the complaints (quite justified) of our members, due to errors at the Local
Exchange, and we find it exceedingly difficult to keep claims in correct order.
During the month we have seen attempts made by one or two manufacturers
to reduce the wages of female operatives to the minimum laid down by our
agreement. This of course applies where the operative is receiving above the
minimum rate, and it is very evident that should the depression last much
longer very few of our weekly wage-earners will receive more than the scale
laid down. Although the Miners have gone down in the first onslaught on
wages, and we would prefer to forget the defeat, yet we must place on record
the splendid help afforded the Miners by the Norwich No. 1 operatives, especi-
ally during a period of very bad trade. In all we collected £244 and granted
from Branch funds £75, also collected £42 on behalf of the Norwich Gas Workers
who were out on strike in support of the Miners.

PLYMOUTH. Trade is slack, and said to be by the elderly members of
our Branch about as bad as anything ever experienced in our trade. Un-
doubtedly we are feeling the effects of the Coal Stoppage, the dry summer and
the shortage of cash among the workers, but happily there are signs of improve-
ment in the near future. The Miners are back again hammering at the coal
face, after a long and gallant struggle, and the fall in the cost of living is just
beginning to make itself felt, therefore we feel if industrial peace can be main-
tained there is still hopes of better times for the bootmakers and repairers,
who both have their wages and conditions fixed and unalterable for several
months. At least we hope not to experience any reductions during the re-
mainder of the year 1921. If the trade revives and the cost of living still
continues to fall, there will be prosperous times ahead for the men engaged
in the boot trade.

SOUTHAMPTON. Trade very slack. We are anxiously waiting for a
fillip in employment.
WATERFORD. Trade still dull, but all are more hopeful of the future
now that the Miners' Dispute is favourably settled. Congratulations to all
on the splendid spirit of unity and confidence displayed at the Annual Conference,
which provided us with much useful information.
WHITWICK. We are still on short time, making 24 hours per week,
but now that the Coal Dispute is over we are looking forward to making better
time, so that the operatives may be able to get a wage which will help them
to get the necessities of life, as we all know in the boot trade that during the
last 18 months it has been undergoing a very trying time as regards the opera-
tives' side of the question. W'e as a trade union can honestly say that during
the late war we never had a general strike, and as soon as the war was over
the boot trade was very hard hit, but we are looking forward to the near future
for things to be made much better for us all, so that we can be able to earn
as much as some of the other trades in this country on less hours per week
worked, that all who get their living in the boot trade may be brought into full
work and this abominable unemployment may be a thing of the past, and with
which so many good, straight and honest men are disgusted.
YARMOUTH (GREAT). Business is very bad, and there is no prospect
of improvement. Sewer hands are still losing time through the shortage of
hides. Last month in our report the word "input" was altered to "import."
Input was the word used in the agreement between the Tanners restricting the
input of hides into the tan pits by 50 per cent. To commemorate the Mayoralty
of Councillor W. G. Knights, managing director of Yarmouth Stores and
Messrs. Johnson & Sons, he has invited the employees of Yarmouth Stores
and the Boot Department of Johnson & Sons, numbering about 80, to an
outing on the 13th inst., by motor chars-a-banc to Potterheigham, then by
motor boat to Horning Ferry.


---


---
who had only fI to depend upon. The men who had paid longest under the Act were
those who would receive the reduced benefit. That was not fair. The increase in the
waiting period would mean that many people would not have the opportunity even of
drawing the 15s.
719
The Bill destroys at least for some tinte to come the special scheme
that was being prepared for our own industry. The Government say contracting out
cannot be permitted. This is all very well, and much can be said in its favour, but why
do we have proposals in one Bill which almost before it is in operation as an Act are
cancelled? What a good thing it would be if the Government only knew its own mind
two half days in succession.
The troubles of industry and commerce are to be got over by the old dodge of Pro
tection. We had been led to believe that the difficulties in this respect could largely be
removed by an international labour code that would tend to equalise the conditions of
production in various countries. The Labour Party has tried to obtain legislation in
this respect through the Labour section of the League of Nations. The proposed legislation
is but an economic expression of the war spirit. The League of Nations in this as in all other
of the Washington Conference, and so we drift on, from one disaster to another, and the
respects is ignored, the Government has already refused to adopt the recommendation
greatest of all Governments seems to be unaware of the nearness of the rapids to which
we are steadily drifting.
But among all the gross bungling and betrayals of the Government surely their latest
in regard to housing is easily the worst. On no question have their pronouncements
been so definite, or their declarations so strong. At one time the work was being held
up by the shortness of labour, and we were informed that ex-service men could and would
be trained for the work, they intended to have the houses, and would tolerate no barrier
in the way.
And now, with the cry of the houseless still in our ears, the whole thing is to be aban-
doned. The change of front is so disgraceful that even Dr. Addison is driven to rebel.
dou had always thought him very plastic, ready to do anything he was asked or told to
do, but this is too much for him and he has resigned. It was a sight to be remember
when he rose to read the letter of resignation which he had sent to the Prime Minister.
It was pathetic, the occupants on the front Bench hung their heads, for even they had not
sufficient brass to face the onslaught upon them that was read out. It was a terrible
indictment, but the feeling on the Labour Benches was that it came too late. We have
continually denounced the Government for its laxity regarding houses, for its hampering
of Local Authorities, and for its hesitation and procrastination in regard to Building
Guilds, but Dr. Addison had always assured us everything possible was being done. We
could see the drifting better than he could evidently, and now it is no longer drift, but com-
plete abandonment. If I may quote a sentence from his letter, the following is instructive:
"This precipitate abandonment of an effort which is so essential to national restoration
is not true economy. I regard it as a betrayal of our solemn pledges to the people, and
of our obligations to Local Authorities and to many individual citizens, as well as being
calculated to weaken the confidence of the people in the reliability of constituted authority.
However much we may allow for justifiable expediency, I cannot think that government
can rest on a shifting opportunism to the neglect of conviction."
And so by their own people they stand condemned. There is a great deal said at
times about the capacity of Labour in politics, but at our worst we could never sink so
low in principle, in moral courage, in the betrayal of the weak and helpless, as this Govern-
ment has done.
It may soon be seeking a fresh lease of life; all the forces of reaction will be arranged
behind it. Now is the time when all of us should be making up our minds what we are
going to do. The task of overthrowing them is too great for a few, but with all working
together it can be done.
July 19th, 1921.
WALTER R. SMITH.
CURE OF CONSUMPTION.
Dr. A. H. Werner, a New York scientist (says Reuter), has announced to the Allied
Reported Discovery of New Serum by an American Scientist.
Medical Association of America the discovery of a new serum, which, it is claimed, will
materially 'assist in the cure of tuberculosis.
tuberculine,
Service for exhaustive tests.
The serum, which is called "
uline," has been submitted to the Public Health
ough the muscles - The Star, July 13th, 1921.

---
Here is the text from the image:

720
BRITISH BOOTS BARRED.
South Africa's List of Prohibited Goods.
(From our own Correspondent.)

JOHANNESBURG, JUNE 8TH, 1921
Prohibition in its worst form, in regard to the importation of boots and shoes into South Africa, has become the law, with the result that 60 per cent. of our footwear requirements from oversea will be cut out. The following list gives some idea of the drastic nature of the protection afforded local producers. It is not complete, for slight alterations may be expected.

Prohibited List.
Men's footwear in box hide, kip, splits, and common leathers. Riveted, M.S., pegged screwed, metallic fastened, or welted, costing 20s. and under.
Men's box calf boots, costing. 27s. 6d. and under.
Men's glacé kid boots, costing 25s. and under.
Men's leather slippers.
Miners' boots.
Football boots.
Children's sandals.
Youths', boys', and children's footwear, unless listed under Licensed List.
Women's footwear. All kinds costing 13s. 6d. and under. Riveted or machine ser
All welted goods costing 20s. and under.
Children's boots, shoes, and sandals, costing 6s. 9d. 7 to 10, 7s. 9d. 11 to 1.

Licensed List.
Welted footwear (men's), costing over 20s.
Pump or turn footwear.
Canvas boots and shoes.
Rubber and rope sole footwear.
Plimsols and gymnasium shoes.
Buckskin and imitation buckskin goods.
Clogs, Wellingtons and firemen's boots.
All welted footwear (women's), costing over 16s. 6d.
Machine sewn goods, costing over 13s. 6d.
White footwear 'and felt boots.

As I have stated, this list is not complete. But it means that every pair of men's boots retailed here will cost the wearer two guineas. Any footwear below that retail price will be of local manufacture. Practically all boys' and youths' goods are barred. Girls' footwear, including sandals, cannot be imported below the cost of 6s. 9d. (7 to 10 or 7s. 9d. (11 to 1). This means total prohibition. The only things we can import are clogs, Plimsols, Wellingtons, Napoleons, rope sole footwear, polo boots, and turns. They have left the home producers very little, but they expect the "old country" to buy South African skins. I mean not only calf skins but goat skins!

South Africa sends home its skins and derives a substantial revenue therefrom. If it were not for the British market the skins would not be worth the cost of flaving. But the home manufacture is not to be permitted to return the skins in the form of manufactured footwear.

The small local manufacturers cannot supply anything like the quantity of footwear required for the ever-increasing population of this huge country. They can make only rough-and-ready goods in a rough-and-ready way. It will be gathered from the Prohibited List that they realise they are not "artists" in footwear manufacturing, for they confess they are beaten when it comes to making anything in men's over 20s, and that they are right out of it in regard to pumps and turns. These terms convey to them something of craftsmanship, and they do not know how to get hold of it. In this they have my sympathy.

They also fall foul of Plimsols and gymnasium shoes, and buckskin and imitation buckskin goods. As to clogs, they simply wonder what they are, so as they cannot make them we are permitted to land them under licence.

This, of course, is how great Colonial politicians introduce a little bit of humour into their playful task of dealing a staggering blow at legitimate trading. And this, too, just at the time when we were expecting a betterment in trade conditions! We are also to have prices controlled, but this will affect local manufacturers to the same extent as oversea producers.

Strong pressure has been brought to bear on the Government by the heads of local houses, and meetings have been held, and the usual deputations appointed to interview the authorities. But all to no purpose. In the meantime, there is little hope of any relief from this one-sided piece of legislation. Still, the next few days may produce some arrangement to ease the severity of the prohibition.


---
Here is the text from the image:

721
Messrs. W. M. Cuthbert Ltd, have declared a dividend of 7 per cent on last year's
branches amount to 41,300,000, and the net profit for the year was 178,000. The authorised
trading. This is half the amount paid in the previous year. The stocks carried at their
capital totals 1,350,000, and the business is conducted at 130 branches, Mr. T.D. Lewis
of Messrs. C. and E. Lewis. Northampton, is a member of the board of directors
Mr. Robert Coventry, who is well-known in the boot trade here, leaves by the Kinfauns
Castle for a holiday to the "old country, after twenty years' residence in South Africa.
Mr. Coventry was a retail branch manager at Glasgow before coming out here.
Mr. Robert Clark, who has been manager in the Benoni district for Messrs. Cuthbert
Ltd. for a number of vears, has opened a central boot store in eppestown in partnership
quarters, from which they are to open branches in other Reef towns.
with Mr. Jackson, of the head office staff of the same company.
This is to be their head
-The Shoe and Leather Record, July 1st, 1921.
TERMS OF MINES SETTLEMENT.
How Wages will be Fixed, District Boards. No Victimisation on
Either Side.
The proposed terms of settlement of the mining lock-out were issued from the Board
of Trade last night. Summarised the terms are as follow:-
1-A National Board and District Boards shall be set up, with provision for the
2-Wages in each district shall be in the form of percentage on basis rates.
appointment of independent chairmen.
proceeds of the industry in that district during a previous period.
be determined by the
Eighty-three per cent. of the surplus after charging standard wages, other costs
of production, and standard profits (equal to 17 per cent. of the standard wages).
5.-The District Boards shall fix subsistence wages for low-paid day-wage workers.
The Thirteen Districts.
6. There are to be 13 districts, these-Scotland; Northumberland; Durham ;
Cannock Chase, and Warwickshire; Lancashire, North Staffordshire, and Cheshire
South Wales and Monmouth; Yorkshire, Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire, Leicestershire,
North Wales; South Staffordshire and Salop; Cumberland; Bristol; Forest of Dean;
Somerset Kent.
7.-The standard wage shall be the district basis rates existing on March 31st, 1921,
plus the district percentages payable in July, 1914 (or the equivalents in any district
in which there has been a subsequent merging into new standards), plus, in the case of
pieceworkers, the percentage additions which were made consequent upon the reduction
of hours from eight to seven.
8.-In no district shall wages be paid at lower rates than standard wages plus 20 per
cent. thereof.
9 and 10. Wages payable up to August 31st shall be based on the March results.
Wages for September shall be based on July, and so on.
Applying the Subsidy.
II. This clause sets out the details of calculations for the temporary period.
The Government is to " give a grant not exceeding (10,000,000 in subvention of wages."
This is to be used in any district where necessary to prevent the reductions below the
March rates of wages being greater than these :--
During July, 2s. a shift for persons of 16 years of age and upwards and rs. a shift
for persons under 16.
During August, 2s. 6d. and Is. 3d. respectively.
subvention is sufficient for this purpose.
During September, 3s. and Is. 6d. respectively, provided that the balance of the
The temporary period will end on September 30th, 1921.
Duration of the Pact.
notice on either side.
of work until September 30th, 1922, and thereafter until terminated by three months'
12. The period of duration of this agreement shall be from the date of resumption
when that place is available for him, and that men temporarily occupying places during
13.- It is agreed as a principle that every man shall be entitled to return to his place
the stoppage shall give way to men working in those places before the stoppage.
It is agreed that, on the other hand, there shall be no victimisation of men who have
been keeping the collieries open, not in the sense that they are to remain at the jobs they
filled during the stoppage, but that they shall not be prevented from going back to their
own jobs or from working subsequently at the collierv. Daily Herald, 29th June, 1921.


---


---


---


---
Congress and the Executive Committee of the Labour Party for each of the four Depe
726
9. There shall be a Joint Sub-Committee of the General Council of the Trades Go
ments. The responsible officer of each Department shall be the Secretary of the...
mittee supervising bis Department.
shall be the Financial Secretary for the Joint Departments.
10. The Chairman and Secretaries of the two national bodies shall r
for the general control of the work of the oint Departments, and one of the Secret
Sub-Committee, for all payments made in respect of the Joint Departments, and
11. FINANCE. The Financial Secretary shall be responsible, under a Joint Finan
of the Joint Departments shall be met equally by the General Council of the Trade
present each year a financial statement to the two national Executives. The expendi
Congress and the Executive Committee of the Labour Party.
another step forward in the work of so organising the Labour forces of the countrys
ensure the triumph of the forces making for progress. Our Mr. T. F. Richards was SG
Altogether the Conference was a very successful one, and marks, in our judg
ful in securing election to the Arrangements Committee for next year.
(Signed)
T. F. RICHAPA
E. L. POULTO
W. R. Sma
S. THOMPOO
LEN. SMITH.

ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE (TRAINING) BOOT AND SHOE
TRADE BOARD.

To the Editor of the Shoe Trades Journal.
Sir. - I am directed by my committee to inform you that at their meeting Co
16th inst., under the chairmanship of W. Addington Willis, Esq., they had under consider
tion the question of curative work in boot and shoe given in hospital workshops under
control of the Ministry of Pensions. Compalints had been received from the Portsmo
Local Technical Advisory Committee in regard to such training at Netley, and according
a deputation from the Ministry of Pensions waited by request upon the Administra
Committee, and discussed both the Netley position and the general question. The dep
tion pointed out that the Netley workshops had only very recently been taken over by
Ministry, and assured the Committee that it was proposed to discontinue immediate
any occupational treatment in boot and shoe work which was being given there.

In regard to the general question, they fully appreciated the claims of the boot an
shoe trade to special consideration, in view of the large number which the trade had trained
and the danger to the trade of any entry of half-trained men through an unregulate..
channel. They desired, however, to emphasise that any training which the men receiver.
in these workshops was in no sense vocational, but purely curative, although the occupa
tional treatment must be given in an orderly manner under the instruction of a craitsman.
if the full physical and mental advantages of the treatment were to be derived. The
pointed out to the Committee that occupational treatment, although given in many other
trades, had in the boot and shoe trade special advantages for certain classes of patients.
and it was only such patients who were allotted to this work, the total number receivin、
such treatment being only some 130. They assured the Committee that, recognising the
difficulties of the trade, they would limit this form of treatment as far as possible, and under
no circumstances would sanction be given for the establishment of fresh classes. Further
the men receiving such treatment were not eligible for any grants from the Civil Liabilities
Department, nor for the grant of a kit of tools or any other form of assistance from the
Ministry to enable them to enter the trade, and by means of a notice it would be brought
prominently to their attention that this particular form of occupational treatment was
purely for curative purposes, and carried with it no promise of the continuation of their
training under the Ministry of Labour or of acceptance in the trade. The deputation
further agreed to supply the Committee from acceptance in the statistics of the number
of men receiving this form of treatment.

The Committee expressed their satisfaction with the assurances given by the deputa
tion, and the chairman tendered the thanks of the meeting to the deputation for their
attendance.-Yours faithfully,

E. D. NUTTALL,
Secretary, Administrative Committee (Training) Boot and Shoe Trade Board.
- The Shoe Trades Journal, June 24th, 1921.


---
Here is the text from the image:

727
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
CONTRACTING OUT-UNEMPLOYMENT BILL (2), 1921.
Clause 5.-(Suspension of Power to make Special Schemes.)
"The power of the Minister under Section eighteen of the principal Act to make
special orders approving or making special schemes shall not be exercised during the
deficiency period:
Provided that this Section shall not apply in any case where notice of a proposal to
make such a special order has been published before the eighth day of June, nineteen
hundred and twenty-one."
SIR F. FLANNERY: I beg to move, at the end of the Clause, to add the words:
"Provided that this section shall not apply in any case where application has been
made to the Minister to approve a completed scheme on or before the eighth day of June,
nineteen hundred and twenty-one."
The object of this Amendment is the same as that of an Amendment moved in Com-
mittee, although the words have been slightly altered for the purpose of securing the
adhesion and consent of the Minister of Labour. When the principal Act was passed,
now nearly a year ago, a provision was made that schemes of mutual agreement between
employers and employed should be sanctioned by the Ministry. It was definitely provided
that in any particular trade, where employers and employed mutually agreed upon a
scheme for contributions and benefits in that particular trade, the sanction of the Ministry
should be given. In other words, the principle was laid down that employers and employed
should assist each other, the employer by keeping the men at work as long as possible
and the employed by not going upon unemployment benefit sooner than was absolutely
necessary. That, generally stated, is the provision of the Act which this Bill is intended
to amend. To the astonishment and consternation of everyone who wishes for good
understanding between employers and employed, there was found in this Bill the Clause
in question-Clause 5-which will destroy the results arising from the carrying out of this
provision in the original Act. It is not a straightforward attack upon the good under-
standing between employers and employed, but an attack by way of a flank movement.
There is one large interest which has escaped this attack, and that is the interest of insur-
ance employees. I hope the friendly societies will benefit by this exception. I hope the
insurance scheme, which the right hon. Gentleman has agreed to exempt from Clause 5,
is a scheme inclusive of friendly societies and all those employed by them. That will
be so much the better. I am not jealous of that in the least, but I desire other trades and
industries to have similar advantages. In Committee the hon. Member for Broxtowe
(Mr. Spencer) made this statement:
"I am interested in a scheme of the miners. The owners and workmen have been
considering the possibility of arranging a scheme of their own; but I do not know whether
they have yet made a formal application. That means that notwithstanding the fact
that the two parties have been engaged for a long time in formulating their own scheme,
of which the whole industry is in favour, they will be debarred from having a scheme
which the principal Act would have enabled them to have." - [OFFICIAL REPORT, Standing
Committee C, 21st June, 1921; col. 74.]
I cannot find words which more clearly and more adequately describes the situation in
regard to this Amendment. If during the eight months the Act has been in operation and
the still longer period during which it has been law, any trade has not formulated and
submitted a mutual scheme, that is because of want of due diligence on the part of those
concerned in the trade. If it is shown that a scheme has received the mutual approval
of employers and employed, by preparation, by agreement, and by submission to the
Ministry of Labour, then I submit such a scheme should not be extinguished and destroyed.
How is it proposed by this Clause, as it stands, that such a scheme shall be extinguished
and destroyed? If, by the 8th June, that scheme has not been advertised, then this will
be wiped away; no matter how good the scheme may be for the benefit of both sides,
no matter if the scheme is one which the Department cannot find any objection to, and
would like to see in operation, the mere fact that it has not been advertised, or published,
is going to destroy it. I hope the absurdity, the unfairness, the injustice of such a provision
will be evident, on full consideration, to my right hon. Friend the Minister of Labour.
I have made some concession, in the words I have suggested, to the difficulty my right
hon. Friend put forward in Committee. There he was asked if he would accept the Amend-
ment on the basis of a
"
special" scheme, but I have altered that to a
"
completed "
scheme, so that, if the scheme be not nebulous, be not a mere suggestion or proposal, if
it be a formulated scheme, agreed to by all concerned, a completed scheme, I submit it
ought to be accepted, and I hope it will be accepted by my right hon. Friend. Everything

---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

733
worry you with figures. You are conversant with them, but I think it would be safe to
say that to-day we have only between 500,000 and 600.000 engaged in faum work as farm
workers, as against over a million in the seventies and nearly a million in TOTY. In spite of
all the talk and I am afraid much of it has only been talk about providing small holdings.
in 2003 we had 433,002, while in 1920 we had 117,001, an actual decreasel If we take
bad 26,507,000 acres. An official report says that land ploughed up during the war
arable and grass combined, we find that in 1910 we had 27,203,000 acres, while in 1020 wW
being largely kept arable, which illustrates the contention that there is room for consider
able development of arable land (which is at least four times as productive as grass). I
think all will agree that instead of a decrease in home production we ought to have an
increase. Again, I think all will agree that the decline in rural population must be arrested.
That being so, I would urge-
1. More arable land. (Employ more.)
1
2. Encouragement of investigations re growing wheat on land hitherto considered
musuitable, and making it immune from disease and therefore safer as a crop.
3. Strict supervision by Agricultural Committees over farms to eliminate bad farming.
4. A thoroughly vigorous housing policy throughout the country.
I wish the resolution I am submitting permitted my dealing with other phases affecting
our industry, such as afforestation, reclamation, and drainage, and so on, and I think I
could submit not only facts but suggestions that might be helpful at this particular moment,
especially from the point of view of employment, but these matters are somewhat outside
the scope of our resolution, and I therefore content myself on behalf of the Parliamentary
Committee in submitting this resolution to you for your consideration, in the hope that
you may be able to do something whereby we shall "never again" be placed in the position
where we were only a short time ago, and towards which, I fear, we are once more unfor-
tunately drifting.

Sir Arthur Boscawen's Reply.

SIR A. BOSCAWEN, in replying to Mr. Walker, said he was very glad to receive the
deputation. Referring to the resolution, he remarked that he took it they did not want
to discuss the question of national ownership. He would put that subject on one side
for the time being then, and would take the resolution just as it stood. Mr. Walker could
not have used the expression "cultivation of all agricultural land" in the sense of all the
lord being arable, because that would imply that they thought the whole of the land should
be ploughed up.

MR. WALKER: Of course it would, and that is why I did not suggest it.

SIR A. BOSCAWEN: Just now I asked you in what sense you were using the expression
"cultivated land." You said arable, but in the resolution it is used in the other sense,
and I always think it is as well in these matters that we should define what we mean
because there is so much loose talk on the subject. By "compulsory cultivation of land
you mean that in some form or another, either as arable or as pasture, land shall be
cultivated.

MR. PURCELL: Yes.

SIR A. BOSCAWEN: Well, I should say from my knowledge, that I think nearly all
the land which can be cultivated is being cultivated. I do not know what land there is
that is not being cultivated. There is, of course, a great deal of land in this country which
might be reclaimed which cannot be cultivated now it may be foreshore, drifting sand
places like all those heaths in Surrey and Hampshire. It might be reclaimed and cultivated,
but the question we have got to ask ourselves is this: What is going to be the cost of that ?
We undertook-I dare say you know-reclamation, largely for the purpose of employing
people out of work, on the shore of the Wash, and we have reclaimed what I think will be
a valuable piece of land, but the cost has been prodigious, and if you are going to reclaim
land wholesale, at a cost which exceeds the value of the land when you have reclaimed it,
that is a very serious proposition; and when people talk about a large part of the country
not being cultivated, using cultivated in the broad sense of either arable or good pasture,
I mean enclosed pasture, not mountain pasture, I do not know of any land in this country
which is not cultivated. The other day a gentleman was down in the neighbourhood
of my constituency, and was urging that a great part of the Black Country should be cul-
tivated-all that vast area of slag heaps and so on. It might be possible. Some of it has
become pasture-small heaps-but to bring all of it under cultivation would be such a
prodigious expense that-

MR. WALKER: I refrained from dealing with reclamation for obvious reasons. I did
not think it came under the resolution. But perhaps you will allow me to mention-I have
statistics here since 1892 we have lost about a hundred thousand acres.
are built, as housing schemes are pushed forward, the land that was cultivated becomes
SIR A. BOSCAWEN: We are always losing land and must as towns grow. As factories
towns. Look at the vast area round London: Tottenham, Edmonton, etc., all the land


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

735
Part I. cannot get the guaranteed prices for his wheat and oats unless he has cultivated
notice to quit unless he has cultivated properly, I think those two things will certainly
properly, and further that he cannot get the compensation for dusturbance of he got
act as a great deterrent on the bad farmer.
MR. WALKER: You have more confidence than I have. Sir Arthur, on the effect of
this Act.
very convenient one.
Events will prove
(Laughter.) We will take the other point, that of arable cultivation
It is
SIR A. BOSCAWEN: Well, let us wait and see.
SIR A. BOSCAWEN: Mr. Asquith is not the only person who has found it sometimes a
MR. BOWERMAN: I am surprised at your using that expression
which is, I think, what you would most desire. Of course, we should like to see a main
quite true, as the Prime Minister said, that we were very nearly caught napping during the
tenance of the high percentage of arable land which was reached during the war.
country, especially the wheat, and it might have been very serious for us in view of the
war, that we were producing a very small part of the corn which was consumed in this
submarine campaign. The whole policy of this Department and of the Government has
been to stimulate the maintenance of a large arable area. That is the chief object of the
a serious break in prices come. By saying that they are to have not less than a certain
figure, calculated, as you know, on a certain basis, for their wheat and oats, we hoped to give
first part of the Agricultural Act, by guaranteeing farmers against wholesale ruin should
plough than existed before the war, and that really is the only way that I can see we can
them that confidence which would enable them to maintain a larger acreage under the
do it. What else can you propose ? Is it to be done by compulsion ?
MR. WALKER: Why not?
We could not get that put forward, and it
SIR A. BOSCAWEN: Well, it is quite true that in the Bill we put in a clause that the
Minister, acting through local committees, should have the power during peace to insist
on the maintenance of existing arable area.
became a question whether we should proceed with the Bill or continue with it without
that particular power. I very much doubt, although I supported it in the House of
effectively to any large extent in peace time. It is all very well in war. You can then
Commons, as it was my duty to do. I very much doubt whether you could carry it out
"We must have wheat.
go to the people and say
are running short and the submarines are sinking the vessels."
MR. WALKER: It is not then a case really of
dustry goes under !
This is a national emergency. We
never again." The agricultural in-
and
SIR A. BOSCAWEN: No, I did not say it goes under. It depends on the conditions
that
the farmer is considering whether he can possibly grow these things-wheat and
at the same time wages are very much higher than they were, and hours are shorter, and
and so on-and when he is risking his capital, which is the case, you cannot use compulsion.
You can only guarantee the farmer against loss. We have not guaranteed a profit. Do
you think we could have carried a Bill guaranteeing a profit to the farmer? All we can
do is give some confidence by means of guaranteeing him against serious losses, and hope
that that will retard the tendency to the decrease of arable. The farmer is very much
afraid of the present position.
MR. WALKER: He is always afraid of the position in which he finds himself-at
any period.
SIR A. BOSCAWEN: Well, but if you were a farmer, and risking your capital, and
prices were falling rapidly and wages going up, and you could not control the wages at all,
and the hours were being shortened in numerous ways, I think you would be afraid. I
think under the present circumstances the farmer is rather playing for safety. I hope the
tendency will not go on to such an extent that we shall get to the pre-war condition of
things. I hope we shall be able to maintain a very considerably larger acreage under the
plough than we had before the war.
Mr. Lloyd George when he made his statement in connection with this matter was
not referring solely to the question of arable land. It was thought also that there was a
great deal of grass land that was not being well cultivated. What we do hope is that such
grass will be greatly improved and that it will carry a much heavier head of cattle than
We have got a grass improvement campaign which has been having a won-
derful effect all over the country, showing that with proper treatment of pasture you can
enormously improve the fertility of the grass field. and you can carry a much larger head
of cattle than you did before. There are large parts of this country, especially in Wales,
that always must be grass land. No amount of ploughing up could be successful on the
upland farms in Wales and the more mountainous districts of England, but we can take
steps to see that the grass is of the best quality, that the grass is not a sort of weed, that it
is the best character for grass, and likely to produce the greatest possible amount of food.
The whole question is really one of prices and costs, if your prices fall and your costs go up.


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

32
10935
11210
11640円
178479
123101
123105
126250
129356
129360
112176
..112181
13080
・116392
W. K
A. Hoskins
J. Bradfield
K. Webb
H. Walters
J. Marsh
..
60700
.. 60573
TF..100733
TF.. 60867
A. Underwood T.. 126800
J. Nicholson
j. Tucker
4. Vincent
N. Treasure
D. Sandford
1. Burrows
R. Pople
0. Marsh
1. Masters
Females
Τ.. 91929
HM.. 95164
HM..126806
F. Wheeler
Mrs. Squire
33417
TF.. 90004
TF.. 119660
Wellingborough.
A. Fisher (dead)
97114
G. Freeman (dead)
14085
Female
W. Turner
W. Davies
J. Butler
R. Thorley
B. Mainwaring
W. Proudman
J. W. Evans
90888
TF.. 132354
..132359
ST.. 134673
HM..134676
..134698
ST..117125
Females
S.. 61204
TF.
Mrs. Crocker
M. Spencer
87144
Mrs. Blood
77166
95516
G. Powis
7774
..119648
Wolverhampton.
E. Lewis
129911
..100829
..100243
A. Haselock
H. Turner
129913
86407
61597
..100072
J. Morriss
G. Lepper
61213
..132331
S. Cockerell
M. McCarthy
61721
..123583
90044
..133420
F. Venables
ST..117126
L. Watkiss
77165
Mrs. Wedge
..134700
On-Tyne,
118485
ch.
4140%
100372
20.2.
F.. 452
45334
118594
on.
50332
8112
• 47165
• 85033
85075
1222
40232
CSICS
45572
.2.
51301
"LIFE ON THE FARM," BY AN IMMIGRANT.
1. Cox
7433
Story of Strenuous Duties told at Labour Temple.
RISE EARLY AND WORK LATE.
Sixty Dollars per Month and Board for Man and Wife.
was the title of a little story told by an immigrant at the Labour
"Life on the Farm
Temple this week. The author of the story was Arthur Clegg, formerly of Manchester
England, who with his wife was sent out to Canada by the Overseas Settlement Board,
Enough the Ontario Government Labour Bureau, after getting the "once over" in Aberdeen,
Scotland, which was the nearest inspection depot from Dundee, where Clegg and his wife
had been staying. Clegg had followed the life of a British sailor for many years, and during
several years' sojourn in Australia had learned the art of farming. The object of his
visit to the Labour Temple was to get a position as a painter, he having become a knight
of the brush while enjoying his seafaring life.
722
이
31
He explained to the business agent of the Painters' and Decorators' Union that he
had been booked for Canada through the London Office of the Ontario Government Labour
Bureau. Upon the arrival of Clegg and his wife in Canada they were sent to a farm at
Craighurst, Ont., with the understanding that they would get $60 a month and board.
The duties of the couple, as previously defined, were general farm work for Clegg and cook-
ing and general housework for his wife. Mr. Clegg found his duties anything but easy,
and the stay of the couple was very brief. They left Toronto for the farm on a Friday
and were back in Toronto the following Monday. The reason for the sudden departure
from Craighurst was the imposition of more than reasonable duties. The first day's
work for Mr. Clegg started at 3.30 a.m. and would have ended between 9 and 10 p.m. if
the spirit of revolt had not overtaken the new arrival. From 3.30 to 7 a.m. Clegg fed 40
head of colts and about 14 head of working horses and milked 20 cows. Breakfast was
then provided. The rest of the morning and afternoon he was taking cans from maple
trees, and at 6 p.m. supper was the order of the day. After supper Clegg was asked to
milk the 20 cows, but after milking one cow he decided that such continuous duties were
more than he could endure, and he threw up the job. Mrs. Clegg had to rise at 4.30 a.m.
and work till 7.30 p.m.. This working day happened to be a Sunday, and the farmer
and his wife enjoyed the usual weekly church service. Clegg and his wife also complained
that they were left in the house without directions as to food, but they made their own
search and were able to satisfy their appetites.
5
5
where he was steadily employed from April to August. He afterwards worked in the
After leaving the farm Clegg obtained work in the Dunlop Tyre Company's factory,
slaughterhouse of the William Davies Company, where he contracted rheumatic fever
and had to spend some time in St. Michael's Hospital. Since he left the hospital he has
painted one house at the Island. This is the experience of one immigrant induced to come
to Canada by the alluring advertisements about "Life on the Farm "Industrial Banner,
Toronto, May 13th, 1921.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

761

We would also call the attention of Branch Officers to the fact that if they desire the assistance of the Central Office not only from the point of view of advice but also for the engagement of legal assistance, full details of each case must be submitted to the General Secretary before consent can be given for such legal assistance. Unless this is done accounts will not be honoured by the Central Office.

A settlement has been arrived at in NORTHAMPTON in the case of W. This member had his left hand cut and crushed in a Heel Paring Machine. He received 135 as compensation for loss of wages and now a final settlement of £300 (lump sum) has been agreed to, the first offer of the Insurance Company being £75.

INCREASED BENEFITS.

We beg to call attention to the fact that on and after Monday, Sept. 5th next, the new benefits will be payable but only to those members who have paid at least 52 weeks' contributions at the increased rates. The increased benefits are:-

Sickness Benefit from 10/- to 12/- per week.
Unemployment Benefit from 15/- to 18/- per week.
Funeral Benefits for "Full" Members .. £6.
"Member's wife.. £3.
Trade Members.. £6.
"Full" Female Members £3.
Member's husband £1 10 0.

In consequence of the alteration of Sickness Benefit the limit of Sick Pay, viz., £35 named in the old rules will be increased to £40 and the £17 10s. for the Female or Half-members will be increased to £20 respectively.

STATE UNEMPLOYMENT SECTION.

We beg to appeal to Branch Officers to immediately bank or cash cheques sent along weekly in connection with this section of our work, and so not only save trouble to themselves but also to help minimise the work at the Central Office. At the end of last month 122 cheques were outstanding on this account alone; it will be seen this greatly increases the work when balances have to be taken monthly. We feel sure that officials only need a reminder of this to help the working of the Department to run smoothly.

WAR.

Both industrially and from a military standpoint the outlook is not only unsatisfactory, it is indeed in many cases black and ominous. The wheels of industry are very slow in moving, nor does there appear to be that determination amongst statesmen which one would expect to try and meet such an unprecedented situation as now exists. We know that many statements are made


---
as to why trade continues in its present parlous condition (notwithstanding
the contrary, despite all the statements about peace and people wanting per
world's needs) of real remedies by those who hold the responsible positions. O
war still goes on and talk, in many cases quite open, of the "next war,
next"
meaning a general war amongst the nations. We therefore urge
all the members to be not only fully awake to the sinister means being adapter
to foster the war like spirit, but also to use one's powers to so mould oper
as to make the war-mongers cease their Satanic work. We must so work w
make it a reality about "no more war." Resolutions of and for "Deares
understandings amongst nations are not enough, we must deprive the support
of a policy of war of their influence. To do this means continuous applicat
of the influence we have to see that it is applied to not only the arts of pea
but also to defeat and destroy warlike policies.

POLITICAL MATTERS.
During the month endorsements of the candidatures have been granted
Smith for the Wells Division of Somerset and Alderman A. Hill for Leices
Mr. J. Buckle, J.P., for the Eccles Division of Yorkshire and Councilor
South Division, and we trust that the members in the respective areas wil
round the prospective candidates and so create a
as to enable our Parliamentary Agents to be returned at the next Election
feeling in the constituencie
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch
secretaries to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest
day for returns reaching the General Secretary. Last month many returns
were late. Branches failed to send off their returns to reach the Central Office
before the 15th of the month, and this tends to upset the organisation of the
work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg to intimate that unless
returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary has been instructed
to put into force the Rules governing the same.

TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
make a success.

---
Footwear " should be increasingly purchase 1; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Trade has altered very slightly for the better, but many firms are still unstarted.
Some have been closed for two months, others are very restless and require our frequent
attention. One would have thought that their troubles were enough without adding
abour troubles to their commercial ones; anything they can do to appease the multitude
of minds under their ægis the better for all concerned.
A visit to Wellingboro'. A meeting called of operatives was so sparsely attended
that we are determined to try again as the matter under consideration affected the
National Agreement.
On the 22nd we attended the Northampton Advisory Committee, who look after the
Educational and Organising side of the tranches. On the 24th and 25th we attended
the Council Meetings.
We have set aside the August Meeting for the preparation of our case to the
Employers in October. In the meantime we hope for the best. Short-sighted manu-
facturers are very restless; some of them think the only course is to follow in the wake
of other disturbers of the public peace. If those newspapers who advocate Political
Peace and Industrial War would bear in mind that in the ranks of Labour are many
millions of men, to my mind the best part of the nation in quantity and quality, who
have already proved their worth and can very easily do so again the circumstances being
more íavoured, and in the absence of the Sergeant-Major would be a very difficult set
to deal with once aroused. This same set of people should remember that if you
abolish the Ministry of Labour you may have to double the British Army with men
whom you may not be able to control, because to goad good men is a very dangerous
thing. I commend this to that portion of the Press who advocate the abolition of
conciliation in trade disputes.
On the 20th Sileby was visited and a firm visited to correct their view of the
National Agreement with the usual result that same should be attended to and the same
has been done.
On the 26th I went to Mansfield and found that the Firm of Royce had several men
under notice and warned the Firm that no men must be discharged whilst women were
retained in the departments usually confined to male labour, but they agreed to and
retained the men pending a further personal visit at an early date. I also learned there is
no sole cutting at Faire Bros.' Factory, but they have been making stiffenings since about
April this year. All girls get our Day Labour rates.
Rushden was visited on the 26th and a firm visited who has left the Federation
rather than pay the Holiday claims in accord with the morality of the National Holiday
scheme. We therefore approached the President, Ex-President, Secretary of the Federa-
tion and the Secretary of the Association on the matter.

---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

765
BRANCH REPORTS.

BARNSLEY.—We are pleased to say that there is a chance of our members having a bit more work to do in the future owing to the settlement of the Coal Strike.
BELFAST.—We regret to report that trade still continues to remain very dull, both in the Manufacturing and Repairing. We would again appeal to our members to maintain an active and intelligent interest in the workings of the branch. We know how difficult it is to be cheerful under present conditions, but let us not get downcast, the times will surely change.
BRISTOL AND KINGSWOOD No. 2.—Trade shows a further improvement on what we reported last month, and we hope that it will continue. This applies to the heavy trade. Some factories are actually on full time after many months of very short hours. We hope that this will soon be reflected in our returns, which have not been very satisfactory to secretaries for some months past.
CHESHAM.—Trade here during the past few weeks has improved slightly, but we regret to report that some manufacturers are trying to take advantage of the men's position by offering them reduced wages to recommence work again. The position is causing the Local Officials some anxiety and is not an easy matter to deal with, having regard to the fact that some of our members have been unemployed for seven months.
EDINBURGH.—The factories in Edinburgh are still working short time and have had an extended holiday. Some shopmates who have drawn all State Unemployment are now without any income whatever and no prospect of getting work anywhere; the outlook for them is not very encouraging. Surely trade will take a turn for the better shortly. The Edinburgh Branch, if it had the funds would make an effort to organise the Boot Repairers in the Border Counties of Scotland, as they have not even heard of Wages Trade Boards in some districts. The Revised Piece Rates are now in operation, so we would advise members to see that they are paid according to schedule. The members in Edinburgh are curious to know how after the full Wages Trade Board put forward a recommendation to District Committees for a minimum of 72s. per week, then in about a month's time turned down their own decision. Surely outside pressure has been at work, as the cost of living had not fallen much during the waiting period. It would be useful if Branch Officials had at their disposal the names of the employers in their district who have been able during the boom years to pay Excess Profits Duty, as no doubt some have done. Then we would be able to meet their arguments about the trade not being able to afford better conditions to the employees.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.—Trade has improved slightly during the month. The reduction in out-of-work benefit paid does not mean that the members have resumed work, as a considerable number are still out and no signs of being engaged. We regret to report that on Saturday, July 30th, the factory of Messrs. H. Jaques was totally destroyed by fire, throwing out about 80 workpeople. This is one of the best firms in our district, using the Trade Union Stamp, the Manager, Councillor J. Spencer, J.P., also being a member for a considerable number of years. We hope that the firm will secure fresh premises, as they have a considerable amount of work.
KINGSWOOD.—Trade in this centre is improving very slowly, and practically every factory was closed during August holiday week. A few firms have gone on full time, and we are hopeful that the conditions will materially improve at an early date. During the long period of depression in this district it has been very difficult to maintain our fighting efficiency, and a strenuous time
B


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

768
ORGANISER'S REPORT.
On July 24th and 25th I attended at the Council Meeting. On the 26th Mr. Buckle
and I spoke at two shops. On the 27th we held a good meeting of the workers of Messrs.
Hertz, Philpot Street, E., where a reduction of piecework prices was offered by the firm.
Two Shop Presidents were elected, the non-unionists
agreed to join and a unanimous vote was given against accepting any reductions. The
meeting was adjourned for a fortnight. When the men returned to work on August 8th
to commence after the holidays.
they were told that reductions must take place. Mr. Buckle and Mr. Mason held a meeting
of the operatives at once. The officials named strongly advised against accepting any
reduction and insisted that it was a case for the Arbitration Board. In opposition to
and 19 against. The prospects of making this shop a strong and united one were good,
their instructions a vote was taken on accepting Id. per pair reduction, when 23 voted for
but for the present these have been blighted by the spirit of fear that was introduced and
Several of the men who voted with the minority have been discharged since
the decision. I am dwelling on the position of this particular shop because of the charges
and file in temporising with employers. The member who moved that a reduction of Id.
that are brought against trade union officials from time to time in giving away the rank
per pair be accepted by the lasters, did not believe in nor wanted a reduction, but he believed
that his shopmates were weak and a set of rotters. He gave them to understand as much.
Mr. Buckle's and my attitude towards the men was that they had the capacity and virtue
within them to be sound and true to themselves and to the shopmates of London and the
acted on.
Union as a whole.
After the holidays there were several disputes on owing to attempts to reduce piece-
work prices. With the exception of one case we settled all up to the satisfaction of the
members. On August 16th I went to a shop in Mile End Road where I had heard that
none of the clickers were members. I arranged for a meeting and the whole of them,
There was a unanimous vote in favour of joining the Union, and also they agreed that the
ten in number, turned up. Some members from the other departments also attended,
Union was the most suitable authority for them to be insured with under the Health
Insurance Act.
We had an important case to deal with where the women in a big factory were indiffer-
ent to their own interests in not all joining the Union and claiming its protection. We
got the minimum wage recognised in face of their neglect, and this means increases for
many of them.
August 20th, 1921.
D. MCCARTHY.
HOLIDAY PROVISION SCHEME.
It has been brought to the notice of the Federation Executive Committee that two
or three employers have given notice of their intention to withdraw from the Holiday
Provision Scheme, and after very careful consideration, the following Memorandum has
been drawn up, which the committee requested should be printed in the August issue of
the JOURNAL, in order that every member might know the Federation's views on this
most important matter.
"The HOLIDAY PROVISION SCHEME was mutually agreed between this Federation
and the National Union of Boot Operatives.
"
That as a result of this Agreement the National Union withdrew their claim
that one week's holiday wages should be paid by employers annually, and should be
embodied in the National Agreement of 1919.
"
scheme is of a voluntary character, as a consequence of this mutual Agreement a
The Federation would remind members that, though the administration of the
moral obligation rests upon employers to pay one full week's wages per year to their
operatives during the holiday periods.
11
withdrawal from the scheme, and would venture to point out to them, that in the
The Federation is informed that one or two employers have given notice of
the National Conference to be held towards the end of the year, to resist the claim
event of the present Agreement being discontinued, it would hardly be possible at
of the Union to make this payment obligatory, and that too, without a corresponding
The Federation feels sure that employers will not object to continue responsibility
contribution from operatives which forms an essential part of the present scheme.
tration of the scheme as set forth in the regulations issued from time to time, not-
(in co-operation with representatives of the operatives in their factory) for the adminis-
withstanding such clerical work it may entail.'' - Extract from the JOURNAL of the
Boot Manufacturers' Federation, August, 1921.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

769
THE INDUSTRIAL SITUATION.
A sense of common interest could hardly be cultivated so long as one side engaged in
industry owned nothing but the labour expended in production, and the other side owned
the material and exercised full authority and control.
Employers ought not to need pushing into the path of improvement. They should
go along the path of gradual improvement by their own initiative.
Clynes suggested that, by encouraging the participation of the workers in the control
of industry, employers would get that economy, efficiency, and contentment they pro
fessed to desire.
National ownership in essential national services was an undiminished claim of
organised Labour.
"Until the electorate is ready for this fundamental change," continued Clynes, "it
is for organised Labour to direct its strength towards securing and retaining for the wage-
earners a better share of the fruits of industrial effort. So far as this share is deliberately
denied the class struggle is deepened.
"The very people who have cause to dread revolution, and appeal to others not
to provoke it are themselves the main factors tending to create in the popular mind
a disposition violently to upset social and economic conditions which rob them of
what they are justly entitled to enjoy."
Turning to the question of action by the workers, Clynes gave his opinion on the
recent coal dispute.
"It is for those who decided the course which was finally taken," he said "to answer
fort to their respective organisations. That course has been strongly criticised. It has
been criticised by some who know nothing whatever of either the facts or the psychology
of the situation and who talk loosely of what has been foolishly called Black Friday."
"There are men who think that an executive or an official can direct and move in
one direction or the other millions of workmen who entertain different points of view and
have interests not always in common. Huge masses of men are not likely to respond to
any signal which at any time a group of officials or a committee may be disposed to give
them."
"The human factors and the natural motives of individual and collective self-interest
cannot be ignored when decisions in respect to strike action have to be taken."
Clynes defended the leader of long views, who had the courage to tell men what could
not be won, rather than tell them to go on fighting anyhow, saying that in the end they
were sure to win.
The unflinching pursuit of what could be obtained, avoiding reckless clamour for what
could not be got at all, was the best sort of service from a Labour leader.
Recent industrial struggles had shown the need for using Labour's political power.
The belief that the strike weapon could accomplish anything had receded. It was now
clear that men would not engage in a risky strike for anything for which they were not
ready to vote.
"We live in a country," said Clynes, "where the people have both the right and
power to vote themselves into any social order or economic system which they prefer,
and we should put an end to the insane practice of following some new and fanciful plan
just at a moment when we were reaching a point of success for the political methods which
Labour has built up in the last generation." -MR. J. R. CLYNES, M.P., at Meeting of
General Workers.-Daily Herald, August 19th, 1921.

TRADE BOARDS.
At a meeting of the Administrative Committee of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade
Board (Great Britain) the following Resolutions were unanimously passed.--
(1) On the expiration of two years' working this Administrative Committee of the
Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board (Great Britain) desire to place on record their firm
and unanimous conviction that the operations of this Trade Board have been of great
advantage and benefit to the Industry controlled by the Board and to all those engaged
in it whether as Employers or Workers.
This Committee desire further to record their opinion, based upon their experience
of over two years that, given a real desire on the part of both Employers and Workers to
work together amicably and for the good of the Industry in which both part es are directly
and mutually interested, the Trade Board system presents most effective means for enabling
the parties to realise each other's economic difficulties, to discuss and settle their respect ve
problems with sympathy and equity, and to promote such legislation as will be for the
permanent good of the Industry as a whole, even though there may be here and there
individual temporary cases of hardship, which are inseparable from all attempts at progress
and improvement.


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

785
Clarke was said to have received 155. benefit, whereas he was af work on the da
he signed on.
The magistrates gave their decisions en bloc after retirins:
The Chairman (Sir Samuel Faire) said the Bench considered that the hand
a very serious character, and it any further cases came before them the Penalty could
therefore distinctions had been made. Icicester Meraoy, Amust oth T21
be more severe.
They recognised that there was some difference in one of

BIRMINGHAM MUNICIPAL BANK.
The Municipal Bank at Birmingham is now in its second year. The accomtub.
mitted by the Bank Committee for the year ending March 31st, 1921, Prove sufficiently
the successful start of the enterprise. At the end of the year the Bank bad a balance of
47715 IS. ad., out of which 4928 3s. 7d. has been written off against the cost of the Parlia
mentary Bill, and a further sum of 4248 8s. Iod. has met the cost of structural alterations
of bank premises. After deducting the debit balance at April 1st, 1920, a net balance of
44.830 155. Id. remains. The number of deposits has increased by 21,980 over those of
The immediate success of the Municipal Bank is due largely to the fact that a temporary
The previous year, the total amount now standing to the credit of depositors being (1,405.077-
bank was set up, and assisted from the Borough Fund, while preparations for the Municipal
Bank were being completed the transfer of some 325,000 worth of deposits enabled the
Bank to begin earning revenue at once, and the debt to the Borough Fund will be repaid
department, which has granted during the year 745 loans for the purchase of houses, the
out of the first vear's surplus. An important feature of the Bank is the house-purchase
Schools Savings Banks are connected with the Municipal Bank, and when a child leaves
total amount advanced being ₤224,215. Arrangements have been made by which the
school his account is automatically transferred. The Bank has also assisted in the sale
of local Housing Bonds and National Savings Certificates, and in cashing Housing Bond
interest coupons on maturity.

"DENS OF DISEASE" IN SCOTLAND.
Startling Revelations in Regard to Dwellings. Housing Halt Attacked.
Scottish housing needs were voiced in Parliament yesterday by Mr. John Robertson,
Labour member for Bothwell. He called attention to housing in Scotland and the insani-
tary conditions in mining towns and villages. According to the report of the Royal
Commission on Housing in Scotland, in 1911 about 400,000 persons resided in one-room
houses and nearly 2,000,000 in two-room houses. Houses which were condemned during
the cholera epidemic of 1840 as being unfit for human habitation were still occupied.
In one village he had visited recently there were 40 of these one-room houses, measuring
15ft. by 14ft. by 8ft., and the first he entered was occupied by 15 persons. There was no
lavatory accommodation of any kind. Living under such conditions was barbarism of
the lowest type. These insanitary houses were a monument to the complete failure of
private enterprise to provide decent housing conditions. They could only be swept out
of existence by a comprehensive system of State housing.
Mr. Wallace said Scotland's irreducible minimum requirement was 115,000 houses.
Mr. Munro, in replying, said that it must be admitted that some of the miners' dwel-
lings in Scotland were an outrage on decency and civilisation, but notwithstanding these
shocking housing conditions, the deaths from infantile mortality and tuberculosis had
steadily declined during the last 10 years. There had been no scrapping of the Govern-
ment's housing programme or refusal to revert fully to it when financial conditions became
more favourable. It would be impossible to justify to the ratepayers the indulgence on
an indefinite scheme at a time of artificial inflation in prices of both materials and labour.
Then with regard to slum areas the Government had allocated ₤200,000 per annum for the
clearance of slums in England and Scotland, and he was glad to say that the latter's share
of the money would be £30,000.

Mr. Hogge maintained that the Secretary for Scotland had wholly failed to answer
the case put forward by Mr. Robertson. The sum of £30,000 a year was altogether
inadequate to deal with slum property in Scotland.
of for
had purchased land, or opened up works, or undertaken such schemes with the approval
of more than four-fifths of a
penny rate.
The amendment for the reduction of the Vote was negatived by 173 votes to 58.--
Leicester Daily Mercury, July 29th, 1921.


---
Here is the text from the image:

786
TRADE UNION ORGANISATION. IS IT OUT OF DATE?
HOW I WOULD REVISE IT.
By the Right Hon. J. R. Clynes, M.P.

Not least among the many lessons of the recent coal stoppage was the proof it gave at the failure of trade union organisation to afford facilities to its responsible leaders to effect settlements of disputes upon their own seasoned judgment, and in accordance with known economic facts Ultimately a settlement was made which broke this tradition.
What was done affords an opportunity for the whole movement to consider upon what terms in the future leaders shall lead, and members respond to the call they receive from their leaders. The call, it should be understood, must always be dictated by a solemn regard for the men's interests.

In the early days of the trade union movement, when the organisation was newer and less complex, when employers and employees alike regarded industry as a mere personal concern, which provided profit for the one and employment for the other, it was possible and desirable for the workers' leaders to consult their followers upon every detail of policy to be pursued. The whole industrial outlook was parochial, and narrow conception of policy naturally developed. They were hard struggling days for the movement, producing cautious leaders, and false ideas regarding the real basis of industrial enterprise. There were the days when restriction of output seemed essential to ensure employment, and day rates appeared better than piece rates to maintain a fair day's pay for a fair day's work.

New Ideas.
The war, however, brought in new ideas, which have influenced all responsible leaders of industry, and would, if allowed free play, produce an attitude of mind conducive to the widest co-operation. Parochial and personal interests are giving way before the wider recognition of national and collective needs, and the true essence of industry is being acknowledged in every quarter, namely, that it exists to provide the community with the services which it requires. One may stimulate conflicting interests, and organise them for opposition of the deadliest character, but the basis of industry will remain unchanged while human needs require satisfaction.

Leading employers are realising the value of co-operation and conciliation as a means of maintaining peace with their employees, and of meeting by continuity of production and by finding markets for the things produced the extensive needs of a civilised community.

Can the same thing be said of trade union leaders? Undoubtedly it can of those who by long experience and direct contact with the leaders of employers' associations have gained an insight into the

Difficulties which Capital
has constantly to overcome in order to organise and finance industry and maintain foreign trade. Yet in time of dispute, these very leaders are precluded by the old trade union custom of plebiscite and delegate meeting from securing settlements they consider the best possible at the time!

In the case of a plebiscite the mass of men are obviously incapable of seeing all the facts of the dispute, and they consequently fail to realise the many obstacles that lie in the way of settlement along the lines of their desires. In the case of a delegate meeting. almost the same defects operate. The delegates are drawn from widely scattered areas, and are more in touch with the personal desires of the men than the full knowledge and experience of their leaders.

It is this that prevents the leaders from securing settlements, destroys their authority in the eyes of the opposition and the community, prolongs the struggle to unnecessary lengths, increases unemployment and suffering in other industries, until, finally, a settlement is arrived at, little or no better than that advised by the leaders in the first place.

This part of trade union organisation is unquestionably out of date, and unless it is revised to meet the newer conditions and ideas prevailing it will ultimately destroy trade unionism as a progressive movement. How would I revise it?

I should start by asking workmen to grant real freedom and authority to responsible leaders to secure what they believe just or expedient in the interests of the men, by giving them a real opportunity to use their knowledge of the facts in negotiating for a final settlement. Rarely would a traitor be found to misuse this power. On the contrary, men who have the real interests of their kind closely at heart would be free to lead them by progressive stages in a happier and more prosperous condition than is their lot to-day.


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

800
THE INDUSTRIAL OUTLOOK
is still very far from satisfactory, either nationally or internationally. Many
statements are being constantly made as to the need for workmen putting
their shoulder to the wheel and maintaining a maximum output; at the
same time that such statements are being made, millions of workpeople are
vainly asking for work, whereby they may be given an opportunity of
earning a wage for the labour given. The figures of the Government as
to the number unemployed do not, it is admitted, represent to the full
extent the numbers actually out of work, on account of the fact that
very many operatives have drawn their full amount of unemployment benefit
and no longer register with the Employment Exchanges. This question of
unemployment was fully discussed at the Trades Congress and the following
resolution unanimously passed relative thereto :--

" The Trades Union Congress, assembled at Cardiff, and representing
over six millions of British workers, views with grave apprehension the
increasing extent and conditions of unemployment, and reaffirms the
principle that it is the duty of the State to provide work or adequate
maintenance for every willing worker; approves the action of those Boards
of Guardians which, in the absence of proper Government assistance,
have made a serious endeavour to adequately relieve the urgent necessities
of the workless; but emphatically expresses its opinion that such a burden,
mainly due to the War, should not have been imposed on the ratepayers,
and must be removed from them.

The Congress calls upon the Government to immediately summon
Parliament and to introduce practicable schemes of work without delay,
with the necessary financial provision; and, further, to remove the gross
inequalities of rating obtaining in the London area.

The Congress is also of opinion that the Poplar Councillors, in the
stand which they believed to be the best to take, under the exceptional
circumstances, to call public attention to the distressful conditions of the
unemployed, have rendered a real national service. It pledges itself to
use all the strength at its command to secure the provision of work or
adequate maintenance for the unemployed workers throughout the country,
and instructs the new General Council, in close co-operation with the
National Executive of the Labour Party, and the Parliamentary Labour
Party, immediately to take such steps as may be necessary to secure these
objects."

We note that the Government have appointed a Committee to enquire
into the question of unemployment with a view, we presume, to ascertain
methods of dealing with the question. Meantime in various parts of the country,
owing to the desperate position in which many find themselves, there have been
disturbances. It is sincerely to be hoped that the Government will not only


---


---
811
were taken out by the Ministry of Labour and the firms were only FINED
TEN SHILLINGS EACH for failing to post notices, but for not paying the
prescribed rates of wages were dismissed under the Probation of Offenders
Act.
The Counsel who defended the firms stated " . . . the rates fixed were
impossible and would have ruined the trade; this is a most outrageous
prosecution, and is a matter fundamental to the economic conditions
of the country."

On the same day we read in the Daily Herald the following:
"A curious criticism of a Trade Board has been invented by the
Glasgow and West of Scotland Retail Garment and Millinery employers.
They have decided to object to ' the undue number of professional
trade unionists' on the Trade Board, and also to the method of nomi-
nating appointed members. It is claimed all members should have a
practical knowledge of the trade."
We do not know what is meant by the "undue number of professional trade
unionists," but we would warn the members that unless there is constant
vigilance exercised in connection with this matter we may find that the re-
actionary employers may in the near future attain the object they have in view,
and abolish the Trade Boards, and, whatever may be said to the contrary,
attempt to revert to the terrible conditions under which many employees
in various trades were subjected to in past years.
The Government have decided to set up a Committee to take evidence
regarding Trade Boards, the terms of reference laid down being "To inquire
into the working and effects of the Trade Boards Act, and to report what
changes, if any, are required." The Committee will consist of nine members,
our General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., being one of those selected to
serve thereon.

TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
The fifty-third meeting of the Trades Union Congress was held in Cardiff
on the 5th inst. and five following days, our General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton,
J.P., being in the chair. Resolutions dealing with many questions were brought
forward, which, if given effect to, will prove of great benefit to the people
generally. The report of the delegates to Congress appears on pages 820-822,
and the address of the Chairman of the Congress on pages 826-830.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
During the month another case under the Workmen's Compensation
Act has been settled in connection with our DAVENTRY Branch, the member,
R.C., having secured a lump sum of £100 in addition to part costs and com-
pensation for six months. The first offer of the Insurance Company was £10.
At BRISTOL another case was settled, C.O., for £160 plus £68 com-
pensation, the first offer of the Company being £35 in all.


---
Here is the text from the image:

812
SECOND ANNUAL CONFERENCE.
The Second Annual Conference of the Union will be held in London during
Whit-week of 1922, and Branches wishing to place any particular item upon the
Agenda should send the same along to the Central Office by the end of the year

BALANCE SHEETS.
Many Branches have failed to send along copies of their balance sheet for
the last quarter in accordance with rule ; we trust no further reminder will
be necessary.

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch
Secretaries to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest
day for returns reaching the General Secretary. Last month many returns
were late. Branches failed to send off their returns to reach the Central Office
before the 15th of the month, and this tends to upset the organisation of the
work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg to intimate that unless returns
are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary has been instructed to put
into force the Rules governing the same.

TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only “Union Stamped
Footwear."
We remain,

Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary

The Executive Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives, representing over 80,000 members, enters its strong
protest against any suggestion to abolish Trade Boards, and places
on record its appreciation of work done on behalf of the
millions of workers in the British Isles.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

814

Labour's Annual Parliament. The week was a very strenuous one owing to the Hall being filled by Congress during the day and turned into a Cinema at night. The week also was a very hot one outside which perhaps helped the barometer up inside. A big discussion was arrested by the withdrawal of a motion affecting the Triple Alliance, and showed itself in a much milder form later in the week. The dispute between the A.E.U. and the N.U.R. cansed much acrimony, and I have solemnly come to the conclusion that we play the enemy's game every time we fall out amongst ourselves. If we can sink our differences of us, which will punish our own people more than others, without first of all trying to politically, then we must sink them industrially, and no move ought to be taken by any get them on our side and willing to throw in their lot with ours. The vote on the subject was born, we are no nearer practically on that vote than we were 30 years ago. We must is far from encouraging, and after 26 years in that very Hall where the General Federation discuss these matters at our own conferences. I am still wedded to the belief that with our present splendid combination of 6 million members affiliated to Congress, that that majority, who have a policy humane and practical. The voting for the new General Pur- body acting politically in the interests of our own class would give Labour a working poses Committee to whom I look as the most important and largest body, some 32 in number, embracing all trades and who I think will act as Labour's Cabinet, settling many domestic troubles from which we seem to suffer-was challenged, and sad to relate, another vote has to be taken. This is impracticable because all delegates cannot be got together to satisfy themselves, as we satisfied ours by showing them the ballot papers, although I should vote again as we decided, a proceeding our delegates have already approved of, but many Unions voted for more delegates than were required, thereby giving every man his choice; in the scrutineers' view the majority shall rule in any group. I am afraid this means trouble.

The voting for the New Committee resulted in Mr. R. Smillie (Miners' Federation) getting the highest number of votes, viz., 5,338,000. For American Delegation, Mr. E. L. Poulton 2,802,000; Canadian Delegation, Mr. W. Carter (Miners' Federation), 2,031,000; Co-opera- tive Congress, Mr. J. Doonan (Miners' Federation), 2,994,000; General Purposes Committee, Mr. T. F. Richard, 4,438,000; Auditor, Mr. D. R. Grenfell (Miners' Federation), 3,754,000.

I hope that next Congress will find that the 1 million Trade Unionists unaffiliated have joined with us. It is a sad commentary that of the above number the Daily Herald does not touch the quarter million- the pity of it. On behalf of the Union I attended a meeting of the Debenture holders, Mr. A. Henderson, M.P., presiding, and £5 shares were opened up to anyone willing to support the organ for Labour news. It is by far the best Daily we have and we can make it what we wish if we will interest ourselves that way.

On September 13th Rushden, Finedon and Wellingborough were again visited respect- ing those firms we have intimated: Mr. Chamberlain, Higham Ferrers; Mr. G. Knight. Finedon, will go on as before, but some of the men were averse to paying the clerk who collects. Mr. Norton and Mr. Langley, we may take it, we shall have no trouble with but trade has been so bad.

September 14th to Rushden and saw Miss Peek, Secretary of the Association, who informed us that two of their members complained of would pay as usual.

Wollaston visited, saw Secretary of Association, Mr. Nutt, and also saw Mr. Phillips. who is willing to pay if we compel others. Mr. E. Greig, of the same place, refused to talk to us and said he had no time. My colleague, Mr. Bates, was very disappointed with the previous visit and there appears to be only one alternative with this gentleman when we have seen the operatives. Another firm was visited and at present, he being federated. we are asking the Association to bring pressure to bear.

I have a case with T. Brown's, Leicester, re their Irchester works. Another with Faire Bros. and their Mansfield factory, and hope in the coming week to see both firms on the matters affecting them.

CHESHAM. - Mr. McCarthy and myself had occasion to call a meeting of the Chesham Branch owing to the attitude of many of the employers. We had a fair meeting and are placing the facts before the Council of the Union, when a further meeting will be held.

If our members would encourage the Trade Union Stamped Footwear in their homes Trade Unionism would in our trade be stronger.

Yours fraternally,

7. MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
2nd September, 1921.

General President

The following amount was received from Arbroath Branch for Miners' Distress Fund, viz., £5

---
FELLOW MEMBERS,

815
ORGANISER'S REPORT.

During the past month I have been working in London, Chesham and Manchester.
On August 23rd, 24th, 25th I visited several shops in the East End for organising purposes.
On the 25th Mr. Buckle and I addressed a good meeting of the women at Polikoff's. They
expressed themselves satisfied at the efforts we had made with the firm in negotiating for
them. It was agreed that a systematic effort be made by the women themselves to bring
in those outside the Union. On August 26th I went to Chesham to make enquiries into
conditions there. From August 20th to September 2nd I visited nearly the whole of the
shops in the Manchester area. Trade has been exceptionally bad in this district for a long
time. I went to Chesham on September 5th and remained there till the 16th. The
questions under review there are not yet settled, but will be reported on in due course.
I returned to Manchester the following week and succeeded, I believe, in creating a better
spirit of confidence among the members. Owing to the hard times mentioned there has
been a considerable falling off among the women membership. I am pleased to say that
they have responded to our appeal and have agreed in a body to pay up and rejoin according
to circumstances. On September 22nd we had a special meeting of the members. It
was the best meeting for attendance and interest taken of any in my experience held at
Manchester. There is a big orphanage and industrial school near Manchester. Through
the weakness of our organisation here in the past the shoe trade has been flooded with boy
labour from this institution Since I got to know about the conditions I have protested
to inividual manufacturers against the undue proportion of boy labour and am glad to say
that during the past twelve months there has been a decided improvement in some of the
shops. To the biggest offender at present I have now appealed again verbally and in
writing; also I wrote to the heads of this particular institution asking that, for the future
welfare of the lads themselves, careful enquiries should be made before sending any
more of them to the boot trade. A word to Branch Officers. In my experience there is
no more effective way for keeping the members together than the one of having a Shop
President wherever possible. Factory after factory where I have gone to and found some
in the Union and some outside, the excuse made by the slackers has been the absence of a
shop president.
"We were members up to the time the collector left" is the general saying.
I think that it would very largely get over the difficulty if Branch Secretaries would report
to their Executives when shop presidents ceased to bring in contributions in the ordinary
way. Efforts should be made as early as possible to replace shop presidents who have
given up their positions or who have gone to other shops.

September 24th, 1921.
D. MCCARTHY.

TRIBUNAL TO TRY TRADE BOARDS.

NAMES OF THE CAVE COMMITTEE. A LAWLESS BENCH.

REPLY TO BOSSES' PLEA AGAINST WAGES.
The Daily Herald learns that the Committee on Trade Boards announced by the Minister
of Labour (Dr. Macnamara) on Monday has been constituted as follows :-

Viscount Cave (president); Lord Weir of Eastwood; Dame Adelaide Anderson, late
H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories; Dame Edith Lyttelton; James Bell, M.P., secretary
of the Oldham Weavers' Association and M.P. for the Ormskirk Division of Lancashire;
W. T. Layton, director of the National Federation of Iron and Steel Manufacturers;
Sir Arthur Pease, Bart., Darlington; E. L. Poulton, chairman of the Parliamentary Com-
mittee of the Trades Union Congress; A. Pugh, secretary of the Iron and Steel Trades
Confederation; A. MacCallum Scott, M.P. for the Bridgeton Division of Glasgow.

The secretary to the Committee is H. D. Hancock, of the Ministry of Labour.
The terms of reference laid down by Dr. Macnamara are :
To inquire into the working and effects of the Trade Boards Act, and to report
what changes, if any, are required."
46

The Committee will meet at an early date to discuss its arrangements.
The employers have been for some time preparing their case against the Trade Boards,
in anticipation of the fight. Cases in the police courts, too, have emphasised the determi-
nation to smash, if possible, these safeguards of the poorer paid workers, especially women
2nd young persons. - Daily Herald, September 22nd, 1921.
C


---


---
817
must be made to compel Parliament to admit its responsibility, whereby
money will be provided from the National Exchequer to provide work, which
will be welcomed, rather than relief from the Poor Law Authorities.
LEEDS No. 1. - We regret to report that trade here is only very moderate
We are hoping for a change for the better in the near future. Short time i
fairly general. During the month we have been successful in obtaining (11)
compensation for one of our female members. This gave satisfaction to the
member, after having received half wages for a lengthy period. Seeing that
all members who happen to be in arrears will make an effort to clear off the
the New Benefits have now become operative it is hoped that as far as possible
same at the earliest opportunity, and thus be entitled to the increased benefit..
should they require them.
LIVERPOOL. - Trade has improved with boot repairers since our last
report, although it is nothing like what it was this time last year. It may be
clothing factory, including boot repairs, on the outskirts of Liverpool. Members
of interest to members to note that Lewis's Ltd. have established a large
who have been in the habit of paying their contributions at Ranelagh Street
Monthly Report, or at the Club Room at the Monthly Meetings, held on the
will please in future pay them at the Secretary's address as shown on cover of
second Wednesday in the month, 8 p.m.
MAYBOLE. - Trade with us is very much better, two of the factories
working full time and nearly all the workers started.
NEWCASTLE. -After rather a long spell of much unemployment the
brighter for the future. There is one thing we would like to bring before the
notice of all members of our Union, that is, that there are many employers
labour who are putting their heads together and at their local Master Repairers
Association, trying to instil into the members of their association that the
Trade Board and all the Trade Board Awards in connection with our trade
are only framed to uplift and make better conditions for the workman and to
give him wages which, the employer is ever ready to state, the business cannot
pay. In our district at one of the meetings in August of the Employers'
Association, two of their high officials stated that while the Trade Board had
done a lot of good, it had also done a lot of harm, and that they were out to
smash and abolish the Trade Board. At the same meeting the member of the
National Trade Board Committee, who sits for the Northern Districts, stated
that the Association members were out for a reduction of 10 per cent. in Piece
rates. From such statements as these it is quite plain to see that the em-
ployers are hankering to get back to pre-war wages and conditions. In fact,
it has been stated to me by a member of the Masters' Association, that a lot
of propaganda work is now going on at their meetings for this end. Fellow
members, it is up to us all to instruct all members of our Union who sit on the
National Trade Board Committee, or on District Trade Board Committees,
when any proposal to reduce wages is brought forward by the employers, that
they use every weapon they can to defeat any such proposal.
this year.
NORWICH.--A slight improvement in trade has taken place during the
month in Norwich, confined entirely to the Turnshoe trade. Machine Sewn
trade has worsened and there appears to be little prospect of improvement
We are shedding our membership, due to the fact that so many
of our
members have been unemployed for over twelve months. The outlook is
members will see more dinner-times than dinners before Christmas.
PLYMOUTH - Trade is still very quiet here and probably will not
mprove very much until the wet season arrives. The summer has been
Nceptionally dry and consequently the Boot Repairers have been on holiday.

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

818
The motto of the public has been "any old thing will do," rubber soles and substitutes of every description have had a good innings, but we believe the public sooner or later will find the old maxim still true, "There is nothing like leather." We have read the resolutions passed by the Administrative Committee of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board, and at our monthly meeting a resolution was passed unanimously, fully approving the action taken by the Committee. Further, we are convinced that the Trade Board must be maintained as a permanent part of the industrial machinery under the Ministry of Labour, and if peace and plenty is to be won from the hive of industry, progress must be made along the road opened up by the pioneers of Frade Board legislation, which gives reason and equity the controlling voice in industry, instead of passion, class hatred, and vested interests.

N.B. Will the Council please publish in the Monthly Report the new General Minimum Piece Rates, fixed by the Trade Board, effective as froτο 2nd August, 1921, Schedule D (12), as this would make a handy form of refer-ence for boot repairers.

REDRUTH. There is a slight improvement in the trade, which we hope will soon warrant full time. We are pleased to know that the industry is improving generally. During the month we held our Annual Outing, and a very pleasant time was spent at Penzance.

SOUTHAMPTON. - Trade still very quiet. The unemployed are being absorbed at a very slow rate. We are hoping for the pleasure of chronicling a better story ere long.

STAFFORD. - Trade is very bad in this centre; the majority of our merr.-bers are working short time.

WATERFORD.-Trade is quiet at present.

WELLINGBOROUGH. - Trade, we are pleased to report, shows a slight improvement, but we have still a large number of members who have drawr all benefit. The wonder of it is that with all the widespread unemployment disorder is not more prevalent. If we can take this as a sign that real thinking is taking place as to the means whereby such a position cannot arise again, then it is all to the good, but if on the other hand the unemployed have been lulled to sleep by doles, then we indeed have a hard task before us to point out that the present position can be altered when the electorate decide upon such a course. Let our friends who are tired of waiting for the change remember that the Parliamentary machine has served the old parties well, and that the workers, as soon as they capture that machine, can right many of the wrongs that we now suffer from. Some of the firms are taking this trade slump as a means of trying to enforce conditions other than those laid down by the National Agreement. Members must understand that there are two parties to every agreement, and they must report every such attempt to infringe agreements to the office, to enable the matter to be taken up. Unity and organisation are needed more now than ever. Let us do all we can to make our Union a 100 per cent. membership.

YARMOUTH (GREAT). - Trade is very bad. We have a few members employed about half time, all the others have been out upwards of 18 weeks. We have not experienced anything like it for the past thirty years. It is un-doubtedly the result of the Russian Blockade; their ports were the market for our herring. The Herring Fishing collapsed last November because there was no market for them, so did our boot trade. Unemployed fishermen do not buy boots. A feeling of hopefulness is expressed by some for the fishing season now about to commence, whilst others say the markets are still stocked with last year's catch. One good sign is that the curers are laying in big stocks of curing material. The success of the Herring Fishing is of national importance;


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

826
ADDRESS BY MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P.,
TO THE 53rd ANNUAL MEETING OF THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
annual meeting of the Trades Congress, Twenty-six years have passed since the previous
It is to me a great pleasure, as well as a great honour, to welcome you to this the 53rd
whom one is pleased to see amongst us to-day as a delegate. At that Congress there were
Congress was held in Cardiff, under the chairmanship of our colleague, Mr. John Jenkins,
about 330 delegates, representing 170 tunions, with a membership of 1,000,000. To-day there
are about 823 delegates, representing 212 unions, with a membership of over 6,416,510.
greater recognition by the workers of the need for corporate support of one another, is not
This growth of membership, whilst a tribute to our powers of organisation, and the
time benefiting by our activities and influence) come inside, and march alongside those who
vet fully satisfactory, nor will it be until those who are outside our ranks (whilst at the same
are constantly fighting Labour's battles.
We have indeed gone through an industrial maelstrom during the past year. Men.
which have dealt cruelly with them, driving on the one hand many to despair, others to
women, and children have as a consequence found themselves the victims of circumstances
this attitude and frame of mind we must resolutely set ourselves against, and by vigour
of attack and assault upon conditions that produce such deplorable results bring about
apathy and a fatal submission, that the circumstances are above and beyond alteration; to
their abolition, and put in their place humane, enlightened, and just conditions, whereby
ask me what system I would put in place of the present one-and any such query is a fair
humanity as a whole shall be raised to an altogether higher plane of civilisation. You may
one, and it is at once both easy and difficult to answer easy if one gives a "stock" answer-.
by the overthrow of the present capitalistic system, and putting in its place a socialistic
system; difficult, if one is in favour of what may just as truly be called Socialist, but one of
progress from a broad to yet a broader base, making a general uplift and removal of the
plete revolution by evolution has been accomplished. Pursuance of such a policy I am
burdens now so unjustly and cruelly pressing upon the majority of the people, until a com-
aware lays oneself open to attack from those of our more impetuous comrades, who, seeing
repult rather than the immediate attainment. If a long view is taken, I venture to say the
so much suffering, become impatient at what they consider the altogether inadequate meting
represented by the latter policy. What, however, one should consider is: the ultimate
weight of evidence would be in favour of the second policy. Take, for instance, the Co-opera
tive Movement; if the workers as a whole fully supported the same there would come
into our hands, and that peacefully, one of the mightiest weapons that could be used to still
further our policy of emancipation from the thraldom of the existing system. What is
necessary if we wish to spare our people unnecessary trouble, privation, and sacrifice from
one stage of development to another, and which I consider it to be our duty to do, is to weigh
up not only our own resources, but as far as possible the resources and resisting power
of those opposed to us, and act in accordance with such knowledge. I am conscious this
may not make the same appeal to some as would what they call a bold, audacious policy
It has, however, in my judgment, the much more substantial advantage of being of present
value, and I think I know my countrymen and countrywomen well enough to say the great
majority, although not making vocal their desires and wishes, favour gradual and peaceful
development to the spectacular and uncertain. We have an overwhelming case whether in
the moral, social, industrial, educational, or economic field. What we suffer from is the old,
old policy of the enemy-divide, divide, and yet again divide your opponents; let him
spend his time in denouncing his leaders, undermining their influence, showing how much
better others could do the work. Surely it should be by now abundantly clear to anyone who
thinks seriously about the present position that what the movement needs is, after adequate
discussion and a programme laid down, to back up those whom we ourselves put in office
by all the resources of the movement. We might then not only make breaches in our oppo
nents' defence and win advances here and there, but we should the sooner break down the
opposition and inaugurate a system in accordance with the policy we say we ourselves believe
in. I plead therefore for unity and discipline in our ranks; not the unity of freedom from
time to time make our spokesmen and leaders, and thus give to the statements made on
criticism nor the discipline of the barracks, but the unity which will support those we from
our behalf increased weight and influence. Let our opponents see that the age-long conflict
of the workers for justice is no longer going to be delayed by mistrust of one another, but
rather that we intend in the future to spend more and more of our ability, time, energy, and
money to make it impossible for the present unjust conditions to continue to exist.
Take one point only-out of a series which could be adduced-the present disgraceful
spectacle of millions of people lacking employment, and this concurrently with the world's
crying need for more and more goods to supply only the barest necessities of life. Surely
this one thing alone is enough to condemn the conditions that at present obtain. Statesmen,
body of opinion amongst not only workpeople, but thousands of men and women of goodwill
politicians, bankers, and employers generally may rest assured that there is an ever-growing

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

829
whereby they can find food for themselves and their wives and families. My view is that
labour can be engaged for a longer period of time thereby enabling them to secure wages
these increased facilities for producing goods ought to be shared in to a much greater degree
by the workers in the form of shorter hours of employment.
I suggest we ought to press more and more for a shorter working week. The world
who seem to imagine that by some special decree of Providence the vast majority of man
of finance and business will no doubt send up a protest, as will also those butterflies of society
kind were made to serve them and enable them to live a life of gaiety and pleasure. To all
such, and there are many in this country, it ought by this time to have been borne in upon
them that more and more the people are going to refuse to carry these parasites, and instead
and less and less of those sorrows, privations and suffering which through the centuries
have been imposed upon the bulk of mankind by a minority.who may not unfairly be termed
of so doing are determined that more of the amenities of life shall become their birthright
the ruling classes.
Unrest is rampant. Workers especially are implored to rid themselves of the same and
get into an ordered state. They will not do so while the present deplorable state of things
obtains. Rather than surprise being expressed at this unrest, it ought to be plain to the
powers that be that the wonder is there is not more unrest, more agitation. It speaks
volumes for the workers at this period they are so orderly and so willing to subject themselves
as they do to discipline when they remember how basely they have been betrayed. Just
a few examples-the implied promises to the miners if they agreed to a Commission of
Enquiry; the altogether inadequate dealing with the profiteer, who is still busy; the
ment question, and the tragedies of many lives wrapped up in such problems; the smashing
promises held out to ex-Service men; the altogether inadequate treatment of the unemploy-
illusion and delusion known as the building of houses for people to live in, which recently
up of the agricultural pact; the shelving of many clauses of the Education Act; the great
currently the waste of millions of money in Mesopotamia and other places; Ireland and her
drew even from Dr. Addison such a scathing statement; the "economy" cry, and con-
agony and her sufferings so long continued, force yet more and more used in the attempt
to crush what is uncrushable, viz., the innate love of liberty and freedom of the people. One
could easily go on adding to the list.
I would remind the delegates that the deputations to Ministers this year relating to
Congress resolutions have resulted, in my judgment, in greater barrenness than usual.
for the people vague and unsatisfactory answers which when examined resolve themselves
into words only.
Courtesy, yes. Respectful hearing, yes. Suave replies, yes. Of real help and assistance
If the record of the Government does not, when the time comes to return a new House
of Commons, result in unseating those now in power, then one may well feel that some dope
has for the time being fallen upon the electorate. The value of our protests will be greatly
depreciated if, when the time to put such protests into action arrives, we fail in voting for
those who are in favour of our policy to form the next House of Commons. Let us from this
Congress go forth reinforced with new hopes, rejuvenated, reinspired; determined that
no opportunity shall be missed to bring into being those conditions the people stand so much
in need of.
The call is insistent, the world is weary of the present regime, the time is ripe for change,
change from mere profit-making in industry to work for useful, corporate service. Let
it not be said that we failed at the opportune moment. Let it be our aim this week and for
the days yet to come to so mould public opinion as will cause it to be considered a disgrace
that preventable poverty and suffering shall be concurrent with flaunting wealth, but rather
that we may ever be in the vanguard of those who are fighting for liberty and freedom; to
upraise the weak, defending the helpless, and ridding ourselves of those parasites who live
upon the people, and in some instances have the temerity to upbraid the workers for their
"idleness."
May the spirit of part of the Ode of Welcome addressed by Sir Lewis Morris to the
Swansea Congress in 1901 animate us this week :-
Consider well, O Toilers' Parliament,
These poor lives worn and spent;
Lift thou the heavy burden of their care,
Gain for them healthier dwellings, wholesome air;
The wage that is their due do thou secure ;
Make thou their weakness strong.
Guide them to live lives sober, provident, pure;
For ruinous strife teach them the ways of Peace;
Their knowledge and their restful hours increase.
One people are we, small and great;
Dispel the clouds of ignorance and hate."
Let us, then, go forward into the warfare and, by sagacity, wisdom, and foresight so
conduct it as to make it possible to enter into possession of those manifold provisions pro-
vided for mankind by the Father of us all, and to so establish a state of society wherein

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

830
I will be considered a teproach to see any in want of either food, dwelling, or the ordinary
amenities which should go to make up a full life. Let us be amongst those who by sacrific
for the common good bring into existence joy, gladness, and song into the lives of all the
people. We are the trustees of those right
we are the inheritors of many precious things fought for and obtained by those who
preceded us, their successors. We are the trustees of those right
to make the pathway easier for us, in many instances by the giving of life for the cause they
They endured much for us; their successors. We are the trustees of those right
won in mans a hard fought battle, in many instances by the giving of life for the cause they
love that we are not less courageous than they were.
loved so well.
The future is calling us the fight we are engaged in is a glorious one; let us 50 fight as
paving the way for a real commonwealth wherein is established peace, goodwill, equ
to ensure the liberation of mankind from all those trammels which now bind men, thereby
justice.
5th September, rost.

APPRECIATION OF THE GENERAL SECRETARY'S ADDRESS TO CONGRESS.

There's nothing like leather," said an enthusiastic admirer of the President of the
Trades Congress on the conclusion of the opening address. He must have been a follower
of St. Crispin himself, and proud of the fact that the Boot and Shoe operatives of Northamp
the present week. The President's address impressed all who heard it. I am sure reader
ton had produced a "son of toil" with the broad outlook and the mental capacity of Ir
Poulton, who has been chosen to guide the deliberations of Labour's Parliament during
of the speech
" in cold print" will come under the influence of its humanity, its hopefulnes
and its moderation, as well as the optimism of the speaker. For the President is an optimist
who takes the long view, the broad evolutionary outlook, and his policy is as different from
that of the Communist and the extremist as the poles are asunder.
the Trade Union movement, depleted funds, and all the bitterness of spirit and suspicios
among the Unions caused by the ruinous coal stoppage, it required courage and a fir
With the industrial world in ruin at his feet, with unemployment rife, dissension in
conviction gained from the history of reform movements for the President of the Trade.
Union Congress to deliver such a speech, which rang true, because it was evident the
President spoke from the earnestness which comes of conviction. He will find as vigorous
short period of government by Labour it would be shown how much better Labour could
as in the world outside against his calm assurance and confident opinion that "within a
opponents within the ranks of the Congress delegates of this evolutionary reform principle
conduct the business of the world."
After the experience of the last three years the President is an optimist of the hopeful
as when discussing home affairs. But he advises the Unions "to widen their outloos
ones, and he is just as optimistic when viewing the whole world through his Labour spectacles
and examine their bearings afresh" after the wreckage of the strikes and disputes. In
his denunciation of the barbarous methods of war he will find a world-wide echo of approval,
for the burden of war falls heavily upon the workers of all nations. A system of government
which produces war and its aftermath of suffering and horrors "stands condemned," he
declared, and asked the delegates to change it, not by denunciation or a cataclysmic revo-
lution, but by reform methods, shaking off "shackle by shackle."-South Wales Echo,
September 6th, 1921.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
A.-TOTAL UNEMPLOYMENT.
Boot, Shoe, etc., Trades.
Estimated Number of Insured Workpeople:- Males, 100,440; Females, 50,530
1921-Males, 12,234; Females, 4,908; Total, 17,142. Percentage Unemployed at th
Total, 150,970. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 26th Augus
29th July, 1921 :-Males, 0.66; Females, 1.27; Total, 0.87.
August, 1921 - Males, 12.18; Females, 9.71; Total, 11.35. Decrease as compared with
B.-SHORT TIME.
August, 1921 :-Males, 2,808; Females, 1,254; Total, 4,062. Decrease as compared
Number of Short-Time Workers claiming Unemployment Insurance Benefit at 26th
with 29th July, 1921 :- Males, 1,839; Females, I, 100%; Total, 2,939. Percentage on
Systematic Short Time at 26th August, 1921 :- Males, 2.80; Females, 2.48; Total, 2.69.
Decrease as compared with 29th July, 1921 :- Males, 1.833; Females, 2.18; Total, 1.95.-
The Labour Gazette, September, 1921.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

831
NEW ZEALAND FEDERATED BOOT TRADE UNION.
The above Union has written as follows under date 18th July, 1921, the
letter being signed by Mr. C. A. Watts, General Secretary.
By direction of the Executive Council of the above Association I have to convey to
you the following " resolution," which has been adopted by the various Branches of our
Federation and approved by the National Executive:
"That the National Secretary be directed to communicate with the Australian
English and American Boot Trade National Federations, urging these organizations
Zealand, inquiries be made as to the state of trade in that country, and to advise
to instruct their component Branches, that before their members leave for New
their members not to accept employment in that country unless agreed to by their
Federation, and to point out that intense dissatisfaction is being caused by reason
of our New Zealand members being thrown out of work in order to make room for
workers from other countries."
In conveying the above resolution, may I say that the position in New Zealand has
been that, whilst we are working under an Award of the Arbitration Court, which fixes
the minimum rate of wage, the Court's Memorandum states "that such wage is fixed for
the lowest grade worker in the Industry," and as a matter of fact, only about one per cent.
of our members are working on the minimum rate. The object of the boot manufacturers
undoubtedly is to bring men here on the minimum rate, so that there will be a general
fall in wages, and in order to bring this into effect, the employers are urging unrestricted
immigration, and we are rapidly reaching the position of having two and three men waiting
for one job.
Under the first clause of the Award preference of employment is given to members
of our Federation, and we have had the greatest difficulty in restraining our members
from insisting on the application of this clause against fellow workers from other lands.
The Executive Council feel and know that the workers arriving here (as a rule) are good
unionists, and we will not be parties to exercising the preference clause against members
of another Union, but we have to emphasise the fact that workers who come here, when
our own are unemployed, are the cause of a feeling of bitterness and distrust in the motives
of the newly arrived.
In conversation with some of the workers (male and female) who have come here from
other lands, one is struck with the misleading statements that are made to them. I was
shown a pamphlet, stated to have been issued by the New Zealand Government, which
said that houses could be obtained in the cities of New Zealand for gs. to 125. per week,
and in the country districts the rent ranged from 6s. to 10s. per week. I wish to give this
statement an emphatic denial, as I myself am living in a five-roomed house and paying
21S. per week, and am better off than 90 per cent. of the workers. The usual rent of a
five-roomed house is from 30s. to 375. 6d. per week. This is when houses can be obtained,
and as a matter of fact, the people are living in flats and with three and four families
in a five or six-roomed house.
Whilst the Government of New Zealand state that the immigrants are being employed
and housed in this country, they do not tell the fact that in order to do this, people already
in the Dominion are being thrown out of employment and houses to enable this to be done.
As I write this letter, unemployed processions are being held in this town and the
municipal authorities are dispensing relief to the distressed families. The boot factories
of this Dominion are working only two-thirds full time, and the boot operative who comes
here thinking that he will be employed on similar work to that which he is doing in older
countries is sadly disappointed when he finds that, in 90 per cent. of the factories, he has
to make boots by the old hand method, and these boots are of the heavy type, suitable
for the farming community, being made of kip, three decked, pegged and nailed.
It is the wish of the New Zealand Boot Trade Federation that you should give publicity
to these facts, so that workers in your country should realise the position before leaving
for this Dominion, and any assistance that you may be able to give will be greatly appreciated by our members.

LORD CAVE'S COMMITTEE.
I could not admire Dr. Macnamara's disposition to run away from the Trade Boards
but, to do him justice, his first nominations to the Committee which is to "overhaul "
(his own word) the Trade Boards Act are excellent.
Mr. Poulton, Miss Anderson, and Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton are all good
friends of Labour, and Mr. MacCallum Scott is a man we would trust. The
reactionaries are not likely to get much assistance from a Committee framed
on these lines. - The Star, September 21st, 1921.


---


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

837
The details of the countries whence our imports of boots and shoes for the month
of August last were consigned are as follow:-
Countries whence Consigned.
Sweden
Norway
Germany
Netherlands
Belgium
France
Switzerland
Italy
Austria
Czecho-Slovakia
Japan (incl. Formosa and
Japanese leased territories
in China)
U.S. of America
Canada
Totals

Of Leather, or of
which the chief
value is Leather.
Of Rubber, or of
which the chief
value is Rubber
Of other
Materials.
Doz.
Pairs.
£
Doz.
Pairs.
£
Doz.
Pairs.
£
1
12
6
24
57
140
1,198
667
151
2,531
15,253
6,753
154
200
148
12
230
4
416
372
1,294
344
264
3,690
3,642
551
18
105
94
650
1,423
132
8,422
1,079
695
141
2,597
632
230
203
220
313
3,636 £34,306 1,412
£3,825
2,589
£9,318
For the eight months ended August 31st, 1913, 1920, and 1921, our imports of boots
4797,547 respectively, while the re-exports were valued at £40,084, £242,634, and ₤146,716
and shoes of leather, rubber, and other materials were valued at £670,339, £3,132,906, and
respectively. - Shoe and Leather Record, September 16th, 1921.

INTERNATIONAL EMIGRATION COMMISSION.
This Commission, representing 15 countries, which was constituted by the International
Labour Office as the result of a resolution passed at the International Labour Condtional
at Washington in 1919, met at Geneva from August 2nd to 11th last, under the Chairmance
ship of Lord Ullswater, ex-speaker of the House of Commons.

A large number of resolutions were passed, and these will be submitted to the Inter-
The object of the Commission was to "consider
national Labour Conference of 1922.
and report what measures can be adopted to regulate the migration of workers out of their
native country, and to protect the interests of wage earners residing in another country than
their own." The delegates from English-speaking countries were, in addition to Lord
U'llswater (who represented the British Government), Col. Obed Smith (Canadian Govern-
ment), Sir Ernest Low (Indian Government), and Mr. Gemmill (South African employers).
Workers' delegates were invited from Germany, Italy, Sweden, Australia, United States.
and Poland, but only the first three were actually present.
The Agenda contained the following points :-
(1) Emigration Agents; (2) Recruiting of bodies of Workers; (3) Deduction from Wages
in respect of Money Advanced; (4) Examination before Embarkation; (5) Hygiene on
Board Ship and in Trains; (6) Insurance during the journey; (7) Employment Exchanges;
(8) Equality of Treatment of Foreign and National Workers; (9) Documentation; (10) Co-
ordination of National Laws; (II) White Slave Traffic; (12) Other Questions.
Resolutions were passed on all the above points. It is impossible to give them here
in full, but they may be summarised as follows :-
On the first point, the Commission recommends State supervision over all persone
interested in the promotion of emigration and the punishment of persons making false
statements with a view to inducing emigration; that each government should place at
everybody's disposal free information regarding emigration; and that, so far as emigration
is concerned, every country should embody in its legislation the principle of the full responsi-
bility of principals for the acts of their employees and agents.

With regard to the second item, it is suggested that agreements be made between the
Countries concerned, on the basis that only officers or agents authorised by the Govern-
ment be allowed to recruit labour for foreign countries, that employers' and workers' organi-
ations be consulted, that the foreign workers be paid the rates of wages current in the place


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

860
and Aberdeen at Maybole some of the factories resumed full time during the
The following Table summarises the information received from the
month
employers who furnished Returns regarding numbers employed and wages pail
Number of Workpeople.
Total Wages paid to all
Workpeople.
Week
ended
Inc. (+) or
Dec. () on a
Week
ended
Inc. (+) or
Dec. () on a
24th
24th
Sept., Month Year
1921.
ago.
ago.
Sept., Month Year
1921.
ago. ago.
Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. Perce
ENGLAND AND WALES:
London
1,950
!
41 4-3
4,949
Leicester
9,243
0.9
58
21,547
61
Leicester Country District
2,781+3.4
4-6
6,938
14
Northampton
7,010
1.0
5.4
17,582
05
7-
Northampton Country District
7,221
0.3
7-2
17,556
ران
آن
Kettering
3,062 + 1.7
1-7
8,216
0%
Stafford and District
2,222
1.4
8.8
4,089
03
:
Norwich and District
3,361
+311
18-5
-26-8
7,544
Bristol and District
885
+ 1.0
- 18-3
-10-4
22.
Kingswood
1,380
+4.5
- 170
2,257
2-
Leeds and District
1,242
+ 0.2
2-7
3,311
28
3,128
-11-6
Valley)
Lancashire (mainly Rossendale
3,458
1.3
19-4
7,624
83-
Birmingham and District
969
+2.5
+ 9-4
2,080
-09-25
Other parts of England and
2,646 2.0
11-0
4,933
-
2-6
Wales
England and Wales.
47,430+ 0.6
7-2 111,754
15
Scotland
2,571 +0.2
7-8
5,571
2-9
Ireland
540
+ 0.9
- 11.9
1,1962
United Kingdom...
50,541 +0.5
7-3 118,521
17
*Comparison of earnings is affected by changes in rates of wages.
Returns relating to short time were received from firms employing aler
32,000 workpeople. Nearly 35 per cent. of these workpeople were on th
time, the average loss of time being about 14 hours a week.
The exports of boots and shoes in September, 1921, amounted to 30.0
dozen pairs, or 2,713 dozen pairs more than in August, 1921, but 121.co.
dozen pairs less than in September, 1913.
UNEMPLOYMENT
has been to the fore during the month, and several meetings have been held
of the Labour Party Executive, the General Council of the Trade Union
Congress, and the Parliamentary Labour Party. Deputations have als
waited upon the Prime Minister, the Right Hon. Lloyd George, M.P., to plac
before him the claims of labour and the proposals for dealing with the problem
which has attained such vast proportions.
Eventually the following six representatives were appointed to meet the
Prime Minister and lay the plans of the Labour Party before him: Messrs. R.
B. Walker, E. L. Poulton, JP., Sidney Webb, Ramsey Macdonald, Arthur
Henderson, M.P., and Miss Margaret Bondfield, J.P.
Moreover, unemployment is of world-wide dimensions, so much so that
letters are
their guard before accepting any proposals for work elsewhere, as the conditions
appearing from far-distant parts urging workers to be fully up!!
were, and are of such character that the chances for employment
small indeed.
are very


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

863
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that " Stamped Footwear" should be increasingly purchased, therefore, push the Trade Union Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped Footwear."
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCILL.
T. F. RICHARDS Gen. President.
W. WARNER.
T. ADNITT.
W. HINDES.
C. BATES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
E. LAW.
A. J. DOBBS.
L. SMITH
ALEX. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
J. MANNERS.
MARY I. BELL-RICHARDS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.

PERIL OF VENEREAL DISEASE.
Sir J. Crichton-Browne on Disinfection.
On August 31st Sir James Crichton-Browne, in his presidential address at the Conference of the Sanitary Inspectors' Association at Bath, dealt at length with the question of venereal disease.
The subject, he said, was one that one would rather not refer to in a public assembly, but knowing what he did of the horrors of the disease it would be culpable prudery if he refrained, at such a meeting, from indicating what he believed was the one sure way- and that was not a clinic of coping with a grave and growing social evil.
Last year, he said, 2,023 deaths in England and Wales were due to syphilis and 2,103 to other venereal diseases. These figures however, afforded not the slightest conception of the havoc wrought by these maladies. Not less than 10 per cent. of the population of our large towns were infected with syphilis, and a much larger proportion with gonorrhea. Gonorrhea was prolific of sterility, blindness, and of rheumatic and joint affections; and syphilis was the direct cause of a vast number of cases of abortion, miscarriage, still-birth, and infant mortality, and, as a hidden assassin, was undoubtedly responsible for a large number of deaths attributed to other causes, such as aneurism, angina-pectoris, Bright's disease, and cerebral hæmorrhage. Syphilis was the sole cause of general paralysis of the insane, which killed 2,000 people in this country annually, and it was the inexorable bane of those wretched men they saw staggering about with locomotor ataxy. It was a secret poison that had until recently been allowed to circulate freely, slaying our people, undermining their manhood, and producing widespread invalidism and industrial incapacity.

A Warning Vision.
Proceeding, Sir J. Crichton-Browne said:-
It is not statistics so much as cases that touch the feelings, and if I could conjure before you the vision of a poor boy in his teens, stricken, perhaps as the result of the foolish frolic of a night, by this fell malady, terrified and undone, doomed to carry about with him for years the dread of impending calamity for himself or those who are dear to him, or if I could conduct you into the infirmary ward of one of our large asylums and show you side by side some twenty or thirty bedridden men, all in the prime of life, all men of rather a superior type, all quivering with paralysis and stuttering scraps of imbecile gibberish, mere human logs, helpless, wasted, and convulsed, waiting for death, you would I am sure, be moved to insist urgently that everything that is possible shall be done promptly to stave off this ghastly disorder.
The disease can be prevented, and if you ask why it is not prevented, the answer must be because of ignorance and negligence on the one hand and ecclesiastical prejudice and short-sighted morality on the other. Insurance Gazette, 24th September, 1921.


---


---


---
```text
Issued from Ministry of Labour.
866
COPY.
To
BRANCH SECRETARIES OF ALL ASSOCIATIONS HAVING ARRANGE
ments under section 17.
Dear Sir,
I have to refer to the arrangement made with your Association for
administration of State Unemployment Benefit, and to remind you that
First Special Period for the payment of Unemployment Benefit under
Unemployment Insurance Act, 1921 (which came into operation on the
March last) comes to an end on Wednesday, 2nd November.

Expiration of Existing Authorisations to Benefit.
All authorisations of benefit already communicated to you on Fo-
U.I.A. 76 and U.I.A. 76A, or otherwise, will be valid only in respect ci
period up to and including 2nd November next, and no benefit may be pai
under any such authorisation to any of your members for any dav
after that date.

Current Claims to Benefit.
The claims of all your members who are at present claiming Stre
Unemployment Benefit are being reviewed, and steps are being taken in cri
to ascertain what benefit may be authorised on them as from the commen
ment of the Second Special Period on 3rd November next.
It will be necessary for the members in question to attend at the Exchange
to sign fresh claims.

Fresh Claims.
Claims may also be made in respect of the Second Special Period by
of your members whose rights to benefit during the First Special Period have
already expired. Such claims will be accepted on or after the 20th October.
1921.
After making fresh claims your members should furnish proof of unem-
ployment in the ordinary way by signing the Association Vacant Book.

Authorisation on Form U.I.A. 76.
Thursday, 3rd November, will be communicated to you in the usual way on
Authorisation of any benefit that may be payable for days on or after
the Form U.I.A. 76 in respect of both members with current claims and those
making fresh claims.
12TH OCTOBER, 1921.
```

---
Here is the text from the image:

867
BRANCH REPORTS.
BARNSLEY -Trade, both manufacturing and repairing, is very slack.
Many miners and others buy their leather and repair their easy jobs at home,
but still they call themselves trade unionists so long as they pay their con-
tributions to their societies. Those who do not live amongst them have no
idea of the number who carry on this business. We know persons who work
regularly at their trade and then repair boots and shoes at home for other
people.
BURNLEY - Trade here is very bad, but we wish our members to note
that it is impossible to keep straight at the Central Office unless they pay
their contributions. We would ask them to make an effort to get straight
on the books so that we can get out of debt, as it is a very uncomfortable position
for the local officials. As far as repairers are concerned we think that there is
something that ought to be altered re out-of-work pay in this respect. A man
who is discharged either in a factory or in a repairing shop can draw out-of-
work pay, but most repairers have a regular shop. We, who are the majority
of repairers, must attend our shop every day. Many times we go for nothing,
but we are always employed. Sometimes we have for wages, after doing a
little every day, as small a sum as IOS. or less. whilst if our emplovers would
stop us we could get the benefit of both our own out-of-work and also the
state unemployment dole. There are hundreds of us who have worked more
or less every day since the State Unemployment Act came into force, who have
not earned equal to the men who have been unemployed for any given period
when men unemployed were entitled to out-of-work pay. We who have
regular shops, and we speak especially of men who work in one-man shops,
are compelled always to pay, and under no circumstances will we ever be able
to reap a benefit from it. If all contributions are the same, in the hour of need
we should have like benefits. Under present conditions we are debarred,
and it is time it was altered. For instance, ours is a repairing branch, and for
all trade has been bad for so long, notice how little out-of-work pay you have
had to pay; but the distress has been awful and been quietly borne, and can be
seen in the state of our finances at the Central Office.
Some
EDINBURGH.-We are pleased to report a clean sheet as far as Sickness
Benefit is concerned. Short time and unemployment are still with us.
of our members cannot secure work although trying their best all over the
District. One or two of our members are getting a piece out which may mean
paltry shilling or so.
a few shillings for a week's pay. Now our Branch consider this a hardship
on these men not being allowed their contributions to be paid by the Union.
They cannot possibly pay anything for Union out of a
on authority
We should like, through our Monthly Report, to have the experience of other
branches regarding the State Unemployment Benefits. In Edinburgh nearly
every Union has the same complaint, members being kept waiting
to pay coming through, some five and six weeks. At present one of our members,
although having signed and been claimed for, has still I week and 1 day to get,
last payment being made on August 23rd. Now it would seem as if the Labour
Exchanges were putting every possible difficulty in the way of Trade Unions
in regard to payments. The Parish Council have decided to grant relief to
necessitous cases of unemployed, but to all appearances the home will require
to be almost broken up before relief arrives. Local Trades Council are holding
a demonstration to bring this matter before our public officials to get a move
on. We are pleased to notice the name of the General Secretary on the list
of names of Committee to inquire into the working of Wages Trade Boards.
"

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

800
McCarthy here during the month. He visited all the firms and we got some
to join up again and a lot of promises. We had a special meeting duringg
Mr. McCarthy's visit and it was well attended, and we are hoping for some
good results through the meeting.
NORWICH. Trade in Norwich has improved considerably during the
month, although such improvement has been almost exclusively on Turushoes,
Every firm making turnshoes in Norwich, both large and small, have now
absorbed and with no further available labour, overtime in one or two instances
more turnshoe trade than can be coped with. Every turnshoe maker has been
has been resorted to, after in some instances machine-sewn lasters being tried
on turnshoe making, an experiment which we are pleased to say has proved
fairly satisfactory. Current reports speak hopefully of an improvement in
machine-sewn trade, and we can only hope such reports are well founded.
and so help to reduce unemployment in our remaining sections of the trade.
Sickness is still very low.
NORTHAMPTON No. 1.-Trade continues slack, large numbers being
employed by the Distress Committee on Town improvements, varying in the
number of days according to the family responsibilities. We are unfortunate
had been a trustee a long time. He had at various times been on the Arbitration
in losing one of our oldest members of the Branch, Mr. F. Goldsborough, who
Board when it was most difficult to get men to stand the brunt of the battle.
Devote of condolence was passed with his relatives, and also with the relatives
of Mr. W. Bray, whose unfortunate death adds yet another to the Union's
branch officers who have come to an untimely end.
NOTTINGHAM Trade in this district is bad, our chief firm only working
four days a week from 9 till 5, while those on repairing shops are only partly
employed. Our out-of-work payments have been very light so far. We are
hoping for some improvement in the near future.
PLYMOUTH.-Trade is quiet. We now have the names of Lord Cave's
Committee appointed to overhaul the Trade Boards Act, and we are pleased
to see the name of our General Secretary among them. This we look upon
as a guarantee that the workers' interest will be watched and defended, with
honesty and ability. The agitation which has been carried on against the
Trade Boards for the last two or three months has not been without its advan-
tages to the worker. We have been able to see where the opposition comes
from, and who is the real friend of the worker, and if the agitation continues
we believe the worker will be made to see the precarious position he is in,
and how necessary it is to defend himself by organisation; how his livelihood
is protected by an Act of Parliament, how Parliament can pass as many Acts
to protect his livelihood as they have to protect private property, when Parlia-
ment is composed of a majority of genuine representatives of the workers.
Te remember that the British Parliament abolished the Slave Trade in 1808,
and it took us just 100 years to get the Trade Board Act upon the Statute
Book for the abolition of sweating. Are we to scrap this Act and turn back
again into the wilderness for another 100 years? Or shall we keep our face
toward the land fit for heroes to live in ?-where the sunlight shall flood the
worker's cottage, and the abundant harvest gladden the hearts of all. This
depends upon how we use our intelligence.
Come again when trade is better"
STONE.-Trade is bad. We are having our members discharged in a
manner that is somewhat new to us:
"
is what our members get. This is neither discharge nor suspension. But the
more serious question is that male and female members when discharged,
although they have worked for a firm 10 or 12 years or even more, when they
occasioning for a job elsewhere, they are asked, "What can you do?." What
task it is for them to tell, and if any are clever enough to answer the question
C
10
1:
"

---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

871
ORGANISER'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since my last report I have been working in London, Chesham and Stafford.
September 25th and 26th Council meeting. From 27th to 30th I visited several shops
for organising purposes. On October 1st Mr. Buckle and I attended the funeral of the
late Mr. Wm. Bray, Secretary, London Metro. Branch. "Bill," as he was commonly called
hed a long record of things attempted and things done in our Union. Many of his old
shopmates and colleagues attended the funeral. I went to Chesham on October ard
and continued my efforts there till the 14th. Members who have heard reports about
Chesham may rest assured that the Council will spare no effort to put things right there.
From October 17th to 21st, I was on special work for the Council at Stafford. The Secre-
tary and Committee did everything possible to make this work complete. It is truly
Apart from export trade there is a great deal of necessary work to be done at home. The
painful to see so many men and women out of work, no matter what town one goes to.
This could be done no less for times of stress in peace than in war. The cry for wages to
credit of the country is needed in setting hundreds of thousands of men ageing on this work.
Prime Minister seemed to be quite oblivious of such a thing as unemployment until a few
come down would be little heeded only for the numbers of men out of work. Our dear
days ago.
September 22nd, 1921.
D. MCCARTHY.

TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
General Council, 1921-1922.
The first General Council of the Trades Union Congress, which takes the place of the
old Parliamentary Committee, has been elected by a postal ballot of the affiliated organisa-
tions, in accordance with the decision of the Annual Congress at Cardiff, in September last.
The Council comprises 32 members, who were elected in 18 electoral groups by the
whole Congress. The following list of members shows how the 18 electoral groups have
been combined to form six groups or sub-committees of the Council, each dealing with
questions concerning its own group of trades.
GROUP A.
Mining and Quarrying: Messrs. R. Smillie, H. Murnin and R. T. Jones.
Railways: Messrs. J. Bromley, J. H. Thomas, M.P., and A. G. Walkden.
Transport (other than Railways): Messrs. H. Gosling and B. Tillett, M.P.
Shipbuilding: Mr. J. Hill.
GROUP B.
Engineering, Founding and Vehicle Building: Messrs. A. B. Swales, A. Findlay
and J. Rowan.
Iron and Steel and Minor Metal Trades: Messrs. A. Pugh and W. Kean.
Building, Woodworking and Furnishing: Messrs. G. Hicks and A. A. Purcell.
GROUP C.
Cotton: Messrs. H. Boothman and J. W. Ogden.
Textiles (other than Cotton): Mr. B. Turner.
Clothing: Mr. A. Conley.
Leather and Boot and Shoe Mr. E. L. Poulton.
GROUP D.
Glass, Pottery, Chemicals, Food, Drink, Tobacco, Brushmaking and Distribution:
Mr. J. Turner.
Agriculture: Mr. R. B. Walker.
General Workers: Messrs. J. Beard, J. N. Bell, J. Davenport and W. Thorne, M.P.
GROUP E.
Printing and Paper: Mr. H. Skinner.
Public Employees: Mr. J. W. Bowen.
Non-Manual Workers: Mr. J. B. Williams.
GROUP F.
Women Workers: Misses M. Bondfield and J. Varley.
Mr. R. B. Walker (Agricultural Workers' Union) has been elected Chairman of the
General Council. The Labour Gazette, October, 1921.


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

878
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE.
Geneva Conference, October, 1921.
The following names have been submitted to the Government by the Trades Union
rongress Parlamentary Committee to act as delegate and advisers to the Geneva Con-
rence, on behalf of British Labour:
Mr 1. Poulton, J.P. (delegate), with the following as advisers:
R1 Hon | 1 Thomas, M.P. (for the subject" Reform of Constitution of Governme
"body
Mr. R B. Walker, Mr. 1. Beard, Mr. J. F. Duncan, Scottish Farm Servants G
priculture)
Miss Livesley, of Bradford (for the question " Disinfection of wool infected w
anthrax spores ").
Mr. J. A. Gibson, House and Ship Painters (for the subject " Prohibition of the
of white lead in painting ').
Mr. John Hill and Mr. A. B. Swales (for "Weekly rest day in industrial and comme
employment ").
Mr. T. Chambers, Sailors and Firemen (for questions relating to seamen,.
Miss M. G. Bondfield (for women's interests generally).
The list of advisers has been limited to nine this time on the recommendation of
Government, moved by the demand for " economy."
Miss M. G. Bondfield and Miss Livesley will also represent the Parliamentary Cor
mittee at the International Congress of Working Women, which will be held at Gene
on October 17th, 1921, at which conference, it is expected, delegates from women's Labo
organisations of 49 nations will be in attendance.

"LOST NERVE: ONLY ONE WAY OUT."
A Trade Union Secretary's Suicide.
A story of nerves wrecked by worry and overwork was told at a Tottenham inques
on William David Bray, 59, branch secretary of the National Union of Boot and She-
Operatives, of Lamb Lane, Hackney, whose body was found in the River Lea.
The widow said that for some time her husband had been strange in his manner
He attempted suicide by cutting his throat last July.

A Registered Letter.
Last Thursday he had a registered letter, and seemed upset after reading it.
He went out, and said he would be back to tea. He did not return that night, and
next morning she had a letter in his hand-writing post-marked "Clapton." It read:
To the best little woman in all the world.
My darling wife, I cannot ask you to forgive me for all the trouble I have
brought you. I only hope my friends and I have some will rally round and help
you all they can. I have lost my nerve, and there is only one way out. God bless
you. Your broken-hearted husband, Bill.
Albert Mason, of Walthamstow, president of the London Metropolitan branch of the
Union, said deceased had been very strange in his manner.

Heavy Work after Fire.
His work had been very heavy, and the recent fire at Flatau's factory, Tottenham,
had thrown an extra 200 on their unemployed list, which meant more work for the secretary.
He had not been really fit for some time, and his books were muddled. A special
audit disclosed a deficit of 111, and Bray was written to.
Mr. A. M. Forbes, the coroner, said this was undoubtedly a last straw to his worries.
Verdict: Suicide whilst of unsound mind. - Star, 27th September, 1921.


---


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

904
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,

The past month has been utilised very largely in obtaining information by the
holding of Shops' Meetings and visiting Branches and Sections for the purpose of endeavor-
ing to the best of our ability to prove to the Employers' Federation in December that there
are no grounds for them to follow those trades who have been enabled to force a reduction
upon the workers, to act in a similar manner. The Executive of the Union hope to be
able, with the information at their disposal, to prove beyond a shadow of doubt that to
say the least, it is not reasonable to ask for a reduction in wages or in the earning power
of the operatives. We are applying ourselves to this particular phase of the subject,
and the places mentioned. We hope to be able, taking all things into consideration, to
stave off the attempt, signified by a good many employers, to bring an alteration on the
earning power of operatives. I do not intend at this juncture to give a resume of
request, other than that already mentioned.

CHESHAM. As the information has become public property, the Union's Execu
found it necessary to visit Chesham owing to pressure having been brought to bear by
employers upon our members in that area. We called the members together, a good
number assembled, although it would have been a pleasure for us to have seen still more
on so important an occasion. We placed the matter before them, deciding upon a course
of procedure which we intend ultimately to report to them again before coming to a definite
conclusion. It is very unfortunate in any circumstances for one section of workers in any
trade or calling to permit employers to press them to accept reductions in wages or altera-
tion in their status of living, especially when one remembers that in our industry we have
not by any manner of means obtained or demanded all we were entitled to when cost of
living was as high as 178 per cent. above pre-war, and I am sure that it will be a most
difficult task for any section of employers to prove that the boot and shoe operative to-day
when all things are considered, is receiving better remuneration than he was in 1914.
I don't believe that such a thing could be proved to any body of independent persons.

GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS. - During the month I have also attended
on two different occasions, meetings of the General Federation of Trade Unions, whose
work is becoming so important that they have decided to advertise for two National
Organisers at £500 per year, with 15s. per day for out of town expenses. We feel that
this sum is not too large for work so important as we expect to be performed. The Organi-
sers, whoever they may be, will not be called upon to do such arduous work as addressing
open-air meetings, but their work will be confined largely to visiting Executives, General
Secretaries and Officers of Unions, and explain to them the benefits to be obtained by joining
up with an organisation - the largest in the United Kingdom at the present time-being
nearly two million strong, and whose accumulative funds are to act as a deterrent to any
section of employers who feel that they have to take action against any individual Trade
Union who happened to be federated. This Federation proves, as we find at our Monthly
Meetings, the numerous efforts on the part of employers to reduce wages and to get back
to old and bad conditions. Very little reflection is required to-day for any man to know
that the best he can do as an individual is to join a Trade Union, and the next best thing
is for him to see that his own Trade Union should join up with a Federation, where we hope
the smaller Trade Unions will find a haven of refuge in the General Federation of Trade
Unions, because the bigger Unions are looking after themselves by joining up with other
big Unions, leaving the smaller Unions to take "pot luck."

I am hoping that a broader spirit will yet prevail, which still exists to-day as it did
the day when the Trade Union Congress first formed the General Federation of Trade
Unions.

TRADE BOARD. -I have had occasion to also spend two days in conjunction with the
Trade Board, where we are endeavouring to put right many anomalies that existed in the
first completed statement issued by this Board. Experience has shewn us that this was
necessary and for that purpose the Advisory Committee, upon which I happen to act
with one of my colleagues, has been very active in trying to rectify the short-comings of
previous statements. Whether the opposition to Trade Boards is likely to have any
influence or not, it is not for me to say, but at the present moment there does not appear
to be any likelihood of the Trade Board being permanently injured. My own view is that
it is only the unscrupulous employers of labour who are afraid of Trade Board influence,
and I am sorry to have to say that owing to bad trade this section of the community
appear to be very numerous at the present time.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

905

WELLINGBOROUGH. - It is my pleasure to report that our visit to Mr. Odell, as ex-
plained in my last report, has, after one week's stoppage had a salutary effect upon this
gentleman and the firm, for after the men had lost one week's work the firm expressed
their willingness to consider, with an official of the Ministry of Labour, whether we could
not find a satisfactory solution to our advances. With my colleagues we met the Govern-
settled the matter acceptable to the operatives, most of whom returned to work the next
ment Official and Mr. Odell and his partner, and after some two hours' consideration we
day, and the others as they were required. We regret that the firm should have put us
to the expense, although we are pleased to think that the differences ended so quickly
I wonder how many of the members of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives
and to our satisfaction.
are wearing Trade Union Stamped Boots and Shoes ?

7 MECKLENBURGH STREET.
LONDON, W.C. 1.
16th November, 1921.
Yours fraternally,

General President

THE FRENCH FEDERATION OF GARMENT WORKERS.
By T. v. d. HEEG.

If we examine the situation of the trade union movement in the garment making
industry throughout the world, it will appear that practically all unions have emerged
from the world war stronger and more influential.

in the movement was
able to withstand the reaction which prevailed during 1920 and 1921. The news from
one country, however, is dismal. That country is France.

Some Results of Indiscriminate Striking.

During 1919 it appeared as if the trade union movement amongst the dressmakers
and tailors in the extensive garment-making industry of that great country had at last
commenced to take root. At the Congress at Lyons, in 1919, the secretary submitted
a return showing a total of 26,000 financial members, whilst the number on the books
was estimated at 40,000. A total of 26,000 financial members was not much for France,
with its extensive garment-making industry, but it held out promise for the future.

This promise has not been fulfilled. Since 1919 the French union has been steadily
on the decline, as the following figures will show :-

Paying Members.
First half-year 1919
26,000
Second
"
1919
25,000
First
1920
21,500
Second
1920
11,000
First
1921
7:000

Branches.
139
160
163
147
125

The number of card or book members is estimated at 13,300.

This backslide conveys the idea of a debacle.

The Secretary of the French Union, in his report for the period from the 1st July,
1919, to the 30th June, 1921, indicates some of the reasons which led to the great falling-
off in the number of members.

Firstly, he refers to the defeat of the workers in France on the occasion of the general
strike in May, 1920, as a consequence of which great confusion was caused in
the ranks of organised labour. He further attributes the decline to the fierce
debates on questions which have no interest for the great mass of the workers
inside the organisation itself.

actions.
The women especially were frightened by the wild revolutionary talk and
The report is written with great candour, and indicates the weak points of the French
organisation without any colouring.

The history of the French Garment Workers' Federation is like that of Trade Unionism
in France in general during recent times: Mutilated by internal dissent, the French move-
ment is like a warning light at sea for the trade unions of other countries. The Garment
Worker, October, 1921.


---
Here is the text from the image:

906
PARLIAMENTARY AGENT'S REPORT.
Since my last report much water has flowed under the bridges, but midst all the change that has taken place the problem of poverty arising out of unemployment remains the same, or worse.
It is perhaps worthy of mention that the Labour Party in the House have never let this question remain in abeyance. Right throughout this Parliament it has continuously and persistently raised this issue: What were the intentions of the Government? What preparations were they making to meet the conditions that were bound to evolve? What were the questions that were continually put by labour speakers to the Government, and the answer was, they had the situation in hand, and were taking steps to deal with it.
And how did they act; did they not increase the benefit payable under Unemployment Insurance? The fact that the new benefit was less in value than the pre-war rate did not seem to matter, and the hopelessness of the position did not occur to them that in developing Insurance they were doing nothing to prevent men from falling out of work. It is in this regard that their failure has been the greatest. The country has been told continually that what was needed was to get back our export trade, but what has been done in that direction? The charge that Labour bring against the Government is that their forever policy has prevented export trade rather than helped it.
But the attitude of Labour has not been confined to criticism, our policy has never been purely negative, we have put forward definite proposals, constructive in character, always urging that it is better to set idle labour to work, than to pay out benefit without return for weeks on end. Our first claim for the unemployed has been work, work, work, each of which would give the nation wealth in return, and have helped in the years ahead, useful schemes, such as building houses, schools, roads, afforestation, land reclamation, but our advice was given in vain.
We were unfit to govern, they possessed the brains, the ability, and they would fail with the situation. Neither from the point of view of national well-being, or mere commercial success can they claim any credit, in fact, so discredited is this Government that at bye-elections none can be found to carry their banner.
If Labour governs worse than the present Government, then it will be a case of God help the country.
Almost the last words spoken in the House before it rose in August were uttered by Clynes, when once again on behalf of the Party, he demanded to know what the Government intended to do in regard to unemployment. Before many days had elapsed the situation became serious and Labour demanded the calling together of Parliament to deal with the problem. The Government could not refuse. Men, hungry men, were knocking at the door, demanding justice, refusing any longer to quietly submit to suffer in silence. The Labour Mayors of London refused to allow local authorities to carry the burden which belonged to the nation, refused to permit the poverty arising from unemployment to be met by the poor themselves. Poplar Councillors had gone to prison rather than attempt the impossible of getting blood out of a stone, or in other words asking people for money where it did not exist.
And so Parliament met, but not before the Government had attempted to persuade labour to accept a share of their failures. Labour refused to contribute to a policy of delay. We had made our proposals long before, we had given ample time for consideration, we would explain them if need be, but the responsibility for action rested with them and not with us, we would render help if their proposals were sound, but we must be free to determine our action.
If ever there was a case of the mountain in labour bringing forth a mouse, surely it was in the pitiful proposals of this greatest of all Governments. Once again the poor were to help the poor, and Insurance was to be extended to dependants. Those in work were to keep those out of work. The fact that they had been doing this and had failed because the problem was too great for their Trade Union effort, counted for nothing. The further fact that industry was largely in a state of paralysis did not prevent further burdens being added. The one section of the community that continued to flourish was to be free from obligation. The great kings of finance, who during the depression were able to make their 15 per cent., plus ample amounts placed to reserve, were to contribute nothing. All those employed in that sphere, in fact all who were really able to pay, were to be exempt, while those who perhaps had only just returned to employment, and were possibly only making very short time, had to pay. The single man must pay though he could not claim any benefit.
And when it came to the benefits, they were simply staggering! The wife was to have 5s. and each dependent child Is., with a maximum of 9s. So those with large families where the need was greatest, were to have less per head. If there were six children then either the last or the first two did not need anything. What a mockery of the people


---


---
```text
UNION CIRCULAR 260.
ΝΑΤΙONAL UNION OF
BOOTT & SHOE OPERATIVES
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W... 1.
To Members of Branch Executives.
FELLOW OFFICERS,
VOTING.
16th November
It has been brought to the notice of the Core
that certain Branches count their votes as soon as
ballot is closed, but in order to prevent other centres cam
influenced by the vote of one district as against anot
the Council have unanimously agreed that in future
Union votes MUST be counted on the 12th December
and returned to the Central Office immediately afterwards
UNION CIRCULAR 265.
19th November, 10:
UNION VOTING.
Enquiries having been made by several branches as to
who is entitled to vote for Delegates to National Conferences.
your attention is called to Rule 91, which distinctly states that
"members eligible to vote must be registered and financial
members of the Union, and being NOT more than eight
weeks in arrears."
Thus it is clear that ONLY REGISTERED
MEMBERS CAN VOTE.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
```

---
Here is the text from the image:

909
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE. DAILY INTELLIGENCE.

Russia. Soviet Schools.
M. Amfiteatroff, the well-known Russian writer, has recently reached Helsingfors.
He has now published his experiences and impressions, of which the following is a summary.
During the Soviet regime he became a teacher in one of the model schools in Petrograd.
One of the principal schemes of the Bolsheviks on their accession to power was the
reorganisation of the schools on communistic lines with a view to lessening home and family
influence over the children and rendering them State-children, having only the interests
of the Communist State at heart.
This scheme has, however, failed for many reasons, the most important of which are
given below.

Teachers.
The quality of teaching in the schools was of a very low standard as, although the
teachers generally did their best, the majority of the old experienced ones had left the
schools and had been substituted by former members of the liberal professions, who, in
order to live, became teachers, but who had had no previous experience in that capacity.
Teachers were, perforce, more interested in obtaining the wherewithal to live than in
the education of the children: this is comprehensible when teachers were paid 700-900
roubles a month for one weekly lesson when bread cost 3,500-4,000 roubles a pound, that
is to say 4-5 hours' teaching.
Amfiteatroff was paid 3,800 roubles per month for 4 hours teaching weekly and when
he crossed the Neva by ferry, which he had to do to get to his school, the journey cost
4,000 roubles.
In order to live, teachers were therefore obliged to procure a large number of lessons
daily, and, owing to the almost complete breakdown of communications, had to walk
from one school to another, often a considerable distance, in a half-famished condition;
their teaching value was consequently very small. Furthermore, salaries were always
in arrear and in many cases never paid at all. Last August the arrears of the Commissariat
of Education amounted to 54-80 billion roubles, and with the exception of 14-15 billions
owing to the Theatrical Section, this sum consisted entirely of unpaid teachers' wages.
Rations were supposed to be issued to the teachers, but this in reality was done most
irregularly and the amount depended greatly on the goodwill and honesty of the distri-
butors.

Schools.
Besides suffering from a great lack of materials the schools were very badly heated
and the teachers and pupils had to wear hats and coats during the lessons; the sanitary
arrangements were in a deplorable condition. When Amfiteatroff left Russia, the question
of closing down a large number of schools owing to want of fuel was being considered.
Only those schools which could find their own fuel were to remain open and the pupils
from the other schools concentrated as far as possible in the heated schools. This scheme
found favour among the Bolsheviks, as they could thus cut down teaching staffs and so
save the Education Department the expense of their salaries and rations.

Social Welfare of the Pupils.
This scheme, whereby the pupils were regarded as State-workers insured by the
State and receiving salaries and which was to be the means of rendering the children
independent of their families and increasing State influence, failed chiefly owing to the
pupils' salaries not being paid for months, and when they were paid the value of the paper
money received had so depreciated as to be practically worthless. The issues of clothes,
boots, &c., which had been promised were never made and the children throughout remained
almost entirely dependent on their families.
For all these reasons the educational system of the Bolsheviks has been a failure,
and almost the only thing it has achieved is the estrangement of children from their parents.
-(Rul, 30th September to 21st October, 1921).

RELIEF ON LOAN.
The Council at their October meeting unanimously passed a resolution expressing
disapproval of the compulsatory attitude of Boards of Guardians offering "relief to be
declared on loan, and the cost thereof being recoverable by proceedings in the County
Court."
This resolution was sent to the Ministry of Health, Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., J.P., and
the Press.


---
Here is the text from the image:

910
BRANCH REPORTS.

BARNSLEY. Trade here is very slack and there does not seem much
prospect of it getting better, for pits are working short time, and foundries have
very little to do, and linen trade bad. It seems a dark outlook for the winter
but we are hoping for a better change.

BELFAST. In sending our returns we have to report that trade continues
to remain very bad. We regret to report that the firm of Messrs. Rogan Bros.,
boot repairers, who had five repairing branches and who had all the bench work
done by hand, have opened a Central workshop during the month and are
having the work done by machinery, which has displaced a large number of
our members. We believe the time is opportune for the Council to formulate
a scheme for establishing boot repairing workshops in centres where there is
a reasonable population that would ensure success. We feel that in the course
of time that it would lead up to the establishing of manufacturing workshops.

BRIGHTON.-Trade being bad the employers make it their business to
blame the Trade Boards for it, but they forget that we have about 4,000 to
5,000 out of work, which only the National body can deal with. We are
strong supporters of the Trade Boards because they have raised the standard
of living of the lowest type of workers.

BRISTOL No. 2.-We can only report that trade is slowing down again
and the prospects are not bright. Our sick list is longer than usual; the sudden
change from summer to winter has been too severe a strain for many of our
members to withstand. Regret to report that a factory at Kingswood has
been gutted by fire. This was one of the few firms who were working full
time, and whose prospects were good. It will throw out of employment
about 50 operatives.

CHESHAM.-Trade here and position generally about the same as
previously.

CORK.-Trade here remains bad, the majority of our members being
suspended for an indefinite period.

EDINBURGH.-The Scottish branches held a Conference on the Wages
Trade Board Piece Rates. As there was some difference of opinion regarding
the definition of some items it was called with a view to having every district
paid the same. The Conference proved that all were not being paid alike.
However, we trust that when alterations are made in rates that a meeting
will be held to go fully into the changes. We are sorry to report that one
factory is now working only three days per week, so we are not participating
in the upper grade which several branches have intimated in last month's
Report. The new workers are anxiously awaiting the outcome of the meeting
between National Union and Employers' Federation ; let us hope that an
amicable settlement will be secured. Wishing the members the Compliments
of the Season.

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. -Trade in the district has improved con-
siderably although many of our members are unfortunately still unable to
get employment. A claim for a week's wages in lieu of notice from Messrs.
Curtis, Bozeat (who has closed his factory), has been secured through Messrs.
Darnell and Price. Also a case of week's wages in lieu of notice from Messrs.
Brown & Sons, Leicester, for operatives at their branch factory, Irchester,
was referred to the County Board, who decided that the claim was legitimate
and should be paid. A protest against penalising the unemployed members,
who have been out of work for more than 12 months, through no fault of their
1


---
own and therefore out of Health Insurance was passed and copies have been
sent to Sir A. Mond and Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P. We regret that at the ligham
Ferrers Borough Election our candidates were severely beaten, and both in
the interests of National Representation as well as Local Politics, re-organisa
tion must take place. The Branch has granted f2 2s. od. to the Mary Macarthur
t
Memorial Fund.
S
LEICESTER NO 1.--We are pleased to report that our Secretary has been
of 468, being a Labour gain. Trade is still about the same, the majority of our
elected to represent the Wyggeston Ward on the City Council by a majority
members being on short time.
Jan
LEICESTER WOMEN'S. -The last month finds the Leicester Women's
Branch busy in combatting manufacturers who are determined by hook or by
members a reduction on anuary Ist, which is, so far as our women are con-
crook to have prices reduced, and whose foremen are preaching to our women
cerned, very previous. As a Branch we are indebted to the Council for giving
Congress of Working Women in Geneva. The information and experience
our President, Mrs. Bell-Richards, an opportunity to attend the International
gained will be of great service not only to Trade Union women but to Labour
Party women, all of whom the constitution of the Women's International
embraces. Also we feel very proud to have a woman on the Standing Joint
Committee of Industrial Women's organisations. We feel the need to be in
touch more with what is being done for the working-class women as a whole.
We have to report that ten members are out of employment, all table girls,
no machinists; hundreds of others are on part time.
LIVERPOOL. How is trade? In the majority of cases the answer is-
Very quiet; only earned so much last week (mentioning a very low figure).
Is it any wonder members get behind with their contributions? But as we are
expected to keep our accounts straight and free from debt there is only one
course open to us, that is, conform to the rules and if members exceed the limit
of thirteen weeks to strike them off, much as we regret having to do it. Is
the one-man shop doomed in the boot repairing trade? is a query that might
well be asked at the moment, because we find that the people who have un-
limited capital, either individually or in combination, are able to equip a factory
with a full plant of machinery of an up-to-date character and are able by judi-
cious advertising, combined with price-cutting, to monopolise the trade so that
the small man is knocked out of the running or left at the post for the simple
reason that he cannot compete or make enough show for lack of capital. As
the festive season is drawing near, and this will be the last Report before Christ-
mas that will be in the hands of our members, we will close our report by
wishing all officials and members the Compliments of the Season, with a hope
that there are better times in store in the near future.
MAYBOLE. We are pleased to report trade very good and sickness
light. We have the Town Council Election past for another year; two of our
branch, the Secretary and a committeeman returned unopposed, which we think
is quite good. We had Mr. Bleakley here last week to see if we could get every-
body to work to one system, as at present some are on day wages and some
on piecework. The employers felt as it was so near the end of the year they
could not take it up just now. It is to be hoped when our Council meet the
employers on the National Agreement they will at least be able to avoid any
reduction in wages.
NORWICH No. 1.- Turnshoe trade in Norwich continues very busy,
the only difficulty being insufficient labour. We are finding Norwich em-
plovers now
commencing turnshoe manufacture who hitherto have confined
their attention to machine sewn and Veldtschoens. That of course, is all to the
good, but we would very much like to see a fillip in the machine sewn trade,

---
a section that is still very slow although an improvement is taking place some-
what gradually. Our Branch in Norwich can well feel proud of its achievement
in the November elections: W. Hindes, the President, winning handsomely
in the Catton Ward, incidentally turning a defeat by nearly 700 votes on the
last occasion Labour fought into a majority of over 100. Herbert Frazer,
although absent from the city by reason of illness, gained a victory for Labour
in the Mousehold Ward with a majority of 224 votes. Both wins represent
gains to the Labour Party, and, we of the boot operatives, feel the time is not
far distant when organised Labour will have the longed-for opportunity of
bearing the responsibilities of Local and National life. Congratulations to our
fellow members in other districts who secured like results, and sympathy to
others who fought splendidly but lost.

PLYMOUTH. —Trade remains quiet and we can see no immediate pro-
pect of improvement, but there is one redeeming feature and just a little ray of
hope in the steady but continuous fall in the cost of living. Many of our mem-
bers earn little more than out-of-work pay, i.e., State and Union, and certainly
no more than some Boards of Guardians are paying for out-relief. But our
members, in spite of adversity, have remained loyal to the principle of Trade
Unionism and mutual help, sharing their work and abiding by the agreement.
to work short time. We see wage-cutting and proposed reductions taking place
all around, sometimes without even a consultation being allowed, while the value
of the worker sinks lower and lower like the value of the German mark. Proh-
ably there is some distant relationship between the two.

REDRUTH.-We regret having to report a further depression in trade,
which has brought about more lost time, and the outlook is gloomy. The
National Health and Unemployment Insurances and Union contributions are
a big drain on an already depleted "pay-bag," but the majority of our members
are optimistic and are looking forward to the better times which must cer-
tainly come. We take this opportunity of appealing to our members to take
a little more interest in the Branch, by attending the monthly meetings for
the purpose of discussing all matters of interest that may arise during the month.
As this will be the last published Report for the year, we tender to all "The
Compliments of the Season."

SOUTHAMPTON.-Shoe Trade very slack and, with little sign of im-
provement in the shipping, shipbuilding and engineering trades, the outlook
has not a rosy appearance.

STAFFORD. There appears to be a slight improvement in trade in this
centre, and there is great need for it; we are hoping it will continue to improve.

STREET.-With the exception of the Turnshoe departments, which are
working full time, there is very little improvement in the state of trade here.
During the month we were very greatly assisted by our Council member, Mr.
J. Manners, in the adjustment of a few local difficulties. We also had the
pleasure of a visit from Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., who addressed a meeting of
members and a public meeting in the Crispin Hall. Although the attendance
at these meetings was not so large as we would have liked, yet Mr. Smith made
a great impression, and we are grateful for the help both he and Mr. Manners
gave our Branch.

YARMOUTH (GREAT).-Trade is very bad; the few members that are
working are not doing more than two days a week.

GOLDEN WEDDING OF MR. J. H. C. CROCKETT, J.P.

In recognition of the golden wedding of Mr. J. H. C. Crockett, J.P., the senior member
of the firm, the employees of Messrs. Crockett & Jones, boot manufacturers, Northampton,
were all presented with a week's wages last week.—Northampton Echo, October 21st, 1921.

---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

917
consider to be in the best interests not merely of the workers as workers, but
in the interests of the workers as part and parcel of the peoples of the world and
as citizens of their various nations. Moreover, at this morning's session I was very
much interested by the statement of my colleague Baldesi. He appealed this morning
to the non-European countries to fall into line a little more quickly with the European
countries and adopt the lead that they are giving them. Here the European countries,
strange to say-France and Great Britain propose what we as workers consider to be
a lead backwards, I hope the non-European countries, in this particular matter, will
come to the aid of the workers, and let these other countries know by their vote that
having regard to the safeguards mentioned in these particular clauses, they are going to
support to the utmost limit the workers' desire, hope and ambition of securing to every
body, so far as is possible, at least a 24-hour weekly rest.
Re Application of Convention to Night Work of Children in Devastated Regions
by the War, it was proposed to extend exemption until 1st July, 1925. I succeeded in
getting this reduced to " 31st December, 1923."
THE PRESIDENT: On an amendment handed in, 1 beg to call on Mr. Poulton.
MR. POULTON (Great Britain): Mr. President, I beg to move that in the last line of
the Recommendation, for words "1st July, 1925," there shall be substituted the words
"31st December, 1923," and I hope our friends will be able to accept the amendment
and incorporate it in the Resolution, so that we need not have a divided vote. I feel sure,
on reflection, they will see that that will give them sufficient time to enable them to deal
with the unfortunate circumstances in their respective countries. I therefore move the
amendment.
FINANCIAL AID TO WOMEN (IN AGRICULTURE) BEFORE
AND AFTER CHILD-BIRTH.
MR. POULTON (Great Britain): Mr. President, I rise to express surprise at the attitude
of Sir Daniel Hall, particularly in view of the answer of the British Government to the
Questionnaire, because the answer of the British Government to the Questionnaire was
that one of the points that they considered was that it would cost too much-not that
it was not a good measure in itself. Then they went on to say in the answer that that
thing is being carried out in Great Britain, and they recite, in a passage on Page 13 of the
blue Report D, the method by which these things are being met in Great Britain. Then
they go on to say in addition, that under the Maternity and Child Welfare Act, 1918, the
Government encourages, and aids, financial schemes of local authorities, and voluntary
agencies, for providing protection and help in the case of expectant mothers. Then they
further recite the number of things the authorities are able to do in respect of these par-
ticular matters.
In view of this, I do hope, and appeal to my colleagues, that they will not put the
British nation in a false position at this Conference, simply because there may be some
ambiguity about the word "similar." I trust, on reconsideration, and having regard to
the answers they have themselves given, and which are published to the whole world,
they will be able, on further reflection, to vote for this particular Recommendation, even
although it may have some ambiguity-and I agree to that extent with Sir Daniel Hall
in that we ought to have explicit and clarified language in these Recommendations and
Conventions. But I suggest that that is not a justification for going to the other extreme,
and saying they will vote against it.
F. L. POULTON, Gen. Sec.

INTERNATIONAL LABOUR.
The Conference at Geneva. Night Work for Children in Agriculture.
GENEVA, TUESDAY,
The International Labour Conference held a plenary session this afternoon, and for-
mally adopted the various recommendations regarding
(1) Night work for children and young persons in agriculture;
(2) Protection of women and children before and after childbirth;
(3) Living-in conditions for agricultural workers.
Speaking with regard to item one, Sir A. Deiall, British Government Delegate, said
he would abstain from voting against the practice of employing children and young persons
on night work in agriculture, as it did not exist in Great Britain.
Mr. W. Barrett, South African Government Delegate, said he was unable to accept
the recommendation regarding the protection of women and children before and after
childbirth, owing to the special conditions prevailing in South Africa.
Sir A. Deiall objected to what he described as the ambiguous wording of the recom-
mendations.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

920
THE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE OF WORKING WOMEN.
DELEGATE'S REPORT.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL.
GENTLEMEN,
Acting on your resolution and instruction I attended the International Conference.
of Working Women at Geneva, which held Sessions from October 17th to 25th, and closed
its proceedings after the adoption of a broad programme dealing with the social and
economic difficulties of the world of to-day. Delegates were present from Belgium, Cuba,
Czecho Slovakia, France, Great Britain, Italy, Norway, Poland, South Africa, Switzerland,
United States and China. There were also many guests from various countries. Thus
was the second meeting of the Women's International, the first meeting being held at
Washington in October, 1919.

The objects of the International Federation of Working Women (new name adopted,
are threefold: (1) to promote trade union organisation among women; (2) to develop
an international policy, giving special consideration to the needs of women and children
and to examine all projects for legislation proposed by the International Labour Conference
of the League of Nations; (3) and to promote the appointment of working women on
organisations affecting the welfare of the workers.

In order to bring about closer co-operation between the working women of Europe
the Secretariat will be located in London, England, for the next two years. The new
Executive Board is as follows:-

Mrs. Raymond Robins .. United States President.
Miss Burniaux .. Belgium Vice-President.
Mrs. Laura de Zayas Bazan .. Cuba Vice-President.
Mrs. Bozena Kubickova .. Czecho-Slovakia Vice-President.
Miss Jeanne Bouvier .. France Vice-President.
Miss Margaret Bondfield .. Great Britain Vice-President.
Signora Cabrini Casartelli .. Italy Vice-President.
Mrs. Betzy Kjelsberg .. Norway Vice-President.
Miss Sophie Dobrzanska .. Poland Vice-President.
Miss Fitzgerald .. South Africa Vice-President.
Miss Monnier .. Switzerland Vice-President.
Mrs. Maud Swartz .. United States Vice-President.
Dr. Marion Phillips .. Great Britain Secretary.
Mrs. Harrison Bell .. Great Britain Treasurer.

The Congress was opened by M. Albert Thomas, Director of the International Labour
Office, M. Oudegeest, General Secretary of the Amsterdam Trade Union Internationa
M. Jouhaux and Fimmen also addressing the Congress.

Commissions were appointed and reports were duly presented on :-
(1) The Future Constitution of the Women's International.
(2) Unemployment.
(3) Limitation of Armaments.
(4) Two Commissions on Agriculture.
(5) Anthrax.
(6) Lead Poisoning.
(7) Weekly rest day.

A lengthy report was given on the Draft Conventions adopted at Washington, and
how many countries had ratified those conventions. The British delegation was compelled
to feel humiliation at their Government deciding, on their own responsibility, not to ratify
the Washington Maternity Convention, which proposes a sufficient payment to insure
full and healthy maintenance for mother and child six weeks before and six weeks after
childbirth, apart and wholly unconnected with the Poor Law.

I was appointed on two Commissions-The Constitution and Weekly Rest Day.

The Commission for the Constitution was very interesting, and in some respects very
difficult. If all spoke one language it might have been easier, but all who have experienced
the difficulty of languages and translation will know that one word upsets the whole fabric,
although the meaning when understood is exactly what is desired by all countries.

The Weekly Rest Day we, in this country, have enjoyed since 1677. We ask for
an international law definitely fixing the rest period of one day and a half. In all cases
where this is impossible, a supplementary salary should be paid, also an equal period of rest
compensation. These conditions to apply to domestic servants and agricultural workers.

I advocated and obtained the support of Conference that 12 days' holiday with pay,
also 10 minutes' rest periods for all workers in the morning and afternoon of each full day,
concession especially is to all who never move from their work for hours at a stretch.
should be included in this Commission. From experience I know how desirable the latter


---
Here is the text from the image:

921
We gave the resolutions on disarmament and unemployment careful consideration,
for these two questions are in our minds closely connected, since one of the chief causes
of unemployment is the disruption of industry following a great war. Working women
do not need to be convinced of the useless waste involved in competitive armaments.
but the delegates desired to find an effective way in which to press their points of view
upon those chosen to govern them.

The disarmament resolution of the Congress was a pronouncement in favour of a policy
of total disarmament, and the Congress urged the powers convening at Washington, on
November 11th, to hold their deliberations in open session, and to take steps to bring about
total disarmament. In order to give added force to this decision, the Congress voted to
send a representative to Washington, and Miss Kate Manicom, of the Workers' Union of
Great Britain, was chosen to carry to Washington and to President Harding a message
from the working women of the world.

It was a source of pleasure for me to be able to meet Miss Steghagen, a member of the
Boot and Shoe Workers of America, who assured me their closing-room operatives earned
an average of £5 to £7 per week; other information she is posting on to me. Also Miss
Zung, of China, supplied me with information regarding the manufacture of boots and shoes
in China, which was very interesting and surprising.

Altogether the Congress was to my mind a huge success. In addition to the results
obtained, it was a great opportunity and privilege to be there. It gave new courage to
some of us who went from Great Britain feeling that everything we did was not worth
while, and seemed to give renewed faith in the new and better world that will be to-morrow.
I thank the Council for this opportunity afforded me.

Yours sincerely,
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS,
Delegate.

PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE (ADMIRALTY ORDERS).

MR. WATERSON asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty whether any
decision has been arrived at as to the advisability of anticipating future contracts for boots
and shoes for the Navy, with a view to relieving unemployment in the boot and shoe
industry; and, if so, will he state such and, if not, what is the cause of delay, and when
may a decision be expected?

COMMANDER EYRES-MONSELL: It is not possible to place orders requiring payment
in the current financial year beyond those already determined or to meet current needs,
as the money provision made by Parliament will not permit the expenditure involved.
I understand that it has not been found possible to allocate any part of the special grant
for relieving unemployment for this purpose.-(Extract from Parliamentary Debates,
Tuesday, 1st November, 1921).

MR. WATERSON asked the Secretary of State for War whether his Department has
disposed of any soiled or unsoiled Army boots during the last 12 months; if so, the amount,
and how they were disposed of, whether by private treaty or public sale; and whether any
Government Department has disposed of any stocks of boots purchased primarily for the
Army?

MR. YOUNG: I have been asked to answer this question. The Disposal Board has
sold during the past 12 months by public auction, public tender, or private treaty, approxi-
mately 1,750,000 pairs of footwear. Nearly 1,500,000 pairs were Army boots of varying
descriptions and varying degrees of serviceability, and the rest consisted of clogs, shoes,
waders, wood-soled trench boots, slippers and other miscellaneous items.-(Extract from
Parliamentary Debates, Tuesday, 8th November, 1921).

MR. WALTER SMITH,-To ask the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty, if he can
state the names and addresses of the firms contracting for the supply of boots and clogs
for his department at the present time.

MR. EYRES MONSELL: No orders have been placed for boots or clogs since March
last. The names and addresses of the contractors accepted were published as usual in
the Board of Trade Labour Gazette of April last, to which I would refer the hon. Member.-
(Extract from Parliamentary Debates, 8th November, 1921).


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

923

The most important work of the week was the foundation of the new organisation
under the name of the International Federation of Working Women. The constitution
presented by commissions was adopted without amendment and with complete unanimity
save for the delegates of the Christian Trade Unions. The constitution
Unions will be excluded from membership in the future and they entered their protest
bias is trade union but the organisations of working women working for the same objects
as the Trade Union organisations are specially included as eligible for membership.
very great difficulty was found in including the specifically political organisations as the
situation in several Continental countries is now so difficult that the Trade Union reore
sentatives cannot yet attempt an organisation on that broad basis. After many meetings
words was finally agreed upon and the objects and membership of the Federation adopted
in the following terms:

OBJECT.

The object of the Federation shall be to unite organised working women in order
that they may resolve upon the means by which the standard of the life of the workers
throughout the world may best be raised.
With this purpose in view, the Federation shall :---
(a) Promote trade union organisation among women.
(b) Develop an international policy giving special consideration to the needs
of women and children, and examine closely all projects for legislation
proposed by the League of Nations, and especially by the International
Labour Conferences.
(c) Promote the appointment of women to represent organised working
women on all organisations and committees dealing with the questions
affecting the welfare of the workers.

MEMBERSHIP.

(a) The Federation shall consist of national trade union organisations, containing
women members, and affiliated to the International Federation of Trade Unions;
it shall also admit working women's organisations accepting its aims and agreeing
to work in the spirit and to follow the principles of the International Federation of
Trade Unions.
(b) Where the trade unions organisation is not affiliated with the International
Federation of Trade Unions, the Executive Board shall decide what national body
representing organised working women shall be accepted.
(c) Only one organisation shall be accepted from each country.
(d) In the case of any controversy as to eligibility, the Executive Board shall
decide, and submit that decision to the full Congress of the Federation for its approval.

The remainder of the constitution dealt with Management, the Biennial Congress,
Headquarters and Finance. It is now being printed and will be circulated as soon as
possible. The Management of the Federation for the time being will depend upon the
officers of the country in which the Bureau is established and after their arrival at Geneva
the British delegates were approached by the American delegation with the request that
they should agree to take the Bureau to Great Britain. The delegation felt themselves
in a difficulty upon this matter as they had no instructions and had made no plans, but
the Americans were determined that they would give it up and there was no other country
which could possibly undertake it. The feeling of the American delegation was that
they had already done the work for two years and that the work suffered greatly from
their being so far from Europe. It was impossible to disagree with this point of view and
very reluctantly the British delegation agreed to the proposal. They have, however,
arranged that America should become the American offices and undertake the work with
South and Central America. The Congress showed very clearly the great need for stimu-
lation of the working women's movements in many of the countries represented and the
necessity of that stimulation coming through the organised women of other countries
seems to be recognised not only by those small groups of women themselves but also very
strongly by the International Trade Union Movement at Amsterdam. In view of this
the British delegation felt that they could not refuse to give the necessary help in carrying
they could help to unite the women in both the Trade Union and political working class
movements throughout the world and aim at getting in other countries a similar develop-
ment to that in Great Britain joining up the women organised in the political trade union
and co-operative movement. In order to gain this they felt that the organisations they
represented, namely, the Standing Joint Committee of Industrial Women's Organisations,
the Labour Party, the Trades Union Congress and several individual Trade Unions would
agree to their having accepted the duty suddenly put upon them and give them some


---
Here is the text from the image:

help in kind as well as some small financial assistance that they might carry on. The
he officers appointed were :--
years. The
Vice-President
MISS MARGARET BONDFIELD.
DR. MARION PHILLIPS.
MRS. HARRISON BELL.
U.S.A. generously pledged themselves to contribute 1,000 dollars a year for the next two
One Vice-President was appointed for each country represented and as other countrie
Secretary
Treasurer
come into affiliation they will also be asked to appoint one.
the United States, remains president of the whole organisation.
to great success.
Mrs. Raymond Robins, ol
an earnestness in this matter in the countries concerned which ought to carry it forward
The International Federation of Working Women has thus been formed, and there in
such in the constitution it is most important that not only should women who are wage.
It was recognised by all that though political organisations are not as
earners be included in its scope but that the working woman who works at home and not
women who can represent the point of view of working women on all international questio
for wages should be represented. The object is to form a world-wide organisation of
and be accepted as an International Federation just as the Miners, Textile Workers and
and that we shall be able materially to assist in bringing the working women of othe
of Great Britain we believe that great good will come from this small commenceme
countries into the general labour movement of men and women in the same way as we a
endeavouring to do in our own country. We hope therefore that the action we have bee
called upon to take in agreeing to accept the Bureau in Great Britain will be endorsed
with their help we can do really useful work in extending the organisation of work
departments of the General Council of Trade Unions and the Labour Party and hope that
the Transport Workers are accepted now.
by our colleagues both men and women.
women throughout the world.
(Signed)
Looking at it from the standpoint of the women
We propose to ask for the assistance of the
F. HARRISON BELL,
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS.
MARGARET BONDFIELD.
E. HOWSE.
THIRZA LIVESLEY.
K. MANICOM.
EDITH MCDONALD.
MARION PHILLIPS.
MADELEINE SYMONS.

WORKING WOMEN AT GENEVA.

The report of the Working Women's International Congress held at Geneva, to which
we referred in our last issue, properly belongs to our " International Trades Union Revitich
but we are sure our readers will be interested to know that the Congress gave a great desi
of attention to questions affecting the industrial conditions of women at the present time.
Comprehensive and important resolutions were passed on the subjects of disarmament.
unemployment, weekly rest periods, and holidays, as well as on other matters arising on
the agenda of the International Labour Conference of the League of Nations, which imme
diately followed it. It was decided to transfer the Secretariat to London for the next two
years, and Dr. Marion Phillips was elected Secretary, and Mrs. Harrison Bell, Treasurer.
while Miss Margaret Bondfield was again elected Vice-President for Great Britain. Miss
K. Manicom was appointed to go to Washington as the representative of the Congress to
bring the disarmament resolution to the attention of the Washington Conference. British
Trades Union Review.

"
DISARM!

Seeing that the supreme need of the world is peace and friendly co-operation betwell
nations, and that these cannot be secured unless the old method and spirit of militarism
are discarded, the Central Committee of the Women's Co-operative Guild, represention
1,000 branches and 52,000 members, calls on the British Delegation to the Washington
Convention to support total disarmament." -Resolution passed at the Central Committee
meeting of the En
English Women's Guild.
on November 5th, 1921, said the combined war budgets of America, Great Britain, France,
To prove the necessity of disarmament, Sir Donald Maclean, in the House of Commons,
own country, 4s. in every pound raised by income tax is spent in armaments. Co-operative
Italy, Sweden, Holland, Denmark, Japan, and Belgium totalled £1,252,000,000. In our
News, November 12th, 1921.


---
Here is the text from the image:

930
NORTHAMPTONSHIRE JOINT DISTRICT COUNCIL.
Report of the First Annual Meeting of the Northamptonshire
Joint District Council held at Northampton,
October 29th, 1921.

The president, Mr. W. Townley, Northampton No. 1, occupied the chair and repre
sentatives were present from all the districts in the County. The General President,
Mr. T. F. Richards, sent a telegram regretting that he was unable to attend, being confined
at home with an attack of influenza.

The Secretary presented the financial statement for the year, after which the following
officers were appointed :-Mr. Geo. Chester, Kettering No. 1, to be President. Mr. A.
Lyne, Northampton No. 2, to be Vice-President. Mr. S. J. B. Barnes, Desborough, to be
Secretary and Treasurer. Mr. L. Poole, Wellingborough, to be Auditor. Messrs. W
Langley, Higham and Rushden, W. A. Wyman, Wellingborough, E. Chapman, Kettering
No. 2, I. H. Johnson, Daventry, to be with the officers, the Executive Committee.

The Secretary then presented the first annual report of the District Council, as follows:
In presenting this first annual report of the work of the District Council I think it
will be interesting to preface it by giving a short account of the events that led up to its
formation.

The Council had its inception in its original form as the Northamptonshire Advisory
Committee on the 28th August, 1915. Previous to this date several joint meetings of an
informal character had been held at Wellingborough, called by Mr. S. Thompson, when he
was Council member for Northants.

The Old Advisory Committee was born as a result of the conditions brought about
by the great war, when New War Boots were being made all over the country to meet the
demands of the Allied Armies for footwear.

Under the usual method of fixing prices in each separate locality, for the different
boots, it can quite easily be understood, that with no co-ordination between the districts,
varying prices were arrived at and agreed to. This state of things was brought to an
head in the prices that were fixed by the Kettering and Northampton Boards of Arbitration
for the cutting of the Serbian Army Boots.

As a result of this anomaly, it was felt that some organisation ought to be created,
whose duty it should be to try and arrive at some uniform price and policy. A meeting
was therefore held at Wellingborough on the 28th August, 1915, when it was decided to
form a Northamptonshire Advisory Committee, the duty of this committee being to meet
when any new boot needed pricing, or when any new machines or method of production
was introduced, in order that some price might be agreed upon that should be adopted
as far as possible throughout the county.

A constitution was duly drawn up and agreed to at a meeting held at Wellingborough,
18th September, 1915, Mr. Jas. Gribble being appointed secretary and the General President,
Mr. T. F. Richards, President.

At that time, owing to the growth of the Union in the smaller places of the County,
and the desirability of linking them up in an Arbitration Board, Mr. Thos. Smith, who
had acted as umpire in many trade disputes, suggested that a Joint Board be formed for
Northants, and following a meeting in London under the chairmanship of Mr. Askwith,
it was decided that a County Board be formed for the County branches of Northampton-
shire, to deal with Civilian Statements and prices.

Later on the same problems that had manifested themselves in Northants, began to
be met in other parts of the country, and so the National Joint Standing Committee was
formed to deal with all prices relating to Government Contracts for Army work. Their
findings were issued in what was known as the Red Book of Army prices. Thus was
uniformity obtained throughout the whole of the country, in regard to this particular
class of work.

The Northamptonshire Advisory Committee, having been formed to deal with the
problems of obtaining as much uniformity as possible, its work was almost exclusively
confined to the building up of statements.

The Committee, however, having been formed for a definite purpose, and, in a way,
having almost accomplished that purpose when it had agreed to a basis for all depart-
mental statements, its influence began to wane. Being advisory in character, it possessed
the limitations of an advisory body, although there was in the idea of its formation, the
germ of a greater idea, which ultimately realised itself in the present Joint District Council.

District Councils became a part of the organisation of the Union as a result of the
passing of a resolution sent to the Edinburgh Conference of 1920 by the Kettering No. 1
and 2 branches.


---
Here is the text from the image:

member.
that the district covered by each council, should be the same as that set out for each Council
When the conference decided upon the principle of District Councils, it agreed also
wld have to be done with the position of the Northants Advisory Committee. A meeting
hould be abolished as an organisation, or, on the other hand whether it should be changed
was therefore called in June, 1920, to consider the whole future of the N.A.C. whether it
In view of this decision of conference it was immediately realised that something
into a Joint District Council that should take in the whole of the county, which would
numstances and position of the county, it would be more desirable and effective to have
omprise the districts of four Council members. It was thought that under the peculiar
ould be changed into a Joint District Council for Northants, and a small committer
sappointed to draw up a constitution. This was done, and at a meeting held at Welling
It was therefore unanimously agreed by the delegates, that the Advisory Committee
Anough on the 8th July, 1920, it was formally adopted, and the new Joint District Council
Sanction of the Executive Council of the Union, the first general meeting was held at
The scheme of amalgamating the four districts into one Council having received the
Wellingborough on the 25th September, 1920, when the following officers were appointed:
Mr. W. Townley, Northampton No. I, as President: Mr. Geo. Chester, Kettering No. 1.
Vice-President Mr. S. J. B. Barnes, Desborough, as Secretary and Treasurer.
The Council having been established, the way was clear to commence work. Its scope
weng so much larger than the old N.A.C. it was able in addition, to deal with the Educa-
onal, Industrial and Political policies of the Union.
Six meetings have been held during the year, the bulk of the business being concerned
with the Industrial and Educational aspects of our work. I will deal briefly with both
First, in regard to the Industrial Policy of the Union. At a meeting held in October,
branches of the county had been asked to come prepared with suggestions for this revision.
1020, the question of the revision of the National Agreement was under discussion. The
in their nature were such, as to reverse the whole of the previous policy of the Union,
Ther proposed, with a view to the more equitable distribution of work, suggestions for
At this meeting proposals were submitted from the Northampton branches, which.
governed by the state of trade, rather than upon the policy of an unlimited quantity
hosing the policy of the Union on a restrictive quantity of work, such quantities to be
which had hitherto prevailed.
them.
These proposals were heartily supported by delegates from Wellingborough, Higham
and Rushden and Daventry, while on the other hand the delegates from the Kettering
and Desborough branches did not commit themselves to the suggested change.
A majority however being in favour of the alteration, the proposals were sent up to the
Executive Council for their consideration. Support being forthcoming, it was decided
that the members ought to have a voice in saying whether such a change was desired or no.
A vote of the Union was taken, resulting in a majority for the proposed change.
The question was further raised and discussed at the first annual conference, and again
resulted in a majority for the change, the figures being for the proposal 65, against 45.
In this particular, the District Council manifested its influence by helping to mould
the Industrial Policy of the Union. What the ultimate result will be, time itself will reveal.
Again, this year, when the revision was once more under discussion, we formulated
our proposals and forwarded them to the Executive Council, Whether any of them are
embodied in their proposals we do not know, but certainly they are of some use as indicating
the mind of the members in this district.
Further, in dealing with this side of the Union's activities, Mr. Geo. Chester, Kettering
No. 1, gave an excellent paper dealing with the question of Shops Committees, and a
thoroughly good discussion followed, which will in all probability be taken up at some
date.
Secondly. In regard to the Educational side of our work, something of a very definite
nature has been attempted, which, ultimately we believe will lead to a more intelligent
grip of the history and problems of the movement.
A paper was read at one of our meetings by Mr. Len Smith, Northampton No. 1, in
which the desirability of emphasising and developing the educational side of our move-
district to study industrial questions, and afterwards, under the auspices of the Council,
ment was dealt with. At the meeting it was suggested that classes be formed in each
had a class of 35 students with Mr. Horace Allen as tutor, the subject dealt with being
classes were formed at Northampton, Higham and Rushden and Kettering. Northampton
Mr. Arthur Allen, dealt with "The Economics of Trade Unionism," while Mr. George
"The History of Trade Unionism." Higham and Rushden's class, under the tuition of


---
9.32
hesterat Ketteringcondncted a class of 18 on the sul the subject of " Problems of Trade Unionam
in relation to the Control of Industry Then at the clo Jose of the session bo to 70 gathe٢٠٠٢١
together at Wellinghotough to hear yar a lecture by Mr. G. D. H. Cole, M.A., on "Trad
mbe
I nions and the Present Economic Situation.
attempting to educate the new membe
lost ton
He emphasised the imperas Trad Unionam
A, on "Trad
into the movement during the
sous, many of whom were not trade unionists in spirit, but had come into the
movement because of the material advantages that were being obtained These dilum.
members wanted leavening with the spirit of the old members, who were trade union
because they believed implicitly in its principles.
The lecture was much apprettel
and was a htting finish to the season's worle
certamly in the minds of the students who attended, new conceptions of what the
In these efforts that have been made, none of us are able to fully estimate the
ment stands for have been engendered and minds have been enlarged by the ac
of a knowledge that will be useful in the days that are coming.
that gives an excellent promise of better things, and those who have
An interest has been aro
be exactly as though they had not been, for the simple reason, they have passed througd
an experience that has enriched their minds, and widened the horizon of their WISA
Such, in a very brief outline, is the simple story of the past
In regard to the future, Education classes have been or are being formed
ampton, Higham and Rushden and Kettering, while at Dosborough it is proposed
at the ordinary monthly meetings during the winter with various phases of Trade
History and Economics.
should endeavour to concentrate its energies and activities upon and along certain well
May I now in conclusion suggest that as a Council and in its wider sense, our Con
tional policy should be such, that there will be a concentration of thought upon the west
defined lines, until its objects are achieved. To this end, I would suggest that our educa
ways and means of obtaining our objective.
widely developed, should help considerably.
In this direction our educational classes
Our Industrial Policy should be linked to our Educational Policy, so that there
be a coherent whole. Our National agreements should be built up to attain the
end, so that, little by little, clause by clause, we shall come to that point when we
have an agreement that will give expression to our desires.
Our Political Policy should be so framed, that it will be able to give legal sanction
to our desires as expressed in our agreements.
The problem is to devise ways and means of co-ordinating our various activities
that by a concentration of ideas, and their application to the problems that face us,
shall be in a position to advance along the road we desire to traverse.
S. J. B. BARNES,
Secretary

THE BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY OF CANADA.
HISTORY OF THE INDUSTRY.
The early history of the boot and shoe manufacturing industry in Canada still awaits
research by the historian in the archives of the Old Régime, but a few facts of interest
relative to the beginnings of the industry have been uncovered. In 1667, the Jesuits
wrote to Old France that, as a country could not be formed entirely without the assistance
of manufactures, an industry was already in operation in the Colony making shoes and
hats, and another was contemplated for linen and leather. We are told that in the same
year, when the first census of New France was taken, showing a total population of 3.215.
there were twenty shoemakers in the colony. By 1671, one-third of all the shoes required
by the people were made out of leather manufactured locally. A tannery was established
in Quebec about 1670, and we read that in 1691 ox and moose skins were tanned in that
place. Prior to Confederation in 1867, and for several decades thereafter, the handicraft
system was general and little machinery was employed. The Census of 1871 reported
4,191 leather shoe manufacturing establishments. The majority of these, of course,
were not factories in the modern sense, but simply the establishments of small custom
shoemakers. The boot and shoe industry of Canada in 1870 gave employment to 18,719
persons, and the value of output was officially reported as $16,133,638. On this basis
it was Canada's third largest manufacturing industry. The decade 1870-80 was notable
for the introduction of the McKay sole sewing machines and various edge trimming and
finishing devices, and the period 1880-90 saw the adoption of the Goodyear sewing machinery
which revolutionised the art of shoemaking. The making of fine shoes in Canada may
indeed be said to date from about 1885-90.


---


---


---


---
```text
93
AMERICAN COMPETITION IN BOOTS AND
SHOES IN INDIA.
DEPARTMENT OF OVERSEAS TRADE,
35, OLD QUEEN STREET,
LONDON, S.W. r.
29th October, t921.
GENTLEMEN,
I beg to inform you that a despatch has recently been received in this Department
from His Majesty's Senior Trade Commissioner in India (Mr. T. M. Ainscough, O.Β.Ε.
on the above subject. It appears that one of the few trades in which the United Kingdo
is not entirely regaining its pre-war position is that of Boots and Shoes. The following
figures extracted from the Indian Trade Return are of interest in this connection:
TOTAL IMPORTS OF BOOTS AND SHOES
Description.
1921, Four
months, 1st
Apl-31 July.
1918--19* 1919-20*
1920-21*
Boots and Shoes of Leather
Of Other Materials
£
170,660
43,037
L
319,327
58,482
£
933,997
125,226
f
48,021
12,208
Total Imports
213,697
377,809
1,058,323
F22
ORIGIN OF IMPORTS.
Origin of Imports.
1918-19*
1919-20*
£
United Kingdom
Japan
United States
Other Countries
157,985
9,641
39,749
6,322
د
149,059
6,512
212,522
9,716
1920-21*
£
569,600
4,700
432,200
51,823
Four months
April-July.
£
Not yet
available.
Total Imports
213,697
377,809
1,058,323
60,229
TABLE GIVING THE QUANTITIES OF BOOTS AND SHOES
IMPORTED INTO INDIA.
Origin of Imports.
1918-19*
1919-20*
1920-21*
Four months
April-July.
-
United Kingdom
Japan
United States
Other Countries
Pairs.
437,166
90,760
83,378
27,184
47,134
259,488
Pairs.
333,440
28,530
Pairs.
710,623
51,020
259,019
50,367
Pairs.
Not yet
available.
Total Imports
638,488
668,592
1,071,029
65,027
1
* Years ending 31st March.
These figures show that the average price per pair imported from the United Kingdom
in 1920-21 was 16s., while in the case of the United States it was 33s. 6d. It will be observed
that last year the United States shipped to India no less than $432,200 worth of boots and
shoes as compared with £569,600 worth from the United Kingdom. These figures should
be considered in conjunction with the fact that in pre-war days practically the whole of
the imports of boots and shoes into India came from the United Kingdom.
ہے
110 تو
```

---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

948
cheaper on 1st November than a month earlier.
1921, was 110 per cent. The decrease in the percentage since ist October is mainly due
to reductions in the prices of lood, the prices of nearly all the principal articles, including
meat, bacon, flour, bread, butter, cheese, potatoes, sugar and margarine being considerably
unchanged the pre-war standard of living of working-class families. Accordingly, in
The statistics are designed to indicate the average increase in the cost of maintaining
working-class family expenditure, no allowance being made for any changes in the standard
bined in proportions corresponding with the relative importance of those items in pre-war
making the calculations, the changes in the prices of the various tiems included are com
of living. The Labour Gazette, November, 1921.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANISATION.
THIRD GENERAL CONFERENCE.
of the League of Nations opened at Geneva on the 25th October. This Geneva Conference
The third meeting of the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation
sation prescribed by Article 389 of the Treaty of Versailles. The first meeting was held
is the third of the series of annual General Conferences of the International Labour Organi
in October and November, 1919, at Washington, U.S.A., and the second at Genoa in June
The agenda of the present meeting has already been published in The
and July, 1920.
Labour Gazette, as also the list of British Delegates and their Technical Adviserse
French Government to the inclusion in the agenda of the Conference of any item con-
At the first session, on the 25th October, Viscount Burnham was elected president of
the Conference. In the following sittings the Conference discussed the objection of the
cerning agricultural labour. A resolution was passed on the 27th October, by 74 vote.
to 20, declaring the competence of the Conference to deal with matters relating to agricul.
tural labour, in the following terms :-
The Conference, considering that it has jurisdiction to deal with matters relating
to agricultural labour, and considering that the agrenda as proposed by the Governing
Body is in accord both with the decisions taken by the Washington Conference and with
the reasonable demands of the agricultural workers, decides to consider the expedienc
of retaining the question under 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda, taking each of these questions
in succession."
On the 28th October the Conference voted on the specific question whether item
of the agenda should be retained, that is: "The adaptation to agricultural labour of the
Washington decisions concerning the regulation of the hours of work." There voted 63
in favour of retention and 39 against. The requisite two-thirds majority in favour of the
item remaining on the agenda was therefore not obtained, and the question of hours of
work in agriculture was removed from the scope of the Conference. On the 31st October.
however, a resolution was carried, by 73 votes to 18, proposed by the British, Italian and
Dutch Government Delegates, in the following terms :-
"The third session of the International Labour Conference decides that the regulation
of the hours of work in agriculture be inserted in the agenda of a future session of the
Conference."
On the 29th October it was resolved to retain items 3 and 4 on the agenda by votes of go
against 17, and 93 against 13, respectively.
On the 31st October, in accordance with the procedure established at Washington
and Genoa, the Conference proceeded to set up a commission to deal with each item of
the agenda. To these commissions are referred the results of the preliminary investigations
of the International Labour Office. The appropriate commission arrives at decisions
upon each topic of the agenda, which may take the form either of draft conventions,
recommendations or resolutions, and the reports of the commissions, embodying the
texts of these decisions, are then to be discussed by the full Conference.
Eight different commissions of this kind have been set up, each consisting of an equal
number of representatives of Governments, employers and workers. Three of the com-
missions will deal with matters relating to agriculture, the first dealing with the questions
of unemployment and the protection of workers in agriculture against accidents, sickness,
invalidity and old age; the second with the protection of women and children and the
living-in conditions of agricultural workers; and the third with the question of technical
agricultural education and the guarantee to agricultural workers of the rights of association
and combination. The other commissions deal with the questions of the reform of the
constitution of the Governing Body of the International Labour Office, a weekly rest day
in industrial and commercial employment, the prohibition of the use of white lead in
painting, the disinfection of wool infected with anthrax spores, and two matters left over
from the Genoa Conference, namely, the prohibition of the employment of persons under
the age of 18 years as trimmers or stokers, and the compulsory medical examination of
all children employed on board ship.
On the 9th November the full Conference discussed a report by the Director-General
of the International Labour Office on the work of the Office since its foundation. The
Labour Gazette, November, 1921.


---
Here is the text from the image:

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondente
being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
reing men on whom we can rely: should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
rection as to the original matter.
As these Reports
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
ELT LOW 438 MUSEUM, LONDON.
٦٢
exclusively for the u use of Members,
Tel Address: HATUNISHOP, 11010, LONDO
Boot & Shoe Operatives
ational Union of
Alldated to the Trader Waive Comm the General Federation of
Averored under the State Naumalteakhleeurance Acta Aparara! Na 201
Trade Unions and National Labour Party
Festest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
General President
T.F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
EL POULTON J.P.
SEAT or GoveπειMENT
34. GUILFORD STREET
LONDON VCL
Nearest Telegraph Offlce:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
THE STATE OF TRADE
19TH DECEMBER, 1921.
10
remains about the same as last month, although in some districts, owing to
the distribution of Army Orders, factories are working better time. The
figures issued by the Gazette of the Ministry of Labour are as follow :-
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
In this trade employment on the whole continued slack during November, with much
short time and unemployment. There was an improvement in some districts, but in others
there was a decline; on the whole, there was little change as compared with October.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed in boot, shoe and slipper making and
repairing establishments, as indicated by the unemployment books lodged at Employment
Exchanges, was 9.5 at the 2nd December, as compared with 9.7 per cent. at the
4th November. In addition, 2.4 per cent. of the workpeople were claiming benefit in
respect of systematic short-time working at the 2nd December, as compared with 2.5 per
cent. at the 4th November. According to the returns received from firms furnishing
returns, however, over 40 per cent. of the workpeople were working short time at the end
of November, to the extent of 13 hours a week on the average.
In London employment was bad. At Leicester a slight improvement was reported,
bat employment was still slack, with much short time. At Northampton and at Kettering
employment continued slack, with nearly all the factories on short time. At Welling-
borough there was an improvement, and most of the factories were on full time; there
was also an improvement at Higham and Rushden, where many factories were on full
time, and themprovement at tarvertime. A marked improvement was reported at
Stafford.
whole was fair, and slightly better than in October, with a reduction in the number un-
employment continued bad, with much short time. At Norwich employment on the

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

969
determination there is amongst the authorities to deal with such an appalling
simation as obtains in Russia.
".
In Russia there are 20,000,00o men, women and children threat.
COULD BE USED TO FEED THEM.
IT REMAINS FOR US ONLY TO FIND THE MEANS
We find
ened with death by starvation, and NOT MANY HUNDRED MILES FROM THE REGION
WHERE THESE PEOPLE ARE STARVING THERE IS ABUNDANCE OF FOOD WHICH
TO MOVE THIS FOOD that is all that is necessary to be done
that it is the Valley of the Volga which is especially smitten by the drought and
great surplus this year, which is available for Eastern Russia if only
famine.
get hold of it.
In the Western part of Russia the harvest has brought a
we could
The means needed for the economic reconstruction of Russia
the spring, and before the spring sowing, and in the meantime millions of people
will next year be three or four times greater than the means needed now before
will have died.
To meet the situation, I have asked the Governments for help. I asked for
credit to be given by the Members of the League for altogether 15,000,000. To
sidering that it would be divided between the Governments of the world but
me this is not a great price for so great a number of human lives, especially.con-
I could not get what I asked for, and I shall have to tell you now what I believe
to be the consequences.
It is now November. What has happened on the
threatened with probable death? The answer, I am afraid, is that they are
Volga? Was I right or was I wrong? Have starving millions died or are they
dving. There are hundreds dying every day, and soon they will be dying in
thousands every day. They will die of cold and hunger, the most terrible of all
deaths.
To make men sow their fields, while their wives and children starve around
them is almost a miracle, yet it is a miracle which the Russian people have, in
the months just passed, accomplished. While they have grain for a few weeks
only, they plough their fields and sow them. I am assured by every competent
witness, Russian, English and American, that they have sown more than they
sowed last year.
It is
I have a plan which I believe would work, which, if it succeeded, might not
only save the present situation, but might do much to rebuild the economic
prosperity of Russia and to increase the output of the greatest of the potential
granaries of the world. It is a simple plan, but a bold and costly one.
this: To organise, during the next few months, the dispatch to the famine areas,
on a great scale, of tractor ploughs, and to send with the tractor ploughs, experts
who could teach the Russian population how to use them. The difficulties of
such an undertaking will spring to the mind of every member of this Conference.
But I believe they could be overcome, or they might be. Of mechanics without
employment, there is no lack in Russia. If we had the tractors we could send
the mechanics to drive them to the districts where they were needed. Petrol
is also available. There are great quantities available at Novorossisk. With a
small number of foreign experts to instruct the mechanics and to supervise their
work, I believe a great part of the famine area could be ploughed. But how could
the tractors be obtained? Besides tractors, all kinds of other agricultural
machinery is also most desirable-even spades, ploughs, sowing-machines.
I venture to submit, paradoxical though it may seem, to those in this hall, that
the sending of these tractors might be an exceedingly wise and perhaps an
exceedingly remunerative commercial undertaking.
It would help to relieve the terrible crisis of Unemployment in the countries
where unemployment is the first problem of the day, by the only rational method,
which is, by ensuring production for the urgent needs of other and still more
un'ortunate people who need the goods which will be produced. This is a task
which cannot be accomplished by relief from charitable sources alone. It is
too great. The Governments must come in, and I am sure they will come in
in the end. What is the situation? Is there any lack of food in the world?


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

971
MEETING WITH MANUFACTURERS' FEDERATION.
Suggested Revision of Agreements.

paring the month (under the Chairmanship of Ald. F. Sheppard, I.P. of
ation in connection with the proposed revision of the National Agree-
we have upon several occasions met the Executive of the Manufa-
This question was, as reported in the May Report, dealt with
sion with proposals we sent to the Manufacturers' Federation.
sston the whole question was then adjourned for six months, old condition.
one to prevail. The Manufacturers at the meeting on 1st December
forward proposals for considerable reductions in wages. We resi
Sub-Committee to go further into the matter in detail and report to a full
propositions and after a full day's discussion the question was relegatel
ing later.

The Sub-Committee met on the 2nd December, and spent a full day dis
ne many aspects of the wage problem as specially applying to the Boot and
Industry. They, however, failed to come to any agreed proposals and
parned until the 9th December, at which meeting of the Sub-Committee
ber still further dealt with the question. They made sufficient headway to
want another full meeting being held. This meeting took place on 15th
cussed. Ultimately the following became the findings of the full conference
ember, when the report of the Sub-Committee was presented and fully
he report of the Sub-Committee:--

NATIONAL CONFERENCE INTERIM AGREEMENT, DECEMBER, 1921.

At a meeting of the National Joint Conference held at 7, Tavistock Square, London,
W.C. I, on Thursday, 15th December, 1921, it was agreed and determined that the clauses
regulations contained in the National Conference Agreement dated the 13th February,
319, shall remain in full force and effect, with the exception of clauses 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12
shall be substituted, and it is further agreed that these revisions in the minimum wage
of the said Agreement for which the following wage rates and piecework percentages
ad piecework percentages together with clauses 7, 8, 9 and 10, herein contained, shall
be recognised as the December, 1921, Interim Agreement.

1.  That a first reduction of 4s. per week on Daywork wages (men 23 years of age
and upwards), and 5 per cent. on Piecework earnings, shall take place on the
second pay day in January, 1922.
That a first reduction of 2s. per week on Daywork wages (women 20 years of age
and upwards), and per cent. on Piecework earnings, shall take place on the
second pay day in January, 1922.

The above reductions are conditional upon the index figure of
the cost of living not rising above 110 full points as quoted by the
Ministry of Labour in the December, 1921, issue of the "Labour
Gazette."
2.  That a second reduction of 4s. per week on Daywork wages (men 23 years of age
and upwards), and 2 ½ per cent. on Piecework earnings, shall take place on the
second pay day in June, 1922.
That a second reduction of 2s. per week on Daywork wages (women 20 years of
age and upwards), and per cent. on Piecework earnings, shall take place on the
second pay day in June, 1922.

The wage rates as fixed by Clause 2, shall remain in operation
until July 6th, 7th, or 8th, 1922.


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

973

How Rates and Graduated Scale Rates set out in the National Conference Interim
nement of March, 1920, and to substitute therefor the scale of payments set
at as under :
MALE OPERATIVES, employed in other than Heel Building Departments
and Stock or Shoe Rooms, the following Scale of Minimum Wage and
Graduated Scale rates shall operate:
Second
Pay Day in
Second
15 January, 1922. June, 1922.
Pay Day in When Index Figure of Cost of Living has
fallen to:
50
70
30
15
Par
17/6
16/
14/9
13/9
18/-
17/3
16/
20 9
23-
21/-
20/3
18/9
24-6
27/
26/
24/-
22/
20/6
and
Der
17
31-
35/6
33/-
31/9
29/6
27/3
24/9
ly
22.
IS
37 9
42/6
40/-
38/6
35/6
32/6 29/9
he
10
45 3
53/-
50/-
48/6
44/6
40/6
36/6
he
be
י
וי
56
56/6
53/-
51/6
47/6
43/6
39/6
59 9
60/-
56/-
54/-
50/-
46/-
42/-
1919
22
64-
ng
position.
٦٢
23
MALE OPERATIVES, employed in Heel Building Departments or in the
Stock or Shoe Rooms, the following Scale of Minimum Wage and Graduated
Scale rates shall operate:-
Second
Second
Age. January, 1922.
Pay Day in
June, 1922.
Pay Day in When Index Figure of Cost of Living
falls to :-
70
50
30
15
Par.
18/9
17/6
16/-
15/3
14/-
12/9
12/-
16
22/6
21/-
19/-
18/3
16/9
15/3
14/6
17
28/-
26/-
24/-
23/-
21/- 19/-
18/-
18
34/9
32/6
30/-
28/9
26/3
24/3
22/3
19
42/3
39/6
37/-
35/6
32/9
30/- 27/-
20
21
53/-
50/-
47/-
45/6
41/6
37/6
33/6
56/6
53/3
50/-
48/-
44/-
40/- 36/6
22
23
61/-
57/-
53/-
51/-
43/- 47/-
39/-
1919
position.
FEMALE OPERATIVES employed in the Closing and Heel Building Depart-
ments or in the Stock or Shoe Rooms, the following Scale of Minimum
Wage and Graduated Scale rates shall operate :-
Second
Second
Pay Day in
Pay Day in
When Index Figure of Cost of Living
Age. January, 1922
June, 1922.
falls to :-
70
50
30
15
Par.
16
18/-
17/-
16/-
15/6
14/6
13/9
12/9
3-
17
22/-
21/-
20/-
19/6
18/3
17/-
15/6
18
26/9
25/6 24/3
23/-
21/9
20/-
19/-
4-
19
32/6
31/-
28/6 29/6
26/9
25/-
23/-
40-
20
38/-
36/- 34/-
33/-
31/-
29/-
27/-
1919
position.
B


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

8. That the Holiday (Provision) Scheme adopted by the Joint Industrial Council
for the Boot and Shoe Trade on May 27th, foto, shall be incorporated in and
form part of the National Conference Agreement.
9. That nothing in this Interim Agreement shall affect the duties of Local
Boards of Arbitration in respect of preparing piecework statements and
where necessary adjusting existing piecework statements as provided for in
Clause 12 of the Agreement dated 13th February, foto,
10. It is agreed that the National Joint Conference shall meet not later than the
second week in October, 1922, to review the position then obtaining.
The Conference agrees to recommend the respective organizations to ratify
this Agreement, which, if ratified, shall be registered with the Board of Trade
and the Ministry of Labour, as a National Agreement.
DATED this 15th day of December, 1921.
Signed on behalf of the Manufacturer, ide of the Conference
President.
Secretary.
Signed on behalf of the Operatives' ade of the Conference --
...General President.
...General Secretary.
Countersioned
Chairman of Conference.
It will be seen from the proposals that owing to the cost of living having
very considerably fallen readjustments of wages will take place if such pro-
posals are endorsed. The first readjustment will take effect on the second
pay day in January, and the next one the second week in June, and no further
reductions will operate until the cost of living is down to 70 full points over 1914.
The membership may rest assured it is not at all a pleasant thing for us,
as representing the Union, to have to present such a report to you. We have,
however, had to bear in mind that the cost of living has come down, and also
the undisputed facts that nearly every Trade Union in the country has been
forced to face the altered circumstances brought about by such reduced costs,
and have had to readjust wages accordingly.
We are fully persuaded in our own minds that we have secured the utmost
amounts from the Employers' representatives under the various headings
that can be secured, and, as already stated, however unpleasant it may be to
have to present such a report, we feel bound to point out to the membership
that a rejection of this offer may bring about such a state of circumstances
that will not be to our advantage. We trust, therefore, that when the members
vote in JANUARY they will fully bear in mind the responsibility attaching to
their vote.
In accordance with the decision arrived at at the first Annual Conference,
when the Delegates passed the following resolution : --
"This Conference gives full power to the Executive Council to revise if necessary,
and adjourn the time of meeting with the Manufacturers until such time as circum
stances should appear more favourable for negotiation, but that no reduction of present
conditions be discussed until a special conference has been held."
We have called a Special Delegate Conference to be held in Leicester on the
29th inst., when the whole position will be placed before them.


---
Here is the text from the image:

977
Ballot papers have already been issued to the whole of the Branches, and
the rote for or against the terms will be taken the first week in JANUARY, 1922,
and results posted to reach the Central Office NOT LATER THAN THE OTH DAY OF
JANUARY, 1922, such date being due to the fact that it is suggested the
proposals are to come into operation the second pay day in that month.
We trust that every member will record his vote upon this important
acasion.
SECOND ANNUAL CONFERENCE, 1922.
The second Annual Conference will be held in LONDON during Whit-Week
of next year. If any Branch has questions of procedure or principle they wish
to raise, the same should be sent along at once to the Central Office.
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENΤΗ!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secre-
taries to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day
for returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success.  It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only " Union Stamped
Footwear."

We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.


---
Here is the text from the image:

978
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
The month has been occupied very strenuously with the proposed alteration in
the National Agreement, the terms of which will be submitted to the delegates on December
20th at Leicester, and afterwards, we hope, submitted to the members in accordance
with our rules and regulations governing same.
Those of us who have formed the Nego-
tiating Committee cannot, neither do we wish to, dissociate ourselves with what has
been done At the same time we have done all we could to obtain what we consider as
be the best conditions obtainable, and although the full Council at the Conference obtained
a little more, still they find themselves in the position of submitting to the delegates and
then the members the best terms they have been able to get. Personally, I am sorry
the employers have decided to imitate Chesham and be determined to insist at the point
of the bayonet on a reduction in the rates. They refuse to recommend arbitration to their
members, which means they may have given us notice to withdraw from the Guarantee
Fund, and such a position must first of all be considered by our own members in conference,
and their findings referred to a ballot vote of the members, who have the power to accept
or reject our advice; and should the members make up their minds to decline them, we
should then be faced with a protracted struggle with everything favourable to the employers.
We shall have more to say than it is wise to put into print to our delegates and members,
We shall have more to say than it is wise to put into print to our delegates and members,
and strengthen our forces, and abide the time when it is most favourable to us when we
been able to secure, and take warning that if we are wise we shall double our membership
go bargaining again. On this occasion the employers had not a leg to stand on and they
had to resort to the brutal weapon of stand-and-deliver. We reminded them that the
Trade Board has a minimum of 65s., and no request has been made to alter it. Also that
the Rossendale Valley people had at present an understanding that no reduction be per-
mitted after the cost of living reached 125 per cent. as a basis. We also reminded them
of the low rates always paid to shoe workers, and that to-day they were behind many
other operatives in their hourly rate of pay, but all arguments were of no avail, they just
wielded the big stick and sat tight.

CHESHAM has been visited and every effort made to strengthen the membership
and ultimately notices were handed in, only to find that two days before their expiration
we were advised by the whole of the circumstances to withhold them for the present,
and to impose at a later date the findings of the National Conference. This we ultimately
agreed to do, and at the present time we are bound to demand that Chesham, who have
accepted the 1919 position, must toe the line by demanding 8s. per week rise for Dayworkers
and 10 per cent. rise for Pieceworkers. This should be an impetus to the whole of the
workers in that town, and this in itself should be watched by our members who think that
we are not sufficiently aggressive. Eyam, Stoney Middleton, Preston, Melbourne, Nantwich,
are still little worlds to conquer. Some day may we not add to them ?

TRADE BOARD Meetings have also been attended and the interests of our members
engaged therein. Although the employers have tabled a motion asking for a 10 per cent.
reduction on the piecework rates, we hope to minimise this by getting it lowered.
The Handsewn men belonging to the Amalgamated Union of Handsewn Men, and also
the Union known as the London and Provincial, have had a 12½ per cent. reduction imposed
upon them as early as last October, and they were compelled without a struggle to accept.
A further meeting of the Advisory Committee of the Trade Union Congress, who
assist all Trade Boards, met to choose witnesses for the Cave Committee, it being decided
that any Union has the right to choose witnesses if they think well to do so.
We have also attended a Special Conference on Unemployment at the Memorial Hall,
when, after a deputation of unemployed had addressed the Conference, an omnibus reso-
lution was carried. I am really at a loss to understand what useful purpose such Con-
ference on this occasion served, as we had dealt with the same subject with greater force
at Cardiff last September.

CO-OPERATORS AND OUR MEMBERS. - We have met the Wages Board for South Yorks.
several times, and at the last meeting they pressed for a reduction of 12½ per cent. We
took the matter to the Joint Board of Co-operators and Trade Unionists, and ultimately
agreed to 74s. per week for Dayworkers, and for the Trade Board Statement with 20 per
cent. added for Pieceworkers. This means 6½ per cent. off Pieceworkers and 6s. per week
off Dayworkers.

The GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONs are still making members and strength-
ening their position by degrees. Rumour has it that several big Unions who at one time
belonged to it are seriously considering their present position and comparing same to their
association with the Federation. One of the Organisers commences his duties in January.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

980
BRANCH REPORTS.
BELFAST. We very much regret we are still unable to report any
improvement in trade. We also regret that the Belfast Master Boot Repairers'
Association has reduced the piece rates to those provided by the Trades Board.
We consider the method adopted to reduce the rates most unfair in not giving
us an opportunity of meeting them in conference to consider what the reduction
should be, nor when it should become operative. We were also very much
disappointed at the action of the Co-operative Society being the first to give
notice of a reduction in wages. The Secretary interviewed the manager and
had the reduction postponed for two weeks. We are very much disappointed
at the lack of interest which the members take in the workings of the branch.
The bad state of trade cannot but have a depressing effect upon those members,
willing to work but unable to obtain it; still that is not a sufficient reason for
any member not paying into his trade organisation which has for its object
the uplifting and improvement of its members, that he will not accept it as a
responsibility and a duty to spare two hours in the month to meet to consider
and discuss those matters that appertain to the social and industrial welfare
of the members generally.

BRISTOL AND KINGSWOOD No. 2.- We are sorry to report that trade
is very slow, and that the out-of-work and sick list is longer than for some
time past. Speculation is rife as to what changes in wages will be made as a
result of the Conference now in progress. If we take the yearly income of the
operatives as a guide, one is safe in saying that no sane impartial judge would
give a verdict for less than at present obtains. We think the industry should
offer a fair chance of a decent livelihood to those engaged in it, but recent
experience shows that it is necessary to have a private income to enable one
to maintain a decent standard of comfort. This we think is not as it should be,
as manufacturers, in spite of their losses, appear to carry on very comfortable,
and we believe that properly apportioned there is sufficient in the industry
to satisfy the needs of all. We certainly hope for the best, and we are looking
forward to 1922 to do us a better turn than 1921.

CHESHAM.-Trade here has improved since our last report, but we still
have a number of our members unemployed. We desire to thank the Council
and Organisers for the assistance rendered during the past month, and this
being our last report of the year we wish all Officers and Members a Merry
Christmas.

CHESTERFIELD.-Trade fair, though the members are working short
time. We wish all members the Compliments of the Season and hope the
New Year will be brighter for all the members than the past has been.

HALESWORTH.-Trade is not so flourishing as last month. We do not
work at all on Saturdays and the finishing department is closed on Mondays
unless there is an order or two to get off, which is very seldom.

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.—There is a fair trade in the District at
present. Some employers are going back on day-work. Meetings have been
held of workpeople who have been instructed to work to quantities allowed in
statements for wages paid, and not exceed same, unless paid for. Fewer
members are signing Out-of-Work Book. A very interesting event took place
at the Rushden Monthly Meeting when Mr. A. C. Allen (who had given his
services free), Tutor of Economics Class, was presented by the Branch with
Percy Wallis' latest book, "Wages and Prices." The presentation was made
by Mr. C. Bates, who paid a glowing tribute to the work done in the Economics
Class, and its advantages to the younger members of the Union. Several
members supported the President in praise of the work done.


---
Here is the text from the image:

981
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. We are not sorry that this report is
the last one for 1921, a year that will be remembered in our industry as a year
of exceptional unemployment and its attendant evils. We extend to all
Officers and Members of the Union our compliments, wishing them individually
and collectively a Happy and Prosperous New Year.

LEEDS No. 1. We have to report trade as bad. We regret to report
that our sick list is very heavy just now, but we hope that this is only tem-
porary. Mr. J. Buckle, Union Organiser, attended our monthly meeting on
Tuesday, December 6th, 1921, and addressed our members in reference to
Chesham and trade generally. His address was much appreciated by our
members. This being our last report for the year 1921 we wish all Officers and
Vembers a Merry Christmas and a Happy and Prosperous New Year.

LIVERPOOL. - Trade is very quiet, but we do not anticipate there will
be any change for the better till the New Year is well advanced.

MAYBOLE. We are pleased to report sickness light and trade good.
All the firms are now on full time. Some of our members had full pay last week.
the first for two years. We are pleased to see a settlement of the Irish question
the Compliments
dependant on Ireland for a good deal of our trade. As it is nearing
of the Season, and hope 1922 will be very much better than 1921.

NEWCASTLE.-Trade in this district is very bad, owing to the number
of workmen on Tyneside being unemployed. Another cause is that the mining
districts round about are only working one or two days a week, and some of
the pits are not working at all. Taking everything into consideration, we are
not so baldy hit for work as some other trades. It is to be hoped that with
the advent of the New Year that things will take a turn for the better. We
notice again through the weekly trade papers that the Newcastle Employers'
Association are again raising the war cry, "Lower wages for the workmen."
Most of these employers of labour have been workmen themselves, and now
they are in business for themselves, and are able to employ one workman,
forget the time they were workers themselves, and the struggle they had for
an existence on the prices that were then paid for their labour at that time.
Surely they are not going to be the instigators of a reduction in the workers'
wages, knowing full well the conditions they had to work under when they
were workers. We are sorry for these employers, whom we used to call
brothers, that they have so soon been smitten with what we generally term
"swelled head," and think they are of some importance, and a big bug in the
trade. Each and everyone of us have our own opinion of these so-called
"gaffers." Wishing all our fellow members a Merry Christmas and a Prosperous
New Year.

PLYMOUTH. We wish all members the Compliments of the Season,
and sincerely hope that 1922 will bring new life and vigour to our trade, and
prosperity to our members. Probably the year of 1921 will stand as the
darkest in the history of our trade, for it has been a year of distress and great
anxiety, intensified by the high cost of living and trade depression. If the
real wages of the workers during 1921 could be published in a simple and
comprehensible form we believe we should hear no more about the high wages
said to be earned by the workers, certainly not in our trade. We believe that
the trade barometer has now registered the lowest mark of trade depression,
and we look forward to the New Year with fresh hope and courage, with the
Irish war ending, the Washington Conference showing signs of success, the
enormous burden of armaments lifted from the backs of the workers, it now
remains for the statesmen to free the main arteries of trade from the strangle-
hold of debt, and transfer a little more purchasing power from those who have
to those who have not. Will they do it? If not the New Year may arrive
C


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

983
A SPECIAL EMERGENCY CONFERENCE
On Unemployment and the International Situation, the Russian Famine and the Peace Treaty
was held in the Memorial Hall, Farringdon Street, London, E.C. on Thursday, December 8th, 1021, the Union being represented by Mr. and Mrs. Richards, and the Parliamentary Candidates of the Union also attended.

Resolutions as follows were passed:
"That this Conference of the united industrial and political Labour Movement reiterates the claims that the Trades Union Congress and the Labour Party Conference have made from time to time that Unemployment should be a national charge and concern, and emphasises at this crisis the fact that our present industrial misfortunes are largely owing to the international policy which our Government has been pursuing, particularly as regards Russia and Central Europe, and that a reversal of that policy is necessary in the interests of the wage earners of this country.

Unemployment and the Russian Famine.
"The Conference pledges its support to the Russian Workers and extends to them its sympathy in their terrible distress arising primarily out of food shortage which, however, is not only a failure of nature but a consequence of a policy of blockade and refusal to trade, and therefore calls upon the Government--
(1) To assist in a substantial way the distress for which it must accept some considerable responsibility, and so enable this country to range itself alongside the humanitarian efforts now being made to save life and relieve the suffering;
(2) To take steps at once to re-open trade, particularly for the export of articles required for immediate use in Russia, which might be made in this country, as part of a policy to relieve our own unemployed and restart industry."

Unemployment and the Economic Clauses of the Peace Treaty.
"The Conference emphatically condemns the foreign policy of the Government since the Armistice as being largely responsible for the present industrial condition of the country. and draws attention specifically to the following, which have had a direct and disastrous effect upon British Employment:
(1) The destruction of Central European trade and markets in pursuit of a policy of punishing by poverty the workers of the late enemy countries;
(2) The scheme of reparation imposed on Germany, which has clearly damaged British production and imports, as in the case of the deliveries of coal and ready-made shipping;
(3) The trade policy which has kept the mark and the coinage of Central Europe in such a fluctuating condition that international trade is almost impossible;
(4) The clauses in the Versailles and other Treaties relating to territorial distributions which have prevented peace and have kept Europe economically unsettled.

The Conference, therefore, calls upon the Government:
(1) To take immediate action with a view to the stabilisation of the exchanges
(a) by the removal of all the artificial political impediments to international trade that now exist, and
(b) by promoting normal conditions of production on the Continent of Europe by a system of credits or an international loan;
(2) To take steps at once in conjunction with our former Allies to revise the territorial and economic clauses in the Treaty of Versailles that are necessitating an armed occupation of the greater part of Central Europe;
(3) To come to an immediate arrangement with the Allies for a revision of the indemnity obligations which, whilst providing for reparation of actual destruction done in Northern France and Belgium, will frankly recognise that any general payments made by enormous exports of goods only injure the industry of the receiving nation and are indeed borne by its wage earners in the shape of low wages and unemployment, and will therefore abandon such payments;
(4) To promote an arrangement among all the nations associated in the war for the cancellation of their mutual indebtedness created by and during the state of war.

The Conference finally declares that until such a change in policy has taken place, British industry cannot be healthy and British Labour will continue to be threatened with Unemployment and wage reductions, and it holds the Government, which declines to pursue this change, responsible for the serious industrial condition of the country."


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

4
STANDING ORDERS OF THE CONFERENCE.
RULE 80.
ANNUAL MEETINGS.
Annual Meetings of the Conference shall be held on Whit Monday
and subsequent days.
TIME OF CONFERENCE MEETING.
RULE 81. On the first day of Conference the Delegates shall assemble at a
place provided for the purpose, at TEN O'CLOCK A.M. PROMPT, and
shall proceed to the election of Door Keeper and Two Tellers, and
shall also consider the President's Address and Council's Report:
after which the Conference shall adjourn at 12.30 p.m. and re-assemble
at 2 p.m., and proceed with the business of the Conference and adjourn
at 5 p.m. On Tuesday and each succeeding day, the time of meeting
shall be 9.30 a.m., adjourn at 12.30 p.m., re-assemble at 2 p.m., and
adjourn for the day at 5 p.m.
DELEGATES' QUALIFICATION.
RULE 82. The Conference shall consist of Delegates who have been clecter!
in accordance with General Rules 71 and 77:-
"Delegates shall be elected in accordance with the number of Financial
Members returned in the December Report previous to the date on which
the Conference is to be held. All Permanent Officials shall attend the
Conferences by virtue of their office, over and above the maximum of
representation. The basis of representation for delegates shall be one
delegate for every 1,000 financial members, with a minimum representa
tion of not less than fifty delegates (one-third to form a quorum)."
"The latest date for sending in amendments and additions to Rules, or
Standing Orders of Conference, shall be January 15th, in the year in
which the Conference is due to be held, and they shall be published in
the January Monthly Report. Nominations for delegates shall be taken
on the February Monthly Meeting Night, and voting for same on the
March Monthly Meeting Night."
The Council to attend by virtue of their office.
PRESIDENT OF CONFERENCE.
RULE 83.-The President of the Union, by virtue of his office, takes the chair
at all Conferences.
STANDING ORDERS COMMITTEE.
RULE 84.- A committee of five persons shall be elected from the Delegates
of the Conference, whose duty it shall be to examine the Delegates'
Credentials, and report thereon. They shall also be at the service of the
Conference to consider any questions or matters that may be relegated
to it with a view to reporting thereon during the sitting of Con-
ference. For such extra services they shall receive additional pay,
to the amount of 10s. each.
RULE
RULE
RULE
REL
Ru
R


---
```text
6
ORDER OF BUSINESS
To be transacted by the
FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE
To be held in the
KINGSWAY HALL, KINGSWAY, LONDON, W.C. 2.
ON 16th, 17th, and 18th MAY, 1921.
CHAIR TO BE TAKEN BY THE GENERAL PRESIDENT
AT TEN O'CLOCK A.M. ON MONDAY, 16th MAY, 1921.
1.-Chairman's Welcome to Delegates.
2.-Election of Doorkeeper.
3.-Election of Two Tellers.
4.-General Secretary to report Result of Voting for Standing Orders
Committee.
5.-Chairman's Address to Conference.
6.-Council's Address..
7.-Resolutions submitted by Branches.
8.-General Business.
```

---
Here is the text from the image:

7
FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE.
London, Whitsuntide, 1921.

The following resolutions have been received for consideration at Conference at Whitsuntide.

UNION POLICY.

KILMARNOCK.-" The Kilmarnock Branch of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives call upon the Executive Council to take all necessary steps to secure the proper election of delegates to the World Congress of Labour Unions to be held in Moscow on May 1st, 1921, pledged to support a revolutionary policy aiming at the world-wide dictatorship of the Proletariat, and to affiliate this organisation to the Red International Council of Labour Unions."

KILMARNOCK.-"To sever all connections of this organisation from the Amsterdam Federation of Trade Unions, and to take all necessary steps to obtain the withdrawal of the Trade Union Congress from that organisation."

LEICESTER NO. 1. -" The Leicester Branch believing that the system of working in operation during 1920, in which payment by result with a guaranteed minimum was the best policy, hereby claims that the Union should take a vote on the following alternative, each member to have one vote only :-

Ist-Are you in favour of payment by results governed by the piece- work or quantity statements without limit?

2nd-Are you in favour of set weekly wages governed by the piece- work or quantity statements limited to the weekly wage?

3rd--Or do you prefer daywork pure and simple without statements?"

NORWICH." That the policy of the Union be directed to securing a system of weekly fixed wages guaranteed for every full working week."

NORTHAMPTON NO. 2.-" That this Conference is of the opinion that the piecework or supplementary wage system of working is contrary to the best interests of the operatives, and therefore instructs the National Council to frame the future policy of this Union on the basis of day- work system in conjunction with Quantity Statements."

LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move.-"That the policy and method of working in this Union be piecework or payment by result with a guaranteed weekly wage and no restriction of output or limitation of earnings, with the exception of what has been the custom for many years in the trade, the sharing of work in slack times."

LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move. -"That providing the same wages and price per operation be paid all departments in the boot and shoe trade shall be open for women to work in."

LEICESTER NO. I BRANCH to move. - "That we ask the Conference to give further powers to local officials to deal with non-federated firms regarding the different Awards given by the Union and Employers' Federation from time to time."


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

8

9 NORWICH. "That in all matters of Union policy it be an instruction to all Union Officials that differences of opinion be discussed through the Union's Monthly Report ; and that at no time should the public Press of the country be used to promote individual views against the agreed policy of the Union."

UNEMPLOYMENT.

10 LEICESTER NO. 1. "The Leicester Branch having already requested the Executive of the Union to endeavour to make the Unemployment Benefit payable at our offices and to be administered by our Union, hope that the Council of the Union will persist in the effort to bring about a working arrangement for our own industry, believing that such a scheme in which we are to co-operate with the employers would be to the advantage and convenience of our members."

VOTING.

11 LEICESTER NO. 1. "The Leicester Branch requests that branches failing to take votes of the Union on matters when requested to do so by the Council shall be reported to each Conference of the Union, it being fully recognised that all the obligation of carrying out the rules of the Union is not and must not be confined to the Officers and Executive of the Union; that Branch Officers and Branch Executives are equally responsible in their respective spheres."

12 LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move." That the Council consider a different method of taking the votes of members so as to ensure a decision being the voice and will of at least a majority of the members of the Union on any subject."

13 LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH to move." That women members of the Union be invited to take their share in the management of the affairs of their Union, and where branches are composed of women and men there shall be facilities given for one or more women on all executives and com- mittees which in any way deal with the general affairs of the Union, ther to be elected on the same principle adopted by the Trade Union Congress and the National Labour Party."

AMALGAMATION.

14 NORTHAMPTON to move." That we amalgamate with other Leather Industries."


---


---


---


---
which would solve the problem and thereby put an end to a position which has
brought untold suffering upon many thousands of human beings, as well as
resulting in the loss of many lives. The situation is such that calls for a most
determined effort being made upon the part of the workers to bring to an end
the long years of travail which Ireland has endured in her efforts for national
freedom. It should not be forgotten that the Labour Party has consistently
stood by Ireland in her demands for liberty. The proposals of the Labour
Party as embodied in their latest suggestions upon the subject are reproduced
below from the " Report of the Labour Commission to Ireland," as follows:
On the occasion of the third reading of the Government of Ireland Bill in the House
of Commons on November 11, the Rt. Hon. William Adamson, M.P., Chairman of the
Parliamentary Labour Party, made an important new pronouncement on Labour's
Irish policy, which was in strict harmony with the Scarborough resolution and removed
any doubts that may have existed regarding the interpretation of that resolution.
Briefly the policy outlined by Mr. Adamson was as follows:
(a) That the British Army of Occupation be withdrawn.
(b) That the question of Irish Government be relegated to an Irish Con-
stituent Assembly elected on the basis of proportional representation by free
equal and secret vote.
(c) That the Constitution drawn up by the Assembly be accepted provided
(1) it affords protection to minorities; and
(2) prevents Ireland becoming a military or naval menace to Britain.
We believe that along the lines contained in the said proposals the way
out of the present disgraceful and humiliating position may be found; and
we hope that our members will all do their part to bring about the change
which is so necessary in the interests of all concerned.

EUROPE.-The second question is the International position, which ought
to give pause to all who have the well-being of the people at heart. Upon all
hands we find suffering, pain, want, and lack of employment, men, women
and children dying for the lack of the necessaries of life; yet upon the other
hand raw materials and food are available if only proper methods were adopted
to so alter and adjust the machinery by which people are governed as to bring
into existence the necessary understanding between nations whereby the
wheels of commerce would once more resume their normal operations. It is
indeed heartrending to find millions of people clamouring for the barest neces-
saries of life; millions unemployed, and yet the food raw materials are existent
to meet both situations. We are sometimes told that Labour " is not fit to
govern;" this we suppose is on account of lack of business aptitude, states-
manlike outlook and general lack of training in the art of statecraft. If the
assertion is true, where is the "fitness to govern" being shewn by politicians
and statesmen of this and other countries? Upon all hands the cry goes up for
help and deliverance from the terrible state to which people have been brought ;
not by workmen being in power, but by those parties who through the centuries
have considered it their special function to assert authority over the masses,
and the present appalling situation is one of the results of such "fitness."
It is for us to have an outlook more and more world-wide; to insist upon the
machinery of Governments being so arranged that not only unemployment
will be equally dealt with but also the many other vital questions which are
pressing upon one for solution; the solution we desire can, and will only be
accomplished by unity and goodwill amongst one another. Let it therefore
be our aim whilst having many methods and plans to always have in view
the object, viz.: The emancipation of mankind from all those trammels
which hinder and hamper the people in their struggles for a just and equitable
state of society to obtain.

The following extract from a recent interview of Sir Phillip Gibbs with
Mr. H. C. Hoover, of America, who has done so much to secure food and


---
Here is the text from the image:

13
He described his own work after Armistice
materials being sent from the US.A. to Europe, will show how necessary it is
to radically alter the bases of society:
"He spoke first of the state of Europe. The condition of Austria he said was
worse now than a year ago: fed by charity which he was still one in Americ
but not being healed of its social disease, for charity could do mo med pood though it
was a duty to do what it could in rescuing.
of the stricken countries, and for a time he bad organised a system of credits and
as a kind of economic Dictator, a position of which he was glad to act 11
America had pulled out after spending a billion and half dollars upon the relief
with European statesmen.
do everything to thwart it.
They would agree on a reasonable conclusion chen
But he could do nothing
assembled round a table, and then go away and do nothing to carry out the idea
supplies to keep Central Europe from certain starvation.
All the new states got busy putting up frontiers against
exchange.
each other, with custom dues and all kinds of barriers to free inter٣٢١١٣٩٥ and
The Poles would not help themselves, and endless intrigue prevented recoc
From the Poles in America 100 million dollars had been sent
committees, and, if that money had been used as credit for food supplies, the starving
population would have been well nourished, but the money was passed through the
clearing houses of London and Paris so that Poland received f
luxuries for her profiteers instead of food for her people.
lu Serbia there is an immense store of surplus food which would be easy to trans
port to the stricken populations of Central Europe. But Serbia will not sell it east
tood for her neighbours has to be sent all the way from America to keep them alive.
wards. She seeks higher profits and sends it to Italy, France and England, while
'Europe must unite on economic lines or perish,' said Mr. Hoover, and he does
not speak lightly, or use careless phrases. These words on his lips are a sentence of
death, if Europe does not heed his warning
and health.
10
perfumes, soaps,
"-Extract from Review of Reviews.
SPECIAL SICKNESS SCHEME.
It may be remembered that in the June Report of 1920 a Voluntary Sickness
who unfortunately had long continued illnesses. The Scheme was for an
Scheme was set out, the purport of which was to render further help to those
equal sum from operatives and employers. The voting upon the same was
as follows :-
FOR THE SCHEME
AGAINST THE SCHEME
4,709
2,449
The employers have not, owing to a number of circumstances, among them
being the long continued bad trade, been able to proceed any further with
the matter. We purpose, unless you instruct us otherwise, to endeavour to
secure the putting of the Scheme into practice jointly, because it is obvious
that such a scheme must be a mutual one between the employers and ourselves.
INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL.
During the year the Industrial Council has had before it on several occasions
the question of improved workshops, from a number of points of view, such as
better lighting, more space, better provision for cloak rooms and lavatories.
The Home Office has a number of recommendations now under consideration,
which are the result of unanimous decisions arrived at at meetings of the
Industrial Council, and we are expecting that in the near future it may be
possible to report that progress has been made in this connection.
It is essential that workshops, wherein a great part of life is lived, should
be of the best possible description, and we anticipate that you will fully support
us in our endeavours to raise the standard yet higher and higher as to the
requirements that must be carried out by any employer so far as the factory
or workshop is concerned.
REVISION OF THE 1919 AGREEMENT.
The other important question is in connection with the claim we have
sent in to the employers regarding the Revision of the 1919 Agreement. The
suggested New Agreement we desire to read as follows :-
CLAUSE 1.-UNIFORMITY IN LABOUR PRICE OF SIMILAR CLASSES OF Goops. That it
is desirable that a uniform system of prices should obtain and that the general outline


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

allay the feeling in our district, because not only are the local officials being attacked, but the local labour parties. It may be that we have had such a depression, or because we have been so busy that the matter was overlooked. No section of the workers should be excluded. We consider an amendment to the Act should be drawn up to include these people.

THE CHAIRMAN: So far as the deputation is concerned that waited upon the Ministry of Labour we knew what we should be up against before we went. Our Union is quite 25 years old in the policy of indoor working. Some branches make all their members work indoors. As late as 1008 the Hebrews of London all went indoors by arrangement with the Union. In Kingswood a lot of our members work at home, and when I was down there the question was raised as to why benefit was not forthcoming. Taking into consideration the status of the worker, if there is State money to be distributed everyone should have a fair share.

We had to have an appeal from the people who were suffering. That came and went to the Ministry of Labour and pointed out the position to them, and they stated their trouble was to find out whether an outworker was employed for one or more firms. They had as much trouble with the outworker as they did the charwoman under the Health Insurance Acts, and they asked us to satisfy ourselves that there was a contract of service, and if we could prove any workers have a contract of service with one employer we were advised such a case would go before the Referee, who is the final arbitrator to say whether the operative was entitled to benefit or not. I know my colleague has been down to one of the larger districts and scoured the area to see if he could get a definition of the individual. Some, we understand, have several employers. But we want a person who gives all his service to one employer. Some of our men have to take out lasts, and I have known where closers have taken out machines, and where they only worked for one firm. What we have to find out is, is there a contract of service ? We should not say there is a contract of service when we give a man an order for a suit of clothes. He would not admit he was your employee. It would simply be an order in the usual way. On the other hand we say if you can connect the outdoor worker as being wholly and solely in the employ of one firm, we told the Ministry of Labour we would take the responsibility of the investigation and see if such a person was in the employ of one firm or not, and we want cases to submit to the Ministry. Owing to other pressing matters I have not had time to take this matter further, although I would have preferred to have visited Kingswood again and got the cases so that we could have the whole of the details. The Act says outworkers are excluded, so as stated before we must find out if there is any contract of service; so you will appreciate our difficulty.

MR. A. J. RANDALL (Kingswood): Would it be accepted as a contract of service if an employer is responsible for Health Insurance contributions?

THE CHAIRMAN: I cannot say; if you will give us cases we will place them before the Minister of Labour.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY : With the exception of one district in a modified degree we have had no serious complaints except at Kingswood. I am rather surprised to hear Mr. Randall say certain people are charging local officials and the local labour parties because of alleged remissness in the House of Commons, because as a matter of fact I venture to say no one here knew we should have such a slump, and I would like to ask Mr. Randall if these men are paying contributions to the Fund?

MR. RANDALL: No.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Then they are not paying unemployment contributions because they are outworkers. The Department say you cannot have benefit because they are not paying contributions. As a matter of fact one of the kindred associations-the Amalgamated Root and Shoe Union-have made it one of their strong points that their were not within the four corners of any Unemployment Insurance Act because their members were never dismissed, and had work when there was any about. They may never work for a full week at a stretch, but they had work when any was about. You can see the difficulty we have. With Mr. Bates I went to eight of the nine sections in Higham and Rushden district and, generally speaking, men and women were receiving the money because they had or were working for one firm only, and although they may work at home they were controlled by the firm the same as if they were in the factory. The Ministry of Labour say some people have two or three firms. We have no feeling in the matter, and as Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee of the Trades Union Congress I can say such Committee have not received any complaints asking for an amendment of the Act, and I venture to suggest neither have the Labour Party, because we have joint meetings, and Mr. Henderson has never brought it before us. I think it very unfair to our Parliamentary colleagues that they should be blamed for something which even the workers themselves thought should not be done.

MR. A. J. RANDALL (Kingswood): We have some employers who are prepared to accommodate the members. If the employer is prepared to accept the responsibility can the operative get the benefit?


---
Here is the text from the image:

19

THE CHAIRMAN: Mr. Randall has put a wider meaning upon what I said. I should not like to say if an employer did as Mr. Randall suggests that even then the men would come within the scope of the Act. All cases are subject to investigation by the Government, and we may hear something about it in another quarter, having regard to the fact that there is money at stake.

MR. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): Some members in Rushden have had no books.

MR. S. IVES (Kingswood): The outworkers in Kingswood are looked upon as regular employees and not many work for more than one firm. Many men have been drawing income since their Union benefit ceased and there are a number in Kingswood who have lost their benefit and now it has been stopped. We have been hit very hard owing to the policy of the Government towards Ireland. Our people are wondering whether the Union could not do something to render some financial assistance to help to keep the children alive. To my mind the best way for us to fight unemployment is to send back to Parliament a body of men who will do their best to prevent unemployment. On the market in South Wales owing to the Miners' strike we have lost another market where we must get as workers. Meantime we must have some palliative measures brought in. I hope the time is getting nearer when we shall insist upon the right to work (for all who want work) at a living wage.

MR. G. CHESTER (Kettering): Are the Executive Council justified in taking two-thirds of the Administration Allowance to themselves and only give one-third to the branches. It does not meet the case. What are you doing with the 8d., and cannot some addition be granted to the branches?

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The work is new and as a matter of fact the Council have some protests which they will consider next week. The Council do not know I have them in the office, because their meeting will not be held until Sunday next. As I said before, this work is new to us all. There is no sort of idea amongst any members of the Council that we want to make a profit, nor is there likely to be a profit other than reducing to a minimum inconvenience to our members. You will I think agree that it is to the benefit of our members to prevent them having to stand in long queues waiting for their money at the Labour Exchanges. The question Mr. Chester raises is one that will be dealt with, and I hope the Conference will not further pursue the matter.

MR. C. H. MAYER (Leicester No. 2): In my opinion the question has not been given full consideration in the Council's Address. I should have liked a little more detail as to the amount spent in Suspension Benefit. We should like to know, Mr. Chairman, on what grounds the Council came to the decision that the special provision was necessary, and whether they think the time is not with us again. I know it was a tremendous drain on the funds of the Union, but I think something further should be done in suggesting a small levy of those members who are working and receiving above the minimum. The Council might have taken the feeling of the members by a vote as to whether it would meet the position. Unemployment has landed many of our members into difficulties as to their being able to pay their own contributions. I know as long as a member has any income he is supposed to pay his own contributions, but I should like to ask the Council whether they considered the question of contributions being paid for the members. I know the Union stood by the soldiers, but you will agree since they came back they have not been able to get a proper start.

MR. E. MARRIOTT (Northampton No. 2): I should like to congratulate our Council upon the way in which they met the unemployment problem, because it did some good organising work and kept members in our ranks.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Mr. Mayer has been asking for more detail; the Council themselves have asked for detail from the branch officers, but having regard to the great amount of work branch officers have been called upon to do they have not sent the figures to enable the Central Office to tabulate them. In regard to the payment of contribu- tions, the Council have gone to their limit in this matter and have agreed to pay the contributions of all members who have no income. I sent out a circular upon this matter only a few weeks ago and we are doing all we can to keep members in the Union. We are giving exceptional benefits to our members-(Applause) and such benefits could not be given if it were not for the funds being centralised. I want to point out, Mr. Chairman, the serious position in which the Council are in as trustees of the money of the members; month by month it is my duty to place before them a statement of the income and expenditure. Take the one which will be before them next week; I shall have to report that there has been a loss for the month of £6,525 on the Trade Fund. You can easily see if that kind of thing happens month after month they feel they have reached the limit giving benefits to members, and I am quite sure the Conference would feel the Council not only exceeding their duty but were doing the members a bad turn if anything of that sort took place, and when the members looked to the Council for some money to


---


---
I can do that! Here's the text from the image you sent:

21
know their difficulties. I am in full sympathy with both national
into the present position. I know their difficulties. We take up the position that we
ould create an organisation amongst the rank and file to prevent
and file to take more interest in the workshop. Each workman must
as you will only get from the capitalist what you are strong enough to
ers of the Boot and Shoe Union we have a right to say how much
e rank and file tise up and get on with the
do for a given sum. Until the rank and file rise up and get on with the
the factories we shall make no headway. We have gone back to
squabbling about politics must cease. In Maybole I saw men out of work and it
one feel sad because of people being put off. What is the good of squabbling
the Union or the State will pay? Get strong enough to make capitalyan pay
th the work. Mr. Bleakley came down to Scotland and put up a very fine case
payment by results system, but he got put through the mill and pointed out that
living would come tumbling down. You know how it hasn't done so.
a trade union badgering the Government when in your own union you have no
to do it.
MR. T. W. LAWN (Norwich) : The report says " We cannot say more upon this point
but hope to have additional information forthcoming at the Conference itself.
to enable us to take your opinion and decision upon the matter." Have you any
nal information?

THE CHAIRMAN: Only what I said before. We have had several meetings, and it
remains for the Federation to send to us when we will send the scheme to the Govern
MR. R. WHITE (Edinburgh): Is the repairing trade under this special scheme or is
derated Employers only ?

THE CHAIRMAN : We are not including the repairing trade at present. We came to
usion that we should control the factories only, although the repairing employers
have liked to have come in, and whether we bring them in later is a matter for
oration.
Mr. J. BUCKLE J.P. I should not like this statement from Scotland to pass un-
d, because it appears to me it is a very, very old story, and you would assume by
pbell's statement Scotland was a haven of rest prior to the parading of the
of the Union going down there, and all the evils have come as a result. I can never
why payment by results in Scotland has been the means of the vast amount
ployment, and never will I accept it. The work which has been done in Scotland
or itself. After great inconvenience we were put to in the negotiations we find
for 48 hours comes out at 4 11s. 6d. plus 7 per cent., and I think it stands
then those who went with me to Scotland for men earning 30s. per week for the
We found two years after the war had started that it was difficult for us to
getting over the minimum wage, and every bonus the men received was
The figures are always available. Let us take Kilmarnock.
e of slackness of trade. It is because there is no power that short time is
To-day a man gets 125 per cent. more than he did, and surely there is some
or putting the scheme into operation whereby the operative gets the money
the employer. I should like Mr. White, of Edinburgh, to tell his story of the
results system. If you take Glasgow some men were doing two days' work
ne, and some very little at all, and the payment by results put each individual on his
loudest voiced men do not get it all now. Mr. W. R. Smith and myself
erdeen to Maybole men earning 35s. a week for the employer which the
eceive. Whatever the policy in future it will be decided by the Conferences
time. Take the Shieldhall people, the highest wage with the 15s. bonus
After an eight weeks' experiment they averaged £4 11s. 6d., and then the Union
per cent. on top of that and the quantity of work was very little disturbed. There
no reflection upon officers-particularly myself as I'm not a Scotchman-
but I am equal to anyone I have met there. (More laughter.) Mr. White
e at Edinburgh and Mr. Gamble was always with me at Glasgow, but you must
all the officers resigned from the negotiating committees. The Union did not
to get united action upon the point, and I am quite satisfied that payment
s has been an important lever to everyone.
M. GAMBLE (Glasgow): Scotland seems to be in evidence at the moment. Mr.
says payment by results has led us into this morass in which we find ourselves.
e some sympathy for men having an honest opinion, I have pointed out
our members that payment by results has not created this position. We
passing through the same difficulty who do not have payment by results.
ck branch bad the clicking department on statements six months before
Some of our members are strongly opposed to payment by results. We
C


---


---


---


---
of the capitalist system. This is only one of the things which has
st four reports of the Council
they have not given a lead. We were toll se
alter the conditions materially
The Labour Government coull in the
a Labour Government to
to shift the bud Gom the
11
The Labour Party's programme has been subject to sever
things and when it comes to election times instead of voting for a la١١٦٨١٩٠١ ١٠٠١٣
for the capitalistic classes. The mere fact of returning a Labo١١١٣
me position as the Coalition Government, they may try to
question of Nationalisation was only a loose term, but they are in favor of the cont
esent men, which will mean a pension for years. Our Council have failed!
what should happen during the transition period. We should have
because until we can control the field it will be impossible,
ment. to do away with the Capitalistic classes.
would not
workers.
guidance to our branches.
۲۰۹ ۲۰۱۰۱۱۱۱۱۰
even if we have a Lalon
I hope in future the Comad
I under La
٠٠٩٦٠
Our andu
MR. H. W. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): On looking through the report
thing that is missing. Probably because it is an unpopular subject
Labour Party were very quiet and modest in their criticism regarding the Reparatio
Bill and there is nothing which has happened since the Armistice that has Goed
countries means one pound's worth of goods going less from our country.
harm to us than the Reparations Bill. We are told every pound extracted from thir.
suffers and will continue to suffer because of the lack of relationship of Continental.c
and to explain what it means to them as workers. We should be prepared to fight again!
It is our duty as trade unionists to point this out to our members up and down the countr
the Reparation. Unless we do we shall see not only the boot and shoe industry, but tim
MR. A. J. RANDALL (Kingswood): A question of this character is bound to bring
discussion this afternoon, and whether an individual thinks so or not I cannot agree that
because the vanquished country is bound to pay that we shall be also paying for her
England cannot be paying for her because she is extracting from another country. I
suggest, Mr. Chairman, that every time it is put up that Germany will be better off we
whole of the Export trade lost.
about a diversion of opinion.
The question of the Reparations Bill is hardly within our
are doing an injustice to ourselves.
MR. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): I was hoping someone would deal with the sacred
side. No one has yet mentioned the case of
classes.
IRELAND.
The taxation put on Germany amounts to £2 IOS. od. per head for 40 years; the last year
of tax for Ireland was 18 millions from them, which works out at £4 2s. od. per head, not
for 40 years, but for ever and ever so long as physical force is supreme. If there is one
knowledge of Ireland. The penal codes England put upon Ireland were worse than the
thing that English working people lack and I am not going to blame them-it is their
ten Pagan Emperors of Rome. As working people you should rise to the occasion and
put the proposals into operation as set forth by the Labour Party, and you would get
over the Irish difficulty. We are fooled by our rulers. Perhaps I might be permitted
members are suffering we ought not to help the Miners. We always obey the ruling
to call attention to the position of our shopmate from Newcastle that because some of our
I want you English men and women to understand that Ireland wants her
liberty, because in the long run it rests with you. There is a saying that a covering was
once made which did not take in the whole of the human family because it was not big
enough. The people of seven hundred and fifty years ago went over from this country
to Ireland and put upon them the iron rule, and for seven hundred and fifty years the
people of this country have been backing them up. I challenge any student of history
to show me what the Government has done for them; nothing but cruel relentless methods.
I hope you will take this case up to-day. We are supposed to give some attention to
morals; kindness begets kindness. You will not be able to meet the position by military
power. I have in my pocket papers dating back from the year 1600 and odd when the
Lord Lieutenant of Ireland had instructions to wound, slay and kill. When you appointed
the Bryce Commission to go to the Continent, to whom did they go for evidence? In
Ireland the Commission go to the Black and-Tans and not to the people whose homes
were destroyed. I saw a letter in the Westminster Gazette saying the Catholic portion of
Ireland were most illiterate. It was only over a little more than 100 years ago that
an Act of Parliament was presented asking for children to be allowed to go to France
for education, and defeated. Don't take any excuses from your Prime Minister or from
men in high positions. Search for the truth and consult the working people. Nobody
ever guilty of bad conduct ever reform themselves. All the cruelty of days gone by were
altered by independent people. The State will have to be humanised, and no doubt by
the rank and file. We must follow the lessons of Christ and Tolstoy to do the best for all
with whom we come in contact each for all and all for each. We must see that this
reign of terror goes for ever. (Applause.)

---


---


---
**28**

MR W. R. TOWNLEY (Northampton) suggested the scheme should be put into operation. Is there anyone who would refuse £1 from his boss if he could get it? We have written letters to employers appealing to them to give financial assistance.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Hundreds of them.

MR W. R. TOWNLEY (Northampton): Then surely it is acceptable for the industry to give some financial consideration. There have been as many as four consumptives at once for whom we have collected money.

MR W. J. YEOMANS (Kettering): I don't think the opposition put up by Lewis and Yeomans is per cent of the Northampton members.

MR J. W. LEWIS (Northampton): Don't you believe it.

MR W. J. YEOMANS (Kettering): They seem to me that we must have nothing unless it comes from the Government. It is a mistaken idea. You first of all pay it in taxes before you get it from them. In the interests of the members themselves Mr. Lewis and the others should never have spoken against the scheme. What is the position after a man has run his benefit? This is one of the finest schemes ever brought forward by our Union and I am confident 98 per cent of the members in Kettering are behind us, and I suggest we get on with it.

MR W. WHYMANT (Desborough): Is this in order, seeing a vote of the Union has been taken?

THE CHAIRMAN: If you think it wise to adjourn it I am sure the members of the Union would agree with you.

MR. S. THOMPSON, J.P. (Northampton No. 2): I support Mr. Townley's resolution. We cannot afford to allow suffering to continue in its present state if we can do anything to help. We are trying to help them and I appeal to the delegates not to turn this down. It always reminds me what friend Lewis used to say and what he taught me: it is a good sermon:

Let's be up and doing
Though it's dull at whiles,
Helping when you meet them
Lame dogs over stiles.

At this stage the vote was taken and there voted:

FOR THE AMENDMENT (to proceed with the Scheme at once) 84
AGAINST 35

It was then agreed to discuss the paragraph dealing with the work of the

Industrial Council.

MR. A. BIRT (Northampton): The Council are moving in the right direction and I hope they will press their work in the factories. The alterations in the various factories regarding the putting down of the lighting plant is worth considering because it affects the eyes of the workers. Some of the Council members visited factories in Northampton with members of the Medical Research Department, and were pleased with what they saw. Manufacturers argue that craftsmanship is dying out, and this is I think due to the bad eyesight. Some members have to get "permits" because of their eyesight, and I hope the Council will not lose sight of this matter.

MR. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member): So far as the Medical Research Committee is concerned if we as an industry are going to depend upon them I am afraid we have to go a long way. I had occasion to be in Glasgow after our Executive had met the Medical Research Committee in London and was with Mr. Gamble when a representative of the Board called. He said he had called on account of the consumption prevalent in the trade. He went to Shieldhall and took a note of the conditions. Then he was going to Saxone in Kilmarnock, and when I questioned him he said he was not going to any more firms in Glasgow. I asked him why the Medical Research Committee had sent him to the best factories in Scotland. It is all very good. The question was discussed very fully at the Whitley Council and we agreed no employer should start unless he had a suitable place. There would be no basements. If that is all they are going to do instead of sending their men to the East End, they won't help us much. They must go to the root of the evil, otherwise it is a fallacy. Unless we as an organisation make some representation to the Medical Research Committee to go to some of the bad factories we shall not make much headway.

---


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

35

R. W. R. SMITH, M.P., proceeding, said: The absence of any matter in my report is because I have dealt with it in the Monthly Report from time to time. The diffi- culty of submitting a report of the Labour Party in the House is not due to the fact that the Labour Party in the House is inactive, but is due to the working of the House itself, which is constituted upon lines to prevent things being done unless it happens to be something which contributes towards the maintenance and condition of things or vested interests of much as possible. The police could enter this Conference at any moment, if they to bring in it is prolonged. Important as legislation is of that description it can be got over if ever the people of this country
If it is a question which Labour would seek
to the House and hold up our meeting. passed through in three days. That is what we have to contend with, in a House of 640 members and we are only 60. That can be got over if ever the people of this country
to the House and hold up our meeting. passed through in three days. That is what we have to contend with, in a House of 640 members and we are only 60. That can be got over if ever the people of this country
LABOUR MEMBERS TO PARLIAMENT.
to the House and hold up our meeting. passed through in three days. That is what we have to contend with, in a House of 640 members and we are only 60. That can be got over if ever the people of this country
LABOUR MEMBERS TO PARLIAMENT.

people of this country prefer to let those who are their enemies and I use that term in no light manner-it has been indicated the further we get away from the period of the war at the more hostile have they been in their manner, demeanour and their actions, and it casts at times a state of things that they are prepared to fight Labour and whilst the people send that kind of person to the House of Commons the people have nothing to certain of. The problem of unemployment has been forced forward upon every occasion, and it is worth emphasis that amongst all parties of the State, Labour alone is the one that is never left the subject of unemployment-even during the war and when Labour is passed of having no policy we ask that you look to the records and see no month was allowed to go by without an attempt made to press forward this question of unemployment and so alter the position of the people. Labour is the only party that has a constructive Perhaps I may be allowed to emphasise one or two questions in order to shew the great importance of the people seeking to get control of the House of Commons. There one County Council where labour controls, i.e., the Durham County Council. The owners have formed an association and they have 34 members on the Council. They have freed education up to the secondary schools; the whole of the education in the lementary and secondary schools is free-unless the Board of Education have intervened and prevented it. It is open to the children of every parent. They are seeking to construct new schools; put up colleges and so prevent the well-to-do children having the monopoly in any positions. They introduced into the House of Commons a Bill known as the Durham Transport Bill. It sought to set up a tram and 'bus service, linking up the different parts of the county-quite a legitimate Bill for anyone to submit. It was dis- cussed in the House of Commons, and one of the arguments was that the miners did not nay rates for the houses in which they lived. When the voting took place, members of the Coalition party stood at the entrance to the lobby-it was the night Frank Hodges addressed the members upstairs-and members were pushed into the "No" lobby with the request to vote against Labour and vote against Bolshevism.
Now as to Foreign affairs. We have passed a Reparations Bill seeking to impose
a tax of 50 per cent. on all German goods coming into this country and so help pay the
debts this country has to bear. Last week the question was asked as to how much money had been collected, and the answer was £9,000 in three or four months. If you work it out you will find how long it will take to pay off the millions of debt this country has to face. The German manufacturers are quoting prices for their goods and saying to the English buyers, This is plus 50 per cent. If that is the way it will be done it will mean the
BRITISH PEOPLE PAY THE GERMAN DEBT.

You take your figure of 100-and put 50 per cent. on, it makes 150. Put on the traders' profit which is 33 per cent., it means instead of paying 50 per cent. you will pay 50 per cent. plus 334 per cent. once the goods come into this country. There is no more important question to us, and the sooner we get out of our minds the ideas of economics and false ideas between nation and nation, the better it will be for us all. It is not a matter of sympathy for our late enemies, but one of practical economics. You cannot pay debts unless it is in manufactured goods. If we are to receive manufactured goods, where is the possibility of our own people selling or making any? These goods will be received at the expense of depressing your own trade, and the second position will be worse than the first. I don't put this forward as the last word on the subject, but I ask you to reflect upon it, and the position of the country is due to the fact that the capitalists have not done as they should have done. In the times following a period of war the capitalists' views from the standpoint of the people have failed to function, and you have men hungering because of the lack of employment. There you have a complete failure of the system to operate in the interests of the people, and I ask for a full consideration of these questions to enable us to come to conclusions which I hope in the end will be for the betterment of our own people.
In conclusion 1 extend to each and every delegate an invitation for questions, which I will do my best to answer. (Applause.)


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

39
Lom get their interest every six months without waiting. It threatens
TiOs alone in taxes.
tion of society.
atens the whole fonda
1 suggest they are robbing us as we have to pay ad out of 1
MR. W. R. SMITH, M.P. The capitalist system is at the bottom of the trouble
you take 18,000,000 at 5 per cent, it gives you 10,000, a
21000,000.
The posters
When you look back many of yo
were put upon the walls of one man marching int
you approved of w
111
poon, and your pre war Budget wa
what was taking
into the bank and the ol
ave place
to get the burden reduced is to substitute som
The only way to
Por cont.. but you
something in its place
get the for eve
Li
١١١٠٠
every (100
showing Tommy, and it said. We are both doing our bit. Now it works out the other way
am now converting their 5 per cent loans payable in 1925 and you ge
you get it on the whole of your 100. It is argued that labour should co
ou hold. The only difference is instead of paying 5 per cent interest you only ۱۲۰۰۱۱
bick to something like normal if so, then the rates of interest should also come bar V
and before the war you could lend any amount of money and only got 31
remember a short time ago I heard two of the loudest cheers I've heard in the House of
Commons when the Chancellor of the Exchequer said they were going to take away the
Out-of-Work benefit, and ten minutes later when he said he should not put into operation
The Committee made certain recommendations which were turned down
the capital levy. They set up a Committee of Enquiry into the taxation of War Wealth
MR. H. CLAYSON (Wellingborough): I think we should do our best to keep Mr. Staith
in the House of Commons if at all possible. I have been looking at the paragraph
with the political side of our work. It seems to me there are a good many gaps in this
The Wellingborough Division is the only division where we have a
report.
BOOT OPERATIVE M.P.
34 per cent
1
aph dealing
ing the meeting. I should like to ask that Agent's status either locally or nationally. I
We also have a Political Agent. Some time ago there was a trade union meeting in Welling
borough and that Agent had the temerity to attend and was publicly challenged for attend-
capacity, and ought to have a periodical invitation to meet our Council. I know the
believe he is a visitor to the Conference this week. I think he should be here in his official
General Secretary has sent for a monthly report, but that is inadequate to know what is
going on. I happen to be an active co-operator, and suggest we should unite all our
efforts. We should take these national servants into our confidence.
with it.
THE CHAIRMAN: Politics in co-operative circles is no new thing. As far back as 1897
at Perth, Mr. Day of Norwich, moved a resolution and I seconded it, that we should go
in for political action, and it was carried, but up to the present time they have been playing
I only had a 30-a-year Political Agent and no trade union nor co-operative
Mr. Allen attending our meetings to put forward the political aspects and get supporters
society refused to welcome him. Our own people should see there is no opposition to
to the movement. This is a Boot and Shoe Operatives' Conference for boot and shoe opera-
tives' work. I don't raise any objection to this man hearing debates on political matters,
and this can be done at branch meetings. The Council consider all matters on their
merits. We do not want to try and run a branch. If the branches have an idea they should
send it in for the Conference to consider. I don't agree that verbal reports should be
given, we want written ones.
up at any time. If it is a verbal report you cannot pin it down. If the Council felt at
any time they would like to see Mr. Allen, or Mr. Allen would like to see them, they would
put no obstacle in the way.
to all. We have no power to invite anyone to our Conference but delegates duly elected.
MR. C. H. MAYER (Leicester No. 2): What is the policy of the Labour movement
towards the Corporation Profits Tax, and the League of Nations?
We all give in our reports in writing, and they can be turned
Who knows but what we may come to a conclusion suitable
MR. W. R. SMIтн, М.Р.: We are opposed to the Corporation Profits Tax. The
action of the Labour Party doesn't accept the League of Nations in its present form. It
may become a League of Nations, but a League of Peoples is what we want and not a
League of Governments. It could have dealt with many matters; there is the question
of war with Russia; differences between ourselves and Germany. I know Lord Robert
Cecil once said in the House of Commons that if parties had backed up the League of
Nations like the Labour Party had done it would be more effective.
The report was then unanimously endorsed.
Trade Fund Transfer.
THE CHAIRMAN explained that in 1916, owing to the precarious state of the Sick
Fund, 210,000 was transferred to it from the Trade Fund, but now the Sick Fund was in
healthy state, the Council recommended that this £10,000 be repaid to the TRADE FUND.
THE CHAIRMAN then proposed the same and Mr. A. BIRT (Northampton) seconded,
the resolution being unanimously endorsed.
i
1
11

---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

43
The period valued covers the first 6 years of the Society's experience. The
recipts during the aforesaid period amounted to £365.046 188. 10d. and the
payments to £154.806 1s. 7d.. the balance of £210.240 17s. 3d. representing
the amount of the fund on the 31st December. 1918.
12.5370s. 9d., and the balance of the Administration Account £4,493 188. 10d.,
In addition to the Benefit Fund there is to be added the Contingencies Fund
Assets (after allowing for outstanding miscellaneous Habilities) of
howing
227.271 16s. 10d.
The Valuation shows the present liabilities of the Society, in respect to
Benefits, to be £890,823, and the present value of the Assets applicable thereto
to be £913.423. the balance being a surplus of £22.600. The Valuer recommends
that £12.907 of the surplus be carried forward, leaving £9,693 as now available
for additional benefits.
tremely cautious policy in suggesting that 60 per cent. of the Society's Surplus
In the opinion of the Council, the Government Actuary is adopting an ex-
comments and in view of the fact that a similar policy is being adopted in respect
should be carried forward, but having regard to the Valuer's observations and
to surpluses shown generally, the Council recommend that the Disposable Surplus
of £9,693 be applied to the purpose of increasing the ordinary benefits over a
period of five years from the 4th July, 1921, to the following extent :---
Sickness Benefit, by 1s. per week.
„ (Class K. Member), by 6d. per week.
Disablement Benefit, by 6d. per week.
Maternity Benefit, by 2s.
The members entitled to participate will be all members on the books on
5th July, 1920, who have been continuously insured since 1st January, 1919.
In view of our extremely heavy Sickness experience during 1913 and 1914, during
which period our expenditure was considerably in excess of the amount esti-
mated, the Council feel that the members and the Society are to be congratulated
on the Surplus shown. We have every confidence that, by the adoption of the
policy recommended in this Report, the future of the Society is assured. The
business of the General Meeting will be :--
(1) To receive Valuation Report and Valuer's Comments thereon.
(2) To adopt or modify the scheme suggested.
(3) To pass a resolution empowering the Executive Council to complete
the scheme and to do all things necessary to bring the new rates
of benefit into operation.
Also that power be given to the Council to amend the rules in accordance
with the suggested New Rates of Benefit, or any other Regulations issued by
the Ministry.

Signed on behalf of the Council,
JOHN W. MURBY,
Manager.


---
Here is the text from the image:

44
National Insurance (Health) Acts, 1911-1918
REPORT ON THE VALUATION
OF THE
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF THE NATIONAL UNION OF
BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES' APPROVED SOCIETY, No. 281,
as at 31st December, 1918.

1. In accordance with the provisions of Section 36 of the National Insurance
Act, 1911, a valuation has been made of the assets and liabilities of the above
Society, arising under Part I. of the Act, as existing at the 31st December, 1918.
The Society is approved for England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales, and the in-
formation required for the purpose of the valuation has been prepared in the
Insurance Departments concerned from returns compiled by the Society and
passed by the Government Auditors.

2. The number of members included in the valuation is 30,549, of whom
24,406 are men and 6,143 women. Of the latter, 4,519 are spinsters or widows.
1,599 employed married women, and 25 married women who have left employ-
ment and are entitled only to the limited benefits provided under Section 22
of the Act of 1918. The changes in membership which have occurred in the
period between 15th July, 1912, and 31st December, 1918, are summarised in
Appendix A, page 6.

3. The receipts and payments of the Benefit Fund during the period above
named are summarised in Appendix B, page 7, from which it will be seen that the
receipts amounted to £365,046 18s. 10d. and the payments to £154,806 1s. 7d., the
balance of £210,240 17s. 3d. representing the amount of the Fund on 31st Decem-
ber, 1918. In addition to the Benefit Fund, there stood to the credit of the Society
on 31st December, 1918, the Contingencies Fund of £12,537 0s. 9d., and the
balance of the Administration Account £4,493 18s. 10d. Assets amounting to
£228,361 18s. 6d., representing the total of these credits, namely, £227,271
16s. 10d., together with provision for certain miscellaneous liabilities amounting
to £1,090 1s. 8d., are shown in detail in the Balance Sheet contained in Form
205/A.G.D., a copy of which accompanies this Report.

4. The basis of the valuation is prescribed, under Section 36 (2) of the Act of
1911, by the National Health Insurance (Valuation) Regulations, 1919. Under
these Regulations the values of the future benefits and contributions are ascer-
tained, in effect, on the basis adopted in the calculation of the reserve values
credited to approved societies under Section 55 of the Act of 1911. The future
interest earnings on the accumulated funds (including reserve values) are thus
assumed at the rate of 3 per cent. per annum, and the future rates of mortality,
sickness, and claims for maternity benefit among the members are estimated in


---
Here is the text from the image:

45

Information as
perdance with certain tables prepared for the purposes of the Act.as represen-
ptive of the general average experience of insured persons, separate tables
ng employed in the case of men and women respectively
rrt Report of the National Health Insurance Joint Committee (Cd. 6907), but
the methods of calculating these tables will be found in Appendix fl. to the
s necessary to add. in regard to women, that certain changes have followed
Deen increased to an extent corresponding with the additional contributions
to the Benefit Fund in respect of women members under Section 1 of
ct of 1918, and that in particular the rates of sickness originally assumed
hat Act
5
The following is the
VALUATION BALANCE SHEET
as at 31st December, 1918.
LIABILITIES.
Present Value of Future
Benefits
Balances at credit of
Contingencies Fund
Administration Account
£
890,823
12,537
4,494
Other sums owing by Society-
Debits in Commissioners'
Account
Administration Liabilities
Married Women's Credits
Account
Amount due to Reserve
Suspense Fund
State Grant Overpaid
(Benefit Suspense A/c.)
16
507
584
940
2
ASSETS.
Present Value of Future
£
Contributions for Benefits* 500,074
Present Value of Future
State Grants to Benefits* 201,511
Total Funds as per Balance
Sheet
Reserve Values due in respect
of women who married
during 1918 and were
deemed to be still em-
ployed at the valuation
date
Interest accrued but not
due
..
Other sums owing to Society-
Estimated Value of Con-
tributions due in respect
of members assumed to
have joined the Forces
Credits in Commissioners'
Account
Income Tax Recoverable
Estimated Value of Bene-
fits paid by way of
Advance
228,362
851
377
179
23
29
Surplus
35
Recoupment (1918) in
respect of discharged
soldiers, &c...
726
22,600
Women's Equalisation
Fund (1918)
336
£932,503
£932,503
The valuation thus shows the present value of the liabilities of the Society
respect of benefits to be £890,823, and the present value of the assets applicable
hereto to be £913,423, the balance being a surplus of £22,600.
6. The surplus is not large in relation to the number of members and the
liabilities of the Society, and much of it appears to have arisen from sources
*Including cost of administration.


---
Here is the text from the image:

46
due to the exceptional conditions which prevailed during the War. Prominent
among these sources are:
(1) the relief resulting from the decline in the birth rate and the con-
sequent fall in the number of claims for maternity benefit:
(2) the release of the Society from liability in respect of which it had
received reserve values, by deaths among male members of
military age; and
(3) the high rate of interest secured on investments.
In addition, the cost of Disablement Benefit has been below the provision
made in the financial basis of the Act, and it is probable that this experience
is at least partly due to the War.

It should be noted that the sickness claims during 1913 and 1914 were con-
siderably in excess of the valuation standard and necessitated the intervention
of the Insurance Commissioners. Subsequently the experience exhibited an
improvement, doubtless in part due to the temporary influence of War conditions,
and, on balance, a small profit has accrued in respect of this benefit.

7. Fluctuations from time to time in the sickness experience, in the rate of
mortality, and in other elements affecting the financial position of approved
societies are inevitable, and should invariably be kept in view when the distribu-
tion of surplus is being considered. The conditions under which the present
surplus has been produced, as explained above, emphasise the importance of
this point and lead to the conclusion, after proper weight is given to the pro-
visions of the Act respecting the Contingencies Fund, that £12,907 of the surplus
should be carried forward, leaving £9,693 as now available for additional benefits.
I certify, accordingly, that of the surplus disclosed by the valuation the sum of
£9,693 is disposable surplus to which the provisions of Section 37 of the Act
of 1911 apply.

8. Having regard to the amount of the disposable surplus as certified above,
the attention of the Society is directed to the provisions of Section 37 of the Act
of 1911, and to Appendix C. to this Report.

P. N. HARVEY,
Valuer appointed by the Treasury under
Section 36 of the National Insurance Act, 1911.

Government Actuary's Department,
Buckingham Gate, London, S.W. 1.
12th April, 1921.


---
Here is the text from the image:

10
APPENDIX C.
INFORMATION AS TO ADDITIONAL BENEFITS.

1. The additional benefits to be included in any scheme under Section 37
the Act of 1911 must be selected from the list of additional benefits contained
t Part II. of the Fourth Schedule to the Act and in such regulations as may be
made pursuant to Section 15 of the Act of 1920.
2. The valuations of Approved Societies are normally to be made at five
early intervals and the additional benefits to be granted on the present valuation
should therefore be so regulated as to absorb the disposable surplus over a period
of five years commencing, say, 4th July, 1921.
"
of increasing the sickness, disablement and maternity benefits or any of them
If it is proposed to use a disposable surplus, or part of it, for the purpose
Nos. (3) and (6) of the list of additional benefits the rates of increase should
Benefit Fund. The procedure will be the same if No. (4) (Payment of sickness
be settled by actuarial calculation and the payments made out of the ordinary
benefit earlier than the fourth day or No. (14) (Repayment of Contributions)
is selected.
3. In cases where it is proposed to make an addition to the money benefits
provided under the Act it will generally be found the better plan to adopt a com-
bination of Nos. (3) and (6) under which the sickness, disablement and maternity
benefits of all members would be increased.
If in the present case the whole of the disposable surplus were applied to
this purpose, it would allow the rates of the ordinary benefits, viz., sickness,
disablement and maternity benefits, to be increased over a period of five years
from, say, 4th July, 1921, to the following extent :-
Sickness Benefit by
Sickness Benefit (Class K members) by
Disablement Benefit by
Maternity Benefit by
s. d.
1 0 a week.
0 6
0 6
2 0

In arriving at these amounts effect has been given to the provision of the
act under which two-ninths of the cost of the additional benefits would be pro-
ided by the State Grant. The members entitled to participate would be all
members on the books on 5th July, 1920, who had been continuously insured
nce 1st January, 1919.
4. In any case where it is desired to adopt No. (4) or No. (14) of the list of
ditional benefits or in those exceptional cases in which No. (9) or No. (10)
ay be suitable, actuarial advice will be necessary in the formulation of a scheme.
such cases the Society should communicate with the Insurance Department.


---


---
al. It is suggested it is inadvisable for that to be main-
tained, but it is most remarkable that it should be brought forward at the moment when
Union International.
doing good.
You have the miners' lock-out.
the Trade
of lock-out.
mines, and the only way they can be
all other countries to refuse to handle or ship the coal
countries.
I think the Conference may be under the impression that
hesitate before destroying the coal
has some relation to the First and Third International
cal character.
This is an
OF TRADE UNIONS.
to accomplish its ends.
You
election of representatives.
people who represent the Unions on the
The Trade Union Congress elects its officials
to use that as an argument against the
you do? Merely because
national linking up of the organisa-
ting its efficiency.
this moment.
and I hope we shall make it more useful.
Conference and think
is purely trade union, and even
Federation of Trade Unions
to the meeting in the Holborn
read the report of that gathering
Union Congress
Congress where we decided to join the
London was the first meeting under the new arrangement.
organises workers represented at that gathering, and you will all
shortcomings may be, they are increased by the fact that we have
That mitigates against quick decisions
It
I am confident one of the difficulties of
the speeches translated into five
t we made headway in removing
Ourselves.
I made reference to the Reparations
the discussions which took place did a great deal
Secretary, came over a short time ago and wanted to see Mr. Bowerman and myself regard-
had happened in some countries, and men being tyrannised who
to circumstances over which we had no
to use our influence to stop the
to such and such a place if you cannot come, send someone to represent the
British Trade Union movement.
kno
Union movement of Great Britain.
We couldn't
OCR
---

---
Here is the text from the image:

55

thing, but shrugged his shoulders as much as to say, until the British come we cannot
and when immen turned up at this foreign place, the officer in charge didn't say
I hope, Mr. Chairman, that we shall reject this resolution unanimously.
The resolution was put and there voted :-
FOR THE RESOLUTION
mithing.
7
Piecerwork v. Fixed Wages.
d the Chairman declared the same lost upon the vote against the resolution.
THE CHAIRMAN: We will now pass oil.
an instruction:
The resolution in the name of Leicester i
LEICESTER NO. 1." The Leicester Branch believing that the system of workin
in operation during 1020, in which payment by result with a guaranteed mini
alternative, cach member to have one vote only:
as the best policy, hereby claims that the Union should take a vote on the following
1st Are you in favour of payment by results governed by the piecework
or quantity statements without limit ?
end Are you in favour of set weekly wages governed by the piecework on
quantity statements limited to the weekly wage ?
3rd-Or do you prefer daywork pure and simple without statements?"
The NORWICH resolution having been withdrawn-
NORWICH. -" That the policy of the Union be directed to securing a system of
weekly fixed wages guaranteed for every full working week,"
and the resolution from the Leicester Women's Branch as the amendment.
or was agreed to take the resolution in the name of NORTHAMPTON NO. 2 as the resolution.
One is to go on as at present; one is a set wage with fixed quantities, and the next
wint is none of our members want daywork pure and simple.
MR. H. W. LYNE (Northampton No. 2) then proposed :--
NORTHAMPTON NO. 2. " That this Conference is of the opinion that the piece-
work or supplementary wage system of working is contrary to the best interests of the
operatives, and therefore instructs the National Council to frame the future policy
of this Union on the basis of daywork system in conjunction with Quantity State-
ments."
He continued: We realise the difficulties of the various branches up and down the country;
Herefore this resolution was tabulated to carry forward the policy of the Union recently
thted upon. Our members felt the problem was that the majority of the members did not
voderstand each other's view. We do not want to go back to the old daywork systém.
He want to agree upon the proposition put forward and accepted by the members. In
regard to the question of daywork we don't intend to go back to that. From 1909-1914
Since taking up this system we have realised it has its bad points as well as the old day-
we had a clickers' statement in Northampton, and we adopted a supplementary wage.
work system had, and if there was ever a time when the weakness of the operatives showed
itself more apparent, it is to-day. Let us take the facts of the economic side. I always
believed there existed an iron law of wages, and there are a majority of the delegates
prepared to accept that position, that the general average of sustenance is determined
by the level of the wages of the people. Let us take what happened in respect of the
last Agreement. In the Northampton No. 2 Branch in 1909, the manufacturers were
prepared to accept from the operatives 26 dozen to earn the minimum wage, which was
the basis upon which the quantity was fixed. In 1919 with the increases which had
accrued to the industry, the same amount of work done by the clicker secured for him
We have had a percentage increase on our Statement higher
I defy that fact to be disputed.
70s. with his 10 per cent.
than any other branch, except Northamptonshire.
Though the men were driven by fear under the old daywork system there is a point beyond
which the workman is not prepared to go. Ten years ago I was prepared to say I could
not do another pair if the boss gave me fro a week. (Laughter.)
of fear away and put in its place the incentive to produce more work, put in more energy
for gain, and you find the manufacturers have a better whip to scourge the workers.
Where piecework rates are being worked to six or eight years ago they were not the men
have gone beyond the wildest expectation and got an average wage of £4 12s. or £4 155.
weekly, and we were led to believe all was well. We are told this is against the 30s.
pre-war. When you find out how much is being done to obtain this, you will see it is not
as big as expected. When the minimum wage was increased from 56s. to 68s. your men
who had increased their capacity and ability only had an increase of 10 per cent, on their
has not yet been reached, and whether it is this year, next year, or the year after, this
quantity statements. You may not see it at the moment. The capacity of the workman
scheme must eventually go through. I feel this matter very keenly. Let us deal with the
Take the incentive
1
H
19


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

58
doing 47s worth of work and drawing £3 17s.  I wish we had more manufacturers like it. If I could see any good in this scheme I should be the first to

VOTE FOR IT.

Many, many years ago I tried to follow our industry and the Agreement and was a member perhaps before some of you came inside the Union, and have been studying it for thirty years. I cannot see, fellow delegates, what good it will do for us. We are all going to be on the same level. You are beginning at the wrong end. It is dictatorship with a vengeance. It is jealousy, and the man with no ability will be on equal term with the clever man. You cannot have two firms on the same wages, and you cannot have a shilling rise unless agreed to by the manufacturers, yourself and the trade union official. You cannot say I am worth so and so. It is no use thinking you get a merit rise. We have enough loafers in our trade and I've had to carry people on my back many, many times.

MR. LEN. SMITH (Council Member) supported the resolution. The position has been very clearly put by the mover and seconder, and these resolutions have been embodied in the new suggested terms sent to the Federation for discussion. We do not believe the present system under which we are working to be the best that could be got. We have stated clearly time after time that we wish each operation to be priced in accordance with the Terms of Agreement, but that we should have some control over the member, working in the industry.  To-day we have no control. Instead of instilling into the minds of trade unionists that they must race away, I contend that our present method with its development has not developed trade unionism, but rank individualism. We cannot see the unity we used to see in days gone by. We don't see men helping one another as we used to. We want to regulate the conditions so that all the people in the industry can be brought in without being dismissed. Instead of 50 per cent. drawing all the money and 50 per cent. having out-of-work pay, we believe by a modification in our terms we shall be able to take steps to prevent it. We don't say it is a perfect scheme. In the working out of that we shall find faults and try to remedy them. We have found out the evils of the present system, and we have put our finger on the spot which we feel operates against the operatives. We hear talk about regulating the individual. Some want regulating. The main principle which is at the bottom of our system lies a good way back in history. We do not agree the manufacturers should have the right to say whether he shall work day or piecework as he has to-day. Your 1895 Terms of Settlement stated plainly, and in your first clause of the present Agreement it says it is subject to Clause 2 Sub-section 5 of the 1895 Agreement, which gives the manufacturer the option to work either day or piecework.  We are trying to alter that principle, and in altering it we have put forward proposals that will give officers and branch executives power to meet the members and say how far each should go. Even in short periods with no restriction (although we have a great number of men walking the streets) in 35 hours men have been drawing nearly as much as they did in 48 hours. Other people are walking the streets. Isn't it better we should try and devise some scheme to regularise these conditions, or are we to cater for 75 per cent. of our members to do as much as they like, whilst the other 25 per cent. walk about the streets, or are we prepared to say you shall do so many and no more? You will find with your reduction in hours factories of any size have increased their output by one-third, and the wages have not increased so very much. We want to realise if we had control of these men they would not have done as they have done. Northampton are honest in their intentions, and want to build up an industry whereby we can level up, and not level down, until we get to the bosses' standard, and nothing less than the bosses' standard is good enough for me. We do not want to level down, but to set up a standard which should be worked to and not exceeded, nor anyone to receive less. We do not want to go back to district statements. We want a national statement. If this resolution is adopted as the policy of the Union we want to apply it all round and do all the good we can. We want these things to be fought out here, and you cannot control the industry until you regularise the output.

MR. A. BIRT (Northampton) : There are good men but slow, and there are some good men suffering some defect which prevents them going fast. There are men who believe a certain restriction should take place immediately. They feel the present position is unbearable. I don't think it fair for Mrs. Richards to call operatives loafers.

MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): I have carried loafers on my back many, many times.

THE CHAIRMAN: There used to be a body of men in Leicester known as the Cherry Tree Magistrates, and we had to fine men for exceeding the limit, so it is no new thing.

ALDERMAN A. HILL (Leicester No. 2): The men through fear used to see they got through a quantity so as not to lose their situation. In 1903 we established a quantity statement and continued to work daywork. We did not discover our members were such loyal trade unionists as to keep to that statement. What we did discover was the same as applies to other towns. There were not a few but a large number of men who either through fear of losing their position or seeking to get favour from the foreman or employer,


---


---
thing a daywork. If the operatives don't fix the prices the employer will. I fail to see any difference between piecework and quantity statements. What is the difference between the pieceworker and the man who does more than he ought. In the old days when it came to discharges it was not the man who was always in front who was sacked. If a man feels he can earn 15 a week I don't see how you can prevent him so long as he works to the statement. Where is the difference between that and piecework? Whilst we might agree with the object of the people behind the resolution. I don't see how you can get any neater the object than by the reduction of hours of labour. If we want to regulate the industry and do away with the unemployment problem as much as we can, a better method of doing it is to place more importance upon certain things we have believed in for years. One is the limitation of boy labour. We ought also to press for a reduction of hours of labour until we can convince our men that by working beyond their strength and doing as much as they can, they are working against the interests of the Union. It has been said it is because the men do so much work upon piecework that we have not been able to get the wages up any more than we have done, that the fast men are always used by the employer. Since piecework was adopted particularly in Northamptonshire you could not find men doing bigger quantities to-day than they did under the daywork system. There was not a dozen people in that district years ago getting 15s. above the minimum wage. That is the effect this resolution will have if put into operation. A greater incentive for a man to run away from his shopmate cannot be imagined if he does not want to get the sack. Is our present Agreement being carried out in all parts of the country? Are all our members paid the Minimum Wage? I was against piecework until we had the minimum wage guaranteed. That is why you get opposition to piecework. It may be the reason for a great amount of support of this resolution because they do not get the guaranteed wage. If anyone in the factory works to a piecework statement where can the officials lose anything providing every operative is guaranteed his present daywork wage? If they do not earn their wages the employer makes it up... if more is earned, the employees get it. If the employees earn more they do not get it under the suggested scheme. Assuming a man is capable of earning £5 10s. and the rate is fixed at £4 10s., is he to stop when he has done his quantity for 90s., or is he to spread out the work over the full week just to earn £4 10s.? What would happen is this-some men could not stop at that figure and would be working either for someone else or the employer.

MR. J. MANNERS (Council Member): I ask the Conference to remember a vote of the members has been taken upon this question, and the members have decided upon a certain thing. Is it competent for this Conference to alter it?

THE CHAIRMAN: It is not a matter of competence or we should not have allowed it to go on the Agenda.

MR. J. MANNERS (Council Member): There has not been an argument put forward apart from showing the selfishness of certain men. If we are going forward to make steps towards

A NEW WORLD,

we must eliminate a certain amount of selfishness. Is our present policy the best? If so, I have no complaint to make, but I would like us to consider whether it is in the best interests of the whole, and to see if it is the safest and soundest policy we can adopt. I come from a part of the country where there is a strong feeling upon the point. We have had manufacturers putting reductions on earnings into operation. They said, We only want so many pairs to go through the factory; when that is done you can go home. The fast man did his 50s. worth of work and went home. The slow man also did 50s. worth of work, but if the present method had obtained the fast man would earn £4 and the slow man 30s. I have heard of manufacturers who put their men on 38 hours and at the end of that time they did as much work as they did in 48 hours. The manufacturer told the men he wanted a reduction in output. We must appeal to the intelligence of our operatives and there is a time when restraint has to be put upon themselves. Is it easier to work for all you are worth instead of regulating your output? We are told if this principle of control of output goes into our next proposed terms it is quite possible the Federation will not meet us. If you desire a certain thing it is because we are certain it is in our best interests. That is not the employers' point. We hear it is the daywork which gives the profit to the manufacturer. The employers denied that, they say it is the piece-worker who is their best man. You say we cannot trust the operatives. If you do not, what headway can you make? If it went into our Agreement our men would carry it out. In the interests of all we feel it is reasonable, and if we can negotiate it we should not have toiled in vain. After all if we can raise the bottom man and lift the standard it is the better thing. It is no credit to raise the men who are all right. The employers in the 1920 Agreement wanted piecework or they would not go on.

THE CHAIRMAN: No employers in my presence have ever said they wanted piecework or they would not go on with the business. They said they wanted what they obtained in 1895, and they choose the right of day or piecework.

---


---


---
have not changed your system at all. You have no solution to the question. It would
more than ever because you would have fewer men in the industry.
one would be against the Kingswood workers asking for a larger overtime rate, because
The question is, is this the most opportune time? I
so many outworkers.
don't like the strong rigid position. Our branch officials know if they have to
ity as possible, so that
they can adjust matters according to the circumstances obtaining at the moment. The
or all must be considered. Is it the best thing to do at the present time ? I believe there
I have in my mind is not in relation to the principle itself, but the wider interests
quality of the work, and when the work is finished it is not what he wants. It way be
Personal1y, I view with more anxiety the
the other side there would be a desire to accept this principle.
present position than I have ever done in previous negotiations. I would prefer this
as to whether it is wise to insist upon it now.
the tendency what our men fecl is the
position, rather than to insist upon it at a time when it is doubtful whether the change
should be obtained at present. I hope it will not be long before we get better conditions
and I can see through this proposal a possibility of our going a step further.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I have endeavoured to try and find out the mind of the
It seems we should come immedi-
other side in relation to this position. Whatever the vote reflected upon the question which
we sent to the country, I still feel the members did not fully understand the matter. As
the General President could tell you also, that the Leicester officials have never hesitated
the honour of the men they have come to a reasonable
ately up to a block upon the first resolution between our side and the employers. Some
challenge upon this resolution before the Conference. You must also bear in mind the
selfishness in the way it has been made out to-day, but our statements have been able
prove some have taken undue advantage of their fellows, which was not proven until
MR. G. ABBOTT (Leeds): I hope the delegates feel that they will not force the Council
Mr. Jex the majority would have been bigger in the recent vote. Some efforts must be
made to take our operatives from the "jungle" spirit. As a member of the Leeds Board
others small wages, and one factory a few weeks ago, working 40 hours, a man earned
Everv time we are faced with big earnings when we want to get out a statement,
concerning us. Is it not time we attempted to alter the position? I think it is. There


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

67
half the money because it was a small firm. We shall have to have
We should not mention big sums. I could name bigger money than that
10-day, but don't think it wise. Payment by results is a very debatable point
ago I was secretary of the Kilmarnock Branch and was the first to introduce a prodo
statement to Mr. G. Clark. I was investigator 34 years ago for Scotland, and wrote all
the towns where our industry was carried on except Inverness. Piecework was ca
prevent unemployment. This is a serious thing and I am afraid the resolutions that foll
out everywhere. We hear a lot of tales as to what happened in the country
a war. Some of our firms are on full time and have been for a long while. We cannot
will be slaughtered. If you had a Council of wizards they would not do it. We have had
is the question of hours and wages. The other things are important, but I suggest
have 60 clickers and more benches were put in and the men decided to earn a living
If this resolution goes to the vote if it is lost it won't matter the Council have one thing
saddled upon them when in Conference which is quite sufficient, and first and foremost.
we adjourn the question sine die.
MR. H. W. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): During the discussion a certain amount of
stress has been placed upon the position of unemployment. We realise this is not a cure
The case was raised that we shall prevent men with brains from getting their due. If a
for unemployment, but it is as necessary when employment is good as when it is bad
will find it is not the individual with the brain and ability who goes out of the factory
is essential that they should be penalised. I claim they should. In 99 cases out of 100 you
incentive for gain. A lot has been made of the position of the Council, and I want the
with the greatest amount of wages. The man who works for the sake of working has an
delegates to understand that whatever happens to this resolution the suggested Terms
more than you have instructed the Council to do. If the manufacturers were not going
of Settlement embody this resolution. If you pass this resolution you will be doing no
to oppose it I should think some of my critics were right. I am not going to blame the
effect. To those delegates who have instructions from their branches to vote in a par
Council, but am prepared to accept the position if it is unable to carry these clauses into
instructions I say, Obey the dictates of your own conscience.
ticular manner, I desire to say, Carry out your instructions; to those delegates with no

THE CHAIRMAN: We are connected with a large number of co-operative productive
factories and I don't know any of them who have not had to introduce this system to
protect the shareholders against the workers. None of us believe in daywork pure and
thing is the limitation of a man's ability, we say, from the school to the university. When
simple. That was the original intention according to the language used. The only
it comes to the labourer though, you say, So much and no more. We found in one great
area 75 per cent. of the manufacturers, after the 1919 Agreement had been in operation
eight months, were working daywork pure and simple, and one delegate charged another
with his members earning £1 per week more than he received. The employers cannot
claim the right to work daywork without the consent of the Union.

MR. W. R. SMITH, M.P.: The Terms of Settlement gave the choice to the employer
to work day or piece.

THE CHAIRMAN: Not without consultation with the local officials.

MR. W. R. SMITH, M.P.: There is no reference to local officials in the Terms of Settle-
ment.

THE CHAIRMAN: I am speaking as a national official, and not as a co-opted member.

MR. W. R. SMITH, M.P.: That is a deliberate insult to me, and I shall not stand it.
I have been short-circuited by that man (pointing to the Chairman) ever since I was
elected to Parliament. I am here by virtue of my office.

There were cries of withdraw, and a Norwich delegate suggested the General President
should leave the chair.

THE CHAIRMAN: I know my business. I administer the laws and will not allow
anyone to tell me what I do. I say it must be with the consent of local officials.

MR. W. R. SMITH, M.P.: That has nothing to do with your insult to me. I ask for
it to be withdrawn. I am not here in a different capacity from that of the delegates.

THE CHAIRMAN: I administer these laws and know my business.

MR. G. ABBOTT (Leeds) appealed to the Chairman to withdraw his remark made
relative to Mr. Smith.

THE CHAIRMAN: If you think my interpretation of Mr. Smith's position was personal
I willingly withdraw it. (Hear, hear.) Mr. Smith doesn't have to go to the individual
members for support of his position. I withdraw that remark. My duty is to the members.
Weal or woe. I shall carry it out.

POPULAR OR UNPOPULAR,
it will be done. When we supported the policy that has been in existence 30 years we shall
continue to do it until someone else comes forward than ourselves. This policy has


---
68
been built up by spirit, fact and judgment and by district statements; not a statement
for every shop. I wish when the Central Office asks for information you would supply it.
If you don't know where can we get our facts? How many of you have sent the four shops
I asked for six months ago? Some have. I admit. The majority have not. We shall
agree to nothing until we have either consulted the members directly or have a conference
and put the position before them. I prefer a rank and file vote every time.
the vote was then taken, and there voted
FOR THE LEICESTER AMENDMENT
FOR THE NORTHAMPTON RESOLUTION

Equality of the Sexes.
Mrs. M. J. BELL RICHARDS (Council Member) proposed:
That providing the same wages and price per operation be paid, all departments
in the boot and shoe trade shall be open for women to work in.
It falls to my lot to move this most unpopular resolution, but as Mr. Lyne said if we
think it right and it is our ideal, it has to be done.
I take Mr. Bray's reference as a direct
insult. I am sorry there are only twelve women here when there should be fifty. Some
of us would rather sit at home than bother over some of these things, because it is not
to our personal advantage, so far as we are concerned, and our women do not back us
up in this, because they are not so well advanced as to see as we see. A few come first.
and we shall have to fight for years. Surely, fellow members, you are not surprised at
the interest we are taking. It has been one of the planks of the Union for years the
equality of the sexes. We are all told to go to the meetings, and we are asking for our
rights. We women believe unless we get equal conditions in industry we shall never
get equal with you. We are after individual freedom. The same wages for the same
work done. The war brought this about. Our women went into all departments during
the war and a lot of them had twice as much money as when they were in the machine
room, and found the work much easier and more adaptable than sitting on a stool eight
hours a day and never raising their heads; and the time came when the women must come
out of men's departments in some cases our women were fetched out and not asked as
nicely as they might have been. We began to think if agreements of this kind were to
be made, then we had to fight for the right to live. We have as much right to live as the
men. (Hear, hear.) We should be economically independent of any man's earnings
which he brings in to keep his establishment going. Great strife is going to centre round
this point of the industrial problem. I know the position and the arguments that will
not intend to be dictated to in future where we shall get our living. So far as our women
We are not trying to dictate to you, but to educate you. We do
be used against me.
are concerned in the trade you don't want us to go on other jobs. You preach it on the
platforms, and don't put into operation what you preach. It is a question that women
will want to know from the men who ask for their votes to make laws, whether they will
allow us industrial freedom. You preach it on the
wages are concerned will be looked after by the officials. If you get the women organised
it will be for the officials to see that prices are not undercut. We are told certain jobs
are not good for us. That does not hinder this Union which has been on the forefront
only safeguard from undercutting so far as the men's
in the principle of industrial freedom and equality of the sexes. I could say a lot more,
but I feel that women should not be prevented from competing in the industrial world.
When our women wake up the agreements will be scrapped; we shall want our say and
get it. We may be innocents, but we know what we want.

MISS SHERWIN (Leicester Women's): We want the same equality as the men. Women
of the Leicester branch and other branches have been taking men's jobs and found them
easier, and we would like to get back to that work. Women who have had to go back
into their own jobs after being on men's work don't like the reduction in wages, and I
second the resolution.
MR. J. WHEELER (Leicester): On behalf of the Leicester members in relation to female
labour in men's departments, although it is true that female labour was introduced during
the war, the operations they performed were just a few minor ones, and we passed a reso-
lution that females should be given notice. I want to ask the Conference whether they
consider, so far as the Boot and Shoe industry is concerned, that we should pass a
resolution of this kind giving the women freedom to go into the men's departments. How
would a woman feel on the Consol operator? How would they get on with the Knocking-
up machine, and I know they would look nice on an Edgesetter. I know of one firm
outside Leicester where they had females on the Rex Puller-over and the Consol, and
every operation in the department. I made enquiries and found that women were getting
16s. per week on the Rex Puller-over and those on the Consol 22s.; the girl on the Sole
Attacher from 4s. to 6s. per week. I reported it to the Council, and found some of the
girls walked eight miles each way, and if you pass this resolution and give employers the
opportunity to take in females you will have a difficulty to find out what wages are being
paid. Time after time at the Trade Union Congress this thing has been put down, and I
hope the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives will not be the first to pass such a
resolution.

---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

71
MR. W. H. LODGE (Newcastle-on-Tyne): If a branch is a long way from the Seat
of Government there is nothing to bring members together, and we should have a vrat
from the Head Officials of the Union and members of the Council periodically Last
November we asked the officers to come down and haven't had them yet.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: 1 was not aware this matter would be raised Mr
Lodge complained that I did not call and address a meeting of his members on my way
back from Edinburgh, and it is not because either the General President and myself would
not go down, but we have not had the time as yet. The Scottish branches have asked
for me and I should be delighted to go. The Newcastle branch have had visits from
several Council members and had unlimited help. When you remember we have 80
branches and with the sections 115, you will see it would take a long time to get round

The paragraph was endorsed.

LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH -" That the Council consider a different method
of taking the votes of members so as to ensure a decision being the volce and will of
at least a majority of the members of the Union on any subject."
Carried unanimously.

LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH-" That women members of the Union be invited
to take their share in the management of the affairs of their Union, and where branches
are composed of women and men there shall be facilities given for one or more women
on all executives and committees which in any way deal with the general affairs of
the Union, they to be elected on the same principle adopted by the Trade Union Con-
gress and the National Labour Party."
Withdrawn.

Amalgamation.
NORTHAMPTON.-" That we amalgamate with other Leather Industries."
MR. J. JEFFS (Northampton) regretted his resolution was the last on the Agenda
and read the following letter :-

DEAR JEFFS,
of a good case.
26, LAWRENCE STREET,
May 8th, 1921.
Herewith enclosed a few particulars which I think you will find will form a basis
Should you want further particulars on any particular point, I will
try and get them out for you. Regarding funds, I must say they will not represent
our true position as we have been hard hit just lately, but I cannot give them as I
asked for a typed copy of balance sheet, and at the last moment found it was not done.
You will understand that we are not after your money.

Yours fraternally,
A. HEADLAND.

Previously badly organised, the Leather Industry can now claim to have reached
a fair stage of organisation, though there are still far too many Unions concerned,
as these number something like 18 (all of which deal with leather workers only).
In 1913 steps were taken to form a Federation of all Unions dealing with Leather
and Leather Goods; the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives were invited
to join this, but declined. Later, the Federation was formed under the name of the
National Leather Trades Federation and covers all workers in the industry from the
raw skin to the finished article, including harness and saddle, bag and portmanteau,
football and belt, in fact all leather and leather goods with the exception of boots and
shoes. The result of this has been to secure for the workers national recognition
from the nationally Federated employers, the Leather Producers Association, with
whom we have national agreements fixing rates of wages, terms of overtime, hours
of labour, and grading of all operations. Wages vary from a minimum rate for skilled
dayworkers of £4, and £5 for pieceworkers, to £3 8s. and £4 5s. in a few very small
country shops. The principal Union in this Federation is the Amalgamated Society
of Leather Workers, head office Leeds. This has about 40 branches with a member-
ship of about 12,000. It has six full-time officials (not including any office staff),
and the latest figures available show a worth of about 11,000. While not a wealthy
society, its funds reflect its activities, as they have preferred to use same in fighting
to improve or maintain conditions, in preference to working for a bank balance for
show purposes. The No. 3 Division, which extends from Bristol and the west, to
east as far as Sawston, Cambridge, from north of Lutsouth of Sheffield, has
passed resolutions in favour of amalgamation wit
the Boot and Shoe workers. This has be
+
sent it out to all branches, it w
r workers, including
E.C. and when they
action was


---
taken as a Sub-Committee of the Federation are now meeting to draw up a scheme
of Amalgamation with all Unions in the Federation, and it was not regarded as being
a sound policy to approach the Boot and Shoe Union as an individual Union while
this is going forward. Latest information (May 7th) shows this is progressing and will
probably be brought about. In the shoe leather districts, a number of leather workers
retain full membership in the Boot and Shoe Union, and at present in Irthlingborough
and District a number of these members are drawing strike pay as a result of being
involved in a dispute with leather manufacturers. Further, in quite a number of
shoe shops we find men, who are dressing leather, in the Boot and Shoe Union, and in
some cases this leads to trouble over their wages, when they are working with men
belonging to our Union. At Church's, Northampton, and White's, Norwich, to quote
two cases. Further, cases can be given of men who are claimed to be leather workers
being claimed and organised by the Boot and Shoe Union, legging workers for instance,
It will be seen that so far as a large number of workers are concerned, they are quite
prepared to co-operate with the Boot and Shoe Union in securing the very desirable
end of one Union for the one Industry.

NOTE.-I have not been able to give latest figures as to funds, as I had a promise
to get them typed for me from Leeds, but that was not done on Saturday as arranged.
We are not so well off now, but from our point of view that does not affect the question.

THE GENERAL PRESIDENT promised the matter should have attention at an early date.
The business of the Conference then terminated, and the Chairman expressed the hope
that the delegates had had an interesting and useful time.

The delegates rose at 5.35 p.m.

E.B.


---
Here is the text from the image:

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

RAT FELL 4438 MUSEUM, LONDON.
National Union
OF BOOT & S
Tel Address: NATUNISHOP, HOLB., LONDON
Boot Shoe Operatives
Affiliated to the Trades Union Congress, the General Federation of
Trade Unions and National Labor Parip
Approved under the State National Health Insurance Acts. Approval No. 281
General President
T. F. RICHARDS.
General Secretary
E.L POULTON J.P.
34,GUILFORD STREET
LONDON. W.CL.
Nearest Post Ofice:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY R
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
RT.
23RD JANUARY, 1922.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
THE STATE OF TRADE
continues about the same as last month, but trade was disturbed by the
holidays. The figures given by the Ministry of Labour in the Gazette are as
follows :-
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
In this trade employment continued very depressed during December, and there
were increases both in the numbers unemployed and in the amount of short time worked.
In some cases extended holidays were taken at Christmas. Employment was, however,
not quite so bad, in most districts, as in December, 1920.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed in boot, shoe and slipper making and
repairing establishments, as indicated by the unemployment books lodged at Employment
Exchanges, was 11.9 at the 30th December, as compared with 9.5 per cent. at the 2nd
December. In addition, 3.0 per cent. of the workpeople were claiming benefit in respect
of systematic short-time working at the 30th December, as compared with 2.4 at the
2nd December.
At Leicester employment was fairly good for some of the women workers, but other-
wise continued slack, with much short time. At Hinckley employment was good, and
better than in November. At Wellingborough it was quiet, and showed a decline. At
Higham and Rushden it continued fair. At Northampton, Kettering and Leeds there
was much short time, and employment was still bad. At Bristol it was bad, and worse
than in November. At Norwich it was fair; better than in November, and much better
than last year. There was a decline in the Rossendale Valley towards the end of the
month, owing to the completion of Christmas orders.
In Scotland employment remained fair, or good, at Maybole and at Kilmarnock,
but it was bad at the other principal centres.
25G


---
7
GAINS AND LOSSES ON THE HALF-YEAR.
Total Funds at Central Office now
::
last half-year
Total Funds at Branches now
last half-year
Net Gain on half-year
::
Gain on half-year
TOTAL
£
s. d.
267070 12 11
248508 7 3
()
8
81770
77318 το το
£
s. d.
18562
58
4451 9 10
£23013 15 6
GAINS AND LOSSES.
Gain on Sick Fund
Trade Fund
,
16541 17
2298 10
2
4
Less
175 13
Loss on Political Fund
102
88
Gain on Central Funds
Branch Funds
TOTAL GAIN
MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNION.
FINANCIAL MEMBERS-
2
18840 7 6
278
I IO
18562 5
8
4451 9 10
23013 15 6
Males
49595
Females
21629
71224
Probationary
5986
GRAND TOTAL
77210
1921.
1920.
1920.
1919.
1918.
1917. 1916.
1915.
JUNE.
DEC.
JUNE.
DEC.
DEC.
DEC.
DEC.
DEC.
Financial
Probationary
76207 81874
86982 84949 72668
64915
56325
50941
5831
6986
13194
12748
10433
8440
8025
7432
Totals
82038 88860 100176 97697 83101
73355 64350 58373
!
REVISION OF NATIONAL AGREEMENT.
As fully stated in last month's Address regarding the proposed New
Agreement a copy of which appeared in the December Report-a Special
Delegate Conference was held in the Boot and Shoe Trade Hall, Leicester, on
Thursday the 29th ult., at 10 a.m., the General President being in the Chair
supported by all the Council members. The Press representatives were not
present, so that there could be a full and free expression of views regarding
the said agreement.
The General President and General Secretary laid before the Conference
the proposals, pointing out at the same time the real position of affairs and
assuring the delegates, although it was a great disappointment to have to bring
such a report, it was absolutely the maximum we could secure from the em-
ployers, and at the same time the minimum of re-adjustment of wages. The

---
Here is the text from the image:

8
Conference discussed the matter from to a.m. until 4 p.m., when the following
resolution was proposed and seconded :----
"
That this Conference having heard the statement of the Council
regarding the re-adjustment of Wages, after full consideration of the
same, hereby records its opinion that the Council have secured the
best terms possible under the conditions now existing, and suggests
to the members that they endorse the proposal."
Discussion resumed and kept on until 5.30 p.m., when a roll call vote
was taken upon the resolution with the following results :-
FOR SUGGESTING THE PROPOSALS BE ENDORSED
AGAINST
NEUTRAL
103
21
2
As stated in the December Report, the matter was remitted to the members
for a vote. Copies of the above resolution were sent out on the 30th ult. in
sufficient numbers for the members generally to have a copy so that they
could fully understand the position taken up by the Conference. Our printers
worked all night of the 29th and 30th December to ensure the membership
having full opportunity to know the mind of the Conference. The result of
the vote of the members was as follows:-
FOR THE RATI ICATION OF THE AGREEMENT
AGAINST
9005
9338
Inasmuch as it is not intended to publish any special report of the Con-
ference proceedings, references will be found on page 52.
We can only once more express our great regret that the vote is com-
paratively so small, especially having regard to the great issues that are involved.
The position is one of vital importance to the whole of the membership and
we cannot but think that those members who refrained from voting will,
upon reflection, see that they have a duty to perform in regard to their
membership.
We have had a special meeting to deal with and review the situation
thus created; also we have met the Employers' Committee. After full con-
sideration of the facts and the industrial position, we have decided under Rule
116 to take a second vote, which vote must be returnable not later than Feb-
ruary the 3rd prox. We strongly urge upon the whole of the members that
they record their vote, and further, in view of the serious situation that may
be created if the vote is against acceptance, we hope the members will give
a vote for endorsing the Agreement, assuring the members that we have secured
from the employers the maximum conditions.
The proposals will, under the special circumstances, operate as from the
second pay day in February and the second pay day in May instead of January
and June, which were the dates in the original agreement.


---
Here is the text from the image:

ng
cil
he
ne
ts
e
().
The following questions will appear on the ballot paper:
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVE
Headquarters 3.4. Guilford Street, London, W.C..
Are you in favour of the
New Terms of Agreement
January, 1922.
Or
A Strike
Please put X in the space with which you agree.
DEATH of MR. W. H. LOWE, J.P. OF LEICESTER.
It is with sincere and deep regret that we have to record the passing
away of Mr. W. H. Lowe, J.P., on the 22nd of December. Mr. Lowe
held the position of Branch Secretary of the Leicester No. 2 practically
since the commencement of the Branch, that is, since 1890. For a
number of years Mr. Lowe was also the Treasurer for the Union, which
carried with it membership of the Council; in addition to which offices
he was a Town Councillor for a period, and for a number of years a
Magistrate for Leicester, likewise Treasurer of the Leicester Trades
Council, in all of which positions he rendered faithful and willing service
to the community. His period of office has seen a marked improvement
in the status of the members. His death means the loss of a very valuable
officer, one who had an high sense of duty and who at all times was
anxious to give of his best for the betterment of the general position.
To the Widow and Family we have in your name tendered sympathy and
condolence in the great loss they have sustained; we hope that their
sorrow and pain may to some extent be lessened by the knowledge that
Mr. Lowe was so highly respected and esteemed. (Further references
to his sterling character will be found on pages 62-63.
RUMOURS OF AN EARLY GENERAL ELECTION.
On page 63 attention is called to the probability of an early General
Election. We, therefore, strongly urge all the members to be prepared for the
We would remind you of the fact that we have four candidates in
the field-viz., Mossrs. W. R. Smith, M.P., J. Buckle, J.P., L. Smith and
Alderman Hill. In the divisions where they are running-viz., Wellingborough
same.
B
all
Nutrition In

---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

12
being representative of our members' opinions, could one only believe and feel that the
have gone contrary to this advice; I should be perfectly satisfied with the position, as
The Conference by 103 to 21 decided to recommend acceptance, yet the membership
members had heard the report of the negotiations; still, the matter is now once again
with the members, who must not only decide but take the responsibility as they, the
members, are only those who are to bear the brunt if the worst is to come.
I have attended several meetings of the General Federation and have discussed the
possibility of easing the present Unemployed situation and also the organisation of those
General Council of the Trades Union Congress have been discussing the possibility of
Unions not at present affiliated with the Foderation, who find to their chagrin that the
doing that work for which the General Federation had been set up for, and who would
of some leaders of the various Unions who to-day have ceased to be effective, but their
have still been doing that work for the Unions had it not been for the personal jealousy
injury to the General Federation remains.
A visit to Sileby for financial reasons has corrected a mistaken idea of the relationship
between the Central Office and the Branch.
Derby has been visited for a similar reason and corrections made that will, I feel
sure, put matters on a better footing; a personal visit often being best to remove these
little misunderstandings.
Immediately after Christmas we held a Special Council Meeting to make the necessary
arrangements for the Special Conference at Leicester the results being already known
the Council felt that if any of the representative members could address them in any way
they would appreciate such help; the business of such Conference will in a short time
be placed in the hands of the members.
A visit to Stone has been made and a very successful meeting held, also an inquiry
re non-members; next day a visit was paid to Lotus Limited, who immediately agreed
with us to put up the resolution carried at the Joint Conference to the effect that it is
in the interest of all concerned that all operatives and employers should belong to their
respective organisations; should any Branch feel embarrassed by non-unionism will
they please ask either the firm or ourselves to take this matter up for them.
On the 4th we had a very good meeting at the Leicester Branch on the Terms, which
appeared very favourable, although the voting does not represent that view.
On the 5th I went to the District Trade Board Meeting held at Birmingham, and
although we had a very successful meeting of the Board, the Repairing Employers,
encouraged by the manufacturers, think that a reduction in wages inevitable; we
opposed the same with all our power, and the voting resulting in an equal number on
each side, the manufacturers can have any change in these rates placed at their door,
and so we learn that an injury done to one may also affect others.
I paid a further visit to Stone and Stafford owing to several girls failing to obtain
Unemployment Benefit at the time that they were entitled, our suspicion being that
they were being treated unfairly, but after investigation we are of the opinion that the
errors made were made in good faith and we have made arrangements that our Mr. Dunn,
of Stafford, will give any advice asked for by the Stone members.
I am sorry to report that owing to a motor accident I have been unable to continue
my duties for the past five days but am now resuming my work at once.
In conclusion, may I wish our Members a most Prosperous and Happy New Year.

Yours fraternally,

7. MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
January 17th, 1922.

Smile a little, smile a little,
As you go along;
Not alone when life is pleasant,
But when things go wrong.

General President.


---
```
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR.
241, Uppingham Road, Leicester.
14th January, 1922.
To the Members of the Executive Council.
I have examined the Receipts, Counterfoils, Vouchers and Bank
Books, together with the whole of the Account Books for the Half-year
ending 31st December, 1921.
The Total Funds standing to the credit of the Central Office of the
Union amount to £267,070 12s. 11d., being an increase of £18,562 5s. 8d.
over the half-year ending 30th June, 1921. The increase on the Sick
Fund is £16,541 17s. 2d. and this despite the fact that you have increased
the sick and funeral benefit rates. Only £2,298 10s. 4d. has been gained
by the Trade Fund, due no doubt to the depression in trade and the large
call on the Unemployment Fund. There is a loss on the Political and
Fidelity Funds.
The Deeds and Investments have been checked.
I have to tender my thanks to the General Secretary and the
clerical staff who deal with the books for the careful, able and efficient
manner in which they have been kept.
The work on the State Unemployment Section has grown consider-
ably and every detail is clearly shewn.
I certify the Accounts to be correct and in accordance with Law.
J. B. B. ROBERTSON,
Corporate Accountant and Auditor.
```

---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

54
being chiefly indifference; scores of members going to vote without cards; not
being allowed, otherwise the vote would have been over 1,200.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. Trade is very quiet, factories which
te opened after Xmas have since suspended numbers of workpeople; some
firms have not yet re-opened. We acknowledge with thanks the following
grants to our Grand Old Man (G. Demmery), aged 85 years, and now too infirm
to earn his daily bread: Stafford, 10s.; Maybole, 10s.; London Metro. 20s.;
Leeds No. 2, 10s.; Kilmarnock, 10s.; Bristol No. 2, 5s.; Manchester, 5s.;
Higham and Rushden, 10s. 6d.; Leicester No. 2, 20s.; Northampton No. 2, 20s.
KENDAL. In common with those engaged in other industries we don't
part with 1921 with many regrets; it will long be remembered as the slump
year. The factories were re-opened on January 3rd, employment being very
Intermittent, members standing off two or more days in the week. We are,
whole of our discharged and indefinitely suspended members will be reinstated
however, looking hopefully to the future for more prosperous times, when the
and again fully employed. We had the pleasure of having Mr. W. R. Smith
members on the new wage proposals. His detailed account of the negotiations
M.P., with us on the 11th inst., who addressed a representative meeting of
at the Joint Conference was listened to with wrapt attention, and carried con-
viction that the Executive of the Union had put up a determined fight for
to have to submit to reduced wages one could easily enumerate a lot of trades
our interests and had secured the best terms possible. Whilst being unpalatable
to have trustions have taken place greater than ours, and we ought also to
remember that our trade was one of the last industries of the country to suffer a
reduction. Mr. Smith also spoke on “current politics from the Labour stand-
point." The address all the way through was extremely interesting and
deserved the hearty vote of thanks accorded at the close. We regret that
influenza has made its appearance and is very rampant amongst our members
and the town generally.

LEEDS No. 1.—We regret that trade is still very bad. We would urge
upon all members who are in arrears to make an effort, if possible, to reduce
same and thus be entitled to Union benefits should they need them. We have
had Mr. J. Buckle, our Union Organiser, at our meeting when the vote was
taken on the suggested new terms. His address was very much appreciated
by the members. We deplore the result of the recent vote, and seeing that
another vote is to be taken on the suggested terms, we would urge our members
to take a deeper interest than they have ever done before and, therefore, we
hope that not only will the Union's combined vote be much larger, but we
ask our Branch members for a record vote in favour of the recommendation of
the Council and Conference.

LEICESTER No. 2. It is with profound regret that we have to
report the death of our late Secretary, W. H. Lowe, J.P., he passing away
on December 22nd last. For over 30 years he had held the Office and
was always a painstaking and conscientious officer. All of our members
who knew him extend to the Widow and Family their sincere sympathy.

LIVERPOOL. During the past month the boot repairing trades have
been very quiet. For a small branch the claims on our out-of-work funds
have been exceptionally heavy: for December, £18 3s.; and for the half-year ending November
bers' contributions, 6s. total, £14 17s.; Sick pay, £3; mem-
26th, out-of-work pay, £33 5s. 6d.; sick pay, £5 Is. 8d.; yet we sometimes
hear the question asked, what becomes of all the shillings that find their way
into the Secretary's pocket? We are not affected by the new scale of wages in


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

56
SECOND ANNUAL CONFERENCE.
LONDON. WHITSUNTIDE, 1922.
The following Resolutions have been received for consideration at
the Conference at Whitsuntide :
1. Council's Address.
2. BRISTOL NO. 1. To ask what action the Council propose to take re the
vote on Day-work versus Piece-work."
3. NORTHAMPTON NO. 2.-" To ask the Council to publish a Verbatim Report
of the Proceedings of the Conferences with the Employers in negotiating
the New Terms of Settlement.
4. KETTERING NO. I. -" This Conference requests the Executive Council to
press for the development of Rule 68, and to give publicity, through the
medium of the Monthly Journal, to the activities of such District Councils
5. KETTERING NO. I." This Conference urges the Executive Council to
advocate, through the medium of the Monthly Journal, and solicits the
assistance of the National Organisers, in popularising Rule 155, believing
that the development of Educational Classes and Study Groups will greatly
strengthen the power and progress of the Union."
6. KETTERING NO. 1.-" This Conference, realising the increasing power of
organised Capital, both in Industry and Parliament, pledges itself to use
every available opportunity-especially the medium of Branch meetings
and to utilise every possible resource towards the fulfilment of Rules
19 and 20."
7. KILMARNOCK.-" To use all legitimate means and funds to further Labour
Representation and provide for members independent working-class
education, and to recommend all officers and individual members of this
Union to support, in their respective districts, any candidate run under
the auspices of the Labour Party and classes under the auspices of the
Labour College, and further to recommend all officials in such constituen-
cies, where such candidates are run and such classes are held, to give them
all the support they possibly can."
8. KILMARNOCK.-" Economic and Industrial History Classes may be formed
by any branch whose members express desire for same. Where facilities are
provided by the Labour College affiliation fees should be paid to provide
tuition for members desirous of joining."
9. LEEDS NO. 1.-" That the Council be instructed to inquire into the organisa-
tion of the Union, and to report to the next Conference the desirability or
otherwise, of a change in the direction of centralisation.”
whole.
10. NORWICH NO. I." This Conference places on record its profound belief
Branches of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives operates
Bhat the partial administration of the Unemployment Insurance Act by the
against the best interests of the individual member and the Union as a
ate the arrangement with the Government at the earliest possible date."
It therefore requests the Council to take the necessary steps to termin-

---
57

11. WELLINGBOROUGH. - Married Women in Factories." That this Conference
is of the opinion that where Married Women (with husbands at work) are
employed, the Council should endeavour to arrange terms with the Manu-
facturers' Federation on the following lines: That in the event of trade
depression so as to necessitate the running of short time in any factory,
Married Women (with husbands at work) should be the first to stand
down."

12. WELLINGBOROUGH.-Political Agents. "That in order to secure greater co-
ordination in the Political activities of the Union, the Political Agents
employed by the Union should be asked to attend periodically the Council
Meetings, or at other times when the Council think fit, when the Political
policy of the Union is under discussion. Further, that Political Agents
be asked to attend the Annual Conference for the day when political
matters are being discussed."

13. WELLING BOROUGH. -" That this Conference is of the opinion that the time
has arrived for the establishment of a Superannuation Fund for its aged
members, and instructs the Council to appoint a Sub-Committee to make
inquiries from those Trade Unions who already have a Superannuation
Fund, and to place before the next Conference a scheme which could be
taken up by those members desirous of so doing."

14. WELLINGBOROUGH.-" That the words "At the Seat of Government" in the
minute passed at the Edinburgh Conference relating to the Annual Con-
ferences be rescinded. Further, that all future Conferences be held away
from Boot and Shoe Manufacturing Centres." (NOTE. -This is out of
order as rules cannot be altered until 1923.--See Rule 70).

MR. E. ROBINSON, KETTERING.

We regret to record the death of Mr. E. ROBINSON of the Kettering
Branch. Mr. Robinson was Secretary from May, 1889, to June, 1902.
Much of the early pioneer Trade Unionism of Kettering was due to his
enthusiastic and organising capacity. His name will go down in the
annals of the movement as one of those whose work and far-seeing
thought laid the foundation of a successful and progressive movement
in Kettering.- THE COUNCIL.

BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out:-

SICK BENEFIT.
£
S. d.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
S. d.
To June, 1921 552,229 13 9
...
To June, 1921
...
209,451 4 1
July
...
1,741 18 9
July
4,064 0 6
August
...
2,178 5 5
August
...
...
4,096 3 11
September
...
1,688 19 7
September
...
2,729 1 1
October
...
1,998 19 1
October
..
2,711 19 1
November
...
2,630 5 10
November
...
3,257 4 3
December
2,449 4 6
December
2,632 14 2
£564,917 6 11
£228,942 71


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

59
trade after preliminary training under a qualified instructor. These youths are thrown
into the trade regardless of the question whether there is likely to be an opening for them
or, in the case of crippled boys, whether they have any prospect of an opening in for them.
to enable them to earn their own living.

One-Man Businesses.

Another great difficulty in the Repairing Trade is the large number of Repairers
who employ no labour and are known in the Trade as "one-man businesses." These
men can sell their labour at any price and work as many hours as they feel disposed without
coming under the Trade Board regulations, therefore, we have suggested to the Govern-
ment that all Boot Repairers trading with the public should be registered either with the
Trade Board or Home Office, to be dealt with under the Factory Acts.

I wish to draw attention of the Committee to the fact that the Boot and Shoe Repairing
Trade is essentially a Piece-work Trade. The great majority of the workers, about 85
per cent. are employed on Piece-work, and the Trade Board has drawn upa very exhaustive
list of minimum piece-rates for the Trade. In some parts of the country considerably
higher piece-rates than those are paid to the workers. Any proposal to take away the
power of the Trade Board of fixing piece-rates would seriously diminish the effectiveness
of the Board.

District Trade Committees.

The Trade Board has established 16 Trade Bcard Committees covering the whole
of England and Wales. These District Committees, since their establishment, have been
consulted as required by the decision of the Trade Board. On every occasion when any
variation of rates has been proposed, before issuing a formal notice of proposal to vary
the existing rates or to fix new rates for special classes of workers, the Trade Board have
asked the District Committees in the first place for their endorsement or otherwise. I am
in favour of continuing the policy of consulting these Committees to this extent. In
regard to proposals for commencing any new rate of wages, I am strongly of opinion that
it would be impracticable to give these District Committees power to fix rates independently
of the Trade Board. I am, of course, opposed to differential rates being fixed by District
Committees; I think that they can be best established on a National basis through the
medium of the Trade Board. Any proposal for the variation of wages or the normal
number of hours of work have to go before the country for two months to give an oppor-
tunity for objection to be lodged, and it takes from four to six months to bring about either
an increase or reduction in wages; therefore, I would suggest that this procedure should
be varied so as to make it possible to accomplish their objects in a period, say, of four weeks.

I may further mention that, in the year ending November, 1920, 1,411 visits were
made in connection with the working of the Trade Board Act in respect of the Boot and
Shoe Trade of these visits 1,311 were to employers and 40 to workers. The principal
objects which the firms were visited for was to secure payment of minimum rates.

I am in favour of members of the Trade Board having full powers in their various
localities to investigate violations of the rates as laid down by the Board and such investi-
gations to be reported to the Board, as now operates with regard to the question of permits.
As regards the system of appointed members, and having experience of the Board since its
inception, I have found that the system has been advantageous, and I appreciate the
guidance and assistance given towards the solution of the many difficult problems apper-
taining to the trade during the Board's existence.

C.W.S. BOOT TRADE.

The slump in the co-operative boot and shoe trade continues, and the boot sales of
the Co-operative Wholesale Society for the past three months, to be reported at the January
meeting, will show a downward tendency. In the Manchester district they totalled
£234,180, a decline of £221,796, when compared with the corresponding period of 1920.
From the Newcastle branch they were £110,365, as against £243,099 in the corresponding
three months of the previous year. In the southern area the sales were £109,216, as
compared with £235,710. Thus the decreases were 48, 54 and 53 per cent. respectively.

During the same period 421,714 pairs of boots were sent from the works at Leicester,
Derby, Leeds, Heckmondwike and Rushden, a decrease of 306,595 pairs, or 42 per cent.
The supplies from the five works and the fellmongering works at Pontefract and Grappen-
hall, with the tanneries at Grappenhall and Street, were £315,169-a falling off of £346,303,
or 52 per cent.-Shoe and Leather News, January 5th, 1922.

---
Here is the text from the image:

61
may be that before the present industrial crisis is past some special effort may be required
to defend a vital principle, and therefore the financial question must receive consideration
in relation to the general scheme. In the meantime, however, the importance of giving
expression to the aspirations of the industrial movement through the General Council of
the Trades Union Congress and of securing active intervention of a national character
when the necessity arises, should not be overlooked. The Unions should recognise the
imperative need of the fullest co-operation with the General Council in this matter, and it
must be clearly borne in mind that the adoption of what is suggested would give effect to
Trades Union Congress decisions.

It would be unwise to reject the principle of the scheme on account of the present
difficulties. It is our view that we should be prepared for emergencies and not, as in the
past, attempt to deal with an industrial dispute by hastily improvised machinery set up
during a crisis. A policy of national co-ordination is absolutely indispensable in order
to make our movement effective.

In this scheme we propose to create such machinery as will enable the whole Trade
Union movement to combat effectively any general and widespread attempt on the part
of employers of labour to impose unsatisfactory conditions of work on the workers. Trade
Union standards can only be maintained in these days by mobilising and utilising the
entire resources of the Trade Union movement. We urgently request the affiliated
Organisations to give careful consideration to the suggestions submitted, which represent
an earnest effort to translate into a concrete form the aspirations of organised labour
towards securing greater unity of action when the interests of any or all are endangered.

We shall be glad to have your considered reply to this statement and
in particular to the specific questions marked "1," "a," "b" and "2"
not later than March 24th.

Yours faithfully,
On behalf of the General Council,
R. B. WALKER, Chairman.
C. W. BOWERMAN, Secretary.
January, 1922.

"PLAYING THE FOOL."
UNION BRANCH SECRETARY AND THE FUNDS.
That he had "played the fool," was the remark made with reference to John William
Duxbury, 20, Brown Lodge, Smithy Bridge, Rochdale, by his solicitor (Mr. J. A. Hudson),
when he was summoned before the magistrates at Rochdale County Police Court, for unlaw-
fully and wilfully withholding money to the amount of £97 14s. 3d. belonging to the local
branch of the Amalgamated Society of Leather Workers. Mr. H. P. Jones (Leeds) prose-
cuted on behalf of the Society.

Mr. Jones said that until January last year the defendant was president of the branch,
and was then appointed secretary. His duties included the payment of all money into the
bank, with the exception of that which was dealt with at branch meetings. He had also to
draw money for use on behalf of the Society by cheques signed by two trustees and himself.
Later he presented at the bank an authority purporting to be signed by the chairman and
himself, allowing him to draw cheques under his own signature. From that date he did
so. There was £175 in the bank to the credit of the Society at the beginning of last year,
and at the end of the year it had all gone. The defalcations were discovered by accident.
It was found at the bank that the account was overdrawn, and by an error a letter was
sent to the former secretary respecting the matter. That aroused suspicion, and an audit
was held, with the result that it was first ascertained that ₤65 175. 9d. had been drawn,
which, with the overdraft of £7 2s. 6d., made a total of £73 6s. 3d. During the whole of the
period in question the defendant, who was a single man, was in receipt of £2 10s. per week.
Further inquiries were made, and as a result the overdraft was found to be increased to £9
by a cheque not previously presented. There was a further item of £16 125. 6d. State
Insurance to be added, which made up the total. These cheques from the Government
had not been accounted for.

Mr. J. A. Hudson, for the defendant, said he disputed the £16 125. 6d., and admitted
defalcations to the total of ₤81. If an order was made for that amount he would agree to
it. The defendant, he said, was a good-living young man prior to going into the Army,
and was well-known as a member of a chapel and of a young men's class. When he went
into the Army he got into the officers' mess. There was no doubt he had played the fool.
He was sorry and was anxious to make amends.

After consultation Mr. Jones said his clients were willing to accept an order for the
payment by instalments of fi per month until the defendant got work, the amount to be
then increased to 12 per month. On these terms an order for payment was made.
-The Shoe and Leather Record, January 13th, 1922.


---
Here is the text from the image:

62
DEATH OF MR. W. H. LOWE, J.P.
A Loss to the National Union.
LOWE. On December 22nd, at 18, Harrow Road, William Henry Lowe, J.P., aged 66
years, passed peacefully away, after a painful illness.

With the passing of Mr. William Henry Lowe, J.P., on Thursday, Leicester has lost
one of her most highly-respected citizens, whilst the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives, of which he was an esteemed and valuable official, will particularly mourn
his demise. Mr. Lowe, who was 66 years of age, had not enjoyed good health for a long
time.
During practically the whole of his life Mr. Lowe was connected with the Boot and
Shoe Union, and from 1891 up to about ten years ago he was treasurer of the National
organisation. By virtue of that office he occupied a seat on the Union Executive, and
thus had a share in forming the policy of the Union in days when matters were not always
too bright. But perhaps the deceased gentleman was best known as the secretary of the
Leicester No. 2 Branch of the Union. He was elected to that office a short time after the
branch was formed in 1890, and continued without a break until the time of his death.
The deceased was also one of the oldest members of the Trades Council and for many
years acted as treasurer to that body.
In 1904 Mr. Lowe was returned unopposed as a Liberal and Labour member for the
Westcotes Ward on the Town Council and performed useful work during his term of office.
He was defeated in a three-cornered contest in 1907, in which year he was made a Justice
of the Peace.
Those who knew the deceased gentleman intimately will agree that he had a dis-
position of exceeding kindliness. Members of his branch of the Union had a genuine
affection for him, and all appreciate the capable work he did so unobtrusively in con-
nection with arbitration on important matters which came up in the trade a number of
years ago. He was always a strong believer in conciliation, rather than in strife, and
undoubtedly the whole industry has benefited largely by the work of such as he. Never
seeking the limelight, his advice was nevertheless always sought, valued, and generally
proved acceptable. It was recognised that he was an authority on trade matters, par-
ticularly in regard to clicking. He also helped to establish the principle of a minimum
wage in the industry. The unemployed problem naturally attracted his attention, and
nothing gave him greater pleasure than seeking out methods of improvement in con-
nection with the lives and prospects of his fellow-workers. He took a very active part
in the work of the Police Aided Association for clothing destitute children.
In all parts of the city, and in a much wider sphere, the death of Mr. Lowe will be
unfeignedly deplored.
We greatly regret to hear of the death of Mr. W. H. Lowe, J.P., announced in our
obituary column yesterday. The city is much the poorer by his passing. A shrewd,
conciliatory, and earnest trade unionist, he will be greatly missed in the National Union
connected with the boot industry, and in other spheres his loss will be sincerely lamented.
At one time he took an active part in local and political affairs, especially in Westcotes
Ward, but of late, though his interest in them was unabated, he has been in relative retire-
ment through failing health. But old friends will have only kindly remembrances of him
as a genial comrade of kindly disposition, true to his convictions, but ever considerate
of the views of others. The city can ill-spare such men as William Henry Lowe.-Leicester
Daily Mercury, December 24th, 1921.
1
FUNERAL OF MR. W. H. LOWE, J.P.
The funeral of Mr. Wm. Henry Lowe, J.P., secretary of No. 2 Branch of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, was at Welford Road Cemetery yesterday. The
cortege left Harrow Road, and was joined at the cemetery by many old colleagues and
friends of the deceased. The Rev. D. G. Jordan, curate of St. George's Church, officiated.
The chief mourners were: Mrs. Lowe (widow). Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Lowe. Mr. and Mrs.
Greasley, Mr. and Mrs. F. Hebb, Miss K. Lowe (niece), Mrs. Haynes, Mr. and Mrs. J. J.
Lakin, and Mr. F. Lowe (nephew).


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

SPECIAL NOTIOE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NAT FELI 4438 MUSEUN, LONDOR.
Tel Address: HATUNISHOP, HOLS, LONDO
National Boot & Shoe Operatives
Affiliated to the Trades Union Congrown, the General Federation of
Trade Umans and National Labour Party
Approved under the State National Health Insurance Acts. Approval No. 201
SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
34. GUILFORD STREET
General President d
T.F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
EL POULTON J.P.
LONDON.VCI.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Ofice:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.

TRADE
27TH FEBRUARY, 1922.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
has slightly improved during the month. The figures given by the Ministry
of Labour in the Gazette are as follows :-

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
Employment in this trade was very slack during January, and showed little change
compared with December, though it was not quite so bad, taking the country as a whole,
as in January of last year. Short time, in various forms, continued to be common at all
the principal centres.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed in the boot, shoe and slipper making and
repairing trades, as indicated by the unemployment books lodged at Employment Ex-
changes, was 10.7 at the 31st January, as compared with 11.9 at the 30th December.
In addition, 2.6 per cent. of the workpeople were claiming benefit in respect of systematic
short-time working at the 31st January, as compared with 3.0 per cent. at the 30th
December.
Employment in London was bad, though better than in January of last year. At
Leicester employment showed a further slight improvement, but was still slack, on the
whole, with a large amount of short time. The partial destruction of a factory by fire
increased the numbers of unemployed at Northampton, where employment was still bad.
At Kettering very few firms were on full time; some were running only two or three days
a week, and some had closed down altogether. There was a decline at Hinckley and at
Wellingborough, and employment was very quiet at both centres; at Rushden it showed
an improvement, and was fair. Employment at Rothwell and at Desborough was fairly
good; at Stafford it was slack.
Employment remained bad at Leeds; at Bristol it was again depressed; at Kings-
wood it was extremely bad, showing a great decline both on December and on January of
last year. At Norwich employment was fairly good, few operatives being unemployed.
Employment continued fair at Kilmarnock, but declined at Maybole; at the remaining
principal centres in Scotland it was still bad.
B

---


---
the members ought in our judgment to use their vote, and thus make clear
their position upon such vital issues.
We strongly urge the members to see that the Agreement is not departed
from, unless in an upward direction. We would also remind both members
and manufacturers that the Holiday Scheme is now embodied in the Agreement
We are aware, fully aware, of the difficult times that beset us owing to the
world-wide uncertainty that prevails as to what may happen in the near future.
and the general unrest prevailing both industrially and politically. We
nevertheless expect loyalty to the understanding arrived at, and a determination
to make the best of a situation which is not free from circumstances that call
for statesmanship to surmount them successfully. Should there be any
attempted violations of the Agreement we hope the members will at once
report the same to their officials to allow opportunity being given to secure
compliance with the Agreement arrived at in accordance with the Rules and
Regulations governing the Union.

POLITICS.
Last month we reminded you of the probability of an early General Election.
We beg to emphasise the matter this month and to urge upon each to be pre-
pared for the same. During the month important speeches have been made
on behalf of the Government by the Premier and his principal colleagues.
A great part of the speeches of these gentlemen have been devoted to Labour
and the Labour Movement. It is quite clear to us that determined efforts
will be made once more to mislead the electors and to traduce what Labour
stands for, in the hope that the electorate will vote against Labour candidates.
For instance, the Lord Chancellor in a speech delivered on 2nd February said,
amongst other things, the following :-
In the first place I examine the pretensions of the party which, outside the Coalition,
has the greatest number of adherents, and which undoubtedly constitutes the only grave
political menace to the fortunes of the Coalition. I need not say I mean the Labour Party.
We have had the advantage, during the last few days, of reading elocutions proceeding
from Mr. Clynes and Mr. Henderson. Whenever it is desired to put anybody forward to
administer soothing syrup in large quantities to the public, Mr. Clynes or Mr. Henderson
modestly advances to the limelight. (Laughter.) I wish to give no offence to any of our
Liberal friends here when I say that these speeches would be a very pleasant Sunday
afternoon diversion at a Liberal club.
There is never a mention of the only doctrines on which the strength of that party
in the country depends. What does Mr. Clynes or Mr. Henderson say on the programme
for capturing London ?
What do they say on what I may call in a compendious phrase, "Poplar
Finance?" They dare not denounce it; they merely ignore it.
They are equally silent on the treacherous part Labour has played since the war.
When in every other land the question was being individually asked, "How can I con-
tribute, in these difficult and tragic days, to the reconstruction of the State," what has
been the part of the Labour leaders here? It has been one of consistent and abject
poltroonery.
If the leaders of the Labour Party had told the truth, if they had said that the
man who laid aside his tools and refused to play his individual part in the reconstruction
of the industrial life of the nation was a traitor to the commonwealth, we should not have
lost, as we have lost, hundreds of thousands of working days in the last three years, and
the whole condition of the country to-day would have been far different. (Cheers.)

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

```
87
VOTING.
The list of candidates nominated for Delegates to the Second Annual
Conference, which will be held in London on the 5th, 6th, and 7th June,
1922, will be found on pages 92-97. Voting MUST take place on the March
meeting nights, the same to be counted on the 11th prox., and posted so as
to reach the Central Office NOT later than the first post on the 15th prox.

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.

TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."

We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President. 
T. ADNITT. 
C. BATES. 
E. LAW. 
L. SMITH. 
C. MAYES. 
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER. 
W. HINDES. 
C. BLEAKLEY. 
A. J. DOBBS. 
ALEX. SMITH. 
J. MANNERS. 
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.

EMINENT SHOE MAKER DEAD.
Professor Sir Henry Jones, LL.D., Glasgow, who died on Saturday at the age of 70,
was one of Wales's most distinguished sons. He was the son of a Llangernyw shoemaker,
and in his early days Professor Jones served his apprenticeship at his father's shop, and
at the same time spent three days a week at school. "The proudest day of my life," he
once said, "was when my father asked me to put some toecaps on boots. The toecap
fashion was new at the time and the stitching had to be very fine." He arranged with the
Village policeman to call him at one a.m. every morning so that he could pursue his studies.
Even in his later days he still retained an interest in the shoemaking trade. --Shoe and
Leather News, February 9th, 1922.
```


---
Here is the text from the image:

88
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
At last the members have taken the advice of the Council bv 20,890 to 5,225.
the members during the progress of the first vote. We, as your representatives, knew that the
It is unfortunate that our original advice, with its full consequences, was not realised by
possible alternative, and the facts had to be faced. Some of our smart members think we
should have let the employers do their worst. We, on the other hand, looked ahead and
could see that a stoppage would have assisted the employers, who could have held their
stocks, delayed manufacture, and by this means helped themselves bv paying no wages
for three months.

Already in one area they have put into operation the original Agreement: that they
a cut in January and another in June, contrary to the February and May cuts, and they
reinsert our old rule that a reduction without official agreement shall mean a stop until
have met with no opposition. We must at the next Conference for the alteration of rules
Without this the employers may impose any rules.
The above advantage was taken by prominent
members of the Federation at 12 hours' notice, which to my mind was most indecent haste
condition they feel fit to introduce
Their plea is the operatives do not suffer. My answer is, it is a mean thing to take advan-
age. We decry meanness and wish to act loyally and honourably, and when Trade
Union Officials encourage rapacity and commercialism the future of the industrial employer
is insecure. Employers' motto is " Get all you can." Ours is, "Treat all alike without
fear or favour." I prefer the latter to the former. but many of our members hold the
commercial view and someday it may prevail.

The Standing Joint Committee are requested to get a ruling on the above. Our
Union has paid £800 for offences. Had justice been kind to us the Employers' Federation
would have paid £900 for two firms who for three years avoided the 1909 Agreement,
but we were pilloried because, says the present Lord Askwith, our members had acquiesced.
It is for this reason I advise, any reduction not advised and sanctioned by officials, STOP
the officials have investigated the case.
until advice is given.
I have paid a visit to BURNLEY and find the membership solid and active, the members
being very loyal to our Union, and owing to the high standard of their work cannot earn
large wages. The Lancashire and Cheshire Wages Board for Co-operative Societies have
decided to reduce the wages to the South Yorkshire Agreement, but we cannot accept that
position because the Lancashire and Cheshire average, according to Government inquiry.
is only Is. 44d. per hour. This is relatively the present minimum rate of the Trade Board.
and we should be very unwise to give the Trade Board a lead where they led the general
trades, which they ought, owing to spasmodic, intermittent and casual employment,
such as is the general and ruling feature of the repairing trade, and only give 66s. per week
to Pieceworkers, or is. per week more than the Dayworker, proves beyond the shadow of a
doubt that the trade in Lancashire and Yorkshire is getting from the repairers a much
higher standard of workmanship than they are entitled to. If we take the minimum as at
per week more, or at least Is. 9d. per hour. My advice to our members is to see to it that
present 65s., and add 25 per cent., or to be precise, should produce 81s. 3d., or 155. 3d
their work produces this amount. It is a pleasing feature to find Employers' Associations
expressing themselves as determined to resist going back to the bad old days.

I had a very good meeting on Sunday, January 29th, at NORTHAMPTON, on the Terms.
The members present showed very exceptional interest, so much so that the meeting
continued quite an hour longer than some of my colleagues thought it was likely to take
Several views were expressed as to the wisdom of the Council drawing up so blunt a ballot
paper. Others advised abstention from voting, but none advised a stoppage of work
altogether. The meeting was beneficial to all concerned by allowing members to ventilate
their views.

On 19th January, 1922 I visited MELTON and found trade very bad indeed. One
firm doing badly, another firm had been closed for 20 weeks before Christmas, with very
poor prospects for the future. This firm was still closed at the time of my visit. The
Branch, says Secretary Wainer, is waning and the only hope of the future is some amount
of trade, but I am convinced that these branch factory operatives suffer considerably
when firms have town shops they prefer to keep going.

On January 20th, 1922, I visited SHEPSHED, and the Secretary was working at Sileby,
firms, two of them are branches of Leicester firms and only one factory is self-contained,
some ten miles away. This Branch is on a par with Melton Mowbray. Of the three


---
Here is the text from the image:

80
and that firm has a larger stock than they have ever had.
and the membership on the wane, due mainly to bad trade and the absence of
who thinks as he is now making less time he can attend to the businets afTairs and all
He has a very hard task in keeping the members together
arrears.
each day to earn his living.
for the benefit of the Union, and we need to honour these men all we call
100
was held and the ordinary business was postponed for the purpose of
National Agreement as amended and its effect on the trade as a whole.
members for adoption. Many members regretted the action of the Wellingborough and
Rushden Association putting the Terms into operation without first of all consulting the
accident myself, I wired the local officers on the 12th January,1922,
Local Officers, on the very day that the employers were mecting.
prevent my coming, instruct members to refuse
1022, " Reduction impossible until members have voted," and in spite of this the employers
ing Committee.
Doctor's orders
refuse reductions," "and on the 17th January,
of this the employers
for the further appointment of an Organiser, only one gentleman having taken up the post.
We have therefore gone through the applications again and selected six candidates to appear
and 15S. per day out of town expenses is the offer, we were rather surprised at the small
number of applications.
A SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING has been held for the purpose of signing the Agreement
and dealing with the Chesham and Bozeat position, and to report our complaint re the
Rushden and
districts owing to the trouble given us by some of the manufacturers there. We are still
busy in these places and we hope that we shall be able to bring them all into line, but the
State of trade, the amount of stocks held by some of the firms will certainly make our
negotiations difficult, and does not improve the temper of the employers.
THE JOINT STANDING COMMITTEE met and agreed fully with our request that the
action of the Rushden and Wellingborough Association was wrong, but it only went to
show the frame of mind of the members of that Association, whose action involved two
members of the Joint Standing Committee. They believe that in the circumstances
their action in falling in with the majority was for the best and was not done with any
hostile interest. We have had the same carefully recorded for future reference.
We do not allow the sex
I have attended another meeting of the TRADE BOARD, where we have had to inform
several employers that if they will put girls over 21 years of age to the fitting-up and work
generally performed by men, then they must pay the 65s.
question to operate here. To those members of our Union who doubt the efficacy of the
Trade Board, I think the case of Mr. Frederick Simmons, a perambulater manufacturer,
of Bermondsey, who was charged under the Trade Board Act on 87 summonses and was
fined sums amounting to 11,007 including costs, should be a warning to others.
I have had to visit BARWELL Owing to the treatment meted out to one of our members
who, in my judgment, acted very properly on a wages question by preferring to work piece-
work or by results, rather than accept day labour and a reduced wage. The firm was seen
by us and we could not persuade them to reinstate the young man in whose interest one
would not wish to take extreme measures. This is the second aggravating case since the
last stoppage, which took place under circumstances that put the firm in a very bad light,
and we must keep a strict eye on them for the future.
CHESHAM. On Thursday last we visited this town and the numbers who responded
to our appeal were not large, and we have done all that good-tempered humans could do.
Mr. Buckle and Mr. McCarthy have worked to the best of their ability and power, and we
find that these members who to day are working to the 1919 position have not gained
a penny piece by allowing the employers to press them with that position. By the present
Agreement they want, for dayworkers, an 8s. rise for men; 8s. rise for women, and to per
cent, rise for pieceworkers. We must now consider the position as to when we are to call
on these members to assert their loyalty. This must be done, and as early as possible.
There are claims for consideration from other districts, and each case should be taken on
its merits and dealt with from the Union's standpoint. This matter will cause us some
serious thought.
Four members had been suspended at STONE which necessitated a visit to see the
men and also to STAFFORD to see the firm. After a somewhat lengthy interview, it was
decided to reinstate the men at the earliest opportunity. The men were started after
being suspended for seven days. These are delicate matters that ought not to happen.
!


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

102
BRANCH REPORTS.

BARNSLEY. Trade is very quiet here at present, repairing being very
slack. We are pleased to say that we are now clear of sickness, and we hope
that we shall be a long time before any of our members are on sick pay again,
because doctors' charges are so high that there is very little left out of sick
pay after the doctor has been paid.

BELFAST. Trade continues to remain very bad both in the manufactur-
ing and repairing; we were hopeful last month that trade was going to improve,
but we have been sadly disappointed. We regret that the Masters in the
Belfast area, both in the top and boot manufacturing, would not agree to pay
to the rates agreed upon by the National Joint Conference. We are pleased to
report that they did agree to pay the full minimum rate to the men, but they
made a reduction of 4s. per week to the adult females, and in the case of girls
and youths they are paying on the 1919 Irish Agreement. At a local Confer-
ence the Masters contended that they were not bound by the National Joint
Conference Agreement seeing they had no Irish representation, but stated that
if a Conference of the Irish manufacturers and members of the Irish Branches
with the Council represented were arranged they would agree to pay such rates
as agreed upon at such Conference. We would call members' attention to
their arrears in respect of being able to obtain Union benefits: no member over
the eight weeks' limit can obtain benefit without doing the necessary probation.
it is no use blaming the officials, the responsibility rests with the members.

DERBY. - Trade here is still very bad; all the Trade Union firms are
making very slack time. We regret to state that a number of our oldest
hands, who have been loyal to the cause, have been dismissed from the
local branch of the C.W.S. through shortage of work, but we cannot help but
think injustice has been done for several of them are whole-hearted in the
Co-operative Movement and serve on the local Committees, while others have
reached the age when there is very little chance of obtaining another situation.
The Management promised to absorb these members (who are hand-lasters)
into various machine departments, but unfortunately for them (the workers)
they have been transferred to the local Labour Exchange instead. We do not
thoroughly realise the C.W.S. mode of selecting these dismissals, but we are
inclined to believe a better method might have been found by which the work
could have been equally shared by all. We looked forward with bright hopes
when the C.W.S. became established in Derby, but we hardly think we have
one member in our Branch at the present time but who will readily admit it was
a bad day's work for the members in general. Derby, similar to many other
small Branches, is not a centre, and once an operative gets dismissed it is a
poor outlook for him in his own trade.

EDINBURGH.-January has been the heaviest month's sickness ever
experienced by the Branch, but it now seems to be falling off. Trade here is
still very quiet, both with new workers and repairers. We have arranged to
have a meeting with one firm in regard to the New Settlement, as some of the
operatives did not receive the full 10 per cent. increase on the 1920 Agreement.
We are of the opinion that 5 per cent. cannot be deducted on present terms,
and hope the matter will be amicably settled. Our National Organiser (Mr.
J. Buckle) has put up a nice case for the retaining of Wages Trade Boards.
Could it not be possible to have the Employers' case also printed in Monthly
Report? The Half-yearly Financial Statement, we are pleased to read, shows
a gain on both Trade and Sick Funds.


---
Here is the text from the image:

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - The month has seen an improvement in
trade in the District; but for the failure of one firm with factories in Rushden
and Higham Ferrers, the amount paid in Unemployment Pay would have been
considerably reduced. The sickness for the month has been considerable
owing to the influenza, Irthlingborough suffering exceptionally from the
epidemic. The services of Mr. J. Buckle, J.P., in the District were appreciated
by the members. The clear and lucid way in which he dealt with the Terms
and Alternatives influenced the vote considerably, and we are bound to state
that he did not spare himself in any way to rouse the members bound to state
sibility. Also in interviews with the manufacturers he assisted very much.

LEEDS.-Trade here is bad, with little prospects at present of a change
for the better. We would urge upon all members who are in arrears to make
an effort to reduce the same and thus be entitled to Union benefits should they
fall ill or are put on the unemployment list. We wish also to notify our
members that the Branch Monthly Meetings will in future take place on the
Second Tuesday in the month, instead of the First Tuesday.

LIVERPOOL.-We are not in a position to report much improvement
in trade although we are of the opinion that the worst has passed. We have
paid out during the month in benefits (Out-of-Work, Sick and Funeral) con-
siderably more than what we have received in contributions, having to send
twice to the Central Office for cash. We note the result of the second ballot
of the wages question has resulted in a majority in favour of acceptance,
equivalent to three to one, which shows the wisdom of the Council in putting
into operation Rule 116.

MAYBOLE.-Trade is very bad and sickness very heavy. Messrs.
Lees & Co. have dismissed about fifty workers and the outlook is very black.
We had Mr. Bleakley with us and had a good meeting on the New Terms or
Strike question, but through some dělay our votes were not at the Central
Office in time. We expect Mr. Bleakley shortly to go into the Payment by
Results, as some are working day wage and some piecework, which is very
unsatisfactory. It is hoped the members will give us every assistance on this
question as it is only by combined effort we can accomplish anything.

NORWICH.-Trade continues to improve in Norwich, the continuous
run on Turn-shoe trade being quite remarkable and equally welcome. The
factories of the city are becoming unbalanced, due to the shortage of operatives
in the closing room; we shall therefore be required to arrange some method
of attracting additional labour in this department in order to keep male opera-
tives as fully employed as the volume of trade will allow. Like most other
centres, Norwich has had its share of "flu," but we are pleased to report the
epidemic is waning.

PLYMOUTH.-Trade has been fair during the month but has not been
good enough to absorb any of our unemployed members who are still anxiously
waiting for a trade revival. We have been privileged with a visit from our
Council Member, Mr. Manners, who gave us a very lucid exposition of the
New Agreement, and the work of our Council, on behalf of the Union. His
speech was listened to with interest, and we hope Mr. Manners has carried away
pleasant recollections and a desire to come again and give us a helping hand
with the slow and difficult work of organising Devon and Cornwall. If the
repairers are to receive the full benefits of Trade Board legislation, then some
effort must be made to get into touch with them and explain the efforts which
our Union has put forth on their behalf, for the prevailing idea among boot
repairers is that Trade Boards and Trade Unionism has no connecting link.
This error must be removed and the search-light of reason directed to the spot
where the stepping stones of Trade Unionism mark the rugged path.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

108
FACTS FOR WOMEN WORKERS.

Working Women and Education.

The Conference on the Higher Education of Working Women, held at Toynbee Hall
on January 11th, was a great success. It was the first time that a Conference of such
kind had been called and the result must have been very gratifying to those responsible
for the arrangements. There were 230 delegates present, representing 88 working cla
organisations and 20 other societies interested in education for women. The bod
represented included Trade Unions, Local Labour Parties, and branches of the Women
Co-operative Guild, as well as the Workers' Educational Association, the National Ad
School Union, &c., and the packed hall showed the intense interest taken in the subject.

Miss Margaret Bondfield, who presided, said that they had come together to conside
how to obtain education for working women and to get their views on the matter. Th
hoped that as a result of the Conference and the speeches that would be made there, wome
main purpose of education was to teach people How to think. not WHAT to think. She
would be stimulated to think for themselves and to work out their own problems.

Miss Madeline Glasier then opened a discussion on the
Existing Opportunities fo
Higher Education." She emphasised the necessity for making the best use of all existin
ask for books they wanted for study, so that the local authorities would be forced to ment
opportunities, and urged the women present to make the most of public libraries, and to
the demand.

mittee, stated that the Union of Post Office Workers to which she was attached, har
In the discussion which followed, Miss Howes, representing the Standing Joint Com
recently joined in the scheme adopted by the Workers' Educational Trade Union Com-
mittee, and the Union was now arranging to remit the fees of any of their members under.
This scheme was proving very successful, and Miss
taking a one or three years' course.
Howes urged that other Unions should adopt it.

A delegate from the Workers' Union drew attention to the financial difficulties in the
way of a working woman taking a residential course when she was dependent on her
earnings, and had to run the serious risk of losing a permanent job whilst undergoing the
educational course.

Miss Gladys Harrison, of the National Adult School Union, spoke of the excellent
summer school work arranged by that body. In addition, six-monthly winter courses
had been adopted, and some very good results had been obtained.

Dr. Marion Phillips, of the Standing Joint Committee, pointed out the difficulty in
getting education suited to the needs of women who had only had an elementary school
training, and the necessity of establishing working women's classes and working women's
colleges to meet this difficulty. She drew attention to the advantages of a course at a
residential college, it being impossible for any woman to attend lectures and classes suffi-
ciently regularly to get the best results, while engaged in earning her living. It was to
their organisations that working women must look for help to meet the financial difficulties
of education, and delegates should urge their Societies to provide the necessary scholarships.

A delegate from the Beckenham Working Women's College spoke of the value of the
course given there, and stated that the only qualifications necessary for an intending
student were the desire to learn and the ability to study.

Miss Julia Varley gave some account of the arrangements made by the Workers'
Union with the Birmingham University by which workers attended classes on two days
in the week. In practice it was found very difficult to get women to attend these classes;
three only were attending them at the present time.

only residential college for women; women all over the country must take an interest in
education from the Labour point of view to enable the work to be continued, and Trade
Miss Lister, a former student of Ruskin College, pointed out that Ruskin was the
Unionists should see to it that further opportunities for education were given to women.

school and the university.
ance of providing secondary education for every child as a bridge between the elementary
Mrs. Barbara Drake, representing the Fabian Women's Group, emphasised the import-

Miss Butcher spoke on
46
The Purpose of Education.”
In the discussion which
followed an interesting point was raised, viz., whether women who had taken a course at
a Labour college could best serve their fellows by returning to their places in the factory
or workshop, or by undertaking educational work. Various opinions were expressed,
and it was generally agreed that while those with exceptional ability could well take up
adult teaching, great good could be accomplished by the students going back to their
old places to arouse interest in those they had left behind.-


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

115
TRADE BOARD ENQUIRY.
Slow Workers and the Minimum Wage.
On Wednesday last, before Lord Cave's Committee, evidence was given by Mr. W. A.
Willis. LL.B., deputy chairman of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board and other
Boards, who said he thought that no system of a national minimum could be satisfactory
unless it dealt with persons who were sub-normal and slow workers.
That was his opinion from the experience he had had on the Boot and Shoe Board,
where they had to deal with applications, not by the dozen, but by the hundred. They
were possibly people who came under the heading of physical and mental infirmity. That
would be a bigger business than he could appreciate. He did not agree that if the Trade
Board system was extended on existing lines it would put these sub-normal workers out
of employment ; in fact, he thought it would give them employment ; but he did agree
that if the present system was extended to all industries the sub-normal or slow worker
would be completely blockaded from getting a job. He certainly preferred legislation
trade by trade. The subject of district committees had been mentioned on their Board,
but it had been left over for further discussion. He thought the whole country might
be divided into, say, seven or eight portions. Then they would be able to deal with those
districts much in the same way as the building trade had dealt with their problems. He
saw no alternative to allowing the committee to fix the rate. He was saying this without
having heard the matter discussed as far as the whole of the retail distributive trades were
concerned, but he had heard it discussed on the Boot and Shoe Board. That trade was,
of course, essentially a making-up trade which was carried on in every village in the country.
and so far as that Board was concerned both sides objected to district committees having
any power to fix rates. He did not know whether there was absolute unanimity on the
employers' side, but one would have thought that the employers would rather have relished
the idea of district trade committees.
With regard to the Boot Trade Board there had been about 33 occasions when they
had dealt with rates of any substance at all, and of that number of occasions, on 26 there
was agreement, the appointed members had voted seven times, and only on three out of
these seven occasions, did the votes of the appointed members carry. Every man in the
boot and shoe industry was more or less skilled. The Board had no power to deal with
any man unless he was actively engaged in making or repairing; they could not deal with
porters and that sort of people.-Shoe and Leather News, February 9th, 1922.

CO-PARTNERSHIP WORKSHOPS.
Anchor Boot.
The sales for the second half of 1921 have been £13,384, less than one quarter those of
the corresponding period of 1920. This shows how great the trade depression has been,
and is explanation enough for the loss made, which is £2,941. The society has to reinstate
in the Reserve an amount previously put to wipe out the cost of the factory. This more
than covers all the loss. Interest at 5 per cent. is paid on Shares.
Equity Boot.
The sales for the latter half of 1921 were £25,646, which is only about one quarter
of what they were for the corresponding half of 1920. The profit is £1,058. This was used
for interest on Shares and some donations and the remainder was carried forward.
Calderdale Clog Sundries.
The sales for the second half of 1921 were £2,758, and a loss of £102 was incurred.
Interest on shares was paid from Reserve.
Union Boot.
The sales for the second half of 1921 were £14,856 and the profit was £98. Having
a balance brought forward the Society is able to pay interest on shares £145, and to place
£25 to both the Educational and Provident Funds.
Leicester Self-Help Boot.
The trade for the first half of 1921 was £23,640 and a profit of £356 was realised, of
which £260 went to the Shareholders. The society has enlarged its premises.--Co-partner-
ship, February, 1922.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.-SHOES, GYMNASIUM: The North British Rubber
Co. Ltd., London, W.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

117

11. WELLINGBOROUGH.—Married Women in Factories." That this Conference
is of the opinion that where Married Women (with husbands at work) are
employed, the Council should endeavour to arrange terms with the Manu-
facturers' Federation on the following lines: That in the event of trade
depression so as to necessitate the running of short time in any factory,
Married Women (with husbands at work) should be the first to stand
down."

12. WELLINGBOROUGH. - Political Agents." That in order to secure greater co.
ordination in the Political activities of the Union, the Political Agents
employed by the Union should be asked to attend periodically the Council
Meetings, or at other times when the Council think fit, when the Political
policy of the Union is under discussion. Further, that Political Agents
be asked to attend the Annual Conference for the day when political
matters are being discussed."

13. WELLINGBOROUGH." That this Conference is of the opinion that the time
has arrived for the establishment of a Superannuation Fund for its aged
members, and instructs the Council to appoint a Sub-Committee to make
inquiries from those Trade Unions who already have a Superannuation
Fund, and to place before the next Conference a scheme which could be
taken up by those members desirous of so doing."
" in the
14. WELLINGBOROUGH.-" That the words "At the Seat of Government"
minute passed at the Edinburgh Conference relating to the Annual Con-
ferences be rescinded.
Further, that all future Conferences be held away
from Boot and Shoe Manufacturing Centres." (NOTE. This is out of
order as rules cannot be altered until 1923.-See Rule 70).

COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
and light, &c.).
Month
(beginning of) 1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922
January .. 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92
February .. 15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88
March .. 15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 -
April .. 15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 -
May .. 20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 -
June .. 25 45 75-80 100 105 150 119 -
July .. 25 45-50 80 100-105 105-110 152 119 -
August .. 25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 -
September .. 25 50 80-85 110 115 161 120 -
October .. 30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 110 -
November .. 30-35 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 -
December .. 35 65 85 120 125 169 99 -

Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement,
1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, and present date.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
A-TOTAL UNEMPLOYMENT.
Estimated Number of Insured Workpeople:- Males, 95,220; Females, 52,690;
Total, 147,910. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 31st January,
1922:-Males, 12,238; Females, 3,614; Total, 15,852. Percentage Unemployed at
31st January, 1922:- Males, 12.9; Females, 6.9; Total, 10.7. Compared with 30th
December, 1921:- Males (Decrease), 0.5; Females (Decrease), 2.4; Total (Decrease), 1.2.

B-SHORT TIME.
Number of Short-Time Workers claiming Unemployment Insurance Benefit at 31st
January, 1922:-Males, 2,561; Females, 1,253; Total, 3,81.4. Compared with 30th Dec-
ember, 1921 :-Males (Decrease), 454; Females (Decrease), 124; Total (Decrease), 578.
Percentage on Systematic Short Time at 31st January, 1922:-Males, 2.7; Females, 2.4;
Total, 2.6. Compared with 30th December, 1921 :-Males (Decrease), 0.5; Females
(Decrease), 0.2; Total (Decrease), 0.4.-The Labour Gazette, February, 1922.


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

139
"Workmen who have retired from membership of the Amalgamated Engineering
Union after the posting of the Notice should be allowed to continue at work providing
they produce on or before the date the Notice takes effect a membership card of
another Trade Union."

"Foremen are not affected by the Notice, although they may be members of
the A.E.U. Opportunity should be taken to get foremen to become members of the
Foremen's Mutual Benefit Society."

All unions affected by this union-smashing effort of the employers are respectfully re-
quested to circularise their members immediately, warning them that to accept the em-
ployers' invitation to allow their union to be used for such a purpose, would be an act of
treachery to Trade Union principles.

Any member of the Amalgamated Engineering Union attempting to serve his own
interests by deserting his fellow workers in the hour of trouble must also take notice that
a betrayal of Trade Union interests in the direction suggested by the employers, would
be an act as unscrupulous as any workman could perpetrate.

It is quite evident that the Engineering Employers' Federation have decided to wage
war on the Amalgamated Engineering Union and other unions, with the object of their
complete destruction, and the Trade Union movement must be fully aware that success
attending this object will imperil the safety of all unions and completely destroy the power
of Trade Unionism in this country.

The General Council, therefore, appeal to all officials and Executive Committees of
the affiliated unions to take all necessary steps to warn their members against the opera-
tions of the Employers' Federation directed to secure the assistance of members of other
Trade Unions in support of their avowed object.

Yours sincerely,
THE GENERAL COUNCIL.
We feel confident that the statements contained in the circular will prove
to all the members the absolute necessity of solidarity in the ranks of Labour
at this crisis. We cannot imagine any Union becoming an agent for breaking
up, or in the slightest degree lending themselves to any policy that would weaken
the Engineering and kindred Unions. On the contrary, now is the time to
show to all, that any attempts made to create in the ranks of Labour a state of
suspicion, one to another, or to give countenance to the idea that because of
difficulties forced upon them, any other Union would open its doors to member-
ship from those already in membership with their legitimate Union is doomed
to failure and deservedly so. The Joint Council of the Trades Union Congress
and the Labour Party have been doing what is possible to bring about an
honourable settlement, and have approached the Government to have an enquiry
into the question. The Government refused to act, alleging that it might
prolong the dispute. We hope that this deplorable position taken up by the
Government will not be forgotten when once again an appeal is made for your
vote to return members to the House of Commons.

ANOTHER UNION J.P.
We are pleased to report that Mr. W. R. Townley has been added to the
list of Justices of the Peace for Northampton. We trust our colleague may
long be spared to enjoy his new honour.

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

141
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
CHESHAM. With the patience of Job we have for the past six months endeavoured
to the best of our ability to persuade, entreat, and almost beg of the Boot and Shoe Manu
facturers of Chesham to meet us with the object of restoring the position which they
occupy to one of equality with the rest of the industry. Many meetings of the operatives
have been held, who are not used to trade disturbances, and who certainly are not desirous
of breaking away with the firms where they have been employed so long. The state of
trade in the industry generally does not warrant our straining the relationship that has
existed between ourselves and the employers, and the advantage taken by the employers
of Chesham is not commendable in any sense. I believe the Boot and Shoe Manufacturers
to-day, at least for the present, are only likely to give two half-pennies for one penny, lut
at the same time many other people are similarly situated. The operatives more so,
whose banking account is either non-existent, or they have drawn upon the savings that
they have been able to accumulate for the last few years, until nothing is left. In the
light of this position, we thought at least, being at one time members of the Federation,
the Chesham employers would have met us and talked the matter over; but no, they have
not even had the courtesy to answer our letters, and therefore, there has been no other
alternative than to advise our members to hand in notices, as we cannot advise any member
of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives to work for any other firms in Chesham,
with the exception of Messrs. A. J. Reynolds, The Co-operative Society, and Messrs.
Woodington. These three firms have not shown any antagonism to us up to the present.
We are therefore calling upon the operatives to carry out their resolution of three
months ago to stand by the Union, its Officers, and themselves, until the employers of
Chesham have reached a better frame of mind.
The Government this week have offered their services which we have received with
alacrity, but from reports gathered from that source, the employers appear to wish to make
a bargain with the operatives independent of the Union's Officers. This would mean
that they have a desire themselves becoming non-unionists, and have no sympathy with
their fellow manufacturers in other parts of the Kingdom, to persuade the operatives
to cut themselves adrift from the Trade Union and Labour movement. This idea of
going back to the "Robinson Crusoe" policy of isolation will not be encouraged by us
in any sense, and I am sanguine enough to believe that the operatives in Chesham will
believe that they are entitled to be treated as good and on as honourable a level as any
boot and shoe operative in any part of the Kingdom. To this end we shall direct our
energies, hoping we shall have the assistance of the whole of the industry, as we have up
to the present time, especially through the medium of that very friendly publication,
The Shoe and Leather Record, who have never failed to give advice in the interests of the
industry to all concerned, at times including ourselves. This trouble is extremely regret-
table, as we have a reputation of being conciliatory in all our doings, and may the day
be far distant when we depart from the policy of common-sense and take up that pro-
posed by the employers of Chesham of trying to prevent fellow-freedom of the individual
in the trade to which he belongs.
In accordance with the principles of Trade Unionism the Chesham operatives have
severed their connection for the time being with their employment, and until such time
as they receive the respect due to them from employers for whom they have worked so
long, the issue is plain, simple and strong. They refuse to discard their Local Officials
or the National Officials although they are requested to do so. They refuse to meet their
employers unless accompanied by their Local or National Officials, and they intend to assert
their manhood and hold fast to the principle of collective bargaining, and to be treated as
humans.
WELLINGBOROUGH. - The Wellingborough employers have been a great source of
disturbance recently, owing to the fact that the whole of them have taken up the attitude
respecting a position assumed and put into operation by four members of the Federation,
but up to the time of writing have not signified their intention to respect the Holiday
Fund. These four members, I understand at Rushden, are influenced very largely from
the view that no man ought to receive anything for which he does not work. We, on the
other hand, believe that we have to earn the holiday money that is paid annually by a
method in which other wages are earned, and therefore, when one remembers whatever
may be an individual view for the whole of the industry, almost without exception the
whole trade have agreed to adopt this policy. The Union have taken upon themselves
the responsibility of pressing those outside the Federation, to act in a similar manner.
We are, however, pressing the Federation to deal with these members, or we shall be
compelled to do so.
I visited Wollaston and Finedon, and as I said before re Wellingborough in connection
with these four members in the Rushden Town, are cited as the source of all the reasons
why others refuse to comply. We certainly hope the Federation at their meeting this


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

STAMPED FOOTWEAR. May I once more appeal to our members to endeavour to put
a little life into the Stamped Boot and Shoe, as there is a very good agitation going on at
the present moment for a pure article for the benefit of the public. Some of us believe
that this agitation will save the hard earnings of poor people of this country who often
buy shoddy boots and are literally robbed of the money that they pay for them. This
is a statement which ought to be made, and I hope it fits every manufacturer who is guilty
of putting in strawboard or compo insoles to any boot or shoe in this country for outdoor
wear. Indoor is another matter; persons may be able to walk about barefoot or in their
stockinged feet, but to give people compo and paper in their boots without their knowledge
is nothing less than a fraud, and everything I can do to crush these people I shall be willing
to do, and I hope I shall get the assistance of all others in a similar turn of mind. To my
mind the country never knew of a better or more genuine article than when the War-time
boot was made, and I may add for the benefit of those people who object to Government
Departments, that this was made under Government supervision. For that reason some
of us would like more Government supervision, who could, if they like, solve the unem
ployment problem by finding direct employment.

7. MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.

20th March, 1922.

General President.

LOOK OUT FOR LABOUR DAY
and
The Official Magazine of the Labour Movement

THE LABOUR MAGAZINE
(Incorporating The British Trades Union Review and The Labour Party Bulletin).
Published by the General Council of the Trades Union Congress and
the National Executive of the Labour Party.

MONTHLY.
PRICE SIXPENCE.

FIRST NUMBER ON LABOUR DAY, MAY 1st, 1922.

A bright, topical and interesting
magazine for workers.
Forty-eight pages devoted to Trade
Union and political affairs; matters
of interest to women in the work-
shop and in the home.

Labour in Parliament.
Co-operation.
Illustrations.
Labour abroad.
Books for Labour readers.
Cartoons.

Special illustrated articles by the leaders of the Trade Union, Labour and
Co-operative Movements at home and abroad.

ORDER NOW.
THE MAGAZINE FOR TRADE UNIONISTS.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

next District Committee, and we are at the same time forwarding these facts
on to the Trade Board Administrative Committee for then decision as to whethe
an award will be given, subject to the approval of both sides.

LIVERPOOL.--Trade is much the same as the previous month, but we
are hoping to see an improvement between now and Easter. The "flu" is
very prevalent just now, and has touched up some of our members. There is
no doubt but what we are passing through a critical time, many people have
to tighten their waist belt and imagine they have bad a good feed, and go on
looking for the silver lining that is supposed to fringe the dark clouds; longing
for the time when they will see a "land fit for heroes to live in." If we study
the different newspapers and periodicals we find that everyone is in difficulties,
either politically or financially. We note that some co-operative societies
have decided to pay no dividend on the past six months' trading, and they all
report a loss on trading due to the slump in prices. We assume the same
applies to what is termed the private trader; whilst the cry goes on, we must
lower the cost of production by reducing wages so as to compete in the open
markets of the world. Then, if we look at the political side, we find everything
seems on the balance ready to topple over any moment. The present Coalition
appears likely to split up into sections, each having an axe to grind, and looking
for a strong man to lead them. Even the Labour Party is not a united body,
because we have at least three sections: moderate, advanced, and extremists.
Some people are of the opinion that if we had a General Election and a change
of Government trade might improve, but that is a doubtful question as a lot
will depend on the result of the poll and the men who lead the van.

LONDON METRO.—There is no improvement in our conditions. Trade
generally is bad with the exception of Turnshoe making. For many of our
members the outlook is very black. The reductions under the National
Agreement have been accepted in a loyal spirit by our members, also the
employers, although some of the latter tried to add to their pound of flesh.
Mrs. Bray, through the Executive, desires to thank the following Branches
for their contributions to the W. Bray Fund :- The Council, Ayr, Bristol
No. 2, Bromsgrove, Chesham, Glasgow, Kettering No. 1, Kettering No. 2,
Kilmarnock, Kingswood, Leeds No. 1, Leeds No. 2, Leicester No. 1, Leicester
No. 2, Leicester Women's, Manchester, Maybole, Norwich No. 1, Norwich
No. 2, Northampton No. 1, Northampton No. 2, Waterford, Redruth, Stafford,
Wolverhampton, Hinckley, Rushden, Worcester and London Metro. The
total amount collected was £124 9s. 6d. The Executive also wish to take this
opportunity of thanking Mr. J. Buckle, J.P., for his services and great interest
that so helped to put us on a sure line for the future.

MAYBOLE.-We are sorry to again report trade very slack, and a good
many of our members being dismissed. This is unfortunate as there are no
jobs to be had anywhere, and will have the effect of reducing the funds and the
membership of the Union, which will be a serious matter.

PLYMOUTH.--Trade has remained quiet during the month, and unem-
ployment is assuming a serious aspect throughout the district. Probably few
towns have suffered more severely than our own during the past two years
of trade depression. When we contemplate what the condition of the Boot
Repairing trade would have been without the protection of a Trade Board,
we have a feeling of thankfulness for its stabilising effect, and the freedom it
has given us from the bickering, and heart-breaking struggle which would
have been inevitable to maintain a living wage, if such protection had not been
given. We congratulate our old friend, Buckle, upon the able manner in which
be placed our case before Lord Cave's Committee, and the evidence given by
Mr. Crabb for the employers was good to read. We do not forget that he (Mr.
Crabb) is a West-countryman, and once having nailed his flag to the mast,
will not lower it with the first shot fired.
C


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

146
WELLINGBOROUGH. - Trade throughout the district is very bad.
A number of firms have adopted the principle of working their operatives in
shifts of one week on and one week off. We are still in that unhappy position
of the Manufacturers' Association refusing to pay to the Holiday Scheme fund
and with a few exceptions the operatives in the district will be the losers of
the payment at Easter without something is done and done quickly.
YARMOUTH (GREAT). - Trade is improving. Some of our members.
attended, also very interesting and very helpful to all inside and outside the
have made a start again. Mr. George Lansbury's visit to Yarmouth, on behalf
of the General Workers' Union, on March 4th, at the Town Hall, was well
employed at Messrs. Johnson & Sons in the Hand-sewn Water Boot Department
Trade Union movement. This propaganda work entails a lot of worry and
position to create a decent standard of living to which as workers they are full
expense, but if the workers will only realise it is for their benefit, and stand
firmly together and join the Unions catering for them, they would be in a better
entitled Why is it necessary to beg of members of trade unions to buy the
Daily Herald. As Trade Union men there should not be any" why" about it
It is the only Labour Daily that champions their cause and gives us inform
tion that is badly needed in the workers' cause.
not assist the Trade Union movement.
Other papers for reasons co

THE MORALITY OF PRICES.
If businesss ever reaches the ideal we may see many changes in present-day methods.
For instance, there is certainly room for what for want of a better term we may describe
as "Morality in Prices." Always there appears to be a tug of war as between bayers
there is one continual struggle to pull prices down; on the other there is an equal and
and sellers without any fixed basis of selling price determined by cost. On the one side
fixed determination to keep them up, and the stronger placed side for the time being equal
it may be one and then the other.

But what is chiefly complained of is the wilful misrepresentation that
takes place, and in this respect the whole situation at the present time is
most unsatisfactory. The buyer goes his rounds in some cases deliberately determined
to depress prices below what he knows too well is a paying figure. To beat the producers
he tells fairy stories of having bought just as good a parcel at considerably less money
and if the producer is a fool, or a very unfortunate man, he believes the story: whereas
if he had investigated the circumstances further he would have found that misrepresenta
tions had been made that the money paid on the previous occasion was just as much
as the leather was worth.

On the other hand, it is also true that a good deal of leather has been changing hands
recently, not of the substance and nature demanded by the purchaser, or that the pur
chaser believed he was getting. Simply a question of price again.
On the producer's side there is room for improvement in the same direction. He
puts up his prices according to the strength of the demand, believing in a time of pressure
that the price to charge for his leather is just what the buyer in his panic is prepared to
pay, and prices are forced up unduly, as they are depressed in a time of slump, because
the buyer then uses the same argument from his side.
No man in the trade has any right to sell leather below what it has cost him, just as
he has no moral right to sell it at an extortionate profit.
" morality of prices" to-day, it is regrettable to have to confess, is not quite
Business morality during the war was admittedly not at a very high level. The
what it should be. Still, we all have an abundant fund of hope, and just as we believe
in many respects, the leather trade has got back some degrees to the old standard of
morality which was lost during the war, so may we hope that our thoughts expressed in this
summary fashion may help, in some small degree, to improve the " morality in prices. -
Shoe and Leather News, February 23rd, 1922.

---


---


---


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

150
PARLIAMENTARY AGENT'S REPORT
To the 23rd February, 1922.
Once again Parliament has assembled, but the length of the Session on this occasion
is a matter of great speculation. Rumours are current almost every day, sometimes it
is the resignation of Lloyd George that is to take place, at other times it is to be a dis-
solution. There is a strong feeling that the Election will be in April, but for definit
information upon the subject we must "wait and see."
Certainly matters are not proceeding smoothly for the Government, they are being
attacked from all quarters. It is a strange thing that this most wonderful of all Govern-
ments have satisfied nobody, and if only there were anything in the nature of agreement
among the discontents, then the end would be near indeed.
One thing seems to be pretty certain, that Labour in the House will not be able to
secure their downfall, as against us there is a consolidation of forces, no matter how much
they may differ upon other issues.
It is difficult to see how a different position was possible, having regard to how the
Coalition obtained office. Never in the political history of this country were promises
more readily made to the people, all sections were to have their troubles and difficulties
removed, the sun of prosperity was to shine upon all and surprise was expressed that the
wicked Labour Party would not throw in their lot and help bring about the new heaven
on earth.
Our difficulty at the last election has been fully shewn by the results that have followed
We were not opposed to the ideas that were put forward, nor were we against the sugges
tions that were made as to what was needed, our difficulty was to understand how such a
mixed and composite body as the Coalition could possibly usher in this new era. I say
mixed and composite but only so in regard to more or less minor interests, as so far as
the real essentials are concerned they are very solid and compact.
Who would dare to say now that we were wrong in our predictions, or that our fears
have not been completely justified. The last three years is strewn with wreckage, even
where attempts have apparently been made to give effect to promises, the Bills have been
withdrawn almost as soon as they were printed, and where they have become Acts, can-
cellation has taken place almost before the ink has dried upon their pages.
All this is the explanation of present chaos. Nobody appears to be satisfied because
nothing is right, and nothing can be while this Government remain in office. They are
hopelessly incompetent, they have no settled policy, they live from day to day, always in
a Micawber frame of mind hoping for something to turn up, and all that comes along are
the chickens that come home to roost.
The lack of appreciation of what is involved was clearly shewn in the discussion upon
the Labour Party's amendment to the King's Speech in regard to unemployment. Mr.
Clynes was drawing attention to the serious condition obtaining among thousands of the
people through the lack of employment, and was emphasising the awful state in which
many were suffering. Sir Alfred Mond, the Minister of Health, blandly rose and asked
"has anybody starved." Evidently this superior person, who is specially fitted to govern,
is of the opinion that someone must die before there is real evidence of want.
.
The reply of Clynes to the criticism of the Labour Party by Lord Birkenhead was
very effective, the noble Lord like many of his colleagues had discovered that Labour is
not fit to govern, but also like his colleagues he is not certain the people believe this, so it
is up to them to convey the necessary information. He evidently was not very confident
of his case so far as material facts were concerned, so he called us by harsh names, we
were "poltroons" and several other things, equally as bad. As a lawyer he appreciates
to the full the value of the policy of when you have no case, abuse your opponents.
A further answer has been given by the elections of Clayton and Camberwell. Another
is being prepared at Wolverhampton, and if only the Government will provide other
opportunities, further replies from constituencies can be given.
The question that perhaps above all others that has occupied the public mind
during the past few weeks has been the Geddes Report. There are parts of it we can
agree with, but apparently they are the parts that the Ministers concerned will not accept,
stand the better chance of being accepted, viz., Housing, Education, &c. This report
such as the cuts affecting the Army and Navy. Those that we must and shall oppose
completes the wreckage of the New England, that "grandeur of being belongs to the
past. The future is to be but a repetition of what obtained before the wonderful promises
will in the industrial field, and they hope to do likewise politically before the people are
were made, only more so. The economic condition enable these people to impose their
given a chance to pass judgment upon them.


---
Here is the text from the image:

151
But the chance may come soon, and it is up to all of us to see that the judgment is
sound and emphatic. The best way is to return Labour men and women to Parliament
and elsewhere. This is a task which belongs to everyone, none can escape their share of
responsibility. Let all rise to the occasion and contribute of their best.

To 20th March, 1922.

The feeling of uncertainty that pervades the political situation in the country is
also characteristic of matters in the House of Commons. Everyone is wondering what is
really going to happen, and the enquiry that frequently greets one as to when the General
Election is to take place, indicate what is uppermost in the minds of many. This is not
surprising, having regard to the number who have no hopes of returning, and the others
whose numbers are by no means insignificant who have grave doubts as to what will
happen when the electors get another chance.

Some of our members in Leicester are about to be given an opportunity to reverse
the decision of December, 1918. I sincerely trust they will rise to the occasion. This is
not a time for petty differences, it is a time for solid combined effort against the common
enemy. The events of the past few months can surely leave no room for doubt in the
minds of the workers, or of those who wish well of their country. Whatever else may
happen the Coalition must go, and every bye-election should point in that direction.
I look to the Boot Operatives of Leicester to deliver a smashing blow to the enemy, and
thus help to re-establish Labour in that City for parliamentary purposes.

The business of the House since the passing of the Irish Treaty (Agreement) Bill has
not been of an exciting character, though on the discussion upon the Geddes Report the
Labour Party played its part in opposing those recommendations which would have
placed further penalties on the backs of the workers. The discussion upon the Education
cut was instructive. The Labour Party, according to its critics, is composed of those who
seek by violence and such like to upset and destroy all that stands for sound and good
government, so much so is this the view held that special missions and newspaper agitations
have to be organised whereby the people and the country may be saved from the machina-
tions of the "scoundrels and poltroons" who compose the Labour Party.

Yet I listened to these words from the Member for Oxford, who has great qualifications
to speak upon education. He said, "Many of us have received, in the course of the last
few weeks, a very strong appeal from the teachers of this country not to curtail the ex-
penditure on education. Not the less does that arouse a difficult question for those who
like myself, are very deeply concerned as to the future of national education. I know
that this is a question in which hon. Members on the Labour Benches feel very keenly
indeed. I heard Lord Haldane in another place last week say, and I believe it to be true,
that the Labour Party, of all parties in this country, and at the present moment, are
keenest in regard to education, and I should like to add my testimony to their anxiety in
that regard. I know it to be true that they are keenly anxious on that question."

This is a striking contrast to most that is said of us, and what emerges from it is
that we, more than any other section, want to see an educated people, that we, more than
anyone, want the chance of an appeal to an intelligent electorate. But those who are our
critics know this, and they do not want an educated electorate. They want a gullible
people, who can be swayed by prejudice, who can be manœuvred into false positions,
in short, they stand to gain from ignorance, we from enlightenment.

On the supplementary estimates the Labour Members have by no means been silent
or inactive. The Minister of Health was severely criticised upon the attitude of his Depart-
ment upon Housing, Health, &c., but the so-called economy practised by him is to the
liking of the House, and it is useless to try and convince them it is wrong. I sometimes
think there is a tendency to judge and criticise the Labour Party, by the success or failure
in convincing the House by the speeches delivered. This is a mistake. The speeches
are alright, it is the audience that is wrong. It is labour in vain. The only way is the
Fisher way, "sack the lot."

The case of the ex-Service man was well put by Griffiths, Lawson, Guest, and others,
when the estimate was under consideration dealing with the work of the Appeal Tribunals,
a body that has the final word in deciding applications for pensions. A case quoted by
T. Griffiths is worth stating to show what is meted out to those who suffered in the war.
A soldier badly wounded at Loos, but who later resumed duty, was after discharge rendered
incapable of work as a result of his wounds. He got a pension, but died shortly after.
His wife then received a pension, but the case was sent up for reconsideration, and the
pension disallowed, not because of the facts as stated not being correct, but because the
man, in his anxiety, like thousands of others to get out of the army, had signed himself
out. "Their sacrifice will never be forgot by a grateful country."

To-day, as I write, the discussion is taking place upon the Engineers' lock-out; whether
it will be productive of good time will tell, but it is well that the workers' case should be
stated on the floor of the House of Commons. An enquiry under the Industrial Courts


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

157
One would like to think. one wonders, whether this evidence is not
exaggerated, but another of the liberated Americans states, in Volia Rossi, of
August 30, 1921:

"I have seen many State prisoners. The Socialists being, at present, the
only, or almost the only, prisoners in Soviet prisons. To speak of State
prisoners, means to speak of Socialists (Social Revolutionaries, Mensheviks,
Left Revolutionary Socialists and Anarchists). In August, 1921, there began
countless arrests of Socialists, and of all those who were connected with them.
Twice over, the Bolsheviks have had the prison of Boutirky invaded, and the
prisoners beaten to death..."

And further on :

"The condition of State Prisoners, especially of Members of the Central
Committee of the Social Revolutionary Party, is, at present, more than
painful. They are kept in strict isolation. For some time interviews have
been refused them. Before the attack on the Boutirky Prison, the representa-
tives of the Red Cross were authorised to go there; now they have no longer
the right. In the Taganka Prison, the political prisoners are separated from
the others, in premises, the lower story of which is not heated; in winter it is
unendurable. In the provincial prisons, Ural, Jaroslav, etc., the situation is
even more awful. Certain prisoners, transferred on April 28, are not to be
found anywhere in the provinces, and their fate remains absolutely unknown.

"I am convinced that, in the conditions indicated, the larger
number of the political prisoners will die. There are many amongst
them who are now seriously ill. Unless there is intervention in
their favour they will certainly perish."

It is the duty of the International, both to itself and to its unhappy
comrades in Russia, to take the initiative in such intervention.

When, under the pressure of the famine, and in order to maintain itself
in power in spite of everything, the Soviet Government resolved to make
concessions, in fact and in principle, to the Capitalist States, concessions
which were the very negation of its programme, an initial condition was
imposed upon it, namely, the liberation of such foreigners, British, French,
Americans, as, for political reasons, it was detaining in its prisons.

The hour has now come to demand the same thing for State prisoners of
Russian nationality, whose sole crime is that of having remained faithful to
their ideals and principles.

Serious, definite, concordant, as are the accusations made in the Memo-
randum on Soviet prisons, we admit that they cannot be held to be definitive,
unless the Soviet Government persists in its silence or its refusal to furnish
the required explanations.

But it is the right and the duty of the International to demand these
explanations.

Is it true that there are in Russian prisons, thousands of men,
chiefly Socialists, whose only crime is that of being adversaries of
the Soviet Government? Is it true that these State prisoners, badly
fed and deprived of medical care, are submitted to a regime, which
is destroying their health and threatening their life?

Is it true that, in order to defend themselves from the merciless
treatment or arbitrary acts of which they are the victims, many of
them have no other resource than to have recourse to a hunger
strike as in the time of the Tsars?


---
and professional education of teachers. It would recognise the vital importance of maintaining amongst its teachers freshness of mind and intellectual alertness, and do all that is possible to prevent staleness which must be the death of real education.

What is needed to-day is a new conception of elementary or, as I prefer to call it, primary education. In the past elementary education was of a special kind devised for a special class (which incidentally formed the great majority of the people) and which was treated as something inferior. But the primary school ought to be in England what it is in America, the common school, and its equipment should be the best the nation can offer.

What can be more absurd than to insist on classes not exceeding 30 in secondary schools and to allow classes of 60 in primary schools, to provide playing fields for the former but not for the latter ; to have different standards of staffing and air space? When we obtain, as we ultimately must, universal secondary education, the primary school will no longer be engaged in the impossible task of trying to educate both the child of seven and the adolescent of 13. It will assume its proper place. It will become the universal preparatory school.

There are those who, whilst approving of compulsory primary education, do not regard universal secondary education as an essential of a democratic community. Many people hold the view that all children are not capable of profiting by a secondary education. In my judgment a universal system of secondary education is a fundamental need of democracy. Moreover, I do not accept the view that education of the secondary type ought to be confined to selected students. The Education Act of 1918 accepts the principle of compulsory education for all young persons. The law, therefore, has recognised the need for a system of universal education for all boys and girls up to the age of 16 (and ultimately 18), irrespective of their mental capacity, so that the question of compulsory adolescent education has been settled. What is in dispute is its character. An excellent primary school system does not dispose of the need for the education of boys and girls after this period of education has closed. Adolescence has its own education needs.

Secondary education is the appropriate type of education for adolescents, as primary education is the type suitable for children. The report of the Departmental Committee on Scholarships and Free Places-states that " practically all children except the sub- normal (put at 25 per cent. of the total number) are intellectually capable of profiting by full time instruction up to 16 or beyond." That it is proposed that there should be an immediate increase of free places from 25 to 40 per cent., and that secondary education should be freed by the abolition of school fees as soon as the financial situation allows.

If this were carried out if three-quarters of the children in elementary schools passed to secondary, there would be 24 millions in the latter. In actual fact to-day there are less than 300,000, and the accommodation even for these is not adequate. Let no one say the small numbers in secondary schools is because there is no demand for secondary education. In 1919 no less than 9,271 applicants for admission to secondary schools in England as fee-paying pupils were refused admission for want of accommodation, and a further 8,780 were excluded because no free places for these were available, though they had reached the intellectual standard demanded by the school authorities.

Until about 20 years ago, secondary education was frankly a class preserve, and the idea that it could be required by the children of working people was dismissed as ridiculous. But the foundation of a democratic system of public secondary education has been laid, there is now a steady stream of children from elementary to secondary schools. But we have not so far proceeded further than the foundations. We must abandon the old idea of elementary and secondary education as two different systems. They are two stages in a single course of development which ought to be indissolubly connected. Secondary education is not merely for gifted children, but for all normal children. This will take time but we must hold it before us as the objective of our efforts. It is well to remember that the well-to-do give their children a secondary education, often at expensive schools, irrespective of their ability.

It is impossible to exaggerate the actual value of keeping the whole juvenile population under educational influences during the perilous years of adolescence. What the community loses by throwing immature and ill-equipped young people to the mercy of economic forces and casting them into an environment which tends to sterilise intellectual interests, to dull the finer sensibilities, and only too often to coarsen the moral fibre, cannot be measured. If it be urged that the adoption of a system of secondary education would involve the community in considerable financial obligations, I would reply that the loss sustained by the present waste of human possibilities far outweighs the financial expenditure necessary to secure compulsory education for all.

With a universal system of primary and secondary education, we should have laid the foundations on which university and technical education should be built. So far as technical education is concerned its value largely depends upon whether or not they have had the advantage of secondary education, without which they would not possess the necessary background of knowledge.

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

161
MR. W. R. TOWNLEY, J.P.
The name of Mr. William Robert Townley, the president of the Northampton No. 1
Branch of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, has been added to the Com-
mission of the Peace for the County Borough of Northampton.
The announcement that Mr. Townley has been appointed a magistrate will le received
with a good deal of satisfaction in the town, for Mr. Townley is recognised to be a shrewd
administrator and he will bring sound ability to the discharge of his new duties.
Mr. Townley, who is in his forty-sixth year, is a native of Northampton. His associa-
tion with the boot trade has extended over thirty-four years, and except for a period in
which he worked in Glasgow, all his life has been spent in the town in which he was torn.
Always a strong Trade Unionist, he was in 1913 elected vice-president of his branch
of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union, and four years later, on the resignation of the
late Mr. D. Stanton, J.P., he became president. He has been president of Northang ton
Trades Council, was one of the Labour members of the Military Service Tribunal, has
Served on the Borough Insurance Committee, and on the Court of Referees at the Em-
ployment Exchange. For two years he represented the Northampton District on the
National Executive of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union, and he has frequently repre-
sented his branch at the National Conference.- Northampton Echo, March 22nd, 192
CO-PARTNERSHIP WORKSHOPS.
Midland Boot.
The trade is £20,336 for the second half of 1921, and a profit of £135 was realised
which, with returned Excess Profits Tax, makes £2,377 for distribution. Of this ₤423 goes
to the Shareholders, 1962 to the Interest Guarantee Fund and ₤260 to the Provident
Fund.
Higham Ferrers.
The trade for the latter half of 1921 was £13,461, and a profit of £337 was made,
of which ₤232 goes to shareholders as interest. Of the remainder £5 goes to the Educa-
tional Fund, £10 to the Provident Fund and £48 to the Reserve Fund.
Glenfield Boot.
The trade for the second half of 1921 was £13,100, showing a considerable decease
owing to the prevailing depression. The profits were £1,001, of which the shareh ers.
received £225 in interest and dividends and the workers £250 as dividend on wages IS.
in the f. Grants of £25 were made to the Provident Fund and the Education Fund,
and froo added to the Reserve.
Wigston Hosiers.
The trade for the second part of 1921 was £26,328, and the profit was £3,682, of which
1980 goes to the shareholders for interest and dividends. Customers receive ₤993 as
dividend on purchases at about rod. in the f, and workers receive £340 as dividend on
wages at about Is. 4d. in the f. Of the remainder £300 is added to the Provident and
Pensions Fund, and froo to the Education Fund. The report draws attention to the fact
that the Society has been able to keep practically the whole of the workers on full time.-
Co-partnership, March, 1922.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
A-TOTAL UNEMPLOYMENT.
Estimated Number of Insured Workpeople:- Males, 95,220; Females, 52,690;
Total, 147,910. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 21st February,
1922:-Males, 11,572; Females, 3,613; Total, 15,185. Percentage Unemployed at
21st February, 1922:-Males, 12.2; Females, 6.9; Total, 10.3. Compared with 31st
January, 1922:- Males (Decrease), 0.7; Females, nil; Total (Decrease), 0.4.
B-SHORT TIME.
Number of Short Time Workers claiming Unemployment Insurance Benefit at
21st February, 1922:-Males, 1,918; Females, 739; Total, 2,657. Compared with 31st
January, 1922:-Males (Decrease), 643; Females (Decrease), 514; Total (Decrease), 1,157.
Percentage on Systematic Short Time at 21st February, 1922:-Males, 2.0; Females,
1.4: Total, 1.8. Compared with 31st January, 1922:- Males (Decrease), 0.7; Females
Decrease), 1.0; Total (Decrease), 0.8. - The Labour Gazette, March, 1922.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS. WAR OFFICE.-Boors: W. Nichols & Son Ltd.,
Kettering.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

163
SOCIALISTS IN PRISON.
Appeal of the Second International. Demands on Moscow.

A manifesto on Socialist prisoners in Russian Communist prisons was issued yesterday by the Executive Committee of the Second International.
The Second International, it says, appeals to-day to all Socialists to demand of the Moscow Government an account of the manner in which it is treating its political adver- saries in the prisons of Russia.

Since the early months of 1918 increasingly numerous and pressing complaints have been made on the subject of executions en masse, arbitrary arrests, measures of terror decreed by the Tche-ka, in the name of the new power.

Batch of Allegations.
On the improbable accusation of counter-revolutionary tendencies, tried Socialists, Mensheviks, or Social Revolutionaries such as Gotz, Vedeniapine, Timofeev, Eugenie Ratner, Dan, S. Marosov, D. Donskoi, who had been liberated from Tsarist prisons in 1917, have been once again cast into the same prisons under the supervision of the same warders who had charge of them during the Tsarist régime.

Since then evidence has increased and become more definite. On November 20th 1920, the Central Committee of the Social Revolutionary Party addressed to the Com- munist Party in Moscow an open letter on the starvation diet which more than 60 prisoners, accused solely of belonging to the Social Revolutionary Party, were forced to undergo at the Central Convict Prison of Jaroslav.

On May 6th, 1921, the Central Organisation Bureau of the Socialist Party addressed to the proletariat of all countries a special appeal to denounce the acts of violence practised on the prisoners in the too celebrated prison of Boutirky in Moscow, and in the prisons of Zara, Žerentoni, Sakhaline and Odessa.

Finally, in October of the same year, the Executive Committee of the Conference of members of the Russian Constituent Assembly published, in a " Memorandum on Russian Prisons," a résumé of letters, manifestoes and complaints, individual or collective, which constitutes the most formidable of charges against the present régime in Russian prisons.

Concessions Asked For.
When, under the pressure of the famine, and in order to maintain itself in power in spite of everything, the Soviet Government resolved to make concessions, in fact and in principle, to the capitalist States, concessions which were the very negation of its programme, an initial condition was imposed upon it: namely, the liberation of such foreigners-British, French, Americans-as, for political reasons, it was detaining in its prisons.

The hour has now come to demand the same thing for State prisoners of Russian nationality, whose sole crime is that of having remained faithful to their ideals and prin- ciples.

Serious, definite, concordant as are the accusations made in the Memorandum on Soviet Prisons, we admit that they cannot be held to be definitive unless the Soviet Govern- ment persists in its silence or its refusal to furnish the required explanations.

But it is the right and the duty of the International to demand those explanations.
Threat of Hunger Strike.

Is it true that there are in Russian prisons thousands of men, chiefly Socialists, whose only crime is that of being adversaries of the Soviet Government? Is it true that these State prisoners, badly fed and deprived of medical care, are submitted to a régime which is destroying their health and threatening their life ?

Is it true that, in order to defend themselves from the merciless treatment or arbitrary acts of which they are the victims, many of them have no other resource than to have recourse to a hunger strike, as in the time of the Tsars?

We urgently request all affiliated Parties to make known these questions, which the International is publicly putting to the Government of Moscow, and to put them in their turn. They will judge for themselves, according to circumstances, how their action can most usefully be taken, whether through the Press or in political meetings, or by interviews with those who represent the Soviet Government abroad.

In some form or another, however, their intervention is a matter of urgent necessity. It is a question of the liberty, possibly of the life, of thousands of human beings.— Daily Herald, February 25th, 1922.

---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

:67
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
FOOD IMPORTS, 1921.
MR. LAMBERT asked the Minister of Agriculture the estimated consumption. the
United Kingdom during the year 1921 of wheat, barley, oats, beef, mutton, bacon, butter
and cheese ; and what are the proportions of these products imported from over s
and produced at Home, respectively?

SIR A. BOSCAWEN: The following table gives the information desired by the
hon. Member. Certain returns relating to foodstuffs which were formerly collected here
been discontinued, and the estimates are based on such data as are now available
Estimated consumption in the United Kingdom of certain classes of agriculturi
produce :-

Commodity.
Proportion of Home-grown and
Imported Produce included
Imported
Estimated Total
Consumption.
Home-grown.
1921.
Tons.
Wheat
Per cent.
7,149,000
Per cent
Barley
23
2,162,000
6.4
77
Oats
36
3,464,000
88
Butter
290,000
12
Cheese
43
187,000
57
26
74
Beef and Veal
June, 1920, to May, 1921 :-
1,210,000
54
Mutton and Lamb
46
520,000
40
Pigmeat*
60
630,000
48
52
* The total consumption of bacon alone cannot be given.
-Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons, 23rd February, 1922.

Benefit (Marriage).
UNEMPLOYMENT.
MR. RENDALL asked the Minister of Labour whether a man receiving unemployment
benefit and who marries while in receipt of it is entitled to the 5s. for his wife; and, if so,
whether payment for any children his wife may have had before marriage to him will be
made?
DR. MACNAMARA: In accordance with the terms of the Dependants' Grants Act,
a grant would be payable in respect of the wife. A grant would also be payable in respect
of the children if they are the applicant's children or have been adopted by him : are
wholly or mainly maintained at his cost: and are under the age of 14, or under the age
of 16 and under full-time instruction in a day school.

SIR C. KINLOCH-COOKE: Are we to understand that a man who receives unemploy-
ment benefit and marries is entitled to these payments?
SIR FORTESCUE FLANNERY: How many men out of employment have married under
these conditions ?

DR. MACNAMARA: I cannot say.
Married Women (Part-Time Work).
MR. RENDALL asked the Minister of Labour whether a married woman doing part-
time domestic work and earning 10s. per week thereat will receive the 5s. unemployment
benefit if and because her husband is out of work if she gives up her employment though
offered a continuance of it?

DR. MACNAMARA: Under the Dependants' Grants Act, a grant is not payable in respect
of a wife if she is in regular wage-earning employment. Whether the grant would be
payable in the circumstances described in the question would depend on all the circum-
stances of the case. If, however, the employment is given up merely in order that the
grant may be claimed, that would be a matter which the Local Employment Committee
would take into consideration, and would be a proper ground for refusing a grant.
Nurses.

Mr. L. LYLE asked the Minister of Labour if the principle has been definitely estab-
lished that a nurse, unemployed because she is waiting for a case, is not automatically
entitled, although a regular weekly payer under the National Insurance Act, to unemploy-


---


---
membership of 1,426,000 trade unionists; and it does not seem to me that that is precisely
the sort of combination that ought to be met with such cheers. Interruption 
emanated from those who are supposed to represent Labour in this House.
There is, no doubt, one section of the Labour movement that attaches the greatest
possible importance to the State in every effort connected with industrial progress. On
the other hand, there are those-just as good workmen and just as representative of the
class to which they belong-who have not that definite and decided faith in the efficacy
of the State in improving and controlling everything connected with the working man.
Ministry of Labour they mention the Geddes Report, and in the circular letter issued by the
that Report as a justification for reconsidering
the federation to which I belong, and for which I am now speaking, had been considering
this matter for over a year before the Geddes Committee was ever appointed, and, but
resolution in conference at Bangor last year, decided to inquire into the whole subject
entirely from State control, and to place it as a duty on the great industries themselves.
The management committee of the federation, after long consideration, drew up a meno-
randum on the subject, and I cannot do better than quote from that memorandum to inform
the House of the principle that has prompted the federation in its action, and of the object
which it hopes to secure through this Bill. The memorandum, as it states, is in no sense
an attempt to indicate the causes of unemployment or to put forward real remedies. Those
are left for separate treatment. The memorandum aims rather at examining some pro-
posals for relieving the distress which unemployment causes. It aims also at determining
which of these proposals offers the greatest benefit to the unemployed at the smallest
administrative costs and with the least loss of moral fibre to the people themselves. It
goes on to say:

"To-day the common assumption is that both Boards of Guardians and Employment
Exchanges have failed. The failure of the machinery hitherto set up for the relief of
distress is presumptive evidence of its unsuitability. The chief points of Employ-
ment Exchange criticism are that they do not fulfil their primary functions that of
providing the employer with the worker he needs, or the worker with the employer he needs,
and of affording media of relief to the genuinely unemployed without pauperisation.
While it may be argued that some are too poor to buy a paper, none are too poor
to visit the free libraries, where many papers may be consulted; nor should the practice
of displaying Wants' Advertisements at up-to-date newspaper and trade union offices
be overlooked. One of the main arguments for the maintenance of the Exchanges has
been drawn from the fact that many thousands of workers do not belong to trade unions.
That is mainly their own fault. To-day every worker in every occupation can find unions
which are competing for his membership. If the skilled refuse him, the unskilled embrace
him. If there is a residuum which cannot be placed, it must be very small or reprehensibly
obstinate. If the industries themselves provided the funds and controlled their
distribution, the State would be relieved of enormous administrative charges, and many
persons would have inducements to mendicancy removed further from them. The trade
unions have had experience of unemployment benefits; they know their people, and
statistics prove that they administered with a consideration and with an economy far
surpassing that of any Government Department."

It is because the great trade unions are not influenced entirely by politics, but look
at trade organisation from the point of view of the amount of benefit that it will give
to the worker who is a member as an industrial unit in the country-purely as a means of
bargaining with his employer to get a fair share of the results of his labour-that we say
that this method of dealing with the subject is quite out of date, is antiquated and useless,
places a burden upon the taxpayer almost equal to the benefit received by the workman,
and is a thing that ought to be abolished. Therefore, I am asked by this organisation
to move for leave to introduce this Bill.

MR. CLYNES: Chiefly to avoid misunderstanding outside this House, the Members
on this side of it desire me to say something in opposition to the main principles of this
Bill. We do not propose to carry our opposition to the length of forcing a Division on
the First Reading. The Bill is not in print, and we have had no details as to its provisions.
We doubt very much indeed whether my hon. and gallant Friend can speak with due
authority even for the Federation of Trade Unions with which he is associated.

MR. RONALD MCNEILL: On a point of Order. Is the right hon. Gentleman entitled
to speak under this rule, having announced his intention of not dividing the House against
the Bill?

MR. SPEAKER: That question was raised in the time of my predecessor, and I recollect
lamm saying that you can bring a horse to the water, but you cannot make him drink.

MK. CLYNES: For myself, I am prepared to listen with the greatest respect to anything
at my hon. and gallant Friend may have to say on such a subject as this, for, although


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

171
MINERS' WAGES (SCOTLAND).
MR. ADAMSON: I desire to call the attention of the Secretary for Mines to the serious
conditions of affairs that exists in the Scottish mining industry. In the course of the
present week another reduction has been imposed upon the miners in the Scottish mines
amounting to od. a day, or roughly 4s. a week. This would have been bad enough if it
had represented the only reduction that had taken place within recent months, but this
is one of a series of reductions in the course of the last year, amounting in the aggregato
to no less than I2S, Id. This brings the wages of the men down to 88. 8d, or a weekly
wage of little over 12, which is less than the wage that is being paid to the lowest class of
labourer in this country. When one takes into account the degree of skill required in
mining, and the enormous risks run by these men, that is treatment into which, I think.
the Government are bound to look, and, if they possibly can, remedy. This reduction
brings the wages down to 35 per cent, over the 1914 wage, whereas the cost of living at
still stands at 88 per cent. over that
munity in Scotland must be in a serious and deplorable conditions
In certain districts, particularly with regard to lower paid men, there are men working
the whole of the time they can get during the week, and having to apply to the parochial
authorities for as much money as will enable them to supplement the meagre income
wherewith they are able to buy sufficient food for their families. Extract from Parm
mentary Debates, House of Commons, Friday, 3rd March, 1922.
TRADE AND COMMERCE.
Exports, United Kingdom.
COLONEL GRETTON asked the President of the Board of Trade the value of the United
Kingdom exports of manufactured goods to Russia, Germany, United States, Australia,
New Zealand, Union of South Africa, and Canada in the year 1913, and the purchases per
head of the population of those countries of such manufactured goods?
SIR P. LLOYD-GREAME: The answer involves a statistical table, which, with the per-
mission of the House, I will have circulated in the OFFICIAL REPORT.
The following is the table :-
The following statement shows the total value of articles classed as wholly or mainly
manufactured which were exported from the United Kingdom to the undermentioned
Countries in 1913, and the estimated value per head of the population in each country :--
Country.
Russia (including Finland)
Germany
United States
Commonwealth of Australia
Dominion of New Zealand
Union of South Africa
Dominion of Canada
Total Value.
Estimated Value per
head of population.
£
10,255,028
£ s. d.
0 I 2
26,887,653
0 8 0
23,071,391
0
49
31,301,204
6 10
4
9,617,361
90
0
19,650,161
20,031,002
3 2 9
2 13
2
-Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons, 22nd March, 1922.
£1,441 WAGES ARREARS.
"One of the Worst Cases of Sweating"-says Labour Ministry.
Arrears of wages amounting to £1,441 were alleged to have been due to employees
of the Redruth Brewery Company, whose manager, James Wickett, was fined £2 at Cam-
borne yesterday for hindering a woman officer of the Ministry of Labour in inspecting
the wages books.
The company was ordered to pay for failing to post in their works notices of the
rates of pay due.
The Bench was told that the workers complained through their trade union to the
Labour Ministry that they were not receiving proper payment, but nothing was done
by the Department for 14 months. The Ministry regarded it as one of the worst cases of
sweating possible to imagine.
Arrears were paid to the employees by the company after the summonses had been
issued Daily Chronicle, 25th March, 1922.

---
Here is the text from the image:

SPECIAL NOTIOE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondent.
being men on whom we can rely should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the came prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NAT TELI 4438 MUSEUM, LONDON.
on of
Tet Address NATUHISHOP, 11010 10110יוזרס
National Boots Shoe Operatives
Affiliated to the Trades Union Congress, the General Federation
Trade Unions and National Labour Par
Approved under the State National Health Insurance Acts. Approval No. 281
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
General President
T.FRICHARDS..
EL POULTON J.P.
SEAR OF GOVERNMENT
34.GUILFORD STREET
LONDON VCL
Nearcat Telegraph Ofice
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
THE STATE OF TRADE.
24TH APRIL, 1922.
Trade has not improved to any considerable extent since last month.
There are, we regret to say, a large number of members working short time,
in addition to which the claims on the Out-of-Work Funds are still somewhat
heavy. The Ministry of Labour figures relating to the industry are as
follows:
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
During March there was a further slight improvement in this trade, but employment
generally continued slack and much short time was still reported. As compared with a
year ago there was an improvement.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed in the boot, shoe, and slipper making
and repairing trades, as indicated by the unemployment books lodged at Employment
Exchanges, was 9.9 at 27th March, as compared with 10.2 at 21st February.
Returns received from firms employing 32,882 workpeople showed that in the week
ended 25th March more than 46 per cent. of these employees worked, on the average,
12 hours a week less than full time.
In London employment continued bad. At Leicester there was a further slight
improvement, and employment was good in some departments; but a good deal of short
time was still reported. At Hinckley employment was bad, and all firms were working
short time. There was some improvement at Northampton; but employment continued
bad on the whole, and short time was general. Employment was also bad at Kettering,
and poor at Desborough, where it showed a decline. At Ringstead employment was very
bad, owing to the completion of Government contracts; it was also bad, and showed a
decline at Rushden, where full time working was exceptional. At Stafford there was a
further slight improvement, and short time had almost ceased.
At Norwich employment in March was good; most of the operatives were on full
time, and there was even some overtime. At Bristol and Kingswood employment was
B


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

193
Section 17 of the Unemployment Insurance Act 1920, and Section 3 of the
Unemployed Workers' Dependants (Temporary Provision) Act 1921, are:
(a) The repeal of the U Unemployed Workers' Dependants (Temporary y Prosision)
Act 1921 as from the oth April, 1922. The grants will in effect be continued at
the same figures as previously but will be treated AS PART OF UNEMPLOS
MENT BENEFIT instead of as a separate payment
(b) The termination of the "Second Special Period" provided by the Unemployment
Insurance Act, 1921, on the 5th April instead of the 3rd July, 1922.
(c) The provision of two new Special Periods, viz.:
The Third Special Period from the oth April, 1922, to the rst November,
1922 and
The Fourth Special Period from the 2nd November, 1922, to the 1st
July, 1923.
(d) The payment during the Third Special Period of a maximum amount of 15
weeks' benefit divided (in the case of persons receiving "free" or uncovenanted
benefit) into aggregate periods of 5 weeks, each period to be separated from the
previous one by an interval of 5 weeks. This division will not apply in the case
of persons who are entitled to benefit in respect of contributions to the Unemploy
ment Fund.
(e) No benefit to be paid in respect of unemployment on any day prior to the 17th
April in the Third Special Period to applicants who have drawn 22 weeks' benefit
from the commencement of the Second Special Period and before that date.
(f) During the Fourth Special Period 12 weeks' benefit to be payable with discretion-
ary power to the Minister to grant two further extensions of not exceeding five
weeks each to applicants who have made certain contributions to the Unemploy-
ment Fund.
(g) The conditions for the receipt of benefit (other than benefit payable in respect
of contributions under the one-in-six rule) to be the same as those at present
operating in respect of benefit for the "further six weeks" in the Second Special
Period with the exception that instead of proof of employment being required
in each of not less than 20 weeks since the 31st December, 1919, proof would be
required as follows :-
(i.) that not less than 20 contributions to the Unemployment Fund have
been paid in respect of the applicant; or
(ii.) that, having regard to the opportunities of employment in the applicant's
normal employment, he has been since 31st December, 1919, employed
for a reasonable period in some occupation which is now insurable or
in the case of a person formerly engaged in War Service that he had
been so employed before becoming so engaged or had no opportunity
owing to his youth of being so employed.
(h) The combined contributions under the new Act to be equal in amount to the
combined contributions at present paid in respect of Unemployment Insurance
and Dependants' Grants.
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
GENERAL ELECTION.
Rumours are constantly heard that the Government are only waiting a
favourable moment to declare for a General Election. We urge upon all to
put their machinery in order so that whether it comes in the near future or
It is
is delayed for some time, the workers may be found ready for the same.
of no practical value to complain after an election if it turns out contrary to
what we desire. The workers constitute the overwhelming majority of the
electorate. See to it that the vote is so used as will ensure those Members
being returned who will bring into existence just and equitable laws whereby
the people will be enabled to live under good conditions.


---
Here is the text from the image:

The political world is still in an unstable position, members of the Govern-
mont, especially Mr. Winston Churchill, M. P. doing all that they can by
speeches, full of invective on the one hand, and appeals to fear on the other
hand, of the terrible things that will happen if the Labour Party should come
into power in this country. The trend of events both in the country and in
the House of Commons, clearly show the necessity of keeping fully efficient
the machinery of the Labour Party, and thus be prepared for any events that
may arise in the near future. The bye-election at Leicester during the past
month shows what can be done by concentration day by day. We felt it
necessary to take some share in the said bye-election, and the President spent
some time in the constituency, urging the workers to use their votes on behalf
of Labour, and the last few days of the contest found all the Parliamentary
Candidates of the Union also assisting. The result was indeed remarkable, as
will be seen by the following figures :---
1918 figures (Ald. G. Banton, M.P., polled) 6,697
1022
"
"
14,062
This was no small achievement to have secured, and it shows that there
is an awakening amongst the electorate which we hope will continue to grow
until the majority of Members in the House of Commons belong to the Labour
Party.

INDUSTRIALLY.

The situation continues very unsatisfactory. The dispute affecting so many
thousands in the Engineering and Allied Trades still continues. This has a
real, if indirect, effect upon many other industries, increasing unemployment
and augmenting the suffering and sorrow of multitudes of people. We sincerely
hope our colleagues may speedily be successful in securing reasonable con-
ditions of employment and treatment such as is due from one person to another.

We have already granted the sum of £100-this being the limit in
accordance with Rule 257-to the A.E.U., and to enable us to assist the
A.E.U. and kindred societies in future, we ask for powers to make a loan
of £5,000 to any such society.

The wider position is still in a state of uncertainty. Many are turning
to the Conference of Nations at Genoa (where the General Secretary has
been present), and hoping that from the discussions which are there taking
place there may emerge some better and more humane methods of dealing
with the intricate problems that have become accentuated as a result of
the recent war. There is no sort of doubt in our mind that the outlook
of those in authority must be changed if any real and lasting benefit is
to accrue to the people as a whole. Equally we feel sure that the vested
interests will make a strenuous fight to keep as far as possible the real
power in their own hands. The persons at the Conference at Genoa have
therefore those opportunities that seldom come to men, viz., the power to
so make arrangements as will indeed make it possible for humanity to go

---
Here is the text from the image:

really forward on the path of progress. We can only hope that the delegates--will rise to the occasion and thereby tender to the people real and lasting service by removing the shackles and encumbrances which enslave the people, and giving them a real opportunity to develop their lives and power in such way and manner as to increase the sum total of happiness and peace in all countries.

WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
We make no apology for again reminding branch officers and also the members, that lump sums are NOT obtainable by law, but only by agreement. and if branches are anxious that a solicitor should be engaged to safeguard the interests of any member, the Central Office should be at once notified of the accident, together with the full name and address of the member, registered number and details of the accident on the prescribed form.

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please note when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch Secretary or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.

TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped Footwear."

We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.

T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President. W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
T. ADNITT.
C. BLEAKLEY.
C. BATES.
A. J. DOBBS.
E. LAW.
ALEX. SMITH.
L. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
C. MAYES.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
C


---
Here is the text from the image:

196
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
EAST LEICESTER BYE-ELECTION. - Probably the most important feature I hav
to report this month is the magnificent way in which the members of the Union responde
to the call of the Executive of the Union and their local officers in the East Leiceste
Election. The employers in the town of Leicester, and all those interested in the trad
who do not belong to the wage-earning class, and who are not members of the Nationa
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, are taking their beating badly. When we kne
that the President of the Federation was about to contest the seat, we felt that, as h
opinions and ours differed so widely on matters concerning the welfare of the Union and
home affairs in general, and knowing also the dearth of direct Labour representative
there is in the House of Commons, and that already Mr. Marlow's class has no less tha
600 members there, we were determined to put our members upon their merits, with th..
result that we all threw ourselves into the fight. The Executive of the Union issued the
following manifesto :-

TO ALL BOOT OPERATIVES-MEN AND WOMEN-AND WORKERS GENERALLY.
You now have a splendid opportunity of sending to the House of Commor
another Labour representative. The Council of the National Union of Boot Operative
appeal to you to record your vote for Alderman G. Banton.

Do not be misled by statements about "Wage Cuts" and the Council of the
Union agreeing to the same.

Mr. Marlow and his colleagues of the Manufacturers' Federation were, and are
responsible for the "Cuts."

The Council members fought strenuously against the same.

Now is the time to strengthen the position of Labour. Let it be known that you
resent the onslaughts being made upon the workers.

Your votes will determine the issue; you are in the majority; give your vote
to the Labour Candidate, and thus strike one more blow for freedom and progress.

Signed on behalf of the Members of the Council of the National Union of Boot
and Shoe Operatives.

T. F. RICHARDS, General President.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.

They also advised their four Parliamentary Candidates, with their Member of Parlia
ment, to assist to the best of their powers. Needless to say this was done. The language
on the above manifesto is resented very largely by some of the employers, and as usual
they adopted any argument to try and lead us to believe that our interests would be best
served by another employer and another manufacturer being returned instead of giving
us an opportunity of getting representatives for ourselves. One little point I would like
to remind them of is this: that had the President of the Federation had any liking for
the Union, why did he choose to fight the seat at Wellingborough ?-the only place where
we have our one representative in Parliament for the Industry? It is no use my going
into more details-suffice it to say I attended no less than 25 open-air meetings, and con-
sequently our appeals were made directly to our own Boot and Shoe Members. The
Members of Parliament who came down to speak on behalf of Alderman Banton, M.P.,
J.P., went back rather sad because of the lack of enthusiasm, but as we said, we felt sure
that our members, when the facts were brought close home to them, would respond in no
uncertain manner. When one remembers that in 1918 Alderman Banton polled 6,697
votes, and on this occasion the Alderman polled 14,062 votes, which converted the previous
minority into a big majority of 5,352 over the Coalition Candidate--and the majority
over both candidates was 1,597-it shows that he is wholly, solely, and actually, refre
sentative of the East Leicester Division after 70 per cent. of the voters had gone to the
poll. This is indeed the greatest victory that the Labour movement has had in any part
of the country, and to the everlasting credit of the Boot and Shoe Operatives, that they
played such an important part in this election. To those friends of Mr. Marlow, for whom
upon Mr. Marlow as a representative of wage-earners in the British House of Commons,
we have the greatest possible respect, they must pardon us if we say we decline to look
soon, that the Labour Party will take control of the Government of the country, and
or any other men who hold a similar position. I am of the opinion, and hope it will be
endeavour to rescue it from the terrible condition that the upper middle commercial
classes have got us into at the present time.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

198
BRANCH REPORTS.
BARNSLEY. Short time is still going on here in spite of the nasty weather
that we have had, but we hope to have a better report next month
BELFAST Trade continues to remain very bad. It is reported that
the firm of Williamson Bros. is going to close for an indefinite period; if the
report proves correct it will add considerably to our unemployed members
We are passing through a very trying time but we must not lose hope, and
trust there must lie in the future brighter and more prosperous times for the
workers.
BRISTOL We are pleased to report a slight improvement in trade, with
a few of our out-of-work members reinstated at their old places. We hope for
a further improvement, as we have a large number of good old members still
walking the streets idle, and who we hope have well learnt the lesson that if
they want a real and lasting better state of things they must back the Labour
Party, who are the only party with a policy to remedy these evils of recurring
unemployment. Sickness has been rather heavy and three deaths have taken
place within a few weeks. One of these is a very sad case. Our old shopmate
Arthur Downs, who was a highly respected and old steward of the Branch
went to work as usual at 8 a.m. in the morning, had his usual break for a snack
at 10.30, and was about to restart work when he fell down and expired in a few
moments without being able to utter a word to his son who was by his side
It cast quite a gloom over all. Here was one who was always ready to help in
his breezy way anyone who required help, gone in a moment. May God rest
his soul. To his Widow and Children we extend our deepest sympathy. The
Branch Officials and Committee attended the funeral. His body was borne
to the grave by his shopmates who worked around him. One of the principals
and Manager of the firm at which he worked were present, thus showing the
respect they had for one of their oldest workmen.
BRISTOL No. 2.- We are glad to show a lighter sick account for this
month and hope for a further improvement in this direction. Trade in those
factories which produce ladies' light footwear is fairly good, but in the Kings-
wood district, noted for heavy goods, the chronic slump still continues and the
immediate outlook is not cheering. We hope that the effort now being made
at Chesham will be crowned with success for the operatives, as we believe that
it is injurious to the industry for one centre to be on less favourable Wage
Agreements than the rest of the country.
CHESHAM.-After several months of negotiating, with a view of getting
a peaceful settlement and the National conditions again restored, all attempts
by conciliation have failed, and the only alternative left was for notices to be
handed in. This has been done and our members have responded to the call
splendidly, and if we exclude the staff hands we can say that practically the
whole of the boot operatives are out, and do not intend to again commence
work until the employers are prepared to recognise us and pay the same con-
ditions as obtain in other centres making a similar class of work. We have
with us Mr. J. Buckle who is doing splendid work and has at once become
popular with all the operatives, and they are quite prepared to follow him
wherever he may see fit to lead them. During the month we have been
addressed by the General President, the General Secretary, Mr. Len Smith,
Councillor Warren and Mr. Bleakley, and some very inspiring meetings have
been held. We have to report that another of our members has succeeded in
obtaining Local Administration Honour, Mr. A. Glenister, who soundly defeated
one of the local boot manufacturers.


---
Here is the text from the image:

APRIL

199

CHESTERFIELD. Trade is very bad: members on new work are only
allowed in the factory 24 hours per week, and sometimes are not found work
for 24 hours that they are there. The Engineers' dispute and the other disputes
which are being talked about do not improve matters at all for ou trade, which
looks very black at present here.
CORK. Trade here still continues bad.
EDINBURGH. During the month we have been successful in having
two Appeals upheld before a Court of Referees for State Unemployment Benefit.
Small employers are prone to give out that employees have voluntary left their
work, hence Exchange officials have no other option than suspending benefit.
Local papers have given a report of proposals which the Wages Trade Board
have agreed to. One firm were of opinion that this became operative at once
and were preparing to make the alterations on employees' wages, but a small
talk soon put the matter right. We have had reason to report one firm to the
Ministry of Labour for not paying workers according to Wages Trade Board
Schedule. The Secretary had an interview with the Manager with a view to
getting the matter rectified without the necessity of reporting to the Authorities,
but apparently the directors thought the Branch were putting them into a false
Let us hope they get put into proper place and require to pay all
position.
the back money due to our members. During the last fortnight the Repairing
trade has picked up a bit; with so many on the Unemployment Benefit the
wonder is that there is any need for boot repairers. The Branch are holding
a Special Meeting to hear a deputation from the Unemployed Committee re
their position, and workers who are out on strike. They are to be congratulated
Leicester Parliamentary Division on the decisive victory gained on behalf of
on the stand which they have taken. Congratulations to shopmates in East
Labour. Some more victories like this would waken up the Coalition to the
actual position in the country. No more substitutes for the workers.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. -Trade has not improved during the month,
although we hear that one firm has secured an order for 200,000 Cossacks for
one of the Balkan States. The Holiday Payment Scheme is still a source of
trouble to us in this District, each offending manufacturer trying to throw
the blame on another, yet refusing to adhere to the Agreement. We are
hoping that with a visit from our General President and Mr. Jno. Buckle that
the matter may be cleared without recourse to strike. We regret that Mr.
Fred Skeeles, formerly Branch President (since Manufacturer and Farmer)
has passed away after a prolonged illness. We value the work done by him
as Branch official in the years gone by. We also regret that one of our oldest
members of over 30 years, Mr. Wm. Underwood, of Rushden, was accidentally
injured by a motor car while returning from work as roadman for the Rushden
U.D.C.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. --We are not able to report any improve-
ment of the trade in this centre with the exception of the lighter classes of
goods, and the enterprise of the producers is commendable. The outlook is
at present far from encouraging, and present indications point to a further
decline in employment; we trust that the Engineering interests will soon
reach an amicable understanding, as we have been assured that the cause of
numerous cancellations of orders has been because of the uncertain conditions
brought about by the present dispute.
LIVERPOOL.---Trade is much below normal for this time of the year,
although we have managed to get through a month without paying out-of-work
benefit, due to the fact that those members who were on have drawn the full
amount. We note in the trade press lately that certain members of the
employers' side of the Trade Board have been making speeches which read as
though they were not an united body on the question of wage reductions with


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

APRIL
201
LABOUR AND EDUCATION.
Paper by Mr. W. R. SMITH, M.P., J.P., read to Northants District
Council.
Continued from page 160 in last Month's Report.
The educational system of a democratic people, as I conceive it, would be based upon
compulsory primary and secondary education. But clearly education beyond these stages
must be left to individual choice or vocational needs. The fullest provision for technical
education up to and including university training must be made for those who have need
of it.
In building up such a system there will be many problems to face. I have no hesi
tation in expressing the view that the two chief questions which will confront us are those
of teachers and finance, the latter not being the least difficult.
To secure and retain an adequate supply of suitable men and women in the teaching
profession is one of the greatest tasks of educational administration. The number of
entrants to the profession is far from adequate. The reduction in the size of classes, a
reform long overdue, the raising of the school age, the development of various forms of
higher education will necessitate a larger body of teachers than we at present possess or
are likely to obtain. Notwithstanding the superficial attraction of what may
seem to many people short hours of work and generous holidays, and in spite of the security
of the teaching profession, the supply has not been sufficient in the past. No doubt
there are many reasons why this should be so, but the small public esteem in which the
profession has been generally held and the inadequate salaries offered in the past have
certainly been largely responsible. The teaching profession is a key profession in a demo-
cratic country. Its influence entitle it to high regard.
If we face boldly the problem of supply it can be met successfully. But we are still
left with the further problem of the quality of the teachers. No effort to improve the fitness
and proficiency of the profession can be too great. The intellectual standard required of
teachers has been raised considerably since 1870. The Article 68 teachers, whose sole
qualifications were that they were over 18 years of age and had been vaccinated have
passed. The rise of training departments in connection with our universities marked a
step forward as a recognition of the real status of the profession and of the need for univer-
sity education.
I am convinced that a generous scheme for the education of intending teachers would
amply repay the community. One of the features of the past has been the loyalty of
teachers and their devotion to their work. But with fuller opportunities for an adequate
training, the community would be assured of an even greater measure of loyalty and de-
votion and of willing service.
The proposals which I have made would necessitate increased expenditure. But a
halt has been called and it is sad to see the Minister of Education from whom so much was
expected, associating himself with the cry of economy. The fever of economy has entered
the bones of His Majesty's Government. There can be no defence of waste. Economy
is imperative always, and was never more imperative than now. But there can be no
economy in education. Every penny withheld from that branch of public service means
injury to the future. Educational economy is a form of national suicide. It is the greatest
form of waste. To limit expenditure whereby that which you do spend fails in its objective
is to waste largely the money so spent.
It may be that for the moment education is saved from the onslaught that was made
upon it, but the danger is not past. Their appetite may be satisfied for the moment,
but the wolves will become hungry again, and they may attack in greater numbers, and
any apathy on our part will render their efforts greater possibilities of success.
Consider the present position. Classes are admittedly too large; school buildings
are inadequate and often unsuitable; secondary school accommodation is below present
needs; thousands of schools are badly equipped. Obviously there is a need for increased
expenditure. To dam the stream of financial assistance is to perpetuate gross evils, to
postpone insistent and overdue developments and even to lower the present standard of
efficiency.
May I now give some attention to the much-talked-of Geddes' Report, but at the
beginning may I point out a danger arising from this form of procedure in public life.
It is in itself an admission of failure and incompetence on the part of the Government.
They have handed to others the responsibility of ascertaining what should be the policy
of the country. That is far too dangerous a method in regard to education, as indeed it
is to all forms of public service.

---


---


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
204
ORGANISER'S REPORT.
hampton, Burton-on-Trent, and Ilkeston. The Secretary at Derby, Mr. Blissett, tol
me of a shop there where a number of men and women had ceased to pay to the Unic
Daring the month I have been to Derby, Melbourne, Market Harborough, Wolver
I saw the Manager on the matter and he promised to see the operatives concerned. Th
I paid several visits to Melbourne. This place is not onl
non-union, it is anti-union. The workers, as well as the business people, decry unis
Since then I have not heard from ther
Overtime is being worked without extra pay and the Holiday Scheme is not observen
Trade union conditions and non-unionism do not go together. I got good crowds to lister
to me at the factories, and I have faith that something can be made of Melbourne. 1、
of the Church and members of the House of Lords. The shoe workers at the Burtu
of a boot factory being at Burton. The great brewers are mostly patron:
boot factory have no margin in wages to be patrons of the brewers or the Church. Nearl
I arranged for au indoor meeting, but only eleven came to it. All of them agreed to join
the whole of the workers (about 50) gathered round me as I spoke at the factory gat
A young fellow said he would collect contributions from the men and a young woma
volunteered to collect in the machine room.
It is a thousand times more real than the fear of the Lord or of eternal damnation. Wit
bably the firm had in mind that accidents might happen occasionally, and that in case of
first-aid being required it could be rendered the more speedily by having each worker
Mr. Emmet Law, Council Member, I visited a heel building factory at Market Harborough
The fear of bosses, foremen and forewomen, in those one-factory places is extraordinar
that every movement of the workers throughout the building may be easily noted. Pro
It is an up-to-date factory in every respect except wages. The offices are so nicely arranged
in a mirror as it were in the office.
of the Union and are prepared, I believe, to do their part.
It is a welfare idea maybe. We had a long intervies
with the Management on the minimum wage rates and piecework prices. They asked for
time to consider our demands, and agreed to meet us within a week. This was on Apri
5th, but no meeting has taken place since. The workers seem to be anxious for the help
Over the Holiday Scheme, Mr. Alex. Smith, Wolverhampton, and I, visited a local
firm. We were given a promise that the matter would be put right. Another firm that
we were to have seen on the same question could not see us till a later date.
I visited Ilkeston to get the conditions of working at a factory, and had my journey
for nothing as the place had closed down for the Easter holidays.
Since I was appointed as Organiser three years ago, I have not been able to attend
many meetings of the Leicester Board of Guardians and so have given up the work after
and seven of these belonged to the Leicester No. 1 Branch, Miss M. I. Bell (Mrs. Bell.
eighteen years' service. I believe there were fifteen Labour Guardians returned then
Richards now), T. Orton, C. Harris, W. Taylor, M. Parker, W. J. Moore and D. McCarthy
We were an active and persistent group and managed to get our views accepted again
and again. The children's lives were brightened at the Cottage Homes, and they wer
not allowed to stay from school to help in the homes in school hours up to the age of 14.
The old men and women in the Workhouse were recognised as being human and of us
people considerably increased, and for our pains we got the unstinted abuse of the local
We got a resolution carried that none should be sent to the Workhouse who could in any
way manage to live outside on out-relief. We got the out-relief grants to widows and old
Press, Ratepayers' Association, and property owners generally.
It was a strange experience for me to hear myself praised generously for my efforts
on the Guardians as happened on the evening of March 28th, when I was speaking for the
Labour Candidates for Castle Ward, the Ward I represented. Mr. J. W. Murby, in the
an autograph album. There are signatures in the album of some who have worked for
Labour for thirty years, and of young people who only recently were made citizens by the
name of the Labour men and women of the Ward presented me with a fountain pen and
gone. The words Liberal and Conservative were not used. It was united Boodle against
vote. The recent Guardians' elections revealed that the old party politics are dead and
Labour. The same might with truth be said of the East Leicester Parliamentary Election.
against Mr. Marlow as they did. It was loyalty to their own cause and class. What
It was not illwill or personal enmity that prompted our men and women members to vote
April 20th, 1922.
earners? Reverse the
sure that he must respect the workers of East Leicester for these qualities.
chance would our President have in a Parliamentary division where there were 30,000
get something like East Leicester. Mr. Marlow is a man of dignity and strength, and I feel
D. MCCARTHY.

---
APRIL
دان
↓
205
THANKS FROM LEICESTER'S NEW M.P.
[Copy]
HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON, SW
Aprol wath
MR. T. F. RICHARDS. Gen. President, and Mr. E. 1.. PoutTON, Gen. Secretary.
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
GENTLEMEN,
٢٠٠
May I thank you for the very valuable services rendered during the recent content
The results
can be don
in the East Division of Leicester. T results attained there shows what
when there is a combined effort on the part of the workers through their Trades Emo
and Political machinery. The wonderful enthusiasm shown by yourselves and the mes
you so generously provided for the occasion without a doubt turned the balance in our
favour. If ever there was a battle fought and won by the workers, ably led by their
Trade Union leaders, it was the battle from which we have just emerged the victors.
only wish that throughout the country the same good sense and determination was shown
by the officials of great Trade Unions as was made manifest in our Leicester fight.
the results of the next General Election would not be in doubt.
1
Then
You have set an example of what can be done where loyalty, co-operation and zeal
is thrown into the fray. And may I, through you, thank your colleagues who brought
into our contest the good humour, the optimism, and the hard work, without which all
efforts would have failed.
has not only been a great stimulus to our local movement, but that it has created such
hopeful feeling throughout the country, and has shown that nothing is impossible in. the
political world where the combination of those good qualities which were mobilised in
Leicester can be relied upon.
In looking back over the contest I feel that Leicester's victory
May I assure you that any services I can render to the cause of Labour will most
I believe that in the sphere in which you have placed me there
ungrudgingly be given.
will be greater opportunities for service, and I sincerely trust that the responsibility placed
upon me will be met and used in the way that will cause no regrets in having placed your
personal services and the resources of your organisation to secure my return to the House
of Commons.
Yours truly,
GEO. BAΝΤΟΝ.
ARE MORE HOUSES REQUIRED ?
OVERCROWDING HORRORS.
Shocking instances of overcrowding were described at a recent meeting of the advisory
sub-committee of the Bradford Mental Deficiency Committee.
A case was reported in which a husband, his wife, a daughter (a mental defective),
and her husband all slept in one bed, the only one in the house. In another case a mother
and three children, one of them a girl of 14, slept in the only bed, and a boy, mentally
deficient, slept at the foot of the bed.
EIGHT IN ONE ROOM.
At an anniversary gathering yesterday afternoon of the West Central Club for Jewish
Girls near Tottenham Court Road, the Hon. Lily H. Montagu, hon. secretary of the club,
said the girls felt a sense of injustice about housing conditions. She knew of cases in
Central London in which eight or ten members of a Jewish family were crowded into a
single furnished room because they could get no other accommodation. Daily News,
April 10th, 1922.
ONE IN EVERY 28 GETS POOR LAW RELIEF.
Figures Higher Than For Any Period in Last 72 Years.
Remarkable figures of the number of people in receipt of Poor Law relief in England
and Wales during 1921 are given in an official return issued yesterday.
On December 31st-the last record in the return-the number was 1,366,569, one in
28 of the entire population. This is an increase of 798,700, on the last week of December,
1920, or 141 per cent.
Heavy though that figure is it is not the highest for the year. That was reached on
November 5th, when the total was 1,519,823, the greatest number registered on any day
in the 72 years for which complete records have been kept. - Daily Chronicle, March 25th,
1922.

---
Here is the text from the image:

criticism has been levelled against that Department, by the action that he himself has
taken on one or two occasions. Personally, we on this side are hoping that the Trade
Boards will be continued. We believe that their establishment has been greatly for the
public good, and we believe that the decisions that have been given from time to time
affecting what are known as “sweated” industries have been extremely helpful, and have
been the means of considerably modifying some of the worst industrial conditions in many
industries in this country. The point, however, to which we desire to draw attention at
the moment is with regard to the action of the Ministry so far as the Grocery Trade Board
is concerned, and I think that one is entitled to ask for some explanation of the conduct
of the Ministry in regard to that trade. The Grocery Trade Board was established by the
present Minister in June, 1920. Evidently the right hon. Gentleman was formerly of
opinion that the Trade Board was necessary, otherwise he would not have brought it into
being. This Trade Board has met on many occasions, it has spent nearly two years
deliberating on matters submitted to it, has considered a large number of objections raised
to its proposals and has submitted rates to the Minister which he has referred back to
them on no less than three occasions, and then he has, in the end, as I understand it.
refused to register the decision of the Board. I understand his explanation of his refusal
to register or put into operation the decision of the Grocery Trade Board is that the dis-
tributive trade is a new field of wage regulations. It is rather strange that the right hon.
Gentleman did not have that in mind when he constituted the Trade Board. The industry
has not changed during the two years: the special circumstances or conditions attaching
to the distributive trade were just the same, apparently, in 1920 as in 1922. Then he
states that there were objections to the rates fixed by the Board; but surely that is nothing
different from what has obtained in regard to most of the rates fixed by other Trade Boards.

I am certain that any rate proposed by any Trade Board will provoke objection from
some individuals. A Trade Board is an organisation that, as far as possible, represents
the best elements of the industry, and naturally those who seek to evade what may be
considered just responsibilities will raise objections to any rates emanating from a Trade
Board. But why should a special exception be made in the case of the Grocery Trade
Board? The Minister is inviting criticism of a very deadly character when he first sets
up a Trade Board to deal with an industry, and, after it has held numerous meetings,
issued its proposals, met objections, and fixed a rate, finally refuses to accept the rate
fixed. My hon. Friend the Member for North Aberdeen (Mr. Rose) passed some very
strong criticisms upon the Ministry of Labour when the Unemployed Insurance Bill was
under consideration on Thursday, and I cannot help thinking criticisms of that kind are
fully justified when we find a Department acting in this manner. I know it will be urged,
as it has been urged, that one of the difficulties of the Minister is that he is understaffed.
To-day he has given us figures which indicate that, in proportion to the numbers registered
at Exchanges now, the staff is considerably smaller than when the numbers were in the
300,000 area. But surely it takes as much labour to keep referring these decisions back,
and refusing to register them, as it would to accept them and put them into operation.
There were 14 meetings of this Trade Board, and that means that there must be a staff
to make the necessary arrangements, the expenses of the meetings are being incurred,
and the correspondence must be as great when you are referring back rates, and finally
refusing them, as it would be if the Ministry treated this Board as it has treated most others,
and accepted its rates. Therefore, to us, it seems that the criticism that the Department
has not utilised its opportunities to the best advantage is, to a very large extent, justified.

It has been suggested that the appointment of the Cave Committee is another reason
why this decision was not accepted. Why is one Board specially selected? Why is one
Board held up in its functions while other Boards are allowed to continue to make modifica-
tions in rates by raising or lowering them? Why is this one to continue to pretend to be
acting and then find, in the last resort, that the Minister refuses to do anything to bring
into operation the result of its deliberation? The regulations prescribe that the Order
shall be made within one month after the rate has been submitted, unless objection has
been taken, and yet we continually find happening what happened in the case of the Boot
and Floor Polish Trade Board, where they fixed the rates on 10th January and made a
request that they should become operative as from the 24th, and nothing was heard of
them. Two months went by and then a deputation had to wait upon the right hon.
Gentleman before he would give effect to the decision of that Trade Board. One cannot
help thinking the Minister has been intimidated too much by what might be called political
agitations, and that he has hesitated to use his full powers in connection with some of
these Trade Boards for fear of criticism coming from that particular quarter. I do not
think that is fair to the industries concerned. It is not fair, or right, or proper to get
employers of labour and representatives of workpeople to be continually meeting and
deliberating on these matters, fully assuming that they will be treated as other people
have been, and then finding, merely because of some more or less political agitation, that
they are unable to see the final result of their work in the establishment of a rate. I hope,
therefore, the Minister will give us some reason why this action has been allowed, and an
assurance that so long as Trade Boards are an acknowledged part of the machinery for
dealing with difficulties in the industrial world this Department will not put obstacles
in their path.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

```text
213
LAND RECLAMATION IN ITALY.
The following data show the area of land reclaimed or under reclamation and the
cost of the works since 1860:

Acres Cost lite Plus value
obtained
Lire
Works completed by govt. 304,027 57.783.310 187.873,800
Works completed by consortiums 536,425 57.913,102 207,000,00
Works in course of execution by govt. 1,860,167 acres
Works in course of execution by consortiums 107.400 acres.

ASSISTANCE TO WAR VETERANS.
A Government Decree of December, 1917, founded the Opera Nazionale dei Combattenti
for assisting Italian veterans of the world war on their return to civilian life. The organisa-
tion, placed under government supervision, was incorporated with an initial capital of
300 million lire of which the Treasury contributed 250 million. Its activities are threefold:
Social, financial, agricultural.
The social section works through 4 general offices, 72 provincial bureaus, and 112
corresponding bureaus, and spends L. 1,752,000 a year in completing the vocational training
of ex-soldiers, helping them to find employment, and organising them into co-operative
trade associations, of which no fewer than 1,137 have been formed. It assists ex-officers
by enabling them to complete their studies interrupted by the war, and by preparing and
helping them to start commercial undertakings abroad or in the Italian colonies. Over
10,600 officers have thus been assisted at an outlay of L. 8,000,000. Special grants are
made to enable members to specialise in lines of study connected with their professional
work. Thus grants have been made to study the foreign book trade, the foreign wine
trade, for courses in forestry, for studying the railway systems in the Black Sea territories,
for training for managing positions in the hotel and tourist trade, &c. The Opera has also
opened training schools for the professional re-education of artisans, model farms for
agriculturists, &c. In all, it has organised 197 different courses, frequented by 11,500
veterans.
The financial section, to which the management of the capital of the Opera is entrusted,
has as its field of action the provision of land, agricultural, and personal credit to members.
It is authorised to issue bonds secured by mortgage on its real estate holdings and on the
Treasury annuities assigned it, and to receive savings deposits. This work is still in the
initial stage, and has consisted mainly in loans granted to individuals, and to co-operative
associations on the life insurance policies assigned by the government in the last year of
the war to all men in the front lines. Acting through the Bank of Naples, the Savings
Banks, and similar institutions, it has so far made loans to individuals amounting to 137
million lire and to 900 co-operative associations for 18 million lire.
The agricultural section is empowered by law to purchase land, to obtain it in grant
from the Crown, the provinces, the communes, charitable associations, public and ecclesi-
astical bodies, and private owners, whose estates are subject to land reclamation. It can
contract for public works, and promote the formation of agricultural co-operative associa-
tions of veterans to whom it leases, on an improving lease, the lands forming part of its
patrimony. The Opera is now in possession of 100,000 acres of land, a large part of which
has been leased on trial for one year to co-operative associations or to individual veterans,
renewable if the results are satisfactory. Those estates on which improtant land reclama-
tion works have to be carried out with a view to transforming the mode of cultivation are
under the direct management of the Opera itself. The most important of these are the
estates of Coltano (7,500 acres) in Tuscany, and of Licola and Varcaturo in the province
of Naples donated by King Victor Emanuel to the Opera, and that of Sanluri in Sardinia.
Great drainage works are in course of execution, canals are being excavated, great pumping
stations built, and thousands of acres, until recently fever-breeding marsh, will be turned
anto fertile farm-lands, some of which will be worked by co-operative associations, while
thers will be held by freehold farms by Italy's veterans.
--From a Monthly Survey of Italian Trade and Industry. ROME-April 1, 1922.
```

---
Here is the text from the image:

216
EVERY £1 WORTH 38s.
C. W. S's. SOUND FINANCIAL POSITION EMPHASISED BY
BANK MANAGER.
Mr 7 Adams presided at the London meeting of the CWS. There were 514
pusent
The Financial Position.
The Chairman, in explaining the report, said the loss which appeared in the balan
sheet was larger than was anticipated six months ago. These losses were praeNAY
sustained by writing down the stocks to the market prices of the day on which the
was Laken
hat was a principle which he hoped they would never depart from Va
they approved of the balance sheet he hoped they would have done with these
Mr. Goodwin (Bank Manager), said the reserves and depreciation were real, and t
Mr Barnett (Gillingham) referred to the seriousness of the financial position a
a suspense account, which was only a matter of book-keeping, when they had
were bound to take advantage of these now that conditions were abnormal Why
reserves to draw upon? How did they stand with regard to the development body
£9,800,000 in the shape of share capital, depreciation, insurance, reserv
to whom the C.W.S. were indebted there were reserves amounting to
fund. This represented a total of 30 per cent. The London Clearing
Banks had liabilities totalling £1,825,000,000; against this they had
The position of the creditors of the C.W.S. was this behind everybod.
as against 30 per cent. of the C.W.S. There was a total of 4.537.000 behi
£285,000,000. This worked out at 16 per cent. behind the depositors
share capital, paid and unpaid, reserves, and depreciation approximatel
For every £1 paid up in share capital they had 38s. As regards their
They had plenty of liquid capital which they were finding it difficult to invest profit.
the share capital.
financial stability there was no concern whatever on his part.
ably. The Co-operative News, April 8th, 1922.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.

TOTAL UNEMPLOYMENT.

Estimated Number of Insured Workpeople:- Males, 95,850; Females, 53,030:
Total, 148,880. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 27th March
1922: - Males, 11,308; Females, 3,421; Total, 14,729. Percentage Unemployed:-
Total, 9.9. Decrease as compared with 21st February, 1922, 0.3.

SYSTEMATIC SHORT TIME.

Number of Short Time Workers claiming Unemployment Insurance Benefit at
27th March, 1922:-Males, 1,832; Females, 679; Total, 2,511. Percentage on System
atic Short Time:-Total, 1.7. Decrease as compared with 21st February, 1922, 0.1.
The Labour Gazette, April 1922.

TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.

Boot and Shoe: Membership at end of March, 1922, 77,480; Unemployed at end
of March, 1922, 3,633, percentage 4.7; Decrease as compared with a month ago, 0.6;
Decrease as compared with a year ago, 3.2.-The Labour Gazette, April, 1922.

grant.
DOLE FOR WIFE.
The first case under the Unemployed Workers' Dependants (Temporary Provision)
Act, 1921, was heard at Woolwich yesterday. Francis Stephen Payn, of Beresford Street.
Woolwich, was summoned for making a false statement for the purpose of obtaining a
FIRST CASE UNDER NEW ACT.
at work, whereas she was employed at a local theatre.
Westminster Gazette, 21st April, 1922.
Prosecuting counsel stated that the defendant had represented that his wife was not
Payn, who pleaded guilty, was sent to prison for two months in the second division....


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

```
APR
218
NATIONALISATION OF LAND.
First Definate Scheme Before Parliament. Labour M.P.'s Bill.
The supporters of land nationalisation, who have often been challenged to put
home into the terms of a Parliamentary Bill have taken up the challenge in Mr
South M. whose measure was introduced to-day.
It is backed by several Labour M.I''s and by Commander Kenworthy and
Trevelyan Thomson, Independent Liberals,
.Wa
Uncompromising.
As the memorandum accompanying it shows, this is a very uncompromising meas
11. objects are
Great Britain, which is not already the property of the crown or u
To abolish private property in land, and to transfer all land i
Compensation to owners will be paid in the form of National Land Stock hean
any public authority, to a newly created Ministry of Lands.
per cont. interest redeemable at par after 30 years by a sinking fund.
The amount of stock paid to each owner will provide an annual income equa!.
the present net letting value of the land.
Reasonable Rent.
But its value is to be calculated as the reasonable rent for the purposes for
it is used at the time of the transfer.
This means that land now used for agricultural purposes or for golf a few miles outsid
of the owner, but solely because so many thousands of people will in the interim, sett!
future value as building land, which will be given to it not by any effort or expenditur
London will be taken over at its value for agriculture or golf, with no consideration of
between the land and London's present limits.
Ministry of Lands.
to the new Ministry of Lands, but the farm tenant may acquire them."
In the case of agricultural land, the buildings and improvements will be transferred
owners of the buildings, but the ownership of all other houses, factories, and works will
Leaseholders in towns will have the right to enfranchise their leases and become
remain undisturbed.
of interest on the land stock being the first charge on the rents, and any excess being
The land which is acquired will be managed by a local lands committee, the payment
divided between the redemption of the stock and local and national purposes.
Security of Tenure.
Tenants of the public lands will have security of tenure, right of appeal to the county-
court if their rent is too high, and may assign or bequeath their tenancies to successors
who are approved as suitable by the Public Lands Committee.
The word "land" in the Bill includes farmhouses and buildings, mineral and water
rights, trees, orchards, and fruit therein.- The Star, April 6th, 1922.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out:-
10
anc
no
an
19
is
E
01
SICK BENEFIT.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
s. d.
£
s. d.
To December, 1921 564,917 6 11
January
To December, 1921 228,942 71
3,269 15 6
February
January,
3,755 7 7
March
5,196 17 4
February
3,298 6 1
4,683 6 9
March
3,904 6 9
£578,067 6 6
£239,900 7 6
```

---
Here is the text from the image:

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.

Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NAT TELI 4438 MUSEUM, LONDON
Tel Address NATUMISHOR, HOLO, LONDON

National Union of Boot & Shoe Operatives
Affiliated to the Trades Union Congress, the General Federation of
Trade Unions and National Labour Party
Approved under the State National Health Insurance Acts. Approval No. 281

General President
T.F. RICHARDS.
General Secretary
EL POULTON J.P.

SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
34, GUILFORD STREET
LONDON. VCI.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

MONTHLY REPORT.

22ND MAY, 1922.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
THE STATE OF TRADE.

Trade is still on the slow side, although in some instances improvement
has taken place; there are a very considerable number out of employment
and others on short time. The Ministry of Labour figures for the past month
are as follows :-

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.

In this trade there was a further slight improvement during April; employment
was still bad in the heavy boot trade, but fair, on the whole, with operatives engaged in
the light boot trade. As compared with a year ago there was an improvement.

The percentage of workpeople unemployed in the boot, shoe and slipper making and
repairing trades, as indicated by the unemployment books lodged at Employment Ex-
changes, was 10.0 at the 24th April, as compared with 9.6 at the 27th March.

Returns received from firms employing 34,650 workpeople showed that in the week
ended the 29th April 26.0 per cent. of these employees worked, on the average, 12 hours
a week less than full time.

In London employment continued bad, but was slightly better than in March. At
Leicester employment showed a further improvement, and was fairly good on the whole.
At Hinckley employment continued bad, with much short time. At Northampton and
at Wellingborough there was a slight improvement, but most firms were still on short
time, and there was much unemployment; most firms at Wellingborough closed for a
full week at Easter. At Kettering employment continued bad, very few firms were on
full time, the average being about three-quarter time. There was an improvement at
Rushden at the end of the month, at which time most of the factories were working full
time. At Higham Ferrers and Ringstead there was little change, and employment was
depressed. At Stafford there was a further improvement, and short time had practically
ceased.

B


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

230
National (1922) Agreement and should have been carried out by all the firm
in the Federation.
We beg to especially call the attention of all officials and
members to Circular 276 issued on 28th February, 1922, stating the
Scheme is now part of the National Agreements. Any cases of
non-compliance with the Scheme, whether federated or non-federated,
must be dealt with at once locally, and if unable to secure
compliance report the same to the Central Office.
We feel confident that our procedure will meet with the full concurrence
of the members and hope to be able in next month's report to state that agree-
ment has been arrived at with the said firms upon this matter.

WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
MORE SUCCESSFUL CLAIMS.
During the month the Union solicitor, Mr. Evan Barlow, has secured
settlements of the following cases:-
W. L., Leicester .. £300 and £10 IOS. towards costs.
H. C., Wellingborough .. £100 and £10 IOS. towards costs.
L., Leicester .. £325.
E., Leicester .. £75 and £6 6s. towards costs.

We make no apology for again reminding branch officers and also the
members, that lump sums are NOT obtainable by law, but only by agreement,
and if branches are anxious that a solicitor should be engaged to safeguard the
interests of any member, the Central Office should be at once notified of the
accident, together with the full name and address of the member, registered
number and details of the accident on the prescribed form.

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.


---


---
242
of production has been that much less than those honourable
30 men and 20 girls employed, it means that the firms have purloined from the operatives
the sum of fare, and the cost of prod
firms who have paid their dues and demands.
this mi
not been punished.
opposed to the scheme, but about this anon.
not build too quickly.
trial.
We will not commit ourselves, but we will
panished by stopping their money for a time, and if we have limited their power to pay
who have acted fair feel these gentlemen ought to pay the full quota of dues incurredl
by the National Agreement without any equivocation. I am aware that Chesham wi
be cited in the matter, but whatever happens to Chesham they have as employers been
It would be monstrous on our part to allow them to escape, in fact the employers
After this we visited Irthlingborough and Wellingborough, there being one firm at
each place who had not complied with the Agreement and who assured us that if the
may be the punishment they desired, but up to the present Rushden emplovers have
above firms already mentioned in Rushden paid, they had not the slightest objection to
do likewise. Finedon. A visit to this place elicited the same reply that they were not
The LEICESTERSHIRE COUNTY. Board Sub-Committee met on the 27th April to adjust
h statement for Stockroom work, and the Committee decided to give the same one month's
any bonus or reductions which means that when our men get down to the 56s., should
on which they have a guaranteed wage of Is. per hour for a 48-hour week, irrespective of
Rates for fancy closing were then submitted by our side. and an arrangement come
to for the Jester and Baretta Shoes upon which the Leicester Girls have done so well, and
the cost of living fall to 70, there will only be 8s. per week difference between the men and
reconsideration owing to a new type of heel being introduced. The matter has been
The LEICESTER Branch have referred a Finishing claim to us, and we have advised
firm under pretence of bad work, wanted to transfer an old member at a less remunerative
operation, and at the same time to take a young man to displace the older man, he to
EARL SHILTON. -I have had to attend a trouble here at Hurst Cotton, when the
investigation we advised withdrawal by the firm of any imputation against either operative.
The foreman in each department to correct their statements and both men would take
accept a berth in the Finishing Room as apart from the Lasting Department. After
employed by the LEICESTER CO-OPERATIVE DISTRIBUTIVE SOCIETY were ordered to attend
the office of N.U.D.A.W., or the old A.U.C.E. My attention being drawn to the matter
A further matter has occupied our attention, a case in which our members (repairers)
I immediately saw the Committee and claimed the right to advise these, our members.
on any matter affecting their interests, and that we should not permit the N.U.D.A.W. to
give our members instructions. The Committee, two of whom belong to our Union.
including the Chairman of the Boot and Shoe Committee, are emphatic that they as a
Committee will permit only one Union, and that the craft Union should negotiate on behalf
women's wages.
referred to the Leicester Finishing Committee for further consideration.
on this work and be subsidised until able to gain their old rate of wages.
of their employees.
I am at present investigating the Holiday Scheme of the C.W.S. at Leicester, but until
I have seen all the parties concerned, cannot express more at present.
that due to them.
MANSFIELD. I have had a communication from Mansfield covering several matters,
and it would be as well if all our members who have some grievance would write direct to
either the local office or the Central Office or myself. When one remembers the many
methods by which our members can get wrongs righted, one feels anxious to help in this
direction by any and every reasonable means to prevent men and women from losing
stillagree to administer the Unemployment Act after the amended scale made by the
SUB-COUNCIL. We had to hold a Sub-Council on the 1st inst. to say whether we should
Government for administration. As one of those who know that employers' Governments
are a bugbear to Trade Unionism and who would at any time do anything possible to
injure Trade Unionism and its activities, as witness the Lawyer Dictator, Sir Allen Smith.
volent side only-the old Tory idea of 1870. But our duty is not to help the enemy,
according to whom the proper functions of Trade Unions should be to deal with the bene-
even if it paid us but to develop the best side of our natures, that of mutual aid and keep
men from the Labour Exchanges, where the Appeal Court is generally a panel composed
of employers, who in the main are opposed to Trade Unions. I know no employer who
those who talk about the unemployed, who ought for the benefit of them do a little for
will even advocate Trade Unionism without qualification. It is our own men, especially
from those departments whose object is to wean them from an organisation in which the
them, especially when paid for same. By all means let us keep our men and women awal
form a part. We decided to continue the administration of the Act.

---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

246
BRANCH REPORTS.

BARNSLEY. In last month's report we note that the sum of £100 has been granted to the A.EU. Society, and that steps are being taken, so that they may receive some more from a £5,000 fund for such cases. We wonder if the different officials that are in power now ever look at the way our Union members were treated by the same body in the lock-out of 1895. We fail to find where they sent anything to our Union officials, although they had 77.000 members and were well off financially. Some good trades unions did send something, but, as the General Secretary (Mr. W. Inskip) said, it was very small in comparison to what the Shoe Trade Union had done for other trades that were in trouble. We hope that those in authority will take notice of this and think about their own members' position, for some are in a position quite as bad as the A.Ε.U.

BELFAST. Trade with us was never worse than at present, very little is being done in the manufacturing end, and the repairing also continues quiet. We have been hoping for better times and of enjoying the improvement that was to come to the people after the war.

CHESHAM. We are pleased to report that after being on strike for eight weeks, our members are as united and determined to see the National Conditions restored again as they were upon the first week of the strike. Our friend, Johnnie Buckle, has worked wonders with our members, and whatever he calls upon them to do, everyone is willing to respond to his call. We are pleased to report that the firm of G. Barnes & Son has agreed to fall into line and his operatives are resuming work on Monday, May 15th. We are hoping that shortly one or more of the other factories will follow his example. We are pleased to acknowledge in reply to our appeal the following donations:- Stone £1, Wellingborough £3 3s., Kingswood £5, Nottingham £2, Plymouth fI, Hull 10s., Kilmarnock £2, Norwich No. 2 £10, Edinburgh 10s., Kettering £5, Bromsgrove £2, London Metro. £5, Worcester ₤I IS., Northampton No. 1 £20 Northampton No. 2 ₤20, Leicester No. 2 £10, Glasgow £5, Leicester No. 1 15. Street £6 14s. 6d., and Manchester £5. We are extremely grateful to all the branches who have so generously responded to our appeal and trust that in our next report we shall be able to report victory won.

CHESTERFIELD.--In sending our returns we have to state trade very bad, all the members making new work are unemployed as the firm of Dronfield and Co. have closed down till trade improves. The employers state they cannot compete with the cheap labour districts round here, Stoney Middleton being one of the places where the men are working far from the National Agreement. There are other firms round this district that are not paying to the National Agreement and the firms that are paying same have not a dog's chance in the market at the present. Our members at Christmas were given a fortnight's holiday till the wage reduction was due, and since then we have worked 18 to 24 hours' per week, except for a few weeks in February during the rough wintry weather to Easter holidays, when the firm closed down till trade improves. We have demanded every point from the Heavy Work Statement of the National Agreement. We are pleased to see our Council fighting the conditions at Chesham in the right spirit, and we congratulate our Council on increasing the strike pay of our members there to 30s. per week while the fight lasts.

EDINBURGH. -Trade here is still quiet with the new workers, although one small factory has started working full time after nearly 2 years on half time. The Repairing trade has been somewhat better during the month. We cannot


---
ployed.
circumstances.
2.17
Let us
expect much improvement when there is nearly 15,000 in Edinburgh unem
The Engineers' lockout has added to the general depression
hope that those concerned will come to some agreement shortly. At our
Monthly meeting we had a circular from the Central Office re granting £5,000
free of interest, and there was an unanimous vote that the same should be done.
Also an appeal from Chesham for members who are now feeling the stress of
The Branch granted 10s., but if the funds could have per
mitted it would have been 10 times the amount. These members are showing
how to fight for a principle. Good luck to them. The new Schedule for
seems the Piece Rates on Extras are again losing something. The Advisory
Committee have been sitting to try and sort out anomalies, Well, it
that the price has always to come down before these can be adjusted. We
believe that our members of the Committee have done their best in the circum
stances.
at sea.
Of course, employers have always figures ready to prove their case,
whereas our side, as far as actual wages earned for hours worked, are completely
By the time this gets into print the Annual Conference will be getting
ready for work. Let us hope that all that is said and done will be for the
uplifting of the trade in general.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - The item claiming chief interest this month
a considerable number
has been the Holiday Payment Scheme. Following
of visits from Mr. Bates (Branch President) and other officials to the various
factories where the Holiday Payment Scheme has been stopped, and three or
four visits to the heads of the firms by the General President, also interviews
by Mr. John Buckle with the same firms, a Mass Meeting was held on May 4th
in the Large Hall, Trade Union Club, which was crowded and enthusiastically
addressed by T. F. Richards and Council Member C. Bates, when the following
resolution was carried unanimously :-" That this Mass Meeting of Operatives
employed at the seven firms not carrying out the Holiday Payment Scheme
demand that the said scheme shall be put into operation at once, if not, we are
prepared to act upon the advice of the Council of the Union in this matter."
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.-Trade depression still hangs like a
blight over the district obscuring hope, and its effect is seen in the despondency
of the operatives. We take this opportunity of thanking the Council for
advancing a loan to the K.U.D.C., whereby some relief has been afforded in
the district by means of a much-needed road-widening scheme.
LEICESTER.--Trade has shown a welcome improvement during the
month. We hope the improvement will continue, as our payments for Out-of-
Work Pay are still very heavy.
a serious effect on trade
LIVERPOOL. We are not in a position to report trade as brisk yet,
although some of the firms who cater for boot repairs on a large scale are able
to keep their employees fully employed. But the small shops, who depend
having
upon people engaged at manual labour near the docks and other industries,
are very slack owing to the number of unemployed due to various causes. The
dispute in the Engineering and Allied trades is hav
in general. It is quite a long time now since the Armistice, and about time
we had " peace, perfect peace." We note the Lancashire and Cheshire District
Committee meet at Manchester on the 12th inst., also that D16 and D18 have
been sent out as a proposal to employers before the Committee meet-" what
a farce.
But we presume this is one way of speeding up as recommended by
Lord Cave's Committee. We regret to report the death of one of our young
members, whose demise was sudden and tragic, a coroner's inquest being
necessary to ascertain the cause of death. (" In the midst of life we are in
death." The Chancellor of the Exchequer has brought in the long-looked-for
Badger with the usual window dressing stunt by knocking off or reducing a

---
few items of taxation.
248
We are thankful for the postal reduction. The inc
expected than what has been accomplished.
getting any better.
year
months. Our memb
tax does not affect many of our members directly at present, although it
a tendency to increase unemployment. We note by the trade press our Gener
Secretary has returned from the Genoa Conference, from which much more w
do indirectly because the higher taxation has a depressing effect upon trade a
MANCHESTER Trade still continues very bad here. At our meetin
the appeal from Chesham was read, and the members granted £5 to help the
MAYBOLE. Trade is very slack, and a good many of our members h
exhausted their benefit and will soon be off the State Unemployment Insuranc
for five weeks and so will have no income, and there is no prospect of trad
members, the amount paid during the month being the lowest for
Employment with our members continues quite good, the machine-sewn trad
now going full time. Turnshoe making is still going strong, and our factori
NORWICH Sickness in Norwich is now reduced considerame
granted £5 to the fund for the widow of Mr. W. H. Lowe, J. P., the late Leiceste
No. 2 Branch Secretary. A further grant of £5 was made to the Daily Herald.
and we wish the directors of the paper every success in the appeal now being
NOTTINGHAM. - Trade is slightly improved in new work, but is still
of f2 has been sent on to the Branch. The question of a grant to the A.CE
quiet in the repairing. The appeal from Chesham was considered and a gran
by the Council was endorsed, also the loan of £5,000 to them was favourably
sidered, but as to further loans to any kindred societies our members are of
opinion that it would be best for this to be brought before the delegate meeting
but not sufficient to absorb the whole of our unemployed members. We have
PLYMOUTH - Trade has shown a little improvement during the month.
appeal from the Chesham Branch and made a donation of I
to help them a little in their struggle for common justice and the maintenance
of an honourable agreement. There is too great a tendency these days to
that the Chesham members will see the fight through to a victorious ending.
scraps of paper." We sincerely hope
We trust that the whole force of our financial position will be used to sustain
our cause and the agreements we have created by reason and justice, for much
depends upon the issue.
running better than at any time during the past thirty mo
made for financial assistance.
in Whit-week for their consideration.
received an
treat agreements honourably made as
"
con
STAFFORD.-Trade in this centre maintains a steady improvement
which brings very few of our members out of work, also a lighter sick account.
We hope it will remain so.
13 IN A COTTAGE. LARGE ENOUGH FOR ONLY 4 PEOPLE.
Case of Overcrowding at Moulton.
At the fortnightly meeting of Brixworth Rural District Council held to-day (Thursday),
the Sanitary Inspector reported a serious case of overcrowding at Moulton, where thirteen
persons were living in a cottage which only contained two small bedrooms. The occupants
Rural Council's Decision.
two girls
4
to be living at the house.
age, and a year-old boy; another daughter and her two boys, ages II and 8 years, and a
girl of 3 years; also a daughter-in-law and a young child. The husband was also said
The inspector said the rooms were only large enough to accommodate four people.
to, Mr. J. Aspinall remarking that it was one of the most disgraceful cases they had ever
Mr. H. Collins moved that a notice be served to abate the nuisance. This was agreed
had before the Board-Daily Echo, Northampton, May 11th, 1922.

---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

253
Congress heard a deputation of the Unemployed, and also gave permission for all the
unemployed who desired to listen to their case being put, to enter the hall. The oppor-
tunity was greatly appreciated, after which they quietly filed out of the hall without a
hitch.
Education:
furtherance of the movement for independent working class education, and of giving
financial support to the Scottish and the London Labour colleges."
That this Congress appeals to all affiliated societies to assist in the
Fraternal delegates were present and conveyed fraternal greetings from India and
Ireland. Their good wishes were both appreciated and reciprocated. At the conclusion
Campbell who represented the Irish Trade Union Congress, and Mr. C. N. Gallie, Chairman
of the business presentations were made to Dr. Bhat, Indian fraternal delegate, to Mr.
of the Congress. With " Auld Lang Syne" Congress terminated.
CHRIS. BLEAKLEY,
MATTHIAS GAMBLE,
Delegates.

QUESTIONS DEALING WITH UNEMPLOYMENT AT
THE GENOA CONFERENCE.

The following statement has been issued by the International Labour Office of the
League of Nations. The Sub-Committee appointed by the Economic Commission of the
Genoa Conference to deal with labour questions has drawn up a number of resolutions
which include the following articles :-
The economic reconstruction of Europe can only be effected by means of intensified
production, which depends essentially on labour. In order to obtain the fullest effort
on the part of the workers and to avoid unfair and dangerous competition between nations,
the attention of all States is called to the importance of the conventions and recommenda-
tions adopted by the International Labour Conferences.
"In particular, the present crisis, which affects not only production, but also the
consuming capacity of the people, weighs heavily on the workers, both morally and materi-
ally. While it may be true that measures of economic reconstruction are alone capable
of finally remedying irregularity of employment, direct measures to deal with unemploy-
ment appear to be none the less effective for ensuring sustained effort and efficiency on
the part of the workers. In combating unemployment, it is recognised that, in the first
instance, the utilisation of all productive forces to the utmost should be undertaken.
Apart from any arrangements providing insurance and assistance against unemployment,
the following measures are recommended :--
(a) The systematic distribution of all the labour available by the national organi-
sation of employment agencies and by the international co-ordination of such agencies
(emigration and immigration) by means of agreements between the countries con-
cerned.
(b) Subject to the special conditions obtaining in each country, the placing in
agriculture of as large a number as possible of such of the unemployed in industry
as are capable of being employed in agricultural work.
(c) The systematic allocation of public contracts with reference to the occurrence
of unemployment in the districts particularly affected, as far as may be consistent
with the general interest.
(d) The development of public works in aid of unemployment, provided that they
are useful and productive.
In order to accelerate the effects of such measures :-
1. It is recommended that all States should ratify the Draft Convention relating
to unemployment adopted by the International Labour Conference at Washington
in 1919, and should carry out, as far as practicable, the recommendation adopted
by that Conference.
2. The International Labour Office is requested to collect and publish every
three months if possible, all information available on the experience gained by the
different countries in dealing with unemployment.
It is further recommended that all the States concerned should contribute to the
inquiry relating to unemployment decided upon by the International Labour Confer-
ence of 1921, special attention being paid by such States to the effects produced by
the exchanges on the state of the labour market.


---
Here is the text from the image:

255
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION.
MR. WALTER SMITH: I beg to move,
That, in view of the unsatisfactory state of the law relating to Workmen's
Compensation, and of the fact that the War Addition Acts expire at the end of this
year, this House is of opinion that a Government Bill to amend the Workmen's Com-
pensation Act, 1906, should be introduced and passed during the course of this
Session."
I hope that if, in moving this Resolution, I curtail my observations, it will not be
taken as an indication that we do not attach the greatest importance to this subject.
Rather do we desire that the fullest opportunity should be given to discuss the question.
and for that reason I shall be as brief as possible in introducing it. I can only hope that
the reply of the Minister will be of a satisfactory nature, because there is no doubt in our
minds that the matter is one of the greatest importance, and one upon which legislation
is long overdue. This question is most urgent, and for more than one reason. During
the period of the War, a special provision was made in regard to this matter, to meet
what was known and understood to be a war-time condition; and I think it will be recog-
nised and admitted that that war-time condition, so far as regards prices and cost of living
and the difficulties of life generally, has not passed away, nor will it pass away in any
permanent degree, so far as one can judge. The legislation that was passed to meet the
difficulty does automatically lapse at the end of this year, and that makes it imperative
that something should be done in order that the unfortunate people who suffer from these
accidents shall not be driven back to the pre-War position. I can scarcely imagine, in
whether it be fatal or otherwise, that any Member of this House would desire either to see
the case of the industrial worker who is unfortunate enough to have met with an accident,
dependants left exactly in the same position as in pre-War times either or, if the
accident be not fatal, to see the worker himself left exactly as he was before the war-time
that worker's dependants left exactly in the same position as in pre-War times either or, if the
legislation was introduced. I cannot conceive that any Member of this House would
suggest for a moment that a maximum amount of £300 as compensation for the loss
of a husband is adequate. It fails entirely to meet the needs of the case, and it is quite
evident, in times of industrial disaster, that there is generally expressed in the minds and
the actions of the people great sympathy with those who are its victims; and yet we have
to realise that, unless something is done in the way of legislation, all that a widow will
have to look forward to, as compensation for the loss of her husband, is a maximum
amount of £300. I think it will be admitted that the claim we are making for some
legislation is absolutely justified from that point of view.

There is another reason why we have a right to urge upon the Government the necessity
of introducing legislation upon this question. It is that the Government itself has recog-
nised the need for such legislation. Some time ago the Government set up a Departmental
Committee to investigate and inquire into this matter, and that Committee conducted a
very extensive investigation. They examined the question in all its aspects, and it is
now some time since they submitted their Report. It is true that that Report was not a
unanimous Report, for there was a dissentient minority who were in favour of more
extensive recommendations; but, as regards the main body of the Report, it was unanimous
as representing something to which all the Committee would subscribe. The minority
merely dissented because they wished for something more. In the Majority Report
there was a recommendation in favour of many extensions being made in the benefits
and advantages accruing to those who, unfortunately, were injured in industry, or to those
who might be left because their bread-winner had been taken front them. Therefore,
on a question of this description, first bearing in mind the fact that the war-time legis-
lation will lapse automatically at the end of this year, and, secondly, having regard to the
fact that the Departmental Committee, after considering the question fully, recommended
extensions of the amount that can be claimed and paid to persons who are injured, we claim
that we are justified in coming to the House with this Resolution and in asking for support
for it. I sincerely hope that that support will be accorded to us, and also that the reply
of the Minister will be satisfactory.
I should like to say that we would wish that there were less need for our making this
claim. We wish it were possible to say that the number of accidents occurring was diminish-
ing, and that the need for putting forward claims on behalf of workpeople and their
dependants was becoming less and less. Unfortunately, however, the opposite is the case.
The tendency is for accidents to increase rather than decrease, although one would have
to admit that last year the figures were in the opposite direction. I believe, however, that
the last returns available are explained by the fact that such large numbers were unemployed,
and that the reduced figures were not due to a smaller proportion of accidents on the
average of persons engaged in industry. I should like to draw the attention of the House
to the far-reaching character of this qustion, when viewed from the standpoint of the
number of people affected by it. Every year 500,oco accidents occur. That is an enor-
mous figure. Half a million people are either killed or injured in this country every year,

---


---
of what may be considered the mechanical portion
If the man is removed, or the human part is removed, another man or another human
If a human is thus removed, he should not
be considered as being just a part of a plant that has got to be renewed. If he is displaced
bility of risk and danger to those associated with it.
and you cannot proceed to work at that industry without carrying at all times the possi
suggested that the State should take over the whole of the insurance and be responsible
In connection with the insurance the hon. Member for Rother Valley (Mr. Grundy
that competition with insurance companies, with schemes provided by different minds
for it. My experience in connection with insurances that has been proposed goes to show
any Government Department. Government Departments become stereotyped. There is
for the purpose of dealing with insurances, produce a far better result in connection with
the benefits that are to accrue to those who are insured than would be likely to come from
no suggestion for betterment, no suggestion for alteration, no need to vary, once a new set
of rules and forms has been established. Different insurance companies in order to obtain
and better provision for all those engaged in the industry, the insurance companies in this
business must vary their proposals. Therefore I believe that if only the Government
would consider that it is essential to impose upon the industries the making of further
country are able and fit to accommodate their rates and proposals to meet new conditions
that would be put down, without any further Government Department being called upon
to do as an experiment the work which is now being done by the insurance companies
We do not want to multiply Government Departments, or to have a new body of
we have to do with Government officials associated with the control of industry the better
officials to do the work that is already done by a body of men of experience. The less
with it having an opportunity of gathering from one mind or another mind the opportunit
for the industry itself. The industry can best be looked after by those who are associated
to that which they have done, where previously private ownership contributed to the
are many Government Departments to-day that are instances of failure that has resulted
for betterment such as it could not get from any one Government Department. There
that if insurance were to be taken over by a Government Department we should be saddled
with many more expenses. We should have another huge army of officials and more
service which has been taken over by a Government Department, and I am persuaded
inspectors in connection with the industry, and the whole business would be laden with
those charges and overburdened altogether out of proportion to the benefits that could
accrue. Therefore, if the Home Secretary is contemplating making proposals, which I
hope he may see his way to make, not as a demand coming from one section, but as a
demand recognised by all who know anything about industry, I hope that he will not
and must take over the insurance and must be the administrators of the fund to which the
think it necessary also to say that the Government itself must assume a responsibility
who have experience in connection with the risks.
industry must pay.
If you impose conditions, there are societies in existence, strong and experienced,
who can easily do that which may be imposed upon them, but if a Government Department
takes over these things we shall have an end of betterment. We shall have no competition
which may produce improvements in results; we shall have stereotyped forms which
cannot be varied, and we shall have less confidence among the workers when they know
that this is the beginning of the end of tha' which they are to receive through a Government
Department, who cannot vary unless a new Act of Parliament gives them authority so
to do. The various companies now are continually proposing schemes to meet the different
conditions of insurance. If these companies are given an opportunity they can, and in
my opinion will, do much better work than any new Government Department can possibly
undertake, and the industries themselves will benefit by having a lesser charge thrown
upon them than would be the case if a Government Department were responsible. I
want, with all the emphasis I can, to ask the Home Secretary not to imagine that the
claim or the appeal comes from that side of the House, but that it comes from all who
know anything about industry, and that we make the appeal not because we fear anything,
not because we want anything, but because it is right when we are dealing with an industry
that that industry should carry the risk which the person himself is utterly unable to bear.
LIEUT. - COLONEL WATTS-MORGAN: I feel that my first word must be to congratulate
the Member for the North-cast Division of Cornwall (Sir Croydon Marks) on the verv
eloquent and very humane thoughts and sentiments which he has expressed with regard
to the Resolution that has been put so ably and so fully by my hon. Friend the Member
for Wellingbroough (Mr. W. Smith). For 16 years, until the outbreak of War, from the
dependants to compensation for injuries, I was in charge of a mining district in which
passing of the Act of Parliament that first recognised the right of the workers and their
there were close upon 40,000 men employed in the coal industry alone, and the part of the
work which gave us very great difficulty was the very meagre provision already pointed
out by my hon. Friend especially with regard to the injury. Whatever the wages earned
the maximum was fixed at 20s. a week and the minimum might be almost down to 5s.

---


---


---
has been depressed for well over 12 months. If a workman in that industry met with an
263
accident to-morrow the probability is, if he were permanently injured, that his compensation
would be not more than IOS. per week. If we had a year of good trade, another workman
injured a year hence might, if the law were amended, get 355. 2OT 12 tos per week f00
exactly the same injury, incurred in exactly the same way
calculation should be based on the
The law, when amended,
should contain a definite minimum, and the method of
average weekly earnings for a full week's work, in order that a workman or workwoman
should not go through his or her life permanently injured and should not be paid a miserabl
compulsorily idle during a large part of the three months previous to the accidentoring
insufficient sum because, on the top of that injury, he or she bad the misfortune to he
May I turn now to the question of the system of insurance ? I do not share the fear's
of some hon. Gentlemen opposite that State Insurance would lead to bureaucracy, incom
petency, and heavy cost. Let us see what the position was before the sitting of the Depart
mental Committee. There were a number of insurance offices which combined to arrange
a certain tariff of charges, so far as they were concerned, a monopoly in effect, and a vers
small proportion indeed of the premiums paid to those companies got into the hands of
the injured workmen. I believe that a State system of insurance could be worked cheapis.
could be worked effectively, and would be the best possible means of putting a finger
on the pulse of the accident system, with a view to obtaining the object of the hon. Member
opposite, who spoke of the prevention of accidents rather than the paying for them after
they have occurred. I think we ought to have, but I have no hope at all that in this House
we shall get, a State system, but, failing that State system, surely there is one protection
which the worker ought to have. He ought to have an absolute certainty that if an
There ought to be a system of compulsory insurance. There can be no statistics laid down
accident happens his compensation will be safe. That guarantee he has not got now.
on this point. Every man who has worked in a trade union knows what takes place
when, what we know as a small employer-a man employing three, four, five or a dozen
men-has a serious accident on his premises. This man very often is not able to pay
the compensation to which the workman is fairly entitled. Nobody knows what takes
place. The workman receives something, nobody knows what, and the thing is settled.
That can be surmounted by a system of compulsory insurance, but I suggest you
cannot make an employer insure, or it would not be right to make him insure, unless you
detriment by the insurance company with which he must insure, and I suggest to the
give him a guarantee that the very compulsion you are exercising will not be used to his
Home Secretary that if he cannot give us State insurance, at any rate he will give us com-
pulsory insurance, and, at the same time, give the employer who must insure the certainty
that his premiums shall bear some resemblance to the amount of benefit that is paid to
the workers out of those premiums. Then I suggest that an alteration is necessary in the
with regard to that peculiar combination of words, " arising out of or in the course
of his employment," and I want to suggest that definitely simple words should be used
saying that if a workman be injured at his work, compensation should be paid. It is
perfectly true that workmen are sometimes too bold and break regulations. I think that
miners have been known, in their eagerness to work and to increase production, to break
regulations. I notice that the right hon. Member for the City of London (Sir F. Banbury)
applauded the sentiment that workmen were too bold and broke regulations.
SIR F. BANBURY: I think it was an hon. Member below me who said that workmen
were sometimes careless, and I agreed with that.
MR. SHAW: I have not the slightest desire in the world to misrepresent the right hon.
Gentleman, but may I most respectfully suggest that if the railwaymen of this country
carefully carried out the regulations of the railway companies, immediately they would
stop the whole of the British railway service ?
SIR F. BANBURY: The hon. Member cannot expect me to agree with that.
You can do
MR. SHAW: I do not expect the right hon. Gentleman to believe anything that is
unpleasant. I merely stated a thing that is accepted as a fact by many men who ought
to know. I want to suggest, in conclusion, that it is no use thinking that the present
situation with regard to workmen's compensation can last for many years longer. The
whole thing in itself is unsound. If the theory itself were correct, that the man and the
employer should share the burden, it would be wrong. The industry ought to carry the
burden. Put all the safeguards you like against what is known as malingering.
Do whatever you like to prevent malingering, but I suggest from my own
experience that the danger has always been in case of accidents, not that the
worker has stopped too soon, but that he has remained too long.
it better by generosity than by cheese-paring. I am appealing to the House and to em-
plovers outside that it is time to look upon this matter with an open mind and a generous
heart, believing from the bottom of my heart that if they take the humane view, if they
will face the matter from the point of view of flesh and blood, if they will try their best to
at their action be as generous as possible, they will be rewarded a thousandfold by the

---
matter which considered this subject a
take some small part in this Debate.
264
compensation was introduced as law into Russia in 1913.
of every civahsed State.
To-day, it is also true that the
practically useless to the State or industry if he is not producing.
and medusere will benelit tremendously by the better feeling that will exist if the workmen
fechhne on the part of men and women that their employers are more than mere paymasters
nd workwomen feel that their emplovers are meeting them in a generous, open-hearted
Mr HOLSON GREGORY: As the Member of this House who presided over the Com.
a year or two ago, it is fitting. I think that I should
My sympathies are entirely with this Motion. There
borovicued It is an interesting fact that when the subject was first introduced into this
House in 1897, it was entirely novel. To-day, workmen's compensation is part of the la
low relating to compensation is more in favour of the workman and more advanced in
is 100 question about it that it is time the law relating to workmen's compensation should
As a matter of fact the most advanced system of workmen's
nearly every other country than it is in this. It is obvious. I think. why it is that as thr
law has been accepted in other countries it has been of greater advantage to the workman.
should take place. The workman, in common with every one of us, is, as a matter of fact
treated in the time of his decease, but that it is of advantage to the State that this generositr
should be generously treated in the event of injury and that his family should be generously
It is because it has been recognised that it is not only due to the workman that he
possible. Anything that is reasonable that shall bring that about is one of the most
tage of industry and to the advantage of the State that he should be cured as quickly as
he cannot produce it is to his advantage, to the advantage of his employers, to the advan
If he is injured so that
their establishment charges bult
It has been suggested by several hon. Members who have addressed the House that
was considered very carefully by the Committee over which I have the honour to preside.
We did suggest additional benefits to the injured workman. I hope that all employers
the benefits should be more generous than they are at the present moment. That subject
will carefully read that Report. I am convinced that if they do, and if they will consider
the subject reasonably, they will come to the conclusion that the majority of the Com.
mittee were right when they suggested the additional payments. Beyond that the
Committee have before them the position of the total dependants in the case where the
workman is unhappily killed. They found many anomalies. One thing stood out above
children are hampered and crippled, and in many cases ruined for the rest of their lives.
all others. In cases where the workman is killed the widow suffers severely, but the
In these circumstances the Committee endeavoured to work out a scheme which would
auces for the children. It was not an expensive scheme. It was one which certainly
provide compensation for the widow and, as we thought, would provide effective allow-
ought to be considered, and it should be passed, I think, without any difficulty.
important things upon which a civilised State can enter.
From information conveyed to me I know that many employers think that the pro-
however, be some misapprehension in the minds of the employers. It is admitted that
vision we suggested in the Report would prove too expensive to industry. There must,
the employers themselves would not pay. It would be part of the provision for insurance
that the costs of the proposed Amendments in the Report will add to any material extent
to the cost of production of any particular article, the answer is a clear and definite "No."
query
Arrangements were made at the time the Report was prepared with the insurance com-
panies by which they were ready to reduce their working expenses, and to a great extent
the benefits that they reaped from the premiums charged; and the members of the Com-
mittee were satisfied that in no case, except the most expensive-and that is coal-that
add anything above a penny, and in most cases it would be a fraction of a penny in the f on
so far as human injury and life was concerned would the cost of workmen's compensation
the production of any article manufactured to-day in England. That is an item which
would be infinitesimal when you come to consider it, and should not in any way affect
the sale of the article, it could hardly in any way affect the pockets of the persons who buy
the article in the retail shop at the later date.
Hence, I hope that this subject will soon be considered by the House. Before, however,
it is considered, I trust that hon. and right hon. Gentlemen will do the Committee the
honour of reading and considering the Report. If they do so they will, I think, come to
the conclusion that there is a way in which the workmen can be benefited to a much greater
extent than they are at the present moment. They will come to the conclusion, I think,
that, if workmen are benefited in that way it will be for the good of the State and the
benefit of industry in general. Everybody to-day says that what is wanted in this country
is confidence between masters and workmen. What better basis than this to arrive at
that confidence and than by trying to meet each other, empioyers and workmen, so that
when the workman is lying on the sick-bed or the widows and children are bemoaning
help thinking that in this, as in some other matters, if the subject were really seriously
the loss of the breadwinner, they may feel assured of a reasonable provision ? I cannot
considered by the employer and-if I may say so if employers were properly approached

---


---
its place
at the end of the Session.
insurance,
268
from the Debate to-night that there is no unanimity of opinion upon it.
would be idle for me to attempt to suggest to the House to-night what line the
would take on either of those two points.
These are the two main principles that we must have before us.
is to agree upon the best method of carrying them out.
would suggest that we should allow the War Additions Act to lapse and put nothing in
Ve aro faced therefore with this position. Either we must do something thin
Susion or we must include the War Additions Act in the Expiring Laws Continuance Act
It would be very unsatisfactory to allow this Session to go by with nothing done
and for that reason I hope the House will accept the Motion. I hope it will be clearly
and one is that the old maximum of (t and the maximum of 300 in the case of fatal
arcidents are inadequate, but while we are all agreed that they are inadequate, there is by
of coloram that has been put forward. There are certain things on which we are all agreed
understood that I am not in any way accepting or pledging the Government to any detail
no nieans a unanimity of opinion as to what they ought to be converted into and what the
Friend's Committee. Undoubtedly, there is a great deal to be said for it. There is also
suns should be. Equally with regard to matters of compulsory insurance and State
Compulsory insurance was strongly recommended by my hon. and learned
a great deal to be said for State insurance in a matter of this kind, but it is perfectly clear
We are, however, agreed upon general principles,
and we are agreed upon this, that the main things that we ought to aim at are, first of all
the prevention of injury altogether, and, secondly, the best possible means for recovering
the worker and bringing him back for the use of the State and the use of the industry.
emplover in this country really does appreciate these two main principles, but the difficulty
controversial points. When, therefore, I say that in drafting a Bill I shall always have
when they are introducing a Bill, as I hope we shall be able to do, to deal with these highl
which are very highly controversial, and it may be very difficult for the Government.
before me the recommendations of that Report, I must not be taken as pledging myself
There are many points in the Report of my hon. and learned Friend's Committee
for North Cornwall that this is no party question. The best method of proceeding is to
This is a great national question, and I entirely agree with my hon. Friend the Member
in any way to bring in a Measure which deals with every recommendation they make
the parties concerned we can do more to bring in effective legislation than we can bu
endeavour to get agreement between all the parties concerned. By agreement between
having what would develop into a real party strife on the Floor of the House
I believe that the average
the employers. I am hoping that when they have considered, each of them, their own
I have already approached men who represent the employed, and men who represent
proposals, and I have myself put forward certain general proposals as a sort of basis for
workmen and representatives of the employers, and that we shall be able to thrash out
discussion, that we shall be able to get a committee, consisting of representatives of the
a certain measure of agreement which will, at any rate, give us the basis of a measure
which will be introduced into this House. It may very well be, and it probably
will be, that there will not be agreement upon all points.
that it will be very difficult, indeed, to get an absolute agreement upon a question
which involves the fixing of a definite sum of money. It may be very difficult, indeed,
I can well understand
to agree upon the best method of calculating what is a fair payment for the injured
workman, or what is a fair payment with regard to the child of the man who has
suffered fatal injury. These are matters of very considerable difficulty, but, at least,
discussion round the table can do no possible harm, but may lead to very great assist-
ance in regard to this important matter.
Now with regard to the other points, such as the protection of those who are employed
by employers financially weak. I agree with one of my hon. Friends who said that it is
not the case that so many cases occur where the employer is financially weak, where a
man gets no compensation or where an employer goes bankrupt. Those cases are recorded
and they are not many. But anyone who has practised in workmen's compensation cases
knows that there are many cases all over the country where a wholly inadequate sum is
accepted in settlement because, if not, nothing at all would be received. Some method
must be proposed to meet a difficulty of that sort. Whether we shall be able to come
for this Session I do not know, but at least we can try. Therefore I hope sincerely that
to such a measure of agreement in our discussions with regard to our proposed legislation
within a very short period we shall have a round table conference which would enable
the Government to bring before the House a Bill which, even if not agreed in all its pro-
visions, and I am sure that it will not be, and which may not be accepted by those who are
outside the conference, will at least have a very large measure of support in this House,
and may, with the assistance of Debates in this House, be made a really effective and
good Act of Parliament. That is the position which the Government take up to-night.
details which have been mentioned in the course of the Debate. They are extremely
I am sure that the House would not ask me to pledge myself as to any of the various
interesting and instructive, but, having regard to the position which we have taken, I do

---


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

272

On this subject. I would refer my hon, Friend to the answer given
on this March, 1920, to my hon. Friend the Member for Walthamstow,
of which I am sending him a copy. Unlike Trade Boards, which
exist in trades where no adequate machinery exists for the effective
regulation of wages, Joint Industrial Councils are bodies voluntarily formed by the organiza-
tions of employers and work organisations generally than has yet been signified
tions of employers and work organisations generally than has yet been signified. The proposal for legislation to make foint Industrial Council agreeme
Parliamentary Dehates, House of Commons, May 9th, 1927.

MISS BONDFIELD ADDRESSES BOOT OPERATIVES UNION CONFERENCE.
Education and Personality.
An educational conference at the Northampton Trade Hall, arranged by the Northamp-
tonshire District Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, was
well attended on Saturday afternoon. The audience was composed of delegates from
many unions affiliated to the Trade. Council, from the Adult Schools, and Co-operative
Society. The Rev. H. Hurst, curate of St. James' Church, presided.
Mr. G. Chester, of Kettering, president of the Northamptonshire District Council &
the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, said the Union had attempted to foster
an educational policy, and had been fairly successful. One or two classes had been estab-
lished and fairly well attended, and one or two conferences had been held.

Miss Bondfield.
Miss Margaret Bondfield, J.P., who addressed the conference on "Education and
Personality," congratulated the Boot and Shoe Trade Union on the splendid lead they
had given to the other unions in this area. They were keeping pace with other progressive
bodies in the country. As well as the recommendations of the Geddes report, there were
other checks to development which counted as cuts on education. They knew from
practical experience that there were innumerable instances where local authorities who
would have progressed had been prevented from so doing by the Board of Education who
One of the most shameful methods of checking progress was the attempt to shift
the responsibility from local educational enterprise on to the local rates. The Board of
Education had announced that their system of grants was to be limited to a maximum
expenditure. In other words there would only be the very minimum of sanction given to
any sort of development in local education.

Miss Bondfield spoke earnestly against the Government's proposals to make no further
provision of special schools and to shelve the provision of meals for school children on to
some other at present unnamed body. They of the Labour Party had thoroughly gone
into the question of the physical education of the children. It was absurd to talk of
pauperising the country; they held not a class view, but the larger community view
that the children should be properly fed. The mid-day meal in the school might become
-as it had done in Bradford-part of the ordinary school curriculum.
"A Retrograde Step."
With regard to the closing of the smaller schools, Miss Bondfield said quite a large
number of these small schools were denominational schools, and it was impossible to settle
the denominational question by Act of Parliament. "I can imagine," she added, "nothing
more mischievous at the present moment than to close denominational schools merely
because they contain only a certain number of children." The proposal to increase the
size of classes and reduce the number of teachers was a retrograde and reactionary step.
"Most of us in this room," said Miss Bondfield, "have had very little chance of
education outside the elementary schools, and it is because of that that we are the best
authorities to deal with the matter. There is another and a spiritual side of the matter
which gives us the advantage over other sections of the community. There is an inherent
simplicity about the man who does things with his hands, who really creates and fashions
things out of raw material. He is not a parasite on the community: he is earning his
living. The international standpoint comes more easily to him rather than the patriotism
that is more often a very shoddy kind of materialism. Every now and again we do get a
vision of what life would be like-not by ceasing to work, but by working under changed
conditions, with a greater equipment, a finer knowledge, and larger outlook. We feel
these things are our heritage, and hitherto we have had the door shut in our faces."
All over the world the workers were having the same attitude of mind towards educa-
tion. Inherently in them was the divine spark that led them to strive for something
higher and nobler than they knew.

An interesting discussion followed, after which thanks to the chairman and Miss
Bondfield were accorded on the proposition of Mr. W. R. Townley, J.P. (president of the
No. 1 Branch of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union), seconded by Mr. L. Poole.-
Northampton Echo, 24th April, 1922.


---
Here is the text from the image:

273
THE BOOT STRIKE.

Reference to Mr. George Barnes' Letter at a Public Meeting.
A largely attended and enthusiastic public meeting was held
on Monday evening, under the auspices of the Chesham Branch of the
Boot and Shoe Operatives. Few of the general public were there but a
with operatives, both male and female, and the muster both here and at
Tuesday morning was noteworthy because of numbers and enthusiasm.
were supported by other local Trade Unionists. Mr. H.

upon this support, and the way enthusiasm and solidarity were welcomed.
hearers of the sympathy and support of the local printers, and said that in
response when a resolution was put before Trade Union printers was very prominent
Mr. H. Bragg (Typographical Association), was the first speaker. He spoke as
who had the interests of Trade Unionism at heart and the interests of the
were such a small branch, they could not do much, but they were willing to do what they
Mr. G. L. Rance, the Builders' Union, gave promise of help from his members, and said
his members remembered with gratitude the help accorded in their struggle
share in the way of financial support.
Mr. Dean Refers to Mr. Barnes' Letter.

Examiner, was made by Mr. Dean, the Chairman. He had been trying, he said, to persuade
The first direct reference to Mr. George Barnes' letter, which appeared in last week's
their old friend. Mr. Fred Goodger, to say a few words: ever since Mr. Barnes
appeared in the Examiner he had been cogitating over it and he thought he most
taken it to bed with him. But Mr. Goodger did not feel like speaking, and he (the speaker)
would deal with the matter. The matter in a nutshell was this. It did not matter a pin
what Mr. George Barnes said about Mr. Goodger or himself it was beside the point
altogether. Nothing that Mr. Goodger or he had done had hastened that dispute. The
matter in dispute was this: were the employers of Chesham to be allowed to reduce wages
below the level laid down by a national agreement. That and the question of recognition
were the points at issue. There was an attempt to sow dissension amongst the workers:
although it was not openly said, the impression left upon the minds of the workers was
that Mr. Goodger and himself had done something against the general interests of the
workers: it was the old game: sow discord between the workers and the capitalist will
gain. Were the workers going to allow that: to allow a red herring to be drawn across
the track to draw attention away from the real issue he hoped not. The men must
keep in their minds the real issues and not let them be side tracked. Mr. Barnes talked
about wages books. Well, there were men in Chesham who had had the experience of
being taken off the green book piece work statement and put upon day work, and they
suffered more than £1 per week reduction. That was a fact for Mr. Barnes and the men
to consider. Whatever isolated cases were raised whatever side issues were raised-
they did not do away with the real points at issue-it was a clear fight for the observance
of a national agreement and recognition, and the men would be wise if they ignored all
the red herrings which were being drawn across the track.
Mr. Law, the secretary of the No. 2 Northampton Branch, brought messages from
both the Northants branches: one was that they were proud of Chesham and the stand
they were making had created a new feeling with regard to Chesham; the other was that
they should be pleased and proud to follow such a leader as Johnny Buckle (applause).
Johnny's advice was much like the great Australian captain's, Armstrong. The boot
hands of Chesham lost their first innings. They gave way to the googlies of their opponents
and lost and that must now be set aside. But now they were upon their second innings,
and what was Armstrong-Buckle's advice? It was this-Play a straight bat and play
forward. If they did that they must win their innings, for none of their opponents tricks
would have any effect. There were 80,000 spectators of the match-eighty thousand
people whose sympathies were with them, and who were saying, "Play the Game!"
The members of the Northants branches were amongst the sympathetic spectators and
they were amongst those who would contribute to the gate money. What would the
Northants members say if an attempt was made to lower their wages? They would resist,
and they were behind Chesham workers in their resistance.

Mr. W. T. Moulder, secretary of the local branch of the Workers' Union, assured the
operatives of their help and support, and spoke with gratitude of the help accorded by the
Chesham workers when the woodenware workers had their struggle.

Mr. Johnny Buckle Refers to the Letter.
The warmest welcome of the evening was reserved for Mr. Johnny Buckle, and the
workers demonstrated what a strong hold he has upon their good will. He wanted to
say, in passing, he said, how delighted he was with the attitude of the other Trade Unionists
in this area, and how very much he appreciated the presence of their representatives
that they did not do away with the real points at issue-it was a clear fight for the observance


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

275
told of a certain admiral. This admiral was in the habit of
whole ship before he went into action. Upon one of his rounds he noticed
gun, but kneeling down in prayer. Touched by this he asked the lad what he
for, and the lad's reply was, "I was praying, sir, that the enemy would dis-
of the prize money no doubt found as much favour locally as did the admiral.
shells in the same way that you distribute the prize money.' My Barnaby Par
They as a union and as individual employees were not concerned with ar
beyond agreements: they were out to see that agreements were honoured.
see that an agreement was honoured that they were now struggling and working
to a finish. The Bucks Examiner, April 28th, 1922.

LABOUR PROBLEMS AT GENOA.
Production and Unemployment.
Some indications of progress made at the Genoa Conference in the discussion o
concrete questions of industrial production and labour conditions are contained in a
statement issued by the International Labour Office (League of Nations). This office has
been represented in a consultative capacity at the Conference by a small delegation drawn
from the three groups-Governments, employers, and workers-which compose its govern
ing body, presided over by M. Fontaine and accompanied by M. Albert Thomas (director
of the office) and some of the technical experts of his staff.

A few days ago the Economic Commission of the Conference set up a Sub-Commission
to deal with labour questions. At a meeting of the Sub-Commission the question of the
eight-hour day and, therefore, of the Convention adopted at the First International Labour
Conference, held at Washington, was raised by a resolution submitted in the name of the
International Trade Union Federation. The Netherlands' delegate wished the Genoa
Conference to reaffirm the Washington Eight-hour Convention.

The Sub-Commission, after discussion, drew up a number of resolutions which included
the following articles:
"The economic reconstruction of Europe can only be effected by means of intensified
production, which depends essentially on labour. In order to obtain the fullest effort
on the part of the workers, and in order to avoid unfair and dangerous competition between
nations, the attention of all States is called to the importance of the Conventions and
Recommendations adopted by the International Labour Conferences.

"In particular, the present crisis, which affects not only production, but also the
consuming capacity of the people, weighs heavily on the workers, both morally and materi
ally. While it may be true that measures of economic reconstruction are alone capable of
finally remedying irregularity of employment, direct measures to deal with unemployment
appear to be none the less effective for ensuring sustained effort and efficiency on the part
of the workers. In combating unemployment it is recognised that, in the first instance,
the utilisation of all productive forces to the utmost should be undertaken. Apart from
any arrangements providing insurance and assistance against unemployment, the follow
ing measures are recommended:

(a) The systematic distribution of all the labour available by the national organi
sation of employment agencies and by the international co-ordination of such agencies
(emigration and immigration) by means of agreements between the countries con
cerned;

(b) Subject to the special conditions obtaining in each country the placing in
agriculture of as large a number as possible of such of the unemployed in industry as
are capable of being employed in agricultural work.
(c) The systematic allocation of public contracts with reference to the occurrence
of unemployment in the districts particularly affected, as far as may be consistent
with the general interest;

(d) The development of public works in aid of unemployment, provided that they
are useful and productive.
In order to accelerate the effects of such measures:
"(1) It is recommended that all States should ratify the Draft Convention relating
to unemployment adopted by the International Labour Conference at Washington in
1919, and should carry out, as far as practicable, the recommendation on unemployment
adopted by that Conference.

"(2) The International Labour Office is requested to collect and publish every three
months, if possible, all information available on the experience gained by the different
countries in dealing with unemployment.

"It is further recommended that all the States concerned should contribute to the
International reporting to unemployment decided upon by the International Labour Conference
any matters relating to attention being paid by such States to the effects produced by the exchanges
of the labour market. "Labour Leader, May 18th, 1922.


---
Here is the text from the image:

276
SOUTH AFRICAN EMBARGO.

To be Continued for Another Twelve Months-The Effect on Imports of
British Boots and Shoes-Most Classes of Footwear in Regular Use
Excluded-Local Manufacturers' Tremendous Pull-South African Shoes
and Leather Displayed at Johannesburg.

(FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT.)
JOHANNESBURG, April 15th, 1922.

Yesterday afternoon a deputation of over a score of manufacturers and others interested
in South African boot manufacturing businesses, with Mr. S. Collier at the head, waited
on the Minister of Finance at Cape Town and put their case before him. They asked for
more protection and a continuance of the embargo. The Minister of Finance, in reply
said:

"He would grant the demand for a continuance of the embargo, not because he
liked that form of protection, but because he considered it the most suitable as an
interim measure.

The embargo will therefore be re-imposed for twelve months, during which period
the import of footwear most commonly used will be absolutely prohibited, or permitted
only with such qualifications as the Board of Control advise.

Thus, unfortunately, there has happened just what my last letter doubtless suggested
1. Record readers was likely to happen, although in some quarters here an increased duty
was anticipated.

The Door Slammed.
The continuance of the embargo is a much greater evil than a 15 per cent. extra
tariff would have been. However, there it is, and the outlook for oversea producers has
been darkened by an unfair method of slamming the door. The Minister said he disliked
the measure asked for, and seemed to think it necessary specifically to express his feelings.

The embargo is unquestionably bringing grist to the mills of the local manufacturers
for the making of practically all men's boots retailed at about 27s. 6d.. and less is entirely
in their hands. This in itself is a tremendous pull.

The imports of boots and shoes into the Union underwent a heavy reduction during
1921, and every exporting country suffered more or less. But the chief sufferers were
manufacturers in the United Kingdom and America. The following figures give an idea
of the fall in imports during 1921 as compared with those for 1920:

FROM
1920. 1921.
United Kingdom ............ 3,017,000 pairs . 966,693 pairs
United States ...................... 591,000 pairs . 38,749 pairs
Switzerland ..................... 235,000 pairs . 87.963 pairs
Australia ....................... 233,000 pairs . 22,031 pairs

4,076,000 1,115,436

I expect to be able next week to give figures regarding locally produced footwear.
It is already known that the output has been greatly increased; indeed, under such a
form of protection it could not have been otherwise.

Some South African boot manufacturers deserve credit for the way they have improved
their factories and introduced modern machinery. Thus with the help of imported skilled
labour they have been able to produce vastly superior boots, and are now gradually bring-
ing their productions up to the level of imported goods. This, of course, applies to the
cheaper classes of footwear.

Locally Made Leather and Boots.
At the present moment at Johannesburg there is being held a large show with an
Industrial Section, at which locally manufactured goods are displayed. An outstanding
feature is the exhibit of Messrs. Searle Ltd., whose boot factory at Great Brak River is
one of the most up-to-date in the country. The company employ about 500 workers,
of whom fully 60 per cent. are white. Messrs. Searle seem to tackle every branch of the
industry, and their productions include turns.
Messrs. J. W. Jagger & Co., the well-known importers, also make a creditable show
with the products of their new Cape factory. The firm have a unique advantage in the
distribution of their goods, for they have a big connection throughout the whole of South
Africa, and many representatives " on the road."
The Maritzburg Tanning and Leather Co make an effective display of both vegetable
and chrome-tanned leathers, dyed goat and sheep skins in various shades being an out-
most varieties of bottom and upper leathers. Their chrome tannages are specially good.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

280
MINERS AND THEIR RATES OF PAY.

Districts on Minimum.
In the districts in the British coalfield now at the minimum wage:
Forest of Dean, Kent North Wales Scotland, South Wales, and
Northumberland, Durham and Lancashire and North Stafford.
To make this understood it is necessary to
love the minimum wage form what the minimum wage represents per day in those districts
the nammam during this month:
Day wage
coal-getters
per shift.
7
8
7
21
32
5
Under-
ground
labourers.
6
7
d.
S.
21
91
5 10
JO
43
711
93
67
52
61
84
7
8
Rotel
amberland
Latest of Dea
Kent
Statts, and Salop
North Wales
Sotland
South Wale
1
893
4
Whilst certam piece-work colliers earn more than those who are on day wages, the
camngs of the underground labourer represent the actual earnings per shift worked.
days in the work, he cannot possibly take home to his family a sum exceeding AI 185. 40
It will be seen, therefore, that if an underground labourer in South Wales works for six
The maximum, however, after deductions at the pit, would not exceed 1 175. per week
district. Extract from article by Mr. F. Hodges, J. P., Secretary of Miners' Federation
and this is the wage that is represented by the "economic basis" of the industry in that
in The Herald, May 18th, 1922.

NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.

MEMBERS
should see that the members of their families, who are members of
belonging to the Union, upon attaining the age of 16 years, should
the Union, should BELONG to their own Approved Society. All persons
approve AT ONCE with the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
Transfers can now be dealt with.

E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
JOHN W. MURBY, Manager

KEEP ON DOING,
There is lots of joy in living if you strike the proper gait ;
If you always come up smiling in the face of every fate.
If you're keeping step and whistling some lively little tune,
You'll be living gay and happy as a sunny day in June.
Keep a level head, don't worry, help your brothers on the way;
Let the sunshine of good humour shine upon you ev'ry day;
Speak a cheerful word at all times, never "knock" your fellow man.
And you'll surely be rewarded-just keep doing all you can.
There is lots of joy in living if you live your life aright,
Lots of sunshine and of roses, keep your eyes turned to the light,
Look behind the clouds of trouble; there's a silver lining there,
And you'll find it if you're only living life upon the square.
Scatter good cheer like the thistle scatters seed before the wind,
And the petty woes and troubles soon will be left far behind.
Be a "Booster" every minute, help along your fellow man,
And you'll surely be rewarded, just keep doing all you can.


---
Here is the text from the image:

281
MEN WHO LIVE THE LONGEST.
Farmers, Orators and Artists.
Professor Winkler, of Vienna University, has published the results of his love in
gations into the effects of various avocations on the duration of life
Longest lives are lived, in an equal degree, though by a curious combination I.
Diplomats also come within the long-lived categor
In the latter class are especially philosophers, mathematicians, orators, and atti
most to shorten life. He attributes this fact to the joint effects of high responsabilit
Professor Winkler found that among the professions the practice of medicine told
long hours of work, and broken nights.
Of artisans, statistics show that joiners are the longest lived, whilst there i
and public-house employees. Daily Chronicle, April 18th, 1922.
average among bakers, tailors, and shoemakers. By far the shortest lived a

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
TOTAL UNEMPLOYMENT.
Estimated Number of Insured Workpeople:- Males, 94,190; Females, 52.560:
Total, 146,750. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 24th April,
1022: - Males, 11,548; Females, 3,173; Total, 14,721. Percentage Unemployed :
Total, 10.0. Increase as compared with 27th March, 1922, 0.4.
SYSTEMATIC SHORT TIME.
Number of Short Time Workers claiming Unemployment Insurance Benefit at
24th April, 1922: - Males, 1,318; Females, 632; Total, 1,950. Percentage on System-
atic Short Time: Total, 1.3. Increase as compared with 27th March, 1922, 0.4.--
The Labour Gazette, May 1922.

TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
Boot and Shoe: Membership at end of April, 1922, 77,249; Unemployed at end
of April, 1922, 3,972, percentage 5.1; Increase as compared with a month ago, 0.4;
Decrease as compared with a year ago, 3.1. - The Labour Gazette, May, 1922.
OPPORTUNITY.

With doubt and dismay you are smitten,
You think there's no chance for you, son?
Why, the best books haven't been written,
The best race hasn't been run,
The best score hasn't been made yet,
The best song hasn't been sung,
The best tune hasn't been played yet;
Cheer up, for the world is young!
No chance? Why, the world is just eager
For things that you ought to create;
Its store of true wealth is still meagre,
Its needs are incessant and great;
It yearns for more power and beauty,
More laughter and love and romance,
More loyalty, labour and duty,
No chance, why, there's nothing but chance!
For the best verse hasn't been rhymed yet,
The best house hasn't been planned,
The highest peak hasn't been climbed yet,
The mightiest rivers aren't spanned;
Don't worry and fret, faint-hearted,
The chances have just begun,
For the best jobs haven't been started,
The best work hasn't been done.
-Berton Braley in The P. B. News.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

A Boomerang.
283
hundreds of thousands of men now thrown out of work by the 100
podwod more than they can sell and as a 10medy tot
those now in work to the further increase of uncaleable 14
Brictly, they desire a further increase of unemployment
mean and a stin further decrease in demand fot goods
draw a decent wage must of necessity restrict his expenditure
What is needed, of course, is the direct opposite of this
The money in the pockets of the masses.
effort to lower wages is a boomerang that comes back and hit the m
demand, and leads to still worse frade than before
poot wrote "wego round the ruddy ring o' roses۱۰۰
on
to be as
mankind.
e sacred
nity o
ht hour
e eight
sure in
ntellect
plessed
hose of
ates of
ssing
gaged
the
adily
their
obed
the
as
sm.
men
י'ת
ted
he
re
CO
S
-
e
;
more money
mat for the moment
"reduce cos
emoluments of the year.
fot that
for corry mat
We need to
This constant
more poteka
and unhappily
costs," it lessens the general purchas
payment of income tax or supertax.
And so,
Reynolds's Newspaper. May
." a the R..
covenants and the holding of shares in companies of a private nature.
papers. Sunday collections, but not deliveries to be restored.
Cost to be
SUMMARY OF PROPOSALS OF THE BUDGET.
The 4910,000,000 Budget introduced into the House of Commons by our Reden
Horne, Chancellor of the Exchequer, has as its outstanding features, the following
INCOME TAX - Reduction of Is. in the f. to date from April 6th last
Shequer, 52,000,000. Other income tax changes will cost £1,700,000.
This means 6d. off the 35. rate for smaller incomes.
Three years' average assessment abolished. Common basis for all employees the
AGAINST EVASION. - Legislation to be introduced to deal with income tax, especially
measures to deal with cases where, by certain devices, persons were able to evade the
The avoidance of income tax and super tax referred to is by means of trusts and
CHEAPER POSTAGE. At the end of May Id. postcards, Id. letters, and ad. for printed
TELEPHONES. - Charges to be reduced (no specific reduction mentioned). Cost
TEA. - Duty reduced by 4d. from IS. to 8d. Duty upon the ninety per cent. of the
Empire tea will amount to sixpence and two-thirds of a penny.
COFFEE, COCOA, AND CHICORY. Reduction of one-third of the duty. Cost to Ex-
chequer for full year, £5,500,000. Reductions on tea, coffee, and chicory to take effect
on May 15th, cocoa preparations on July Ist.
AID FOR FARMERS. Basis of assessment in the case of farmers reduced from twice
Pre-war rate of assessment the third of the annual value for land not dealt with
This new basis of taxation on agricultural land will reduce the yield of income tax
by £950,000 this year and £2,150,000 in a full year.
LAND. - He proposed reassessment of land for house property tax in 1923-24.
E.P. DUTY.-Payment of arrears of E.P.D. to be spread over five years from January
$1,000,000.
the annual value to the annual value.
agriculturally.
1st last.
fixed incomes which
would expire on December 31st next to be extended for three years.
ENTERTAINMENT TAX.-Legislation to be introduced to clear up certain doubtful
The total Exchequer loss through remitted taxation will be £45,850,000 this year
and 165,707,000 in a full year.
points of law.
When the Concessions Become Effective.
The dates on which the various Budget concessions become effective are as follow:-
Income tax.
January 1, 1923.
.May 15, 1922.
June 1, 1922.
June 24, 1922,
Tea, coffee, cocoa
Postal rates..
Telephone charges...
Cocoa preparations.
...... July 1, 1922.
-Reynolds's Newspaper, May 7th, 1922.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

Trade Union Stamp for Boot & Shoe Repairers

The following Firms use the "STAMP":

BROCKLEY, Surrey - Mr. F. Jeffery, 1, Merritt Road, Stamp N.
Crofton Park 16.
CHESHAM - Mr. J. Mead, 150, High Street - 14.
CHESTERFIELD - J. W. Booth, Eyre Street, Hasland - 7.
DARTFORD - Industrial Co-op. Society, 73, Kent Rd. - 17.
DUNDEE - T. Malone, Mid Street - 4.
DUBLIN - Arnold Lowe, 31}, Upper Kevin St. - 10.
GRANTHAM - F. Lewin, 6 and 7, Chapel Street - 19.
LEICESTER - J. Smith, 30, Eldon Street - 3,
" - Ralph Wood, 47, Cottesmore Road - 15.
" - Messrs. J. T. Marriott & Co., -
74, St. Nicholas Square. 20.
LEIGH - Co-operative Society Ltd., Leigh - 13.
MANCHESTER - J. Mason, 15, Oakhill Street, Heath - 1.
Street, Cheetham Hill.
" - Messrs. Roberts & Son, 98, Fairfield - 2.
Street, London Road.
" - Manchester and Salford Equitable - 8.
Co-op. Society, Downing Street
NORTHAMPTON - T. W. Lewis, 72, Ethel Street - 3.
NOTTINGHAM - J. Seymour, 79, Woodborough Road - 12.
PLYMOUTH - Messrs. Petitt & Co., 105, Tavistock Road 11.

All Trade Unionists should have their Repairs done
by Repairers who use the TRADE UNION STAMP.

Full particulars from General Secretary-
E. L. POULTON, J.P.,
34, Guilford Street,
LONDON, W.C. 1.


---
Here is the text from the image:

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, out col being men on hom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, spot. same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the we of Members the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NAT TELI 4438 MUSEUM, LONDON.
National Union
Tel Address NATUNISHOP, HOLS LONDO
& Shoe
Alfdiased in the Trades Union Congress the General Federation of
Trade Unions and National Labour Party
Approved under the State Navonal Health Insurance Acts. Approval Na 281
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
president
peratives
SEAT OF GOVERNMEN
34.GUILFORD STREET)
General
T.F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
E.L POULTON J.P.
LONDON.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. I.
MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
19TH JUNE, 1922.
THE STATE OF TRADE
continues about the same as last month, although in some centres trade has slightly improved. The figures given in the Gazette of the Ministry of Labour, are as follows :-
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
During May there was a further slight improvement in this trade. Employment was still bad in the heavy boot trade, but fairly good on the whole in the lighter sections.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed in the boot, shoe and slipper making and repairing trades, as indicated by the unemployment books lodged at Employment Exchanges was 8.7 at 22nd May, as compared with 10.0 at 24th April.
Returns received from firms employing 35,200 workpeople showed that about 21 per cent. of these workpeople were on short time, losing 12 hours a week on the average.
The improvement affected nearly all the principal centres except Stafford and Norwich (where employment was already good before the beginning of the month), and the Scottish centres, in most of which employment was still very quiet. Much short time was, however, still reported, particularly at Kettering, and in districts where the principal production is heavy boots (notably Bristol, Kingswood and Leeds). On the other hand, a certain amount of overtime was worked by some firms at many centres towards the end of the month to complete urgent orders for Whitsuntide.
The exports of boots and shoes in May, 1922, amounted to 59,844 dozen pairs, or 831 dozen pairs less than in April, 1922, but 26,913 dozen pairs more than in May, 1921.


---
Here is the text from the image:

```
ant team.
Week ended
27th May,
1922.
304
The following Table summarises the information received from those employers
who furnished returns:
Number of Workpeople.
Total Wages aid to all Workpeople
Increase (+) or
Decrease (-) on a
Month ago. Vear a20.
Per cent. Per cent.
Increase (+) or
Decrease (-) on a
Week ended
27th May.
1022.
Month ago. Year ago.
Per cent. Per cent.
£
ENGLAND AND WALES:-
+ 2.4
+18.9
4,809
1,997
+ 0.3
London
8,486
+ 1.3
1.623,223
1.6
+19.0
Leicester
Northampton
Leicester Country District
2,228
+0.2
+11.3
5.441
I.I
6,717
+1.3
- 1.2
17,643
6.2
+15.9
+22.4
7.3
District
Northampton Country
7,061
+2.4
+ 9.6
16,558
+12.1
2,849
- 0.7
+ 4.1
7,292
0.5
22.0
Kettering
Norwich and District
Stafford and District
2,431
+0.5 +3.4
6,044
+ 0.9
+11.1
4,347
+ 0.9
+31.4
9,639
5-7
Leeds and District
Bristol and Kingswood
1,043
+ 6.4
+17.5
2,299
-
+30.8
7-3
1,666
+ 2.4
+ 5.4
3,568
3.0
27.9
29.9
Lancashire (mainly
Rossendale Valley)
3,789
+2.3+24.3
9,157
Birmingham and District
990
+ 0.6
+ 7.8
2,039
+ 1.8
+1.3 +106.8
Other parts of England and
2,552
+ 2.9
+ 4.9
4,632
+ 3.8
4.1
+ 2.5
Wales
ENGLAND AND WALES
46,156
+ 1.6
+7.8 112,344
3.6. +22.3
SCOTLAND
2,341
IRELAND
462
+ 0.6
+14.1
Ο.Ι
4,706
-0.8
2.1
976
+39.6
6.7
3.0
TOTAL
48,959
+ 1.6
+ 7.3
118,026 3.7.-21.4
* Comparison in earnings is affected by reductions in rates of wages, and in May,
1921, employment in most industries was adversely affected by general stoppage of work
at the coal mines.
THE CHESHAM DISPUTE.
Considerable progress has been made at Chesham during the month,
all the firms except two having agreed to acknowledge the Union and the
National Terms of Settlement. As a consequence the operatives resumed
work on the 12th inst., and we hope, ere long, to be able to report a settlement.
This proves that loyalty on the part of members to the Union means security,
and any departure from National Conditions should be at once reported to
the Central Office.
HOUSING.
In another part of the report there are several references to the bad housing
conditions still obtaining in the various parts of the country. We would,
however, especially call attention to the shocking state of affairs at Earl Shilton,
Leicestershire, because this is one of the places where in 1913 our sickness
rates were so high that we were successful in getting the National Health
Insurance Commissioners to hold a special enquiry into the same. It will be
seen by reference to pages 328-329 that some of the conditions about which
we
complained nine years ago are still unremedied. We are again taking the
matter up with the Ministry of Health, and hope by the presentation of such a
we
```

---
Here is the text from the image:

305
discreditable state of affairs the Ministry will see its way to take drastie action,
and ensure the health of the people should not any longer be endangered by
such a disgraceful condition of affairs being allowed to continue.
In relation to the Northampton conditions it is reported there are over
ised to build another 86 houses. It is of special interest in this case to notic
1.400 applicants for houses, yet the Northampton Town Comcil is only author
remembers the wonderful promises made to these men from 1914 onward.
the extraordinary number of ex-service men requiring houses, and when one
it is indeed a sad comment upon the situation, that so many are still demanding
the ordinary amenities of life as represented by a decent house to dwell in
Moreover, the housing conditions in the country generally are so bad that we
shall continue to bring this matter to your notice in the hope that everyone
also upon Members of Parliament to ensure proper housing accommodation
will do his or her part to bring pressure to bear upon the local authorities, and
being provided. This is an important fact, because if the hundreds of thousands
of houses needed were actually erected, it would find work not only for those
in the building and allied trades, but would have its effect upon many other
trades, and thus help to bring about the working of the industrial machine
in a more effective manner which politicians are constantly telling us is so
necessary; yet when the Labour Party point out the ways and means by
which it could be done, the same politicians always find excuses.
We shall lose no time in this connection, and have already tabled a reso-
lution for the annual meeting of the Labour Party to be held at the end of the
present month.
POLITICS.
Another attempt has been made by certain members of Parliament to
again cripple trade unions in their political work, and to confine the activities
of unions to the narrowest limits. We are glad to see that Mr. W. R. Smith,
M.P., has taken a prominent part in the debates upon the Trade Union Act
1913, Amendment Bill, and in addition, we as a Council, have appealed to the
General Council of the Trade Union Congress, and the Labour Party to use
every legitimate effort to bring about the defeat of the Bill.
MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P., IN AMERICA.
On Wednesday. the 31st May, our General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton,
J.P., sailed from Southampton on the R.M.S. "Homeric," for America, and
during the month has been attending the annual convention of the American
Federation of Labour at Cincinatti, Ohio, U.S.A.
CIRCULARS.
Several important circulars have been issued to the branches during the
month, particularly in reference to the Holiday Clause in the National Agree-
ment, February, 1922, and answers should be sent thereto immediately.
1

---
Here is the text from the image:

NOMINATIONS
must be taken at the July monthly meeting for the position of
General President.
General Secretary.
Organisers (two required).
Council Members (twelve required).
District Agents (twelve required).
Trustees (five required).
Manager to National Health Insurance Department.
Delegate to Scottish Labour Advisory Committee.
Parliamentary Candidates (five required).
Nominations MUST reach the Central Office by the 15th prox. It is
necessary that our Parliamentary Candidates should be re-nominated.

JOHN GREGORY, M.A., Shoe Poet.

It is with sincere regret we have to record the passing away of
JOHN GREGORY, M.A., of Bristol, who has been a member of our Union
since its inception. Mr. Gregory has taken not only very great interest
in the industrial life of the worker, but attained considerable distinction
as a poet, thus adding one more to the distinguished roll of shoemakers
who have occupied outstanding positions in this and other countries.
We tender our sympathy to the relatives of the late Mr. John Gregory,
M.A., in the loss they have sustained. He was the first secretary to
the Bristol Branch.

WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
We make no apology for again reminding branch officers and also the
members, that lump sums are NOT obtainable by law, but only by agreement,
and if branches are anxious that a solicitor should be engaged to safeguard the
interests of any member, the Central Office should be at once notified of the
accident, together with the full name and address of the member, registered
number and details of the accident on the prescribed form.

DAILY HERALD.
At our meeting this week the question of the Daily Herald was raised
owing to the fact that a special meeting of Debenture Holders has been held,
and the Union with other Debenture Holders have been asked to agree that :-
(a) “ A receiver be appointed, and is hereby authorised to sell the goodwill
of the Daily Herald newspaper to the Victoria House Printing Co.
Ltd.," and


---
Here is the text from the image:

307

(b)  “That Debenture Holders do hereby release, surrender and forego
to the Company all monies due and owing or hereafter to become
due and owing to them under the Debentures and the Trust Deed,
including the Balance of guaranteed interest.”

This means that the Daily Herald request that the £1,000 Debenture
Shares held by the Union should be surrendered. We however, have no power
to accede to such request, but have decided to ask that a vote of the members
be taken at the July Branch meetings, and the decision of your members
should be sent to reach the Central Office by the 15th July prox.

SECOND ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

The Second Annual Conference is now a thing of the past. An official
report of the proceedings will be issued in a few days. The principal matters
of interest dealt with were the revision of the National Agreement and
Political Question. In connection with the latter the following resolution
was agreed to :-

“This Conference of Boot and Shoe Operatives, representing 80,000 members,
views with the greatest suspicion and enters its strong protest against the Bill intro-
duced by Col. Meysey-Thompson, and which received a Second Reading in the House
of Commons on Friday, May 19th last, as being an attempt to deprive the Trade
Unions of the right to adopt political action as a means of securing the improvement
of working-class life. The opportunity of obtaining the solution of our social problems
by constitutional action, Trade Unions are thereby deprived by such proposed
legislation. This, together with the Bills previously introduced by Sir F. Banbury,
Mr. A. M. Samuel, Col. Archer-Shee, and others, constitutes an attack upon Trade
Unions that is unwarranted, and is evidence of class legislation which has for its
object the keeping down of the people, with the consequent domination of the power
of wealth and social influence. We therefore, whilst strongly condemning this
attempt to secure class domination, call upon our members to use every means in
their power by helping in the return of Labour representatives to the House of
Commons, whereby this attempt to crush Labour may be rendered impossible. We
further call upon the General Council of the Trade Union Congress and the Parlia-
mentary Labour Party to take every possible step to bring the danger prominently
before the organised workers of the country.”

We hope every branch of the Union will ask their local M.P. to oppose
the measure, and ask for a definite reply as to his intention on the Third reading
of the Bill.

UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.

We beg to call the attention of all branch officers to the resolution passed
by a large majority at the Second Annual Conference, that branch executives
should see that the Unemployment Insurance Act be administered in the
interests of the whole of the members. We trust therefore, that those branches
who have hitherto only partly administered the Act will see that every member
has the opportunity to receive the State benefit through the Union.

POSTAL RATES.

Some of our correspondents are not conversant with the new postal rates,
Judging from the number of claims for excess postage made upon the Central
Office each day. It may be of some assistance to set forth the new scale for


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

311
Exchanges where the human touch is so often absent. So many of out members hold
the view that we had similar powers at our Annual Conferences as we enjoyed at the
Biennial ones, but such is not the case, and my appeal to the delegates confirms that view.
I question whether we shall hold any more Annuals after next year; there does not appear
to be the zeal for the same after the trials we have given them.
STAMPED FOOTWEAR.- May I once more appeal to our members to endeavour to put
a little life into the Stamped Boot and Shoe, as there is a very good agitation going on at
the present moment for a pure article for the benefit of the public. Some of us believe
that this agitation will save the hard earnings of poor people of this country who often
buy shoddy boots and are literally robbed of the money that they pay for them. This
is a statement which ought to be made, and I hope it fits every manufacturer who is guilty
of putting in strawboard or compo insoles to any boot or shoe in this country for outdoor
wear. Indoor is another matter; persons may be able to walk about barefoot or in their
stockinged feet, but to give people compo and paper in their boots without their knowledge
is nothing less than a fraud, and everything I can do to crush these people I shall be willing
to do, and I hope I shall get the assistance of all others in a similar turn of mind. To my
mind the country never knew of a better or more genuine article than when the War-time
boot was made, and I may add for the benefit of those people who object to Government
Departments, that this was made under Government supervision. For that reason some
of us would live more Government supervision, who could, if they liked, solve the unem-
ployment problem by finding direct employment.
7. MECKLENBURGH STREET.
LONDON, W.C. 1.
15th June, 1922.
Yours fraternally,

General President.
HOUSING PROBLEM.

86 Houses for over 1,400 Applicants. Position at Northampton.
The housing problem at Northampton is as acute as ever, and with the end of the
building of houses subsidised by the Government in sight, it is clear that the emergency
can only be met by the Town Council embarking on building schemes of its own.
Under the subsidy scheme the Council was allowed to build 560 houses, of which
about 510 are finished, and about 500 are occupied. The Housing Committee had hoped
to obtain Government grant towards the building of another one hundred, but the Govern-
ment has cut the number down to 36.
With Government aid, therefore, Northampton can build only 86 more houses. At
present the committee's books contain the names of no fewer than 1,403 applicants for
houses, and of late applications have been received at the rate of from 30 to 50 per week.
The position is even worse than these figures suggest, for of the 500 houses which
are let, at least 200 contain two families, the committee having placed two families in houses
where there are no children or only one child.
The matter was before the Housing Committee at a meeting held on Monday night,
and the committee, believing that further subsidies are not likely to be forthcoming
decided that the time had arrived for preparing to deal with the problem without subsidy.
Government departments are to be communicated with immediately in order that no
time shall be lost in regard to holding inquiries that may be necessary, and the committee
are determined, with the sanction of the Council, to push matters forward with all possible
speed.
The nature of the applications in hand can be judged from the appended summary,
which was before the committee at Monday's meeting:
Ex-Service men with their wives and families occupying rooms, 571.
Ex-Service men and wives without children occupying rooms, 250.
Ex-Service men (single) anxious to get married, 61.
Ex-Service men, tenants of houses but under notice to quit from landlord, 122.
Not ex-Service men with their wives and families occupying rooms, 106.
Not ex-Service men and wives without children occupying rooms, 46.
Not ex-Service men (single) anxious to get married, 8.
Not ex-Service men, tenants of houses but under notice to quit rom landlord, 100.
Applications from persons residing outside the Borough, 73.-Daily Echo, Northamp-
ton, May 23rd, 1922.


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

315
BRANCH REPORTS.

BELFAST. - Trade continues to remain very bad here, and there are
no signs to give us any hope of an early improvement.

BRISTOL. - Trade here has been fair for the past month. We hope for
a continuation of the same. It is with deep regret we have to report first of
the death of one of our most esteemed stewards and committeemen in Mr.
J. Busteed. He has been a very active and live member, rendering at all times
most valuable help by word and deed to his shopmates and the Branch in general.
Our sympathy goes out to his widow and children: may they be sustained in
their time of trial in the loss of one who was an ideal father and shopmate.
Next we have to report the death of the veteran of the Branch, Mr. J. Gregory,
who has been a member since the formation of the Branch. He was nearly
92 years of age, and has been called for many years the Cobbler-Poet. He was
the first secretary of the Branch and rendered yeoman service for Trade Unonism
when it was far from being a popular gospel to preach, and did much to place
Trade Unionism and Labour politics on a firm foundation. To his bereaved
family we extend our sympathy, and may they take courage in the thought
that he did what he could for the uplifting of his fellow-men. The funeral of
each was attended by the Officers and a good number of members.

BRISTOL No. 2. - Trade in the Kingswood area is still very bad, but we
hope to see an improvement in the near future as it is about this time that buyers
place their orders for strong work. We think that no other centre has felt
the effects of the slump to such an extent as Kingswood. As a consequence we
find there has been evasions in carrying out the Holiday Scheme, but we hope
that with a revival of trade we shall get the scheme going again. We note
with pleasure that the trouble at Chesham looks like finishing with com-
plete success to the operatives. This should demonstrate to all the value
of being well organised, which is the only hope of being able to withstand an
attack on wages and conditions of labour. Pleased to report that we have a
short sick list and hope that it will remain so.

CHESHAM. - Six more firms have agreed to fall into line and pay all the
National conditions, including the Holiday Scheme. This only leaves two more
firms to be dealt with, one of which we hope to deal with in the course of a few
days. A partial resumption of work will commence at once, and our friend
Buckle will continue to negotiate with the employers until a complete resump-
tion of work can take place. We sincerely thank the following Branches for
their financial assistance which arrived after our last Monthly Report :-
Ayr, £2; Desborough, £5 5s.; Kendal, £2; Glasgow, £10; Stafford, £2; Aber-
deen, £1; Ipswich, £2 2s.

CHESTERFIELD. - Trade remains very bad at present though members
making New Work, after being closed five weeks, have now commenced work
again at the factory, are only working 16 hours per week. We hope things
will brighten up again soon and that all our members will be able to get em-
ployment, as I think the last two years have been the worst since we can re-
member in the above branch.

EDINBURGH. - Another Annual Conference has gone by with not much
real business being done. Cannot delegates get the larger issues always in
front. The employers are able to organise their forces better than the workers.
Is it small prejudice that is at the foundation of all the trouble? Trade here
is still very quiet in the manufacturing, but the repairing section seems to be
picking up a bit. Scottish Branches are having a meeting to try and find a


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

317
NOTTINGHAM. We have to report the death of one of our oldest
members, C. Holmes, who has been a continuous member, since the Union was
first started in 1874. The Secretary, President, and some of his shopmates
attended the funeral as a mark of respect. Trade is quiet with us, though
we have had very light out-of-work pay lately.
PLYMOUTH. - Lord Cave's Report on Trade Boards has formed the chief
subject of discussion at our Committee and Branch meetings, and we confess
that after careful consideration of this report, we look to the future with some
anxiety, for if the recommendations of Lord Cave are going to be given legis-
lative effect, then the usefulness of Trade Boards are going to be lessened
considerably, and the good work which has been accomplished since the passing
of the 1918 Act will be almost completely destroyed. We would call attention
to just one of the recommendations which seem to us to be of vital importance.
i.e. "That it be the duty of a Trade Board to fix a general minimum time-
rate for the general body of workers in the trade, such rates to be fixed with
reference to the lowest grade of ordinary workers in the trade." Here we have
the great fundamental basis upon which all the wage rates of the future may be
fixed by Trade Boards. Think what this means, comrades. You first find a
sweated trade, then proceed to find the wage of the ordinary worker, you try
to discover the various grades of ordinary workers. Having found the lowest
grade and the rates of wages paid, you fix your minimum accordingly, but
lest this should be too high and numbers of workers cannot earn the minimum,
then Lord Cave and his committee recommend that exemptions be granted-
most accommodating, ladies and gentlemen. But we doubt if even this dis-
tracted and distrusted Coalition Government will dare to stoop so low ; if so,
this must be the last nail in their coffin, and they must be sent away into the
wilderness to discover "Sunshine for all," which was promised so volubly
during the year 1919.
SOUTHAMPTON.-Trade slack, but there appears signs of a slight
improvement-may it grow in volume. It is weary work chronicling "Trade
Slack."
GREAT YARMOUTH. -No progress to report at Great Yarmouth.
SHOEMAKER AND ARTIST.
Pictures Shown at Arts and Crafts Exhibition.
Headed "The Art of the British Working Man," an article was recently published
in the Strand Magazine, paying a tribute to the pictorial work of Mr. Robert Mallett, and
reproducing a scene of his taken from Costessey. Mr. Mallett lives at 121, Marlborough
Road, Norwich, and is described as " a shoemaker earning on an average 22s. a week."
Visitors to the Arts and Crafts Exhibition in St. Andrew's Hall, Norwich, had the
opportunity last week of seeing a picture by Mr. Mallett, in the oils section. The canvas
measured about 30 by 28, and its subject was entitled "In a Wood near Norwich." The
drawing was plain and bold. The middle distance showed some gnarled oaks in full foliage,
and on the horizon was a little patch of colour, relieving what otherwise would be a too
pervasive greenery of leaf and grass.
"I always had a passion for painting," said Mr. Mallett, in an interview, "but not
till 1 was 24 did I really begin to take seriously to it. I have had some tuition
at drawing, but never at painting, being quite self-taught. I am 40 years of age.
I have five children, so you will see that mine is not a very easy lot. I have always felt
that I have never been able to do justice to myself, inasmuch as I have great difficulty
in finding the wherewithal to purchase my canvasses and accessories.
"I am very fond of nature, and my very limited leisure time is spent amongst the
various beauty spots about my native city. Costessey, about three miles from Norwich,
is one of my favourite haunts, and I consider it one of the prettiest villages in England."-
S and Leather Record, May 26th, 1922.
The wage named above refers to the wages paid in 1906.-E.L.P., Gen. Sec.]


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

319
TRADE UNION DEMONSTRATION.
A Two Hours' Open Air Meeting.
Under the auspices of the Chesham Trades Council and Labour Party a Trade Union
and Labour Demonstration was held on Saturday evening, and attracted a great deal of
attention, and so much interest that a large crowd stood for two hours and more in the
Broadway and listened with close attention to the six speakers. Mr. F. C Watkins,
President of the Chesham Labour Party, presided, and was supported by Mr. E. L. Poulton.
O.B.E... J.P. General Secretary of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, Mr
1. Buckle, J. P., and Mr. D. McCarthy, Organisers of that Union, Mr. S. Maynard, Typo
graphical Association, and Mr. W. T. Moulder. Workers' Union. The hesham Towe
Silver Prize Band led the procession which preceded the meeting.

A Change in Ten Years.
Mr. Maynard said his first words must be of congratulation to the workers upon the
size and quality of that demonstration. Such a demonstration could not have been held
in Chesham ten years ago. When he came to Chesham ten years ago there was not a
Trade Union branch in existence in the town at least, none showed their colours, and
he was surprised at that fact

The Early Days.
Mr. Moulder recalled the early days of Trade Union struggles in Chesham, their
successes and their set backs. It was a struggle almost heart-breaking, he said, and some
of them looked back upon those days with mixed feelings. The attitude then was, "What
are we going to get out of Trade Unionism?"; to-day there was a much less selfish
attitude, as the support accorded to the boot workers showed.

A Great Change.
Mr. McCarthy said nobody was more surprised and pleased than he at the great change
which took place in Chesham. When he first came to Chesham there was plenty to dis-
courage him now he found plenty to encourage him, and he hoped the workers would
remain firm. There was no need for them to waver. The union would back them up.
We were living in a time when working people were recognised factors in business and not
so much stuff to be thrown here and there at the will of a few. The general sympathy
was behind any struggle for proper
could be assured that they had the people with them as well as their union.

After Twenty-Five Years.
Mr. Poulton was suffering from the effects of a chill contracted on the way home from
Genoa, but he spoke at some length, and the audience followed very keenly his local and
national references. As he stood upon that platform his mind travelled back to his visits
to Chesham twenty-five years ago, when, with an old shopmate of theirs, he preached
Trade Unionism and they both found it a rather uphill task. He was quite sure that were
William Valentine Butler alive he would rejoice that the seed then sown had after many
days borne fruit. It was a small beginning, but the harvest was larger than they anti-
cipated. As short a time ago as two years, few would have dared to say that Chesham
men and women would have stood so firmly and shown so much loyalty in a struggle
for the common rights. But despite all forebodings, the Chesham men and women had
shown a steadfast front, and having shown that they were prepared to help themselves
they had the union behind them. There was a time when the workers in Chesham were
heedless of each other they each played for their own hand and they lost the game.
What had happened since? They had come to realise their responsibilities to one another :
they had caught the underlying spirit of Trade Unionism: they were standing up for one
another, and as a result they were waging a successful fight. To put it that they would
gain the victory if they remained steadfast was to put it rather crudely. They had

No Desire for a Victory which would Crush Other People.
They had a firm desire and intention, and that they would develop to its logical conclusion,
but they had no desire for a victory in the sense of the conqueror crushing the conquered.
They were out for victory in the sense that they wished to secure that national agreements
should be carried out in Chesham as elsewhere, and the struggle would continue until
that principle was established. Those present had no doubt been present also at the
meetings held by Mr. Buckle. No doubt Mr. Buckle found it necessary to speak very
straightly, but he was sure he never did and never would speak offensively about any
individual emplover. There was no personal quarrel with individual employers: there


---


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

323

NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF LABOUR WOMEN.
DELEGATES' REPORT.

We attended the National Conference of Labour Women, held at Leamington on
the 9th and 10th May, there were 338 delegates in attendance. We were welcomed by
Mrs. Warwick. Mrs. Hill, of the Women's Section, Leamington. Mr. Peree Cole, prospective candidate
for Warwick, was then called upon and he explained in short debate what we women
can do for ourselves. Miss Margaret Bondfield presided over the Conference and reported
the increase in the individual sections and the wonderful way the women were working in
the movement, our one aim being co-operation and common sense to push forward for
absolute equality. The Conference was educational and interesting and much discussion
took place. The Conference recorded its regret for the failure of Great Britain to ratify
conventions adopted at the International Conference under the terms of the Peace Treaty
of Washington. Another resolution urged the recognition of the Government of Russia
and the restoration of International co-operative trade. Disarmament formed an interesting
subject and caused much discussion, delegates assenting that we should not encourage our
children with movements or toys of the militarist description. Much agitation arose over
Motherhood and Childhood endowment, the committee recommending equal provisions
for mothers and children whose livelihood is cut off through unemployment, illness or
desertion by the father. One speaker urged that the endowment be paid in money, pro-
portioned to the family income, others spoke in favour of it being paid in kind. After
several other delegates expressed their views on the subject, Miss Bondfield added it could
be discussed at the branches if the report was approved. There were great differences of
opinions. Resolutions were passed urging the unemployment grant to be increased to
for the women and increases for men, also the Conference regretted the attack recently
made on the Trade Board system, and the proposal of the Cave Committee to restrict the
scope of the Trade Board Acts. This was the final of the Conference, Miss Bondfield
thanking all delegates for their attendance.

Yours fraternally,
I. GUMSLEY. EDITH SHERWIN.
E. PHILLIPS. A. BILLINGTON.
E. ALI. A. SMALLEY.
A. OAKENFUL.

TUBERCULOSIS IN BOOT FACTORIES.

A question as to the prevalence of consumption in the boot and shoe trade was put
by Mr. William Langley, J.P., secretary of the Rushden, Higham Ferrers, Irthlingborough
and Raunds District Branch of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, at a
meeting of the Irthlingborough Urban Council, on the presentation of the annual report
of the Medical Officer of Health. Dr. Elliott (the Medical Officer) said that consumption
was more prevalent amongst boot and shoe makers than was the case in many other
trades, but added that he believed that lately there had been manifested an improvement
throughout the country.

One of the councillors inquired if the Medical Officer knew of any factory in Irthling-
borough which caused a larger proportion of deaths from tuberculosis than in such sur-
rounding towns as Rushden, Wellingborough, or Kettering. In reply, Dr. Elliott said he
knew of none, and he expressed the opinion that a town sometimes struck an epidemic
of tuberculosis, which lasted for a few years and then died down. He believed that the
present anti-tuberculosis campaign at Irthlingborough would do good, but that the results
might not be seen in the immediate future. Shoe Trades Journal, 23rd June, 1922.

CO-OPERATIVE SUPERVISOR.

Mr. John Haigh, the present manager of the Co-operative Wholesale Society's boot
factories at Leeds and Heckmondwike, has been appointed as temporary supervisor of
the society's boot factories in the Leicester and Derby areas. This has, unfortunately,
become necessary owing to the early retirement of Mr. T. E. Hubbard, who has nearly
completed 50 years of faithful service to the C.W.S. at the Leicester boot works, and the
unfortunate illness of Mr. Hubbard's assistant, Mr. Frank Poynton. Mr. Poynton has been
stricken by a serious illness, which will incapacitate him from active duty for a considerable
time. Mr. Haigh is taking charge until such time as a new management and organising
force is engaged and installed. Leicester Mail, May 24th, 1922.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

326
THE TRADE UNION ACT (1913) AMENDMENT BILL
The Bill to amend the Trade Union Act, 1913, which was given a second reading in
the House of Commons on May roth, is a challenge to the Trade Union Movement
The history of Trade Unionism is a history of struggle. From 1800, when Combina.
tions were forbidden, there was a struggle of a quarter of a century before the Combination
Laws were repealed. It was not until half a century later that collective bargaining was
finally recognised by the law of the land. In 1900 the Taff Vale Decision gave a staggering
blow to the Trade Union Movement. After an active agitation, the Trade Disputes Act
was passed in 1906. This Act had hardly been placed on the Statute Book before Osborne
Judgment temporarily paralysed the political Labour Movement, and it was not until
began proceedings against the Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants. The Osborno
1913 that the Labour Party was able to breathe freely. The Trade Union Act which
was then passed is to-day menaced by the Trade Union Act (1913) Amendment Bill
engineered by the Tory Party. If this measure were to be passed into law, the situation
woul be as serious as that created by the Osborne Judgment.
As the law at present stands, the onus is upon a Trade Unionist to declare that he
does not intend to contribute to the political fund of his Union. The Amending Bil
proposes that the onus should fall upon him of declaring his intention to contribute
According to the present law he may claim exemption; according to the new Bill, he will
active steps to be exempted from his automatic exemption. He can now contract out of
the trouble of contracting in.
It is laid down in the Bill that :--
(i.) It shall be competent for any member of the Union to give notice in the
form set out in the First Schedule to this Act, or in a form to the like effect, that
he is willing to be levied and to contribute to a political fund of the Union by sending
such notice to the secretary of the lodge or branch of which he is a member, or to
the general secretary of the Union; "
Moreover, it is provided that :-
(iii.) Any member who has given notice of his willingness to contribute to
the political fund of the Union shall on and from the first day of January next
following the date of such notice cease to be liable to contribute as aforesaid, unless
during the current year of such notice and before such first day of January he shall
send to the secretary of the lodge or branch of which he is a member, or to the
general secretary, a notice in writing of his willingness to renew such notice for the
ensuing year, and in that event his liability to contribute as aforesaid shall continue
for a further period of one year and shall then cease, unless again renewed."
Put briefly, no Trade Unionist will be liable to pay a political levy, unless he states
his desire so to pay in writing, and to renew his written statement each year.
But this is not all. The Bill imposes obstacles to the establishment of any political
fund at all. According to the Act of 1913, the funds of a Trade Union are not to be applied
in the furtherance of political objects, "unless the furtherance of these objects has been
approved as an object of the Union by a resolution for the time being in force passed on a
ballot of the members of the Union taken in accordance with this Act for the purpose
by a majority of the members voting." The Amending Bill alters this and requires that
there shall be a vote " of at least 50 per cent. of the members" and that " of the votes recorded
those in favour of the proposal exceed by 20 per cent. or more, the votes of those against the
proposal" to further political objects.
It will be seen that the purpose of the Bill is to strangle the political activities of the
Trade Union Movement. The method proposed is based less on the opposition of Trade
Unionists to the political levy than on the inertia of most people, and on the hindrance
which the complicated procedure of notice in writing will be to quite loyal Trade Unionists.
The arguments against the Tory Bill are obvious. It is class legislation of the worst
type, and it seeks to impose on Trade Unions conditions which do not apply to other
associations. It attempts to draw a distinction between industrial and political questions
which does not, in fact, exist. It would, if passed, put upon those who subscribed to the
political fund the onus of providing the means for a Labour Party which can promote the
workers' industrial interests in Parliament on such questions as Unemployment Insurance,
Workmen's Compensation, &c.; and, finally, it would complicate and render more difficult
Trade Union administration.
The Bill is an attempt to counteract the growing strength of the Labour Party. It
is significant that it should have been introduced into the present House of Commons,
with its huge Government majority of men, a considerable proportion of whom probably
never expect to sit in another Parliament, and into a Parliament elected on quite other
issues. It is doubtful, indeed, whether any single Member of the House of Commons ever
referred to the question in his election campaign.
ad
W
of
T
T
ta
i


---


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

328
HOUSING CONDITIONS AT EARL SHILTON.
Dilapidated Property that Must be Swept Away.
study of housing conditions at Earl Shilton
one would rather say living
The writer has a first-hand
bhoir fot there is very little real housing suggests that that village is probably
off thron probably any other place in the country to-day.
mee with Jumdom in many parts of the kingdom, including several of the darkest
om the Black Country, where the very nature of the industries makes against satis-
Lactory housing but has never yet found a district of which one could fairly say that the
Yet the may be truly written of Earl Shilton, where people have perforce to occupy
reater part of its house property was either dangerous, completely derelict, or both.
Cottage, many of which were condemned by the local authority itself years ago.
It is not the purpose of this article to apportion the blame. Suffice it to remark that
nothing is more certain than that things have been allowed to drift until to-day the position
chaotic Demolition orders should have been made by the score when building was an
economic proposition.
One is told that even before the war Earl Shilton had its house shortage. There is no
drastic steps when private enterprise could have provided all the dwellings required.
reason to doubt that, but it does not explain away the failure of the local authority to take
Assume for the moment, however, that the necessary workmen's cottages would not have
at that time, In 1913 houses were available in neighbouring districts, and it would have
been forthcoming in 1913, which is hardly likely, as property was not such a bad investment
ditions which were-and still are terrible. A sweeping course, no doubt, but if that
been far better to drive people out of the village than allow them to remain under con-
were the only alternative then it should have been boldly faced. Instead, there appears
we have been dilly-dally and apathy, despite strenuous efforts on the part of a few, who
were warmly supported by the then County Medical Officer of Health. With the coming
of the great national peril in 1914, there was an inevitable lull in the attempt to ensure
decent housing at Earl Shilton, and it was not until some property fell in recently, happily
and luckily without loss of life, that public attention was again focussed on this problem.
Let it be said at once that the inhabitants themselves are for ever complaining of their
lot. Practically every woman you address is indignant about the state of affairs. During
a tour of the place the other day a statement-made as a sort of apology to the stranger
up. What is surprising to the independent investigator, though, is that the villagers
"(Of course, we should not stay here if we could get a house" was constantly cropping
have not united in an emphatic protest.
I hear that the situation is to be discussed at the next meeting of the Hinckley Rural
District Council. It is to be hoped that the Council will tackle the problem as it must be
tackled, firmly and with the determination to efface the dwellings in their area which are a
challenge to clean living with the minimum of delay.
The process of elimination will, of necessity, cover a lengthy period, but the attention
of the Ministry of Health, the Government Department responsible for housing, ought
to be immediately drawn to the conditions. In fact, the local governing body should
press for an inquiry.
I understand that so far the Rural District Council has received permission to erect
80 houses in Shilton. The men who ought to know tell me that at least another 200
are required, and that they must be let at moderate rents, if the present unsatisfactory
state of affairs is to be alleviated. The whole business bristles with difficulties. There
is no denying that. Already, for instance, tenants of new Council houses are taking in
lodgers, which is contrary to the terms of tenancy. They are in all probability doing this
because they cannot afford to pay the high rents. This cannot go on for ever, or the new
housing site will become overcrowded. And overcrowding means a thousand and one
other evils.
After an hour or so in Earl Shilton one could cite numerous cases of families, big
families, too, that exist in places that would not make serviceable barns. There is pro-
perty without rainwater spouting (hence all the walls are drenched, inside and out), pro-
perty through the walls of which one can push one's arm without any special exertion,
thatched roofs on which grass is growing, and in at least one bedroom I saw it is possible
to lie in bed and while away the time by counting the stars, an occupation that would not
commend itself to many.
Earl Shilton is situate in one of the nicest and most elevated parts of Leicestershire.
The village population is increasing, and, under efficient local government, Shilton should
become an important industrial township, none the less healthy because of its industrialism.
Leicester Advertiser, May 20th, 1922.
da
for
ca
fo
ex
e
G


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

332
POLITICAL LEVY.
Committee Stage of Tory Bill-Lively Scenes-Labour Amendments
Ruled Out.
Commons
chairman, rising and abruptly adjourning discussion until to-day, marked the considera-
Scenes of violent altercation, terminating by Sir Watson Rutherford (C.C.), the
tion if such it could be called by a Standing Committee of the House of
yesterday of the Trade Union Act (1913) Amendment Bill.
political action, members who desire to contribute to the political fund shall indicate in
The measure provides that when a trade union has passed a resolution in favour of
It further stipulates that at least 50 per
writing, every 12 months, their desire to do so.
majority of at least 20 per
cent. of the members must vote and of these there must be a
cent. before political action can be adopted.
Col. Meysey Thompson (Co.-U.), the promoter of the measure, wished to move the
adjournment on the ground that some of the amendments would entirely change the
principle of the Act.
Without accepting the motion, however, the chairman thought some explanation
should be given for amendments put down "in an unusual manner."
unusual. He hinted that consideration of it should be adjourned for a fortnight, men-
Stephen Walsh retorted that the whole Bill and the manner of its introduction was
tioning that the Labour Party Conference comes next week, and the promoters of the Bill
should not desire to keep men with responsible positions in the Party from discharging
their responsibilities.
"Out of Order."
But the Bill must be proceeded with, ruled the chairman, and Stephen Walsh at once
unions with political funds, a proposal which the chairman peremptorily ruled out of
to maintain the status quo
order.
Almost a similar fate befell an amendment put down by James Wignall to make the
Bill applicable only to trade unions formed after the passing of the Act.
moved the first amendment, the object of which was
“
Illogical" was the view of Sir B. Denniss, another Co.-Unionist. What was good
enough for new trade unions should be good enough for the old.
Such sweeping changes as the Bill proposed should not be made retrospective pleaded
Stephen Walsh, and Tom Myers maintained that the existing law met all existing needs.
The chairman here pointed out that the principle of the Bill must not be discussed,
as that was agreed to on second reading in the House. He was proceeding to appeal to
members, when
"Order."
J. E. Swan interjected" On behalf of class," an observation greeted by cries of
The chairman said he had never heard a more vulgar observation, and Colonel Meysey
Thompson said he could not accept the amendment.
Had he seen it before, said the chairman, he would have ruled it out of order, because
it was clear the intention of the Bill was to be retrospective. The supporters of the amend-
ment must show exceptional cases where the Bill should not be applied.
T. W. Grundy thereupon instanced the Miners' Federation, and said the political
levy was a model of secrecy and fairness.
Class legislation of the very worst type was Swan's description of the measure, and he
was called to order for "straying from the principle of the Bill."
Altercation ensued, in the midst of which another Co.-Unionist, Mr. G. Balfour moved
the closure, which the chairman put amid loud protests from Labour members.
votes to 16.
The closure was carried by 24 votes to 17, and the amendment was defeated by 25.
"Twenty-five wreckers," commented Swan.
Sharp Exchanges.
"
attempted to drown the remarks with derisive laughter.
You are the boys to make Bolsheviks," joined in James Wignall, while the opposition
Hayday then proceeded to move an amendment, which the chairman expressed his
inability to understand, and more sharp exchanges took place, James Sexton accusing
Sir George Younger of working to smash the trade unions, an accusation which Sir George
Younger denied.

---
Here is the text from the image:

333

The amendment proposed to leave out of Clause 1 of the Bill certain words which
Hayday said Labour members could not understand. It was defeated, however, by 231017.
Two subsequent amendments were ruled out of order, and a motion was then pot
to adjourn till Thursday.
The chairman said it was necessary to make as much progress as possible. The10
was unfinished because of interruptions by Labour members.
is not a single amendment of substance on the paper," he proceeded, but his observation
"That is a most unfair statement " cried one, while another declared" We might
adjourned until to-day, and immediately left the chair.Daily Herald, June 21st, 1922
During the scene which followed, the chairman intimated that the Committee stood
well adjourn for good."
PROTESTS AGAINST THE BILL.
Association, Easington Lodge of Durham Miners' Association and Kingswood Labour
Leicestershire Miners' Association, the north-western group of the Typographical
Party have passed resolutions against the Bill. Daily Herald, June 21st, 1922.
OUR OVERSEAS TRADE.
Exports and Imports of Boots and Shoes still Increasing.
We give below an abstract of the Board of Trade Returns for May, so far as the shoe
and leather trades are concerned. It should be noted that comparisons with 1913 have
now been discontinued. Comparisons are given with the two previous years, in accordance
with the pre-war practice.
Exports of Boots and Shoes.
Quantities.
Month ended May 31st.
Value.
1920.
1921.
Doz.
1922.
Doz.
1920.
Doz.
1921.
1922.
Of Leather-
Pairs.
Pairs.
Pairs.
To Sweden
1,706
£
740
1,284
£
11,250
f
وو Netherlands
Germany..
143
156
4,673
4,992
94.5
14,327
3,122
3,723
5,325
92,748
3
وه
Belgium
2,579
634
19,384
1,502
18,045
14,928
6,356
"
France
12,366
650
2,851
9,682
107,252
7,099
29,138
"
Italy
149
6
3
971
22
"
"
Argentine Republic
23
183
47
20
2,564
671
184
Egypt
(including
Anglo-Egyptian
Sudan)..
2.975
413
979
28,109
3,524
6,206
Brit. South Africa
21,004
4,079
6,354
189,413
33,707
40,489
دو
دو
British East Indies
,, Australia..
دو
وه
British West India
5,055
558
832
57,498
6,808
6,546
128
726
2,603
3,153
1,082
336
3,762
7,532
1,489
13,522
New Zealand
Islands (including
Bahamas)
and
British Guiana
711
300
2,016
13
Other Countries
7,022
2,621
9,370
15,468
8,956
13,993
119,226
50,216
81,692
Of other materials
Total (of leather)
77,876
20,057
39,647 645,178
140,293
219,928
(except rubber)
Of rubber
24,584
6,234
9,268
62,330
16,489
22,175
13,752
6,640
10,929
30,852
15,700
19,073
Grand Total
32,931 116,212
59,844 £738,360 £172,482 £261,176
and shoes of leather, rubber, and other materials were valued at £2,961,431, £1,363,233,
For the five months ended May 31st, 1920, 1921, and 1922, the exports of British boots
and $1,207,772 respectively.

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

NATIONAL UNION OF
BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES

Official Report
of the
SECOND ANNUAL
CONFERENCE,
LONDON

Whitsuntide, 1922

Read by
T. F. RICHARDS,
General President,
London

Reported by
ERNEST BORDOLI,
Confidential Clerk to the
Union, London

Copyright.

SEAT OF GOVERNMENT :
34, GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

LIST OF DELEGATES.
Executive Council Members.
RICHARDS, Mr. T. F., General
President.
ADNITT. Mr. T. (Leicester).
BATES, Mr. C. (Rushden).)
SMITH, Mr. L. (Northampton).
BI EAKLEY, Mr. C. (Edinburgh).
MAYES, Mr. C. (Kettering).
MANNERS, Mr. J. (Bristol).
BUCKLE, Mr. J., J.P.
Organisers.
MCCARTHY, Mr. D.
Parliamentary Representative.
SMITH, Mr. W. R., M.P., J.P.
Standing Orders Committee.
JEX, Mr. F. C.
PARBURY, Councillor G.
HILL, Alderman A., J.P.
TOWNLEY, Mr. W. R., J.P.
CHESTER, Councillor G.
Branch Permanent (full time) Officials.
OSBORNE, Mr. J. T. (Bristol No. 1).
*MANNERS, Mr. J. (Bristol No. 2).
JOHNSON, Mr. I. Н., J.P.
(Daventry).
BARNES, Mr. S. J. B., J.P. (Des-
borough).
GAMBLE, Mr. M. (Glasgow No. 1).
*BATES, Mr. C.
(Higham and Rushden).
LANGLEY, Mr. W., J.P.
BATCHELOR, Mr. E.
*WARNER, Mr. W. (Hinckley).
*MAYES, Mr. C. (Kettering No. 1).
CHESTER, Mr. G.
CHAPMAN, Mr. J. E. (Kettering
No. 2)
RANDALL, Mr. A. J., J.P. (Kings-
wood).
*DOBBS. Mr. A. J. (Leeds).
WESCOE, Mr. J.
*ADNITT, Mr. T. (Leicester Nc. 1).
WHEELER, Mr. J.
PARKER, Mr. М.
WORTH, Mr. A.
PARBURY, Mr. G.
ASTLEY, Mr. D.
BELL-RICHARDS, Mrs Mary I
(Leicester).
WARNER, Mr. W. (Hinckley
LAW, Mr. E. (Northampton).
IHINDES, Mr. W., J.P. Norwich.
DOBBS, Mr. A. J. (Leeds)
SMITII, Mr. Alex. (Wolverhampton).
POULTON, Mr. E. L., J.P., General
Secretary.

VALLANCE, T. H. (Leicester No. 2).
HILL, Alderman A. (Leicester No. 2).
SMITH, Mr. G.
*BELL-RICHARDS, Mrs. M. J.
KING, Miss M.
(Leicester No. 3).
MASON, Mr. A. (London Metro.).
WOODWARD, Mr. J.
TOWNLEY, Mr. W. R.
(Northampton No. 1).
*SMITH, Mr. Len.
PITTS, Mr. W.
*LAW, Mr. E. (Northampton No. 2).
LYNE, Mr. H. W.
THOMPSON, Mr. S., J.P.
*HINDES, Mr. W. (Norwich No. 1).
JEX, Mr. F. C.
BIRD, Mr. A.
SEGON, Mr. F. H. (Norwich No. 2).
FOLKARD, Mr. A. H., J.P.
LEADER, Mr. F. (Sileby).
DUNN, Mr. R. (Stafford).
HOOPER, Mr. J. H., JP. (Street).
POOLE, Mr. L. P, (Wellingborough).
WYMAN, Mr. W. A.
*SMITH, Mr. Alex. (Wolverhampton).

*Council Members, are entitled to attend the Conference by virtue of their office.
A


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

Northampton.
BIRT, Mr. Λ.
HAWGOOD, Mr. H.
JONES, Mr. W.
LEWIS, Mr. T. W.
STANTON, Mr. F.
SWANNELL, Mr. W.
Northampton No. 2.
BROWN, Mr. E.
FAREY, Mr. G.
FOUNTAIN, Mr. J.
HEFFORD, Mr. W.
NORMAN, Mr. F.
RICKETTS, Miss N.
SMITH, Mrs. R.
Leicester.
BRUIN, Mr. S.
COLLIN, Mr. J. T.
CRAMPHORN, Mr. H.
GREAVES, Mr. J.
KENDALL, Mr. W.
MOORE, Mr. W. J.
NEEDHAM, Mr. A.
SKELDING, Mr. A. E.
WEST, Mr. A.
Leeds No. 2, Mansfield, Derby.
BLISSETT, Mr. W. N. (Derby).
Leicester No. 2.
BAUM, Mr. J. H.
HARRIS, Mr. R.
MAYER, Mr. W.
BURKE, Mr. F.
Kingswood, Norwich No. 2.
AMOND, Mr. G. (Norwich No. 2).
JONES, Mr. G. (Kingswood).
PAIN, Mr. W.
Norwich.
CHAPMAN, Mr. B.
FRAZER, Mr. H.
HINDES, Miss M.
NEAL, Mr. F.
Higham and Rushden.
CROUCH, Mr. А.
GROOM, Mr. T.
HEARN, Mr. W.
HEWLETT, Mr. F.
HILLS, Mr. W.
MORRIS, Mr. R.
SHORT, Mr. F.
UNDERWOOD, Mr. G.
Glasgow.
ROBERTSON, Mr. T.
Street.
DAVIES, Mr. H. G.
Wellingborough.
BILLINGTON, Miss A.
CURZON, Mr. F.
RABBITT, MМг. Т.
Hinckley, Desborough, Wolverhampton
HINCKS, Mr. G. (Hinckley).
PUGH, Mr. A. (Wolverhampton).
Daventry, Stone, Chesham.
ARNULL, Mr. D. C. (Daventry).
Kettering No. 2, London Metro.
RAWSON, Mrs. A. (Kettering No.2
STEVENSON, Mr. W.
TAYLOR, Mr. J. E.
POULTON, Mr. H. (London Metro.)
STANFORD, Mr. F.
Bristol No. 2.
PEACOCK, Mr. S.
Stafford, Leeds.
BROWN, Mr. C. (Stafford).
HOUSBY, Mr. E.
BIRKENSHAW, Miss E. (Leeds).
Bristol, Kendal.
WATTS, Mr. T. A. (Kendal).
Leicester (Women's).
ABRAHAM, Mrs. L.
LOWE, Miss J.
SHERWIN, Miss E.
TIMMS, Miss E.
Kettering.
CAMPBELL, Mr. G.
ROWLETT, Mr. J.
YEOMANS, Mr. W. J.
Aberdeen, Arbroath, Ayr, Dundee, Edin-
burgh, Glasgow No. 2, Kilmarnock,
Maybole.
REID, Mr. J. P. (Arbroath).
WHITE, Mr. R. (Edinburgh).
Chesterfield, Eyam, Hull, Halifax, Not-
tingham, Sheffield, Shepshed, Whit-
wick, York, Bromsgrove, Barnsley,
Bishop Auckland, Newcastle.
LODGE, Mr. W. H. (Newcastle-on-
Tyne).
Belfast, Burnley, Cork, Liverpool, Old-
ham, Waterford.
WHITE, Mr. G. (Belfast).
Manchester, Ipswich, Colchester, Yar-
mouth, Lincoln, Heckmondwike.
MASON, Mr. J. (Manchester).
Plymouth, Portsmouth, Midsomer Nor-
ton, Redruth, Worcester, Reading,
London South, Halesworth.
OWENS, Mr. W. (London South).


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

Tellers.

85. Two delegates shall be appointed as Tellers, whose uling as to
numbers shall be final, except in cases of dispute, when the Chairman shall orde
a recount.

Door Keeper.

86. A Door Keeper (not a delegate) shall be elected at the commence
ment of the Conference, whose duties shall be to test all applications for
admittance to Conference, and also to keep the floor of the hall strictly for
delegates only, and also to regulate the granting of passes to members of the
public to the gallery, and to perform such other duties as may be required
of him by the General Secretary. Preference to be given to a local man, and
his pay shall be 15s. per day for any day or days required.

Voting.

87. The system of voting shall be by show of hands, the decision of the
majority to rule.

Limitation of Speeches.

88. Every latitude is to be allowed the Delegates for giving expression to
their views on the various subjects that may be brought before the
Conference: but in the event of the Chairman seeing that the business is not
making satisfactory progress, he shall have power to appeal to the Conference
to limit the time allowed to movers of resolutions to ten minutes, a seconder
to seven minutes, and any subsequent speaker to five minutes. No one shall
speak more than once on a question, except the mover of an original
resolution. Should the President be of opinion that there is no practical
difference among the Delegates, he shall have power to stop the discussion.

Amendment of Standing Orders.

89. Should any amendment of the Standing Orders of Conference be
proposed by any Branch, such amendment shall be forwarded at the same
time and under the same conditions as the amendments proposed to the Rules.
Notice of such amendment to be sent by the General Secretary to the
Delegates as early as convenient after receipt.

Delegates leaving Conference.

90. No Delegate shall leave Conference without the consent of the
President. Delegates absent one whole sitting without leave of absence shall
be named by the Chairman. The Conference shall decide thereupon what
action shall be taken with any such Delegate.

ORDER OF BUSINESS

To be transacted by the
SECOND ANNUAL CONFERENCE

To be held in the
Club Union Buildings, Clerkenwell Road,
London, E.C. 1,

On 5th, 6th and 7th JUNE, 1922.

CHAIR TO BE TAKEN BY THE GENERAL PRESIDENT
AT 10 O'CLOCK A.M. ON MONDAY, 5th JUNE, 1922.

1-Chairman's Welcome to Delegates.

2-Election of Doorkeeper.

3.-Election of Two Tellers.

4. - General Secretary to report Result of Voting for Standing Orde
Committee.

5.-Chairman's Address to Conference.

6.-Council's Address.

7.-Resolutions submitted by Branches.

8-General Business.


---
Here is the text from the image:

4
Tellers.
85. Two delegates shall be appointed as Tellers, whose ruling as to
numbers shall be final, except in cases of dispute, when the Chairman shall order
a recount.
Door Keeper.
86. A Door Keeper (not a delegate) shall be elected at the commence-
ment of the Conference, whose duties shall be to test all applications for
admittance to Conference, and also to keep the floor of the hall strictly for
delegates only, and also to regulate the granting of passes to members of the
public to the gallery, and to perform such other duties as may be required
of him by the General Secretary. Preference to be given to a local man, and
his pay shall be 15s. per day for any day or days required.
Voting.
87. The system of voting shall be by show of hands, the decision of the
majority to rule.
Limitation of Speeches.
88. Every latitude is to be allowed the Delegates for giving expression to
their views on the various subjects that may be brought before the
Conference; but in the event of the Chairman seeing that the business is not
making satisfactory progress, he shall have power to appeal to the Conference
to limit the time allowed to movers of resolutions to ten minutes, a seconder
to seven minutes, and any subsequent speaker to five minutes. No one shall
speak more than once on a question, except the mover of an original
resolution. Should the President be of opinion that there is no practical
difference among the Delegates, he shall have power to stop the discussion.
Amendment of Standing Orders.
89. Should any amendment of the Standing Orders of Conference be
proposed by any Branch, such amendment shall be forwarded at the same
time and under the same conditions as the amendments proposed to the Rules.
Notice of such amendment to be sent by the General Secretary to the
Delegates as early as convenient after receipt.
Delegates leaving Conference.
90. No Delegate shall leave Conference without the consent of the
President. Delegates absent one whole sitting without leave of absence shall
be named by the Chairman, The Conference shall decide thereupon what
action shall be taken with any such Delegate.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

ORDER OF BUSINESS
To be transacted by the
SECOND ANNUAL CONFERENCE
To be held in the
Club Union Buildings, Clerkenwell Road,
London, E.C. 1,
On 5th, 6th and 7th JUNE, 1922.

CHAIR TO BE TAKEN BY THE GENERAL PRESIDENT
AT 10 O'CLOCK A.M. ON MONDAY, 5th JUNE, 1922.

1-Chairman's Welcome to Delegates.
2-Election of Doorkeeper.
3.-Election of Two Tellers.
4-General Secretary to report Result of Voting for Standing Orders Committee.
5.-Chairman's Address to Conference.
6.-Council's Address.
7.-Resolutions submitted by Branches.
8.-General Business.


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

7
UNEMPLOYMENT ACT.
10. NORWICH No. 1.-“This Conference places on record its profound for the that the partial administration of the Unemployment Insurance Act by the Branches of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Ope ates against the best interests of the individual member at the Union as a whole.
It, therefore, requests the Council to take the necessary steps to terminate the arrangement with the Government at the cathest possible date."

MARRIED WOMEN IN FACTORIES.
11. WELLINGBOROUGH.-'That this Conference is of the opinion that where Married Women (with husbands at work) are employed, the Council should endeavour to arrange terms with the Manufacturers' Federation on the following lines:-That in the event of trade depression so as to necessitate the running of short time in any factory, Married Women (with husbands at work) should be the first to stand down."

POLITICAL AGENTS.
12. WELLINGBOROUGH. "That in order to secure greater co ordination in the Political activities of the Union, the Political Agents employed by the Union should be asked to attend periodically the Council Meetings, or at other times when the Council think fit, when the Political policy of the Union is under discussion. Further, that Political Agents be asked to attend the Annual Conference for the day when political matters are being discussed."

SUPERANNUATION.
13. WELLINGBOROUGH.-"That this Conference is of the opinion that the time has arrived for the establishment of a Superannuation Fund for its aged members, and instructs the Council to appoint a Sub-Committee to make inquiries from those Trade Unions who already have a Supera nuation Fund, and to place before the next Conference a scheme which could be taken up by those members.desirous of so doing."

14. WELLINGBOROUGH.-"That the words 'At the Seat of Government' in the minute passed at the Edinburgh Conference relating to the Annual Conference be rescinded. Further, that all future Conferences be held away from Boot and Shoe Manufacturing Centres." (NOTE. This is out of order as rules cannot be altered until 1923. See Rule 70.)


---
Here is the text from the image:

8
OPENING OF THE CONFERENCE.

The Second Annual Conference of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives
opened at the Club Union Buildings, Clerkenwell Road, London, E.C. 1, on Whit-Monday,
5th June, 1922, at 10 a.m.
Mr. T. F. Richards, General President of the Union presided, and was supported by
Messrs. C. Bleakley (Edinburgh), A. J. Dobbs (Leeds), C. Mayes (Kettering), J. Manners
(Bristol), W. Hindes, J.P. (Norwich), Alex. Smith (Wolverhampton), T. Adnitt (Leicester),
W. Warner (Hinckley), E. Law (Northampton), Len Smith (Northampton), C. Bates
(Rushden), all members of the Executive of the Union, with Messrs. J. Buckle, J.P. and
D. McCarthy—organisers, and Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., J.P., Parliamentary representative.
Chairman's Welcome.

THE CHAIRMAN : On behalf of the Union, I beg to give you all a hearty welcome to
this thirty-fourth Conference of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, having
regard to all the Conferences held, and I hope your minds will be concentrated on the
membership, that we shall all do our best for those belonging to the organisation. You
will notice from the platform our General Secretary happens to be absent, owing to his
being a delegate to the American Federation of Labour. He sailed last Wednesday
morning. I shall submit a letter from him to you later. Our duty at present is the
election of a doorkeeper and tellers.
Election of Doorkeeper.

Upon the proposition of Mr. G. PARBURY, seconded by MR. T. ADNITT, Mr. James Cull,
of the London Metro. Branch, was unanimously elected doorkeeper, and the Chairman
asked Mr. Cull to take up the position.
Tellers..

The Chairman asked for nominations for Tellers : Messrs. W. Langley, R. Harris,
H. Frazer, M. Gamble and Miss E. A. Timms being nominated. A vote of the delegates
was taken with the following result :-
Mr. H. Frazer ... ... ... ... 9
Mr. M. Gamble . ... ... ... 31
Mr. R. Harris ... ... ... ... 12
Mr. W. Langley ... ... ... ... 60
Miss E. A. Timms ... ... ... ... 45

The Chairman declared Mr. W. Langley (Higham and Rushden), and Miss E. A. Timms
(Leicester Women), elected.


---
Here is the text from the image:

9
Standing Orders Committee.
The detailed voting for the Standing Orders Committee was read as follows:
Abraham, Mrs. L. (Leicester Women's)
Astley, Mr. D. (Leicester)
Barnes, J.P., Mr. S. J. B. (Desborough)
Barnes, Mr. W. (Norwich No. 2)
Baum, Mr. J. H. (Leicester No. 2)
Birt, Mr. A. (Northampton)
Brown, Mr. E. (Northampton No. 2)
Bruin, Mr. S. (Leicester)
Burke, Mr. F. (Leicester No. 2)
Campbell, Mr. G. (Kettering)
Chapman, Mr. B. (Norwich)
Chapman, Mr. J. E. (Kettering No. 2)
Chester, Mr. G. (Kettering)
Collin, Mr. J. T. (Leicester)
Dunn, Mr. R. (Stafford)
Folkard, J.P., Mr. A. H. (Norwich No. 2)
Fountain, Mr. J. (Northampton No. 2)
Frazer, Mr. H. (Norwich)
Gamble, Mr. M. (Glasgow)
Harris, Mr. R. (Leicester No. 2)
Hill, Ald. A. (Leicester No. 2)
Hills, Mr. W. (Higham and Rushden)
Jex, Mr. F. C. (Norwich)
Kendall, Mr. W. (Leicester)
King, Miss M. (Leicester Women's)
Langley, Mr. W. (Higham and Rushden)
Lewis, Mr. T. W. (Northampton)
Lowe, Miss J. (Leicester Women's)
Lyne, Mr. H. W. (Northampton No. 2)
Mason, Mr. A. (London Metro.)
Osborne, Mr. J. T. (Bristol)
Pain, Mr. W. (Kingswood)
Parbury, Mr. G. (Leicester)
Parker, Mr. M. (Leicester)
Pitts, Mr. W. (Northampton)
Poole, Mr. L. P. (Wellingborough)
Poulton, Mr. H. (London Metro.)
Randall, J.P., Mr. A. G. (Kingswood)
Rawson, Mrs. S. (Kettering No. 2)
Reid, J.P., Mr. (Arbroath)
Ricketts, Miss N. (Northampton No. 2)
Robertson, Mr. T. (Glasgow)
Sherwin, Miss E. (Leicester Women's)
Skelding, Mr. A. E. (Leicester)
Smith, Mr. G. (Leicester No. 2)
Timms, Miss E. (Leicester Women's)
Thompson, J.P., Mr. S. (Northampton No. 2)
Townley, Mr. W. R. (Northampton)
Wescoe, Mr. J. (Leeds)
Wheeler, Mr. J. (Leicester)
White, Mr. R. (Edinburgh)
Woodward, Mr. J. (London Metro.)
Wyman, Mr. W. A. (Wellingborough)

Messrs. F. C. Jex, A. Hill, G. Parbury, W. Townley and G. Chester being declared elected. The names of delegates omitted from the above list failed to secure any votes.

The Chairman's Address.
MR. T. F. RICHARDS: It has not been the custom for the General President to deliver an address since it was incorporated into the Council's Address. The majority of the important matters affecting the organisation are contained in the Address. There are one or two items of importance however which we should bear in mind, and we only have an opportunity of explaining them when we meet in conferences of this kind. Parliamentarily, all of us would like to dispense with the members of H.M. Government. Be that as it may, it would be much better when we do dispense with it, to have our own ready to take its place. That can only be brought about by our vigilence and our energy. I think it is


---


---
At this stage the Roll was called and all the delegates answered to their name except with the exception of Miss M. KING, of the Leicester No. 3 (Women's) Branch, whom the Chairman reported was ill.

Upon the proposition of MR. C. BLEAKLEY it was unanimously agreed that a letter of sympathy be sent to Miss King.

MR. G. PARBURY, on behalf of the Standing Orders Committee, reported all the credential cards were in order, except for Miss King and Mr. F. Leader (Sileby) who were missing.

THE CHAIRMAN reported that the Sileby Branch was out of benefit with the Union

Council's Address to Conference.
In the absence of the General Secretary, MR. J. MANNERS (Council Member) read the Address of the Council to Conference as follows:-

34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
5th May, 1922.
FELLOW MEMBERS,

1.---UNEMPLOYMENT.
The past year has been full of anxiety, not only for those holding office, but for the people generally due in no small degree to the fact that unemployment has been the lot of millions of workers on the one hand, and millions of others have been, and still are pleading for the barest necessities of life to keep them alive. This deplorable state of affairs, we hope, will, within the near future, so arouse the people that they will put into office men and women determined to grapple with the reasons that have brought about such a state.

As a Union we have been, and will continue to do our best to help those who find themselves without employment in the industry. The amount expended in Out-of-Work Benefit for 1921 was as follows:-
For half-year ending June, 1921 £76,920 17 10
For half-year ending December, 1921 £19,536 17 11
Total £96,457 15 9

In addition to such payment, we have paid out under the Government Scheme for the half-year ending
June, 1921 £19,685 12 3
December, 1921 £20,074 19 10
Total £39,760 12 1
and for contributions of members paid by the Union during the same period the following amounts :-
Half year ending June, 1921 £1,534 19 8
Half-year ending December, 1921 £1,716 5 4
Total £3,251 5 0

making a grand total of £139,469 12 10, which sum is, though inadequate as a proper income to the members, nevertheless one which has been of inestimable benefit to the recipients. We stated in our report last year that we were discussing with the Employers' Federation the question of a joint scheme for dealing with Unemployment and Under-employment for the industry. The Government Schemes have, however, for the time being,


---
put a stop to any mutual schemes such as was contemplated. During the
Vear we have taken a vote of the members, and secured powers to pay the
contributions of all members who were not in receipt of any income.
The question of Trade Schemes has, however, owing to the Geddes'
Report, once more become prominent so much so is this the case that the
Minister of Labour has sent a letter to both Employers' Associations and
Trade Unions asking for their views upon Insurance for Unemployment by
Industries rather than by a Government Scheme. We have therefore been in
correspondence with the Manufacturers' Federation about the question, and
at the same time the General Council of the Trades Union Congress have
also sent out to Trade Unions asking them, before committing themselves to
any particular Scheme or Schemes, to consult with the General Council upon
the subject with a view to ensuring some common line of action being pursued
by the Trade Union movement as a whole.

2. SPECIAL SICKNESS SCHEME.

The above-named matter, which, by your vote at the 1921 Conference,
we were instructed to proceed still further with, has not made any headway,
the employers not feeling themselves in a position to deal with the question
whilst the present slump continues.

3. THE FEBRUARY (1922) INTERIM AGREEMENT.

The question of the revision of the National (1919) Agreement was fully
reported upon last year, the result being that the following instruction was
passed as a guide to the Council: -

"This Conference gives full power to the Executive Council to revise,
if necessary, and adjourn the time of meeting with the Manu-
facturers until such time as circumstances should appear more
favourable for negotiation, but that no reduction of present
conditions be discussed until a Special Conference has been held."

We met the Executive Committee of the Manufacturers' Federation upon
the proposed revision of the Agreement on 24th May, 1921, and, after
discussing the general position, the following resolution was unanimously
agreed to :-

"That this Conference of the Manufacturers' Federation Executive and
the Executive Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives, having considered the question to amend the terms of
the 1919 Agreement, and the revised 1920 Agreement, hereby
decide to adjourn the matter for six months. It is to be clearly
understood the existing Agreement will remain in full operation.
Each side agrees to submit amended terms within the six months
period."

By this decision we secured another six months wherein the 1919-1920
Agreements continued to operate.

In December, 1921, under the chairmanship of Alderman F. Sheppard,
O.B.E., J.P., of Bristol, we met the Committee of the Employers' Federation
to again discuss proposals for a new Agreement, and after several meetings
proposals were arrived at which, though not satisfactory to us, were we felt
convinced the maximum could obtain. Those proposals were submitted to a
special conference of delegates held at the Boot & Shoe Trade Hall, Leicester,
on 29th December, 1921, the delegates being the same as dealt with the
que
dis


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

NATIONAL CONFERENCE, FEBRUARY (1922), INTERIM
AGREEMENT.

At a meeting of the National Joint Conference held at 7, Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 15th December, 1921, it was agreed and determined
dated the 13th February, 1919, shall remain in full force and effect, with the excep-
that the clauses and regulations contained in the National Conference Agreement
tion of clauses 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 (a) of the said Agreement for which the follow-
ing wage rates and piecework percentages shall be substituted, and it is further
together with clauses 7, 8, 9, and 10, herein contained, shall be recognised as the
agreed that these revisions in the minimum wage and precowork percentages
December (1921) Interim Agreement.
1.  That a first reduction of 4/ per week on Laywork wages (men 23 years of age and
    upwards), and 5 per cent. on Piecework earnings, shall take place on the second pay
    day in February, 1922.
    That a first reduction of 2/- per week on Daywork wages (women 20 years of age and
    upwards), and 25 per cent. on Piecework earnings, shall take place on the second pay
    day in February, 1922.
    The above reductions are conditional upon the index figure of the cost of living
    not rising above 110 full points as quoted by the Ministry of Labour in the
    December, 1921, Issue of the "Labour Gazette."
2.  That a second reduction of 4/- per week on Daywork wages (men 23 years of age and
    upwards), and 2t per cent. on Piecework earnings, shall take place on the second
    pay day in May, 1922.
    That a second reduction of 2/- per week on Daywork wages (women 20 years of age and
    upwards), and 2t per cent. on Piecework earnings, shall take place on the second pay
    day in May, 1922.
    The wage rates, as fixed by Clause 2, shall remain in operation until July 6th, 7th,
    or 8th, 1922.
3(a). That if the index figure of the cost of living, as quoted by the Ministry of Labour in the
    June, 1922, issue of the Labour Gazette, has fallen to 70 full points, there shall be a
    further reduction on the second pay day in July, 1922, of 4/- per week on the Day-
    work wages (men 23 years of age and upwards), and 2/- per week on Daywork wages
    (women 20 years of age and upwards), and 25 per cent. reduction on Piecework
    earnings (men) and 25 per cent. reduction on Piecework earnings (women), and these
    wage rates shall remain in force until 30th November, 1922.
(b). BUT, if the index figure of the cost of living, as quoted by the Ministry of Labour in the
    June, 1922, issue of the Labour Gazette, has fallen to 50 full points, the reduction shall
    be 6/- per week on Daywork wages (men 23 years of age and upwards), and 3/- per
    week on Daywork wages (women 20 years of age and upwards), and 5 per cent.
    reduction on Piecework earnings (men) and 3 per cent. reduction on piecework
    earnings (women) on the second pay day in July, 1922, which wage rates shall equally
    remain in force until 30th November, 1922.

    As there are varying ways in which the percentage increases granted under the
    Interim (1920) Agreement to the Piecework Statements were dealt with, the
    reductions on Piecework earnings set forth in clauses 1, 2, 3 (a) and (b) will
    be effected as shown in Clause 6 (b) of this Agreement.
4.  That after November 30th, 1922, and in the event of no subsequent agreement having
    been reached, decreases in the Index Figure of the Cost of Living, as quoted by the
    Ministry of Labour in the Labour Gazette, shall be adjusted in the following
    manner:-
    MEN
    (23 years of age and upwards)
    (In other than the Heel Building and
    Stock or Shoe Room)
    WOMEN
    (20 years of age and upwards
Cost of
Living
    Minimum Wage
    1919 Pieceworks
    Miniinum Wage
    Rates
    Statements
    Rares
    1919 Piecework
    Statements
30  50/-    Deduct 74% 31/-    Nett.
15  40/-    "   15%    29/-    Deduct 33%
Par 42/-    "   25%    27/-    "   10%


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

18
4. AMALGAMATION.
In the matter of amalgamation with other Unions we have not been able
to make any headway. The Amalgamated Union of Boot and Shoe Makers,
with whose Executive we had a number of interviews, and a fair amount of
correspondence, ultimately took a vote of their membership, which vote was
not in favour of amalgamation.
Another Union, called the London and Provincial Union of Handsewn
Boot and Shoe Makers, was also approached. They, however, were not in
favour of amalgamation.
5. INTERNATIONAL.
In relation to International Federation, we have made some headway.
A Conference was held in Vienna, in July of last year, at which a number
of Unions from England, France, Germany and Austria had representatives.
The meeting was really one called by the International Shoe and Leather
Workers. At the same time, and in the same building, there was another
Conference of Unions catering specially for the Leather Industries. A Joint
Conference was held to discuss the advisability of one International for all
workers concerned with the Leather Industry. After full discussion of the
matter, it was agreed that such an International should be formed. Our
delegates at the Conference were Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., J.P., and the
General Secretary. A small sub-committee was formed to draw up rules
and regulations as Standing Orders for the International Boot and Shoe
Operatives and Leather Workers' Federation.
The General Secretary was appointed upon this Committee, and Mr. Smith
accompanied him to the meeting in the capacity of visiting delegate. The
Sub-Committee met in August, 1921, and rules and regulations were drawn
up, which will be submitted to a full Conference to be held in Munich on
June 10th-immediately following this Conference of ours.
We hope that this Federation will be one of the means, not only of benefit
to the leather industry, but, by interchange of thought and wider knowledge
of the conditions of other countries, may bring about such complete under-
standing between the worker's as to render war between nations impossible.
6.-DANGERS OF SECTIONALISM.
The question has been raised upon more than one occasion within recent
date, as to whether the interests of all the members-male and female-can
be, and are efficiently attended to and dealt with by the Council or Branch
Officers. The special point raised is that officials generally are men, which
acts as a deterrent against the women members. In our opinion there is no
foundation for any such statement. We claim that the women members'
interests are fully and adequately dealt with. Further, in our judgment it
would be a retrograde step to begin to divide the membership of the Union
into separate watertight compartments. There is a further suggestion that
there should be unions for men and unions for women only, which in our
judgment is a policy that would not make for real progress, but rather increase
the difficulties by which the movement is faced from time to time.
7.-POLITICAL ASPECT.
The present position is far, very far, from being satisfactory, whether
looked at from a national or international standpoint. The state of the
world is not only unstable, but also, in many cases, as represented by
politicians, reactionary. The need for solidarity amongst the workers is
greater than ever. Attempts are being made, and that pretty constantly, to
m
tr
"
of
ba
ar
th
0
0
P
S
b
e


---
make arrangements between certain nations, which, far from tending to mutual
trust and confidence, would only result in a policy indistinguishable from the
"kind of diplomacy" that obtained up to 1914. To such methods we must
offer unrelenting opposition, and insist that agreements and understandings,
which should only be made after full discussion in Parliament, and be
based upon mutuality, goodwill and faith in the bona fides of one
another for the settlement of any differences by arbitration. Nationally
the outlook is one of grave import. Unemployment is still rampant, waste
of money still goes on in connection with a militant policy. On the
other hand, in matters that would really help the people, there is cheese-
paring, and an apparent determination to cut down expenditure upon that
part of policy which would the better fit one for properly carrying out their
duties as citizens. Under such circumstances, and with such an atmosphere
surrounding us, it becomes increasingly important that upon all occasions, in
both local and national elections, advantage should be taken of the same to
ensure the return of those who are pledged to carry out the labour policy.
This will need work not only when an election is near, but a good deal of
spade work being carried on constantly, whereby the electorate may be fully
informed of the real position of affairs. We trust that, in these matters, all
will do and give their best to aid the cause and to increase the momentum
behind the policy; accelerating, by such methods, the bringing into actual
practice those measures which will give to all the peoples of the earth
freedom and liberty, on the one hand, and deliverence from those terrible
conditions industrially of which so many at present are victims.
We are,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
The Address having been accepted it was agreed to take each paragraph seriatim later.
Reason for General Secretary's Absence.
At this stage the Chairman read the following letter, the same being received with
acclamation:
FELLOW DELEGATES,
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C.1,
31st May, 1922,
To my very great regret I shall not be with you at the Conference this year
other than in spirit. I believe this will be the first Conference from which I have
been absent for about thirty years. The reason for my absence is because of the fact
that I am one of the delegates representing the British Trade Union movement at the
American Federation of Labour Annual Convention. I feel confident, therefore,
although I may be absent from our own Conference, you will agree it is an honour,
not only to myself, but also to the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, to
be one of those elected to convey the greetings of the British Trade Union movement
to our colleagues across the seas.
The matters referred to in the Address of the Council to Conference, and in the
various resolutions from the branches, are both many and varied, and I have no doubt
there will be not only discussion upon many of the points, but diverse views expressed.
The diversity of view is a matter of which I have upon many occasions stated it is a
good thing, because we are more likely to arrive at a satisfactory determination of
any particular subject, the main point being that in our differences we should always
give one another credit for being sincere in the view that is being expressed.


---


---


---


---
regard to the women. When we all remember that when we come down to the
will stand for pieceworkers and the dayworkers will be down to 27s.
of the dayworker. We have a 48s. guarantee for pieceworkers, whilst the dayworker
It has made us more dissatisfied than ever, and to be more determined to fight the position
1 say more could
come down to 27s. That is insufficient for us in Leicester. We are not having it, and that
Is why we did not take a vote on the second occasion because we were against it
still against it, and shall fight with all the might we have. If the Council are not at the
back of us, and cannot do more for us, then we shall have to do it for ourselves, and have
done since the Agreement was made. As you know there have been concessions since the
Agreement came in. Our Council are not at the back of us as they should be, or we should
be in a better position to-day. We have no unemployment in Leicester, and I think it
time we ought not only to hold all we have but to gain more, so I cannot congratulate
the Council.

MR. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member): Personally I am and was very disappointed to
hear the statement made by Mr. Tex. I am more disappointed to hear Mr. Frazer's state
ment in view of his previous attitude and to know he has changed his view. There is
nothing I can see to congratulate the Council on. We got 68s. in March, 1920. Hoss
many of your members have had it since it was established? Our unemployment benefi
as recorded here has been read out so far as the boot and shoe industry is concerned. If
we are going to make statements such as have been made to-day, it will put us in a very
nice position in October. Whoever meets the employers in October and remember the
employers will have the statements you have made to-day-they will say they are justified
in crushing you down by saying we are satisfied. I have no word or regret for the attitude
members did not strike, and instead of giving a majority of acceptance we should have had
I have taken up with the employers, or at the Conference in Leicester, but am sorry the
20.000 against it. In view of the fact that we shall meet the employers in October, we
should emphatically say, we are not satisfied with the position.

MR. FRAZER (Norwich): I might say my attitude was determined after hearing
Mr. Bleakley's statements at Leicester when there was no alternative but to accept.

THE CHAIRMAN: The object of meeting again in October was that we felt it would
be a good thing to clear out all these percentages and the varying scales, and get up to one
minimum wage. Mr. Reid's suggestion is wise, but how if the other fellow will not agree?
We should have all our own way if it was not for the employers. We have tried eloquence
and facts, but the employers would not have them. We cannot force them to arbitration.
If we had a decision, we do not administer the workings of the factories. It is a question
of mutual understanding between one another. If we could have had our way we should
have seen that there was no cut at all. We don't regret how we came out of it, taking all
things into consideration, but to say
WE ARE SATISFIED
is more than can be expected of us.

MR. J. T. REID (Arbroath): Do you suggest we have no power to compel the
employers to arbitrate on matters ?

THE CHAIRMAN: I do
MR. J. T REID: Would the Council find it possible to shame the manufacturers before
the nation?

THE CHAIRMAN: Is it possible to shame them? The miners had thirteen weeks
and their wives and children did not benefit. Take the engineers. They are having the
greatest difficulty to get the employers to agree to meet them at all. The public don't keep
us when we are on strike, and we are bound to adopt the policy of getting a conference
and decision round the table.

MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2) expressed his regret to hear Mr. Jex's remarks. One
has sympathy with the females in their position.

MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's): We don't want your sympathy.

MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2): It is hard for our women to be in the unique position
they find themselves in in Leicester and have to suffer a reduction. There has to be a stand
taken sometime against the cuts in wages. The greatest blunder was made in letting the
miners go under. After our General President's remarks stating you cannot get the
employers to agree to arbitrate it only proves these agreements get tighter and tighter
every time. Local centres are losing their powers fast. National Agreements have not
been successful. Leicester has perhaps suffered more than any other centre. It had the
prestige of being the best centre in the Union, but to-day the National Agreements have
taken that position from us. The Board of Arbitration met in Leicester when 25 per cent.
was to be added, and the manufacturers said we had no standing because it was a national
agreement. They play the game across us fast and loose. We ought not to be helpless.
National Agreements are making us docile. There is not the spirit in local centres that

---
should be, simply because of the position of the national agreements are taking it away. I
want the local Boards of Abritration to come back to their old status, so that we can go and
ask for a rise, or an increase in our statements. When food was 176 over pre-war, the
highest increase we secured was 80 per cent. If food stood at par we should come down
50 per cent.
MR. A. W. LYNE (Northampton No. 2) : I refer to what happened at Chesham, and
am convinced that had the Council taken up a different attitude earlier in the dispute, the
whole question would have been settled before to-day. I refer then to federated manu-
facturers not carrying out the terms of agreement. I wish to congratulate the General
President upon his success in Northants in bringing to heel the manufacturers there. The
General Priesident suggested that had a dispute commenced there was no documentary
evidence. In the terms of agreement you have Clause 8 :
8. That the Holiday (Provision) Scheme adopted by the Joint Industrial Council for
the Boot and Shoe Manufacturing Industry on May 27th, 1919. shall be incor-
porated in and form part of the National Conference Agreement.
I suggest that is sufficient documentary evidence. Either it is incorporated in the Agree-
ment or it is not. I am convinced that if manufacturers break away in future we must
tackle them singly at once and win the position.
MR. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser) : The men at Chesham are to blame, not the Council.
The men accepted a reduction without letting their officials know. The thing had been
going on a fortnight before Mr. Poulton had word of it. I was sent down to enquire into
the position. I met the local officials, and was told the people had no hope and no spirit.
When I spoke to one or two of them they justified the position. They said in pre-war days
their conditions were lower than other parts of the country and were prepared for them to
come down now. I reported to Mr. Poulton and wrote an accurate account of it. I
returned in a few days and advertised a meeting, and we had about sixty present, but it
was not a representative meeting. There were men from the Co-operative factory and
the unemployed, so only about fourteen were present who were affected. I told Mr.
Richards about it and asked him if he would try and arouse some enthusiasm. We had
another meeting and after I had been from shop to shop to bill a meeting, only 65 came.
The whole of the Council went down, and I might say in passing that I cannot agree with
what Mr. Lyne said. I hinted that we might be prepared to do something, because they
were undermining the whole position of the Union. It was only by persistent effort
that we got the operatives. Some Council Members felt the members should be expelled.
Success only came by the persistent efforts of the Council. We gradually had better
meetings, until 130 of the people affected turned up. There was nothing left undone in the
way of advice or agitation, and I think the Council deserve credit for their work.
don't know whether it is possible to discriminate between employers' associations, but
think we have as hard a set to deal with as any other trade in the country. I remember
Mr. Marlow saying when we were pressing him : " I confess in the past we were too anxious
to keep wages low, but in the name of the Federation I don't think that will happen in
future." They carried a resolution in January, 1920, that it was in the best interests of the
trade that we should be well organised. They allow their foremen to oppose us, and in
the country managers and foremen refuse to allow the operatives to join the Union. One
of their monthly journals sneers at myself at want of success. You will get nothing from
them unless you hold the advantage. It was nothing short of bullying us. Facts and
figures they ignored altogether. They thought the matter could be settled in an hour
with 56s. for men and 30s. for women, with 10 per cent. off statements, and so on. Until
we have a bigger fighting fund we can do nothing. We should remain in our present position
if we keep increasing our benefits every time we put the contributions up, and never get
a fighting fund. I feel sorry for the weekly wage earners. Manufacturers admitted the
reduction would make very little difference in the price of the boots and shoes. Is there
any honour at all in the money-making game? Some of you may say it will not improve
our position by exposing weak spots, but I think they should be exposed. Whilst the Council
may not be deserving of the praise of Mr. Jex, still I think they did well.
THE CHAIRMAN : I used our Agreement as documentary evidence, but the members
of the Federation in Rushden objected to it because it had not been put before them.
I said it was not my business, but a domestic affair. Please bear with us; no Council
Member or official is a magician. None of us have wireless telegraphic minds, nor can
we see what is going on in every area. We cannot move until we have a complaint. We
only get it at a late hour, and then we have to appeal to the people (because they are
injuring the Union and the movement) before they come to the best side of their minds. Mr.
Buckle ought to give you the
position as it is very important, and as he has been there continuously I think we should
give him a chance.
CHESHAM
MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's) : I am not blaming the Council,
because I believe they were victims of circumstance. The past has gone. The future is
I want to put the Leicester position. When we had our " cut" Mr. Wilkes and one

---
Here is the text from the image:

or two other gentlemen said the Leicester Position could be dealt with locally.
many meetings before our first "cut " They would not give way and and it
agreement. We said we should not work. We had a letter as follows
[COPY.
the representatives of the Love A
The manufacturers are prepared to meet the
No. 3 (Women's) Branch with a view to a revision of the Women's Statement 11
manufacturers undertake to consider the question sympathetically and at on
We told them there was nothing in it, and ultimately we got them to sign this statement
1
a view to adjustments as early as possible.
[COPY.]
LEICESTER BOOT MANUFACTURERS' ASSOCIATION.
That the Piecework Statement shall be adjusted to enable the average piece
worker to earn at least Is. per hour exclusive of any percentage increases or reduction
The Manufacturers are willing to meet at once and to price fancy pattern and
table work in order to make the Statements as complete as possible.
(Signed) T. W. SMIT٢١١
Then we referred to the dayworkers. They said we shall have to reduce them but
will make it up again. Like trusting, silly women we left it to them. We got consider
able increases on our piecework prices between the first and second "cut," and a new
statement agreed upon for fancy shoes. Now the second cut came along and there was
nothing to be done. We are bothering too much about the Manufacturers' Federation
and spending too much money to keep them together. What happened?
THE GIRLS STOPPED!
The result was we had a good thrashing from the Central Office, which had no effect.
of pounds on them, although no effort was made to carry out the Agreement. We had a
Chesham had a ten shillings reduction for its women, and the Council is spending thousands
strike for one week. and got 75 per cent. of our reductions back again, and some girls had
rises. We had a week's holiday without pay. Unfortunately our men suffered. I rose
more especially to say that in October the position will be fought if any attempt is made
pecting something more than we have at present. I don't want to say anything that has
to reduce our wages. The manufacturers should know from this Conference we are ex-
been said previously, but I do want it to be understood, so far as the Leicester women are
concerned, we should have more trouble in October unless the position is altered. The
trend of the times is to put all women on daywork. Many manufacturers are not giving
36s. They have been brought before the Board of Arbitration and now the question is
going to the National Joint Standing Committee in London. We were sorry our statement
was contradicted by Mr. Poulton. We should look to our Central Office for help and not for
manufacturers get on better with them than they do with us. It is no fear for us to say
hindrance. It is no use our saying we will report anything to the Central Office, because
noll stand by the Agreement. Our women work close and never lift an eye from the machine
now we will report you to our Central Office, because the manufacturers know the Council
or the needle runs off, and they are worth much more than the 36s. daywork wage.
It being 12.30 p.m. the Conference adjourned until the

AFTERNOON SESSION
at 2 p.m., the General President, Mr. T. F. Richards, again presiding. Upon the roll being
called the following were absent, but all arrived later.
Miss Billington (Wellingborough), Miss Birkenshaw (Leeds), Messrs. E. Brown, J.
Fountain (Northampton No. 2), W. Hearn (Higham and Rushden), W. Hefford, Lyne,
E. Law and Mrs. R. Smith (Northampton No. 2).
MR. J. BUCKLE (Organiser): We had had a kind of inquisition this morning and fault-
finding too because a delegate expressed approval of certain matters which the Executive
brought before a delegate meeting. Why was it brought to that delegate meeting, specially
called? It was brought there because a certain resolution was introduced at a conference
twelve months ago. The Executive Council of the Union, having perhaps at the most
critical juncture of their career, with perhaps the greatest difficulty it was ever presented
with, had to negotiate-inch by inch--with circumstances against them, and eventually
secured a settlement with which the Executive did not agree. I venture to say, Mr.
Chairman, no executive officer was satisfied with the terms of agreement, but the time had
arrived when someone was ready to take responsibility for the future welfare of the organisa-
tion, of which many of us have been members for years. (Hear, hear.) They had to pass
1900-10, 11-14, and through all those years we were building up a constructive policy.
Some of us are aware that whilst we deplore the fact that there are two minimums for men,


---
we remember the time when there were five or six minimum wages for men. By negotia-
tion one by one has gone, and I hope after the next negotiations we shall have brought a
state of uniform circumstances adaptable to our industry. During this period, I think it is
kind for those of us who have taken responsibility, to say to us you were right. In accord-
ance with the rules, the Executive Council came before a special meeting, and took that
meeting into its confidence and said the Executive recommended-although not unanimous
-the Terms. They became your property and we acted upon that instruction. One of
the points which is very catching -and it has been raised here this morning-suggests
our course was to send it to an independent person for the purpose of deciding it. My
private opinion is that our case was so flimsy we should have lost. The Executive, by its
vast experience negotiated, and mitigated the severity which might have obtained by an
award given by an independent arbitrator. In 1920 we secured 125. for men and 105. for
women extra. The fight we put up was on the increase of the cost of living over the 1919
period, and inasmuch as that had faded away what case had you to submit to a legal-minded
gentleman for arbitration? My own opinion is, we reciprocate the kind expression towards
the platform by thanking the delegates for their common sense. The miners' strike is too
dreadful to speak of; the engineers' strike is too regretful to think of. The most skilled
men the world has ever seen will be reduced to 46s. per week, and they have to be 23 or 24
years of age before they get the minimum. Our Constitution is, we can do better by nego-
tiation, and instead of paying 3s. 6d. contribution, we have a fair standard (owing to the
methods adopted) whereby we can maintain that standard on a smaller contribution much
longer than any other organisation. The Executive Council negotiated to the best of their
ability and perhaps shewed as much energy and backbone as anyone could desire. We
attempted to negotiate that no possible reduction was arguable until the index figure of the
cost of living was at 70 over 1919. We argued at 85, 90, and the Sub-Committee which
did the negotiation had a troublous sea. Some can talk, but always shirk responsibility.
You had to accept it, because the Trade Boards and every Union and industry had wages
receding. The Executive had to face the proposition that in the industry we represented,
before the war the operatives were very improperly paid. Our men and women never had
a proper payment for the work they did. I am not going to pretend we can suit everyone,
and we should be fools if we attempted to try, and if this Executive of ours goes, and we lose
power, some of us will be able to criticise. The weak spot in the terms is that we have to
meet the employers in October. Some of us will not see parity. When it gets there the
negotiable circumstance leaves men 42 per cent. over pre-war conditions, and with all due
respect to the ladies-they have a right to go for us-and I have a right to tell them we
did something for them, and we must remember the women have never been as strong
as they are to-day. When par is reached, women's wages are 50 per cent. over pre-war.
That is the point, 50 per cent., and that was negotiable. When you take the other depart-
ments perhaps the average percentage of increase will be round about 52 per cent. It
reflects not against the Executive Council, but is in their favour for the work done irre-
spective of departments or sex. We have done all it is humanly possible to do. I want
to remind those people who felt at the time that we should have sacrified our funds, that
instead of having smiling faces to-day you would have been in mourning. Your trade
union is not responsible for export trade being reduced to its present position. It is not
responsible for finding trade, but it is responsible for seeing its members have proper
wages and conditions.
Now I want to deal with a place called

CHESHAM.

The Executive of the Union are not the culprits in this matter. Every act and deed done
in Chesham was done before the Executive Council of the Union had any knowledge of it.
They are exonerated from any blame. The Executive of the Union have to be like watch
makers. They have to put something into the case of the members which does not exist
to-day. This brings me back to the point where the manufacturers contended they could
take off the 12s. and Ios. and the manufacturers in Chesham informed the operatives of
their intention. You imagine operatives being out of work twelve months and never doing
a day's work. You can understand the workmen's necessity being the employers' oppor-
tunity. I am not defending them from the point of giving way, but every time we have
to face facts. People with responsibility know what I mean. Everyone there had cold feet.
There was no striking. Slackness of trade gave the opportunity to the manufacturers.
The Executive of the Union in the course of time sent people down who they felt had some
influence and could weald force. It has taken us eight weeks before we could get them
anything like warm. Gradually the piano was played until we worked up some enthu-
siasm. The firm of George Barnes, the piano was played until we worked up some enthu
and everything else, is the biggest firm, but we could not have a cessation of work until we
had the workers with us. You can always win when you have the operatives behind you,
but something has to be put into them to get them. Time rolled on until Barnes, Hayes,
Newton, Jennings, Mitchell, Long, and Racklyeft's people got warmer. The Central Office
sent several communications all of which were ignored. Still, we kept at it and they were
asked to come to meetings night after night, with the result we took a vote which was not

---
satisfactory. Then private negotiations were taken with the form of Messrs. George Barnes and Sons, who promised to pay to the new terms of settlement. The employers brought him to the bar and got him in the crowd. We had to withdraw the notices at that time To show the persistent attitude of the Union-which you think is sometimes weak we went on. Some of us worked a little hard. I want you to remember I said some of us, and even sually we had a body of workers that the Union could stake its fund, and we put the notices in and they were acted upon and the operatives have been out on strike for twelve weeks Their position was (that is the manufacturers') that they would not recognise the Union recognise both and after ten weeks had elapsed, I took the opportunity of writing them nor our local president and secretary. Our attitude has been that they would have to Mr. Barnes left the local Association, and we made an agreement with him. All the operatives resumed work on this firm. He admitted the Union, because he has signed the agreement with myself, and I represent some portion of the Union, although I am not clear which portion it iS.
(Laughter.) Instead of having the effect we thought it would, it brought into existence a bitter atmosphere. Last week we wrote to the new chairman of the local Association, because Barnes is not now a member of that Association, asking if they would meet us round the table. The greatest surprise I had in my life was next morning when I received a letter agreeing to collective bargaining the next day. I had negotiations are concerned there is no doubt about the position of the Union; no doubt the local president, secretary, and three of the committee men with me. So far as the about the future terms of settlement; they will both be recognised at Chesham. They want the operatives to go back next Monday. Whilst our points have been recognised there is some kind of suspicions that to have a partial resumption of work means a huge victimisation of those left out. The employers say they don't want in view of the fact that they have not been able to take orders for ten or twelve weeks to have a resumption of work of all the operatives, as that means in a fortnight's time they would have to reduce their staff, and we should regard that as being vindictive. After weighing the pros and cons I asked for an adjournment for one week so that I might consult my colleagues, who I assure you have been very, very kind to the Chesham operatives, and the branches through- out the country have acted magnificently, and no one appreciates more than I do what has been done. That is the position at Chesham. I think the action of the Union has been justified, and whatever it has cost it is justified its attitude against the employers. What at Chesham now than they ever did. I found out the chaps there when I asked them to would have been the sequence if we had not made it? They know more about trade unionism march. We have put something into the Chesham operatives which will not recede. them at Chesham, although I am not sure myself where Maybole is on the map. (Laughter.) What would have happened at Kingswood, Leeds and Maybole if we had not defended We have put some terror into the employers, and I believe it will be only in isolated places where attempts will be made to fight us. Whilst we had a poor start, we shall have a brilliant finish. However weak the terms may be, and when you consider we are a society believing in arbitration, it costs a lot to maintain them. The point I don't like is the em- ployers breaking away in sections which compels us to find money to bring them back to the fold. (Applause.)

MR. T. ROBERTSON (Glasgow): So far as I know the Maybole members are far better than those in the South of England. They have never been so bad as they have in Chesham and I don't think Mr. Buckle's remarks are justifiable.

THE CHAIRMAN: Chesham has not done what Maybole has done, and you should let byegones be byegones. We have been in this business too long not to know the difficul- ties and weaknesses of Branches. Mr. Bleakley has been trying to help Maybole for over six months and his reports are not at all encouraging.

MR. M. A. PARKER (Leicester) hoped the Council would continue their generosity if men cannot get a return to work after the others had gone in.

MR. G. JONES (Kingswood): I am delighted to hear the report of friend Buckle. We all appreciate to the full in Kingswood what had been done. The position at Chesham alects Kingswood, because they do the same kind of work. We are delighted, and I think the Council have done their best and congratulate them for the able manner in which the negotiations have been carried out. You cannot realise to the same extent as we do in Kingswood what it means. I am afraid, Mr. Chairman, you will be hearing certain reports from Kingswood with regards to the heavy trade. I remember on a certain visit from yourself to Kingswood when you stated we were looked upon as a black spot of the industry, and to-day we have altered our position. We realised our obligations which we shall never forget, because we have brought dark Kingswood into the limelight. I can assure the Conference we do not intend Kingswood to go back to those dark days. That explains to you the reason why we were so anxious about Chesham. Our Secretary has given all the information asked for.

MR. J. T. REID (Arbroath) suggested the matter had been fully discussed and that the Conference should pass on to the next business.

THE CHAIRMAN: Unfortunately, or otherwise, there is only one Chairman, and you will have to abide by his decision.

---


---
Scheme in our district. We notified the Council in Christmas week, 1091
time I should like to congratulate our General President and 214. Man
successful.

THE CHAIRMAN : We were tied up because we had the 11,600 guarant
wisely at the moment this trouble started threw the responsibility on the Federatio
said it was time for them to put it right. Suppose we had struck these firms and
guarantee had we? I don't believe in doing the work of the Federation if I can avoid
The employers and ourselves are 50 per cent, of the national terms. We h
out their part, because they have no power. Even in Rushden district where the wak
They don't t.
attempted there was only one alternative, and that was to expel them from member
of the Federation. Deputations waited upon the

RUSHDEN EMPLOYERS.

and were told none of them were looking for Parliamentary honours, nor did the
the Holiday Scheme into the agreement on purpose to get votes. This means neither tha
brother manufacturers nor their leading officials could get these firms to honour the agre
ment. The state of trade was very lean, and I am proud of the fact that a good many of
the employers with only a prospect of two days' work in front have decided to pay to thein
scheme. Mr. Bates and I saw Miss Peck, the local Association Secretary, and Mr. Horre
and other influential Federation members, and they did all possible, bar expulsion. We
felt it would not strengthen our position if we got these members expelled, and then ha
to strike their shops. I am not going to condemn the Wellingborough manufacturers
although I agree they did wrong. They said if these six manufacutters in Rushden do
not pay we shall not pay after Christmas last year. We had to hand in notices, with
the result you already know. Under similar circumstances I don't know whether we
should not do the same thing again. We have not yet received your consent that we
should use the funds of the Union for that purpose. The Executive of the Union have
had to take the risk and force the Federation to do it. The machinery acts very promptl
if we stop a shop, but it fails when it is on the manufacturers' side. We hope the Federa
tion will agree to amend matters in future. We did ail possible, and when the power wa
given to us to take action we did it with success.

MR. W. A. WYMAN (Wellingborough) : We felt it our duty to notify the Council when
the firms tried not to carry out the agreement. You know the position when members
are continually asking what is being done, and all we could say was the matter was bein
dealt with by the Council. I am pleased with the way the Council dealt with it. The
did it with a fair amount of grit and we now have the position when everyone is paying.
Is there to be anything retrospective in these claims ? It is not only our feeling, but th
manufacturers think something should be done also.

THE CHAIRMAN : There are two of us present who are on the National Joint Standin
employers and officials of the Federation, and I think they will be able to agree with us
Committee, and the Council have decided the case shall go there. It affects federated
as to a policy. The factories at Chesham have been stopped, and the manufacturer
punished. At Wellingborough and district no one was stopped. At one firm they ow
but as the matter is going to the National Joint Standing Committee we shall endeavou
13 125. per head, and some owe from Whitsuntide last year and others from Christmas,
MR. T. RABBITT (Wellingborough): Did the Council take the matter up as soon a
they reported from the Branches; if not, why were you so long in this matter ?
to get a satisfactory settlement.

THE CHAIRMAN : I have been corresponding with Mr. Wyman and Mr. Poole sinc
long before last Christmas. It was only after Christmas they stopped the paymen
definitely. We met Messrs. Sudborough Bros., and they told us they were responsibl
for the resolution that they would not pay until Rushden was compelled. We had in
formation from Wellingborough before the twenty firms stopped. It was not our dut
to strike the shops but to commence with those six Rushden firms. Your resolutio
asked us to "take immediate action." We dealt with the matter at once and it has worke
out according to plan.

MR. J. GREAVES (Leicester): I thought when an agreement came into force that i
was obligatory for every manufacturer and operative to see the 1s. 2d. was stopped fo
his holiday money. I have been out of work ten months, but I could have got a job at an
time if I had been prepared to take less than the trade union rates. I started a fortniğh
ago, but before I started I asked for the trade union rates, including the holiday pay
and got it.

THE CHAIRMAN : The Holiday Scheme was voluntary until February of this year.
We are getting along very nicely with it. Our grumble is we have had to do the wor
MR. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): As soon as firms break away we shoul
step in and stop it. Some time ago trade was very bad, but when Mr. Richards came dow
of the Federation.

---
ployers in the district agreed to pay at once.
30
The firms said they would not pay, but when
to Rushden he did the best he could, and had good meetings, and one of the worst cm-
We want leaders, and we look upon
Mr. Richards and Mr. Bates saw these firms they got the wind up. That shews what
and say accept it, but I am fully convinced, Mr. Chairman, that if we nipped the thing in
you can do when you have the men behind you. These men call themselves moderates
After all, we are like a lot of sheep and want leaders
the National leaders more than the local officials
the bud the firms would pay up.
Lots of the men in our district want forcing.
think there are more than twelve shops paying at the present time. Now we find the
MR. 11. POUL TON (London Metro.): London never believed in contributing. I don't
firms are not paying, and ask why the officials don't force them to pay. It was because
As a representative of the London
If we get the Holiday
the rank and file had not the pluck to play the game.
Metropolitan Branch I have to say many have broken away from it.
the war thinking the employers would be men, but they are not, and I think that both
Payment put into vogue, we shall do very well. We put up with several things during
they and the men should do their share with this Holiday Scheme.
THE CHAIRMAN: We are adamant on this question. There is no getting out of it.
No firm can be immune from payment. We have adopted a sane policy as we always do
namely, let the employer pay his quota. Some firms say we don't wish to take on the
the men collect their money and Mr. Parker doubles it. At Mansfield they pay once a
scheme. In Wellingborough they pay. In Rushden at the firm of Mr. Owen Parker
Whether the operative pays or not the firm have to pay
but the
all have to pay.
Messrs. Perkins & Bird to pay at the same time, and they did. If they had not done so
firms hy the employer is not paying his quota. We cannot allow the firm to get out of it.
firms federated in London. This is a matter for the Board of Arbitration, and you should
aven if the men decline. We cannot let manufacturers off from paying. We have a firm
in Wellingborough who say they will not pay to the Holiday Scheme but will make no cut
in wages. They give the men 25. rod. instead of taking the Is. 2d. We do not mind.
because that meets the position. If a firm gives is. 2d. every week to the men without
earning it, then the position is met, and I have suggested to the men that they pay their
share and put it by for the end of the year. The tax on industry must be paid, and paid
by the manufacturers, or we are not doing the fair thing.
MR. J. GREAVES (Leicester). Whilst I was at the Liberty Shoe Works they would not
find the clerical stafi to take the money, so the men arranged to do it between themselves
and I was made responsible for it.
MR. A. MASON (London Metro.): We have employers willing to pay their share,
but will not be troubled with collecting the Is. 2d. from the workmen. If the men are
discharged a week or a fortnight before the holiday they get nothing. I wrote to Mr.
Poulton upon the matter and asked for advice. The reply that came was that it was
absolutely necessary for the employee as well as the employer to pay his share to ensure
the fortnight's holiday per year.
quota then the men will pay? Is it imperative on the part of the employee to pay his
Can I go to an employer and say you must pay your
share as well as the employer ?
THE CHAIRMAN: It is imperative as far as possible, but we are not going to let the
employer off. We have never decided as a Council to let any employer off. We have
agreed that as far as possible the operative should pay his part of the contribution. Take
the great C.W.S.: no member pays anything to a holiday fund there; I should like every
operative to see that his quota is paid with the firm's share, and so prevent any unequal
competition. The C.W.S. don't feel inclined to start the scheme. Messrs. Royce & Co.,
of Mansfield, have paid out for years, and it costs them £1,000 per year, and when we have
it in the National Agreement too, we are not going to let any employer off. The operatives
at the C.W.S. feel their scheme is better than the National one, and where you have a
small shop with casual labour it is difficult to work, but if a man is there six months he
should pay his quota. No man can leave a firm without having his portion paid to him.
We have said the scheme must be worked or we should withdraw labour; that is what we
threatened in Northants.
MR. A. MASON (London Metro.): Must the money be paid by the workmen ?
THE CHAIRMAN: By all that is holy, yes; but the manufacturer cannot get out
of his payment.
MR. J. WHEELER (Leicester): I don't agree with the suggestion you make, Mr. Chair-
man, that you are prepared to accept the offer of the firm that instead of paying to the
Holiday Scheme they will make no
do not think there is one federated firm not honouring the agreement, but when you come
"cut" in wages. So far as Leicester is concerned, I
to non-federated firms where prices were fixed to include the holiday payment money, I
think we should insist upon everyone paying the holiday money. So far as the holiday
payment scheme is concerned the Council must be consistent, and not say they are prepared

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

to negotiate with a firm that if no " cut " is made in wages then the holiday money
firms pay to the scheme, so we have not given them much trouble. This last fortnight
Per been acting upon instructions from the Central Office to get into touch with firm
making small stuff who say they cannot meet the demands of the Union. Everyone know
we have
not be paid. Might I remind the Conference that in Leicester and Leicestershire all the
they have aged men. Some have not seen the wisdom of paying to the scheme when the
om the Central Office to get
frms were quite willing to do so.
We have no power with these small firms at the present
time, and if we have to apply to the Central Office every time, and have to wait a fortnight
or three weeks before we get an investigator, then I think the local officers should have
there are delegates here at this Conference from the C.W.S., and I think you should know
power to fight those employers setting the Union at defiance. You mentioned the CWS..
their position. They do not want the scheme there, simply because they are getting
private firms. I think they should be exempt from it having regard to the evidence in
something entirely different. That is an agreement quite distinct and separate from the
MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's): How does it come about that
prices were fixed to include the Holiday Payment money? Who fixed these prices?
my possession.
No answer was returned by Mr. Wheeler.
The Leicester officials want the powers of a General Officer without submitting the matter
THE CHAIRMAN: As an old Council member I might ask Mr. Wheeler to be consistent.
to the Council. Unless we know the circumstances no power can be given. In relation to
this individual employer, my colleagues have not yet discussed it. We saw the men and
women on the firm and they agreed to accept the recommendation of the firm, and we
advised them to pay to the Holiday Scheme out of the extra wages. It is easy for men
in another district to tell you what to do, but points may have to be stretched in his own
being they do better without it, and we do not want to do anything to make the position
district. Our C.W.S. people are not forced to pay to a Holiday Scheme at all, their view
worse.
per
MR. W. PAIN (Kingswood): Our General President seems to have overlooked the
principle for which this scheme came into operation. I believe I am right in saying the
going to admit the policy of our General President then you will undermine the object
birthplace of the Holiday Scheme was on the Mendip Hills. in Somersetshire. If we are
for which the scheme was started. What would be the position on a firm working short
time if we admitted the President's ruling? I have been working all this year one day
Week: would he say I was only to be paid pro rata on that IS. 2d. ? That is un-
satisfactory. When that Holiday Scheme was established it was for the industry to carry.
and the consumer who buys boots has to carry it. I disagree entirely with the General
President's position so far as that is concerned. I was pleased to hear Mr. W. R. Smith's
policy of the National Settlement. This scheme is half our business, and the money should
reply in relation to the National status. I hope this Conference will not depart from the
be banked to bring the operative his proper dues, and I hope we shall be prepared to
consider it very carefully before we depart from it.
the
of some unfair competition. I think you mentioned a certain sum of money which would
of an employer he did not
to look at the Terms of Settlement in respect to the change from piecework the Council
In Clauses 1 and 2 it is very definite that all operations should be assessed, although the
system may be termed a daywork system and all earned over is a supplementary wage.
We have prices fixed in all parts of the country so that there should be no unfair com-
petition. Suppose a price was fixed at Is. per dozen and the wages 60s.; then the man
would do 60 dozen; 61 dozen would be 61s. If the employers change the system I don't
want him to have 615. worth of work for 6os., and I hope the Council will not lose sight
of that point.
MR. T. H. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): I hope this Conference will be firm upon
insisting the Holiday Scheme is carried out in its entirety. The scheme was first of all
a voluntary one. To-day it is part and parcel of a National Agreement covering conditions
and wages, and if we allow one employer or a few employers to break away from the scheme,
then you give them a loop-hole to break away from the other clauses I was sorry to hear
our General President say he had agreed with a firm that instead of paying to the Holiday
Fund they would not make a "cut" in wages. I have been to work and only earned
45. but the Is. 2d. holiday money has been stopped, and the firm have added their 1s. 2d.
so I have been the gainer at the end.
THE CHAIRMAN: We shall have to investigate and find out if the members get a
I know they do not. This will cause us to
Week's holiday per year.
SWEEP UP THE BITS.
We will find out whether every firm does pay for one full week's holiday payment or not.
I know a few do it honourably, and as I have already mentioned Messrs. Royce & Co., of
1


---
Here is the text from the image:

Mansfield, have done it for thirty years.
32
"cut" the wage. We have
I am sure Mr. Pain can look round his own district
and find many places where one week's holiday per year is not paid for. I find it wherever
1 go, and it is because of the reasonableness of the claim we put up that we hold our own,
eleven firms in Northamptonshire to-day that have not yet complied with the scheme,
and although they promise to pay they do not promise to pay a full week's holiday in any
MR. A CROUCH (ligham and Rushden): Is it not the duty of us all whether we work
and leave it to the judgment of the employers as to when they
wear.
at a federated firm or not to demand our holiday pay?
THE CHAIRMAN: Certainly.
MR F. CURZON (Wellingborough): We have not worked a full week's work for two
and a half years, but have received our full holiday pay.
: I have never known any individual but what his
MR. M. A. PARKER (Leicester):
money has been stopped, whether he works short time or not.
MR. W. PITTS (Northampton): The same thing applies to Northampton.
MR. H. G. DAVIES (Street): And to Street also.
THE CHAIRMAN: We have cases where men want to let the past go, and can you
get men to pay a month's money back?
In 1908 the scale of wages for
MR. W. Pirrs (Northampton): I am certain that the time prior to the National
youths was set up, and I think it would be a most suicidal policy to go back to local
Agreements matters were not so good as they are to-day.
You have the power to increase your prices so long as they are not
under the National standard. It would incan we should have sectional prices instead
arrangements.
of a central position.
before the Branch Executive, and when the men appeared before us I was astonished to
MR. J. GREAVES (Leicester): We had occasion a few weeks ago to summon men
find the oldest man was not 40 years of age and they made the best work in Leicester
Two Consol operators, 22 years of age, and getting big wages.
the employer to put them on the youths' scale. I have my sons in the industry, and have
There was a chance for
five members in my family belonging to the Union. That part of the Agreement fixing
the minimum at 23 years of age should be rectified as soon as possible.
Clause three was then adopted.
Amalgamation.
MR. J. T. REID (Arbroath): Can we know the reason why the two Unions named
did not agree to amalgamate with us?
THE CHAIRMAN: Their vote was against it. The General Secretary told me they
were not in favour of amalgamation, and so far as the Amalgamated Society is concerned
the question of benefits prevented it. They also suggested we should take over two full-
time officials and have a membership of less than 2,000 members.
MR. W. JONES (Kingswood): How many Unions were invited to amalgamate?
THE CHAIRMEN: Several years ago I called together eight or nine Unions with a
membership of about 5,000. There are three Unions in Walsall with less than 700 mem-
bers. They asked about the funds. We have tried our friend Taylor, of Rossendale
Valley, but they would not join up unless they could keep their local autonomy. They
want freedom but to share our funds. We have had a number of private conversations
and communications and they have never taken the matter seriously. So far as we are
concerned the Amalgamated Society turned it down by vote. In relation to the London
and Provincial Union-who only have members in London, doing West End work-they
did not feel inclined to amalgamate.
MR. H. POULTON (London Metro.): If there is any dispute of the London and Pro-
vincial in London they usually come to 365, Hackney Road, and when they want any
financial assistance they come to 365, Hackney Road. They will not amalgamate.
MR. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow): I have approached the Glasgow Handsewn Workers
and after several tries no success could be attained. They are a very conservative crowd
of men of the old school. They come into our office when they want help. They had two
strikes recently, and some of the men went outside to work at the lower price. I believe
Edinburgh has a handsewn body, but so far as Glasgow is concerned there is no possibility
of success.
MR. J. H. HOOPER (Street): There have been many attempts to amalgamate with
other bodies, and I suggest it is the officials of the other societies who have stood in the
way, rather than the workers.
dent Union in Leicester to rejoin us ?
MR. A. W. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): Has anything been done to ask the Indepen-
THE CHAIRMAN: NO.
Paragraph 4 was then passed.


---
Okay, here's the extracted text from the image:

33
International.

MR. W. KENDALL (Leicester): Seeing our General Secretary was appointed to go to Munich and is now on the way to America, what is the position ?
THE CHAIRMAN: Mr. Len Smith will attend in his stead, along with Mr. Walter Smith.

MR. G. CHESTER (Kettering) asked for a report of what has so far been achieved.

MR. W. R. SMITH, M.P. Our first association with the International Body was when remember Herr Simon attended the Norwich Conference in 1912, and then we became affiliated with the International Shoe Workers' Union. There should have been another friend Gribble went to Stuttgart, he being there for another purpose. The delegates will Conference in 1914, just after the outbreak of war, but no delegate could get across fortunately for himself. No further Conferences were held until 1919, when one was held at Zurich. We were invited to attend and appointed a delegate, but it was impossible to get there owing to passport troubles. Last year the Conference took place in Vienna.
At Zurich it was decided to consider the question of forming an amalgamation of all Leather Workers, making the International one. One of the reasons that this question looms rather differently abroad from what it does here is due to the fact that large shoe manu-facturers are leather dressers also. There is a closer association between the two on the Continent than there is in England. Viewing it from our standpoint, having regard to the fact that the Leather Workers are split up here, we approached the matter with some hesitation, and we submitted proposals. Both Mr. Poulton and I found ourselves in great difficulty in accepting some of the rules. We had drafted a set of our own-one was drafted by Simon, and one by the French organisation. Several points we took exception to, and eventually the meeting was postponed until August. Mr. Poulton and I again attended a sub-committee and we were able to secure some of the points to which we attach great importance, one was in regard to voting. They were in favour of an unlimited number of delegates and vote to be taken from the delegation present. We have never supported that policy, because a large organisation like ours with only two delegates could be outvoted by a small organisation who might have more delegates. It is difficult to say what is likely to accrue as the result of the work of this International, but the principle of the thing is one to which we must give support. Recent events show it must be to the advantage of the workers to have the common understanding between all workers as far as possible. The countries represented were England, Scandinavia, Belgium, Czecho-Slovakia, Austria, Switzerland, and Germany, and the hope was expressed we might have a better understanding to help the workers in times of distress. The French delegate, Roux, asked that a manifesto might be printed and signed by the representatives of the nations on the committee, declaring our policy as being against war, and he wanted to post them in France having regard to the situation as it existed then so that he could put them before the French people as showing the futility of war. The rules will be finally adopted at the Conference on Saturday of this week. Mr. Poulton and I addressed the meeting at Vienna in a hall which has a seating capacity of 2,000; at that meeting speeches were made which seemed to indicate that as far as it was possible to gather there was a feeling amongst organised workers that it was in the best interests of all to have no wars. The idea is good but I suggest we wait for a time to see how far it can be used as an instrument so far as our organisation is concerned. I hope it will be possible to circulate information in the Shoe Union and have been able to retain
In Germany they have 90,000 members in the Shoe Union and have been able to retain the 48-hour week. They are suffering so far as wages are concerned owing to the currency which makes their money so small as compared with our own. The German shoe worker is one of the best paid operatives in Germany. Their position is being continually disturbed owing to the rate of exchange which renders their advances valueless. When I was there first the Mark stood at 300 to the £, to-day it is 1,200, which means in relation to our own money the German mark has fallen four times. It does not have the same effect internally as it does externally. We were informed that they were having a trying and difficult time, but they hope to retain their powers and strengthen and establish conditions which would be satisfactory to themselves and advantageous to the workers of all countries.

MR. G. CHESTER (Kettering): Is this a separate International or a Sectional grouping of the Internationals ?

MR. WALTER SMITH: It is an Industrial Federation, but one of the conditions of membership is that Unions must be part of their own National Body and linked up with the International Trade Unions whose head office is at Amsterdam. There seems from the information obtained the possibility of overcoming some of the sectional difficulties. Austria taken by itself has practically a German population, and the movement is afoot to try and bring about an understanding between them and the Czechs. One of the Austrian-Germans on the Executive resigned to allow a Czech to go on, and the Inter-national Executive is composed of Simon (Secretary of the Saddle-makers and Leather Workers), one Scandinavian, one Frenchman, one Czech, and our General Secretary.

MR. A. BIRT (Northampton): We ought not to leave this Conference without making some reference to Russia. The whole country is being asked to help financially, and we


---
34
ought to condemn the Government for their action, and I ask that a resolution be brought
forward in this connection.
put on the Agenda;
THE CHAIRMAN : If our friends had this thing in their minds it should have been
If there are any burning questions we can deal with them, but inasmuch
as the General Council, the Labour Party and the Parliamentary Labour Party have the
we ought to read all we can get hold of.
We ought not to take a resolution-let i
matter in hand. I don't think we need raise the matter here. Before we commit ourselves
to the Conference.
come from a Branch.
MR. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): To my mind the position has been outlined by the
It is not a question of supporting them or otherwise. It would lead us
workers, then I think we should develop the position nationally. I hope you will not only
MR. J. T. REID (Arbroath): If we can work internationally with shoe and leather
Labour Party.
nowhere even if we discussed the matter.
look abroad but also at home. If this develops in a reasonable way then I suggest that
National arrangements should be made whereby the Leather Workers can stand united
THE CHAIRMAN : If you can go about and play the part of a good samaritan it would
do good, but you must get the smaller bodies into the larger ones.
We should be neglecting
They should come to us.
our members if we go and ask these little Unions to come in.
Up to the present we have had no overtures from the smaller bodies. Even our friend
Sidwell, of the Furriers, might be able to do a lot of good, but he says they are so badly
organised. Without rank and filers it is useless gaining an organisation, it is a phantom
MR. J. T. REID (Arbroath): The strong should help the weak.
THE CHAIRMAN : I know, but we are anxious to help our own people.
The paragraph was then endorsed.

Dangers of Sectionalism.
all we could for the women.
MR. J. MANNERS (Council Member): We have had information, and been accused of
doing en. I am one of those who believe if a section of workers
not alreated properly, then the wrong should be righted. We have done our best for
Like other governing bodies we might be mistaken. We hope your decision
will be of such a character as to enable the Council to put the policy right wherein we may
have erred. Rumours have only come from one direction. We want to know whether the
women generally throughout the country feel in the same way as our Leicester women
friends. They may be in a favoured position, and be able to do many things which the
women in other parts of the country cannot accomplish. In making statements, naturally
we cannot take the highest point as being the reflection of the country. The danger is, if
you have any section of the country, or bad conditions, the danger of bringing down your
best centres is bad indeed. I for one regret very much that the thing has been raised in its
present form. I believe it is a sign of weakness to deal with sectionalism. I believe women
should have equal rights with men, but they should have no superiority. If they believe
they have equal rights, then they want preference. In the early part of the year the Lei-
cester Women's Branch issued a circular signed by the full executive-they are all re-
sponsible. I don't think our General Secretary can be charged with being an extremist.
In the report of the General Secretary, when the Women's Branch asked for the circular
to go in the monthly report, he said if one paragraph meant anything, it meant secession
from the Union. We felt it could not have a good effect upon our organisation throughout
the country. Strange to say our lady friends-who only want equal treatment-then
stopped the money due to the Central Office. I am one of those who feel if you cannot
have your own way, it does not strengthen your position by being spiteful. In reply to
the General Secretary, Miss King said the cash not being sent was not an oversight, but
was done purposely, and money is still due to the Central Office. If the Leicester women
feel they are strong enough to look after themselves apart from the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives, I don't think, if they could establish a case, that we as responsible
men and women could object, but our experience has always been when your forces are
divided you make less progress. I appeal to them that if they cannot get their own way
with the National Union, they should not wield the big stick and threaten secession. 1
believe there are principles involved in democracy which concern the rights of everyone.
This has been brought before the Conference on those grounds so that we can have a full
standing, and form a policy, so we ask that you will give us your verdict with no uncertain
and frank discussion, and leave no bitterness behind, and we can come to a full under-
voice as to whether it is proper or not.
was only what some Council Members wanted to make out of the circular. You have taken
MISS E. A. TIMMS (Leicester Women's): We have never thought of any secession. It
it wrong altogether. The statements in it are perfectly true. We, as women of Leicester,
have felt, and do still feel, that more could have been done for us. We are capable of
managing our own branch and committees. We find clickers and finishers have always


---
Here is the text of the image:

35
bad sections. You would not like us to advise clickers and finishers what to do
ur feel as women we know our own operations best. We know out work best, and be
than having male officials. We are determined to manage our own affairs
never in our minds.
MR. J. MANNERS (Council Member): It is in the General Secretary's report, and I
Miss Timms promised to distribute copies of the circular in time for Tuesday's
At this stage the Conference adjourned, it being 5.10 p.m.
say no one can accuse him of being an extremist

TUESDAY.
MORNING SESSION.
The delegates reassembled at 9.30 a.m. Mr. T. F. Richards presiding.
Upon the roll being called Messrs. J. E. Chapman (Kettering No. 2), A. J. Dobbs (Leeds),
Hawgood and Swannell (Northampton), and Miss Birkenshaw (Leeds) were absent.
THE CHAIRMAN explained that Mr. J. E. Chapman was ill, and the other delegates
nported later.
Minutes.
upon the proposition of ALD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2), seconded by Mr. W. LANGIEY
The minutes of the business transacted at Monday's sitting were read and endorsed.
Higham and Rushden), and signed by the Chairman as a correct record of the proceedings.
Standing Orders Committee Report.
THE CHAIRMAN asked the Standing Orders Committee for their report and
MR. G. PARBURY (Leicester) presented the following
The Standing Orders Committee recommends:-
I. That the Parliamentary Agent's Report be taken after the adoption of the
Council's Report.
2. That the Resolution of Mr. Hindes on the Trade Union Political Bill, follow
Parliamentary Agent's Report.
3. We cannot recommend the acceptance of the request from the London Metro.
Branch to hold the 1923 Conference at some place other than London as it is
not within the power of the Standing Orders Committee to recommend it is
breaking of a Rule.
We recommend a Resolution in substitution of the one brought forward by the
Leicester No. 1 respecting the absence of the General Secretary.
['pon the proposition of MR. W. HINDES, Seconded by MR. W. LANGLEY, the report
C
MR. L. POOLE (Wellingborough): With regard to Rule 70 I cannot see where it says
the Conference shall be in London.
was adopted.
THE CHAIRMAN: I was going to deal with that Mr. Poole. According to Rule 70 we
are not confined to London, and this is due to the resolution carried in 1920 not being put
in the Rules in its entirety. The resolution passed at the Edinburgh Conference says:
"A National Conference of delegates from each and every district in the Union
shall meet every year for three days at the Seat of Government, to deal with the general
policy of the Union, the expense to be borne by the Union.
Every third year the Conference shall meet for six days and deal, in addition
to general policy, with alterations in the constitution and rules of the Union."
"
Seat of Government is left out of the Rule. Just that sentence which gives it intelligence
has been left out by some error. Otherwise we had it in our minds that we were confined
to London for a period. I hope in future rules will be put in just as they are agreed to.
The British House of Commons doesn't allow anyone to interfere with their language. I
feel sure the General Secretary must have overlooked the sentence "Seat of Government
when he altered the Rules. One cannot differ with the resolution of the Standing Orders
Committee, because it is not in the Rules although it appears in the report.
MR. G. PARBURY (Leicester): The Standing Orders Committee noticed the same
thing, and we knew something had been left out, and we hope in future the Rules will
not be cut down at all.

---
Here is the text from the image:

36
MR. AI FOLKARD (Norwich No. 2) I take it the reason it was left out is because you could not have a meeting at the " Seat of Government" as you have not sufficient
THE CHAIRMAN: It means in the City where the head office is fixed for the time
Discussion was then resumed on the
being.
DANGERS OF SECTIONALISM.
MR. G. CHESTER (Kettering): In view of the statement made by Miss Timms yesterday that they had not in mind under any circumstances to break with the National Union
I would like to ask for an explanation of this paragraph : past history may repeat itself. Belonging to a great organisation is good when equal rights are conferred, but detrimental when it becomes the undoing
of even a small section."
MISS E. SHERWIN (Leicester Women's): That is only the feeling of the men's section
The circular having been distributed, the following is a copy of the same :-
LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH OF THE
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
January, 1922.
[The Leicester Women asked for this to be put in the Report for January, 1922.]
FELLOW MEMBERS,
We are pleased to report that 200 new members joined this month, and no machinists are out of employment. We have held two large mass meetings in connection with the New Terms. Our women expressed deep dissatisfaction at the lack of
effort made on their behalf by the Council.
The arguments put forth against resisting a reduction because we are only a Women's Branch and must sink our opportunities for the sake of the greater body is ridiculous and has no logic in it.
As already stated, we have no machinists out of work and our labour is wanted Many firms are advertising. The reason for this shortage, notwithstanding all enquiries made by the Leicester Boot Manufacturers, is because our shoe girls leave for better wages, and not for fun as is supposed.
We believe there are many employers who have no desire to interfere with their women's wages. We make a further claim. The difference between men's and women's wages is too great. Women in both the closing and shoe rooms are very essential to boot production. Yet we are in receipt of less than two-thirds of the men's wage, and although when wages are normal and prices down to 1914, the men will have advanced 25 per cent. and the women 38 per cent. over 1914 wages, the women will still be 15s. a week below the men's minimum.
Our Branch in the past has been compelled to follow other districts, but not this time.
Our Council member, Mrs. Bell-Richards, moved to exempt the women from this agreement, but got no support whatever. We cannot forfeit the strength we have for improving our position. The sex war in our Union is forcing women to look well after themselves first. We had to draft, compile, argue, and administer our four piecework statements (asked for and used by many branches of the Union), without either advertisement, glamour, or cost to the Central Funds. Some districts asked for our printer so as to be enabled to order direct. The Leicester Women are proud of their achievements and intend going forward not backward, as some have already done, and others are doing. We are starting a Women's Social Club in connection with our Branch for educational purposes, the need of combination and sex-consciousness. The employers of the city have only to grant us the reasonable concessions we are entitled to and there will be no disturbance caused by us.
From our mass meetings we have our instructions. As far as the women in the Boot and Shoe industry of Leicester are concerned, past history may repeat itself. Belonging to a great organisation is good when equal rights are conferred, but detrimental when it becomes the undoing of even a small section.
Our Mass Meeting of the 13th inst, confirmed the resolution of January 1st-
No Reduction.
Another Mass Meeting of the Women's Branch will be held next week.
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS, President.
MRS. GOODMAN,
MISS MUIR,
MISS TIMMS,
MISS SHERWIN,
MISS KING, Secretary.
Executive.


---
37

DEAR MISS KING
24th January, 1922.
The Council considered your application for the insertion of the Leaflet in the
next Monthly Report, at their meeting this week, and after full discussion upon
the same, they felt unable to accede to your request.

Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
To Members of the Council.
February 20th, 1922.
GENTLEMEN,
At a Mass Meeting held on February 3rd, the answer to our application for cir-
cular to be put in monthly report was read and the following resolution was carried
unanimously:
That this Branch of Women respectfully ask the Council Members for the
reasons why such leaflet was thrown out wholesale. It being a statement of
facts, also the opinions of the women of this Branch."
DEAR MISS KING,
Yours faithfully,

M. KING.
27th February, 1922.
The Council had your letter of the 20th inst. before them to-day and decided
they could not publish your circular because it is wrong in substance and fact and
likely to be injurious to the Union as a whole.
To the Members of the Council.
GENTLEMEN,
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
March 23rd, 1922.
by
Miss Toone and seconded by Mrs. Spooner, and carried: " That this Branch of Women
its strong protest at the attitude
Women. The reasons given why our circular was not published is untrue and libellous
and if let go by would stamp the Branch for all time as women who acknowledge
by their silence their absolute incompetence to publish anything but wilful mis
leading statements regarding the business and opinions of the Leicester Women's
Branch."
DEAR MADAM,
Yours faithfully,

M. KING.
27th March, 1922.
The Council had before them at their meeting this week your letter of the 23rd
inst., and decided that same should lie on the table.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
MR. W. R. SMITH, M.P.: Had it been possible to avoid this discussion, everyone
of us would have liked it. At the same time there are issues arise in the life of an organi-
sation which it is the duty of those who have responsibility to face, because to attempt
to evade them would be laying the foundations of disaster. This is not the first time this
organisation has been faced with circumstances similar to that which we are discussing
this morning, and I would like to suggest all of us, however strongly we may feel, should
endeavour to discuss it with calmness and with an absence of feeling, because if we have
the interest of our organisation and members at heart, all we desire is a clear understanding,
removal of wrong impressions and the establishment of a condition of things helpful to us
ad. I would like to say here, the position of the Council as I understand it is not based
far as this paragraph is concerned on this leaflet. There are a series of incidents, several
Chapters of incidents which have indicated to the minds of the Council Members that there
was in Leicester, amongst our women members an idea current to that which existed
vears ago, and culminated in the position that a secession took place. (Cries of "not
Lrmed the fact that the Council have justification for this paragraph-having been justi-
Tae. From those comments the Council are not mistaken. The comments have con-
El in that paragraph I hope the Conference will face the issue in clear and unmistake-
We terms. From the expressed views of those representing the Women's Branch in


---
Here is the text of the image:

38
their case had to be argued by officials who happened to be men.
which I am sure all of us felt was undesirable.
I can recall in earlier
When you sum the whole thing up, I think
which is more or less accidental and outside our jurisdiction.
I think one is entitled to
interests. (Hear, hear.) Again I have confirmation of that statement. I want to sub-
Leicester, there is an idea that mere men officials cannot efficiently represent the women's
mit that point and ask them to give a decision. We are entitled to ask in what respect
in what degree and upon what occasion, what were the circumstances in which the interest
conferences it was my privilege to attend in connection with this Union, there was an
of our members, so far as the women are concerned, have been jeopardised merely because
attempt which I regretted that one centre of our Union rather boasted itself against other
sections. There seemed to be duals between Leicester, Northampton and other places,
ence between the results obtained resolve themselves round the question of opportunity,
we have to admit all of us do the best we can for our members, and very largely the differ.
of the services rendered by our Northampton No. 2 Branch in laying down the founda-
say in relation to the position of women in our industry none of us can overlook the value
tions upon which we built up the women's position. I have always felt our women mem-
fight they made and the agreement made. To-day we are told these men are no good.
bers have much to be thankful for from Mr. Sam Thompson and his colleagues for the
it. The statements drafted for their closing rooms are of no value. The prices fixed have
They feel to-day to achieve that which is best in the interests of women, women must do
which might accrue, because men have drafted the statements. When challenged upon
no relationship for the work done, and the women have been denied the full advantages
these questions Mr. Law, as representing the Northampton No. 2 Branch, said:
all about them and explain the surrounding circumstances so that you can have a right
is any doubt about our statements and you will come to Northampton, we will tell you
No. when we come to Northampton
as we shall do, we shall not come to you, we shall not consult with you as officials, but
Go behind the officials' backs to get what they
impression," and the reply a fellow official got was:
we shall go to the factories and the girls."
want.
"If there
Is that a proper position to take up? Is unity and co-operation likely to dominate
and it is only after full deliberation that the Executive have placed this paragraph in their
if that sort of thing is allowed to go on? This has been the attitude for months paste
and whether there is any foundation for them so far as any branch of the Union is con
report so that they may know whether or not these statements are statements of fact,
cerned. Mr. Manners in introducing this paragraph said we may have made mistakes. The
busy life our officials have to lead and in their desire to do that which is right, we may
be overlooking some detail, and instead of success following, there may be disaster. Who
can judge that unless it is the lady delegates from other centres who speak as to how far
the men officials have failed in their obligations to the women members. If there is any
feeling, apart from that high standard of efficiency which should be as high as for our
male members, we say let us know. If it is not true, and cannot be substantiated then
the interests of our women members are satisfactory by virtue of the fact that they are
served by men officials. Let us stop this bickering, and stop undermining officials and let
our membership receive that advantage and benefit which an organisation is capable of
giving. Mr. Chairman, I desire to come to the leaflet. One could say much more to illus-
trate the general position which has obtained. One could go into personal insults levelled
across the Council room as between colleague and colleague. One was glad to hear Miss
Timms say there was no desire, nor intention so far as the women are concerned, to sever
their connection with us.
with which it was made, one is entitled to ask why was this leaflet printed? Why was
In welcoming the statement, and in receiving it in the spirit
this attitude taken? The whole purport of this leaflet is based upon that actual fact.
Take the second paragraph:
"The arguments put forth against resisting a reduction because we are only a
Women's branch and must sink our opportunities for the sake of the greater body
is ridiculous, and has no logic in it."
Merely because this is a women's branch they have to sink their position. When was
such a position put forward? It is not real nor can it be substantiated. Read on:
"Our Council Member, Mrs. Bell-Richards, moved to exempt the women from
this Agreement, but got no support whatever."
I would like to ask Mrs. Richards to tell us when she moved to "exempt the women from
this agreement and got no support?"
The only recollection I have was at the meeting of the Executive held in Leicester on
the evening prior to the Special Delegate Meeting. I am speaking from memory. I have
When did it occur and upon what occasion?
not bothered to look up the records, but they will confirm or otherwise the position I am
taking up. I was absent from one of the meetings with the employers, due to circum-
stances over which I had no control, and speaking with that reservation, the only occasion
Lean recall in which Mrs. Richards moved to exempt women from this agreement was at
the Executive meeting in Leicester the night before we came to the delegate meeting.
Can anyone of you think we could have supported it at the last minute, after having
accepted the agreement from the employers? It was inseparable from the whole of the


---
Here is the text from the image:

Agreement, and it must be apparent if that was the only incident, it was not possible fo
ns to associate ourselves with the position on that occasion. Then we read
"Our women expressed deep dissatisfaction at the lack of effort made on theor
behalf by the Council.'
As one who has had the responsibility of taking part in the details of negotiatio
I shall be speaking the mind of those associated with me when I say that statement is1108
a statement of fact. The case was argued. If it is suggested we could under the cinco
stances succeed in getting the women into a different category from that of the me
it was asking the impossible. We did secure for the women a smaller
I am not prepared to say the Agreement in regard to women is satisfactory
than the men.
men, and the final position leaves them with a bigger percentage increase on the miminto
That is a different thing from saying there was a "lack of effort " so far as the women ar
strongly was the position put that the emplovers representing Leicester told us if they
had a special grievance or difficulty in Leicester they would deal with it locally, and we
left under the impression that that was a negotiable position and could save our women
members from the full cut. As you will remember, my colleagues from Norwich in talking
gave bonuses on the statements, some of them having 6 per cent, on statement prices
of the turnshoe department, said there was no justification for any cut, and the employer
We thought, rightly or wrongly, having regard to all the facts of the case the women'
in Leicester was a similar constituted position, and that it was negotiable and
could have secured advantages for their members in that district. There is not one of
Mrs. Richards. Not one of us has been asked to help. What is the use of quibbling
us on the Council and this hurts when criticism is being levelled but sympathise with
pleased to help, but they preferred to go on their own line, and is there any reason why
when they know we are up against the position of facts and circumstances. Merely be-
cause of some special incident of this description in which we should have been only too
seriously. Some of us went through the last difference with the women at Leicester
we should be charged with lack of effort ? I ask this Conference to view the consequence
of our members. We bring this paragraph here this morning and ask you whether or not
We don't want it to be repeated. The spleen and spite placed in jeopardy the interests
we are justified in the matter. The idea of the Leicester women will bring disaster, if not
dised, and we ask if we have failed, and whether the interests of women have been jeopaг-
to all at least to a section, and if a section meets with disaster the whole position is jeopar-
dised or likely to be in the future. Then we read:
"The sex war in our Union is forcing
women to look well after themselves first." Where is this sex war? Upon what grounds
being made? There have been times when my colleagues and I have been trying to
does it rest? Where is the evidence of it? What have we done to warrant that assertion
been overwhelming. We have won them round, and so far as my knowledge goes-and
organise women; the apathy, the indifference and tragedy of the circumstances have
I have been to places like Northampton, Norwich and Kettering and most districts where
are given the fullest opportunity of education to advantage of the work, and instead of
we have a large women membership separate meetings are held for the women, and they
having a sex war we have endeavoured to establish sex co-operation. (Applause.) Why
in this fashion? These
intrue. It is a reflection which is unwarranted and unjustified. Then the Council reward
to publish this leaflet and we are told there is nothing in the leaflet but facts. (Cries of
Then the leaflet says: "We had to draft,
"No.") The Council, I say, were quite justified in not putting it in the report. Instead of
being facts they are extortion of the same.
compile, argue and administer our four piecework statements without either advertise
ment, glamour or cost to the Central Funds." We are pleased to hear it. Is there any-
thing different from what has been done in most branches? The other branches have
not shouted it from the house tops what they have done, nor have they asked for money
from the Central Office to pay for their printing of the statements. None of us can but
feel with pride the position won by the women. To put it forward as if it was some extra-
ordinary feature is another misrepresentation of the position. It has obtained in most
places. Our branch officers, let it be said to their credit, got on with their work quietly and
efficiently, their desire being to serve their members, and we have yet to learn that there
has been any desire for advertisement. I want to call your attention to the paragraph
referred to by Mr. Chester. It is stated there is no intention of withdrawing from the
Union, and I think this Conference is entitled to ask what is the meaning of this para-
graph. As far as the women in the boot and shoe industry of Leicester are concerned,
past history may repeat itself." One recognises this, an argument by inference, and we
have to make a deduction. We have to say, what is the meaning of these words and all
I can say is, if our Leicester women friends have no desire nor intention of secession, then
they were unfortunate in their draughtsman. I don't know the author. There is some
amount of familiarity in the statements. "History may repeat itself." In regard to
what? I admit it is very open. Much is contained in the history of the past, and those
words do not link up the next paragraph for nothing, and so if you read on it says: "be-
longing to a great organisation is good when equal rights are conferred, but detrimental
when it becomes the undoing of even a small section." They have been complaining of
concerned.
position in
I deny that entirely
thinl
cut than for the
The question was argued to such an extent and s

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

41
nibble at that. I know, Mr. Chairman, the Council of the Union as such, has spent e
mous amounts in the interests of the women generally, and done all in their power t
organise them, and to make them intelligent, and yet we are threatened with past histor
I was a born agitator and a worker, and I have done what I could to leave the 
Who has brought it about? The same individuals who helped to bring about the lat
secession.
world a bit better than I found it, and I sincerely hope this trouble will be settled.
THE CHAIRMAN: Get the word secession out of your minds; only one Branch seceded
from the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, and that was the Clickers' Branch
of London. The one to which Mr. Moore referred was expelled not seceded. Not only
did they refuse to carry out the rules of the Union, but they advised the girls at the branch
of J. W. Black & Co., of South Wigston, not to work. The Union was fined £200. Sures
that is sufficient punishment for we innocent people who took no part in it. The official
of that Branch made charges against the members of the Leicester No. 1 and Leicester
No. 2 Branches; in one case they were called “ spongers and the other they were told
they were always looking for something for nothing. We asked for those statements to
be withdrawn. The Secretary at that time happened to be a member of the Council also
and said she wrote the letter at the dictation of her women. We said if the women told
you to hang yourself would you do it? We said you are a colleague of ours, and when
you put a pen to paper you make yourself responsible for it. She would not withdraw
it; we asked the Branch Executive to withdraw it, and they would not. The Branch
meeting refused to withdraw it so we suspended them. So far as Mr. Moore is concerned,
the only trouble we had against him was after this had happened he supported the women
against the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives. When the expulsion had
taken place we were two bodies; ever since then I have been with the Union we have had
some stormy petrols. I was one myself once, and if I was placed in the same circum-
stances I should be again. We are always prepared to give the best advice and assistance
The make up of women is different from that of men. We have got our
present troubles, but the women don't use the language the others did. I have some
copies of it now—(laughter) —and shall preserve them for a museum.
nothing to drive away members whoever they may be.
not look at a rivetter or finisher until you gave them a Branch of their own. They
when one particular section gets together there is more confidence created. Mr. Smith
would not join until we gave them a No. 2 Branch. It has proved itself useful, as
responsibility is upon the women themselves. If they keep putting men into power
has said there are meetings of women in various Branches. If that is so I say the
having superiority. Don't laugh at the sex war.
Throw the responsibility upon them and thus create more harmony in the organisation.
will never exist in our Union. Give everybody enough rope and as much as you can.
These women will go on just the same no matter what happens to-day. I don't think
much can come out of it. I don't think there are many women here who would care to
give a vote against a colleague, and even if they did have sectionalism very strongly
we can.
they admit the superiority of mere man.
they would think twice before doing it.
We should do
Some of our members would
Some women don't like to look upon anyone
It is a fact already, but I hope it
ago
that the General President and General Secretary should convene a meeting with the
Emplovers' Federation with a view to getting Leicester exempt from the Agreement.
I stated Mrs. Richards was not only up against competition of labour in the hosiery and
other industries, but she was also up against the Independent Union. We as officials
know the difficulty, and the Secretary of that Union is always looking very jealously
upon whatever action Mrs. Richards might take to seize the opportunity of taking mem-
bers into her Union. That is an awkward position. I don't want this Conference to pass
any vote of censure upon the women of Leicester, because no good can come out of it.
The Leicester officials are always willing to give every assistance to the women when they
are asked for it, particularly upon questions before the Arbitration Board in Leicester.
The Conference knows, that during the past fortnight there has been a stoppage of work
upon several factories in Leicester; the officials of the No. 1 Branch have been placed
in an awkward position, because the men clamoured and stated as the women had been
instructed to cease work they were entitled to pay. The officials said "No"; no instruc-
tions had been given to cease work, and we cannot see that you are likely to get pay. A
Board meeting was called, and the usual notice was submitted. Mrs. Richards was there
with others. Previous to this Mrs. Richards asked whether two of her members (not
members of the Board) could attend, and the manufacturers took no objection. Mrs.
Richards could have got all her own way at that meeting if she had been a little cooler,
and used a little more diplomacy. I proposed that the women should be instructed to
sume work forthwith, and without prejudice, the matters to be dealt with at once by a
Committee. Then we had to take a vote to safeguard our Union. I proposed that Mrs.
Richards should be instructed to tell her members to resume work forthwith, but what
happened? The employers would not accept that resolution. That was a surprise to
me and I believe it was a surprise to all our side. They would not pass that resolution.
Jur side retired and we had to pass the resolution for the women to resume work, and
the reason why my resolution was not passed was because the women had violated the


---
Here is the text from the image:

Terms of Agreement. That placed us in a most awkward position. So far as we are concerned I do not think any harm would have been done. The men were out and came I then rang up the Central Office on the following Monday morning and spoke to Mr. Poulton, as the men on one particular firm were anxious to go to down to the office. I do not think the women are serious over another job, but this could not be agreed to. Some employers gave the women an increase on purpose to make the this leaflet. It was a most extraordinary thing, but was done because they did not think a “cut” the following week. You read the newspaper every night and
you will find advertisements for machinists. The women felt they had a real grievance “cut was necessary. I regret you, Mr. Chairman, and Mr. Poulton did not accept my suggestion because I still feel it would have prevented all this friction. I hope that is all past and that there will be no feeling. If Mrs. Richards and her Executive will set about against any the work and seek an advance, the male officials will help her.

MR. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): I would suggest to Mr. Wheeler and others that the situation is rather more serious from the Council's point of view than they seem to imagine. People meeting here this week without any previous knowledge of the situation think the Council is making more out of it than is necessary. I don't want to go over the ground covered by Walter Smith, only to say the remarks he made I can fully endorse in their entirety. I suggest the most serious statement in this leaflet is the fact that the Council never attempted to look after the interests of women when we met the employers. It is absolutely untrue. If members of the Leicester No. 3 Branch can prove it is true, then that is another matter. You may pass a remark, or assert many things, but they do not carry any weight with me unless there is evidence to prove the statements. I want to draw the attention of the delegates to the fact that the proper method of dealing with a disturbance of this kind is not to try and patch it over, or smooth it down, but by bringing it forward and have our differences out, and when it is done set Branch in Leicester did not secede but were expelled. That is only a distinction and not about our business. Now the suggestion was thrown out that the previous Women's I remember in the Boer War some people tried to blame the Boers because it was said a difference. They would not have been expelled if they had not done something wrong. they fired the first shot, whilst everyone knows it was England. The Executive Council did not expel them because they thought it policy, but because the women were working against the interests of the Union. One lady delegate says there are no lady representaNo one deplores that more than I do, and I think I am speaking in accordance with their membership.
tives on the Council. The difficulty is to get them there. There are sufficient women in Northampton No. 2 to return a representative to the Council if they want. We want to see them. I don't want to see men come from a particular district with the idea that that is their only thought. I have sat in the Council meeting time after time, and Mrs. Richards, as representing the women, has been there with no thought but for the section of women. They all sympathised with the Leicester No. 3 Branch over the National Terms, but it was not a good agreement for anyone. You never heard any suggestion from them that the whole of the terms were bad. It is only that part dealing with the women, and if we take our General President's remarks that when an ex-secretary put her pen to paper it was her responsibility, then the whole of the Executive and officials of the Leicester Women's Branch are personally responsible. Then there is Miss King's reply because the Council would not publish the same :-

To the Members of the Council.
February 20th, 1922.
GENTLEMEN,
At a Mass Meeting held on February 3rd, the answer to our application for circular to be put in Monthly Report was read and the following resolution was carried unanimously :-

“That this Branch of Women respectfully ask the Council Members for the reasons why such leaflet was thrown out wholesale. It being a statement of facts, also the opinions of the women of this Branch.”

Yours faithfully,
M. KING.
This matter can only be finished by the men and women recognising their responsibility as a whole. It has been said there has never been a time in the history of this country when we have had such problems to face. It is not only the Federation of Boot and Shoe organisation it should be done with a united front, and not be fighting inside our own Manufacturers, but also the Federation of British Industries. If we have to reply to this organisation. It has been the propaganda preached by the employers for years to split up the workers. Are we to lend ourselves to it? If there is need for two Unions in the boot and shoe trade then there is necessity for twenty. There is no need for the women No. 3 Branch, and I believe if they study the facts coolly, they will realise they have made

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

be represented according to their numbers.
44
I feel the best method is that we should be
the persons charged must be given a chance to reply.
so constituted as to get the best representation upon the Council whether men or women.
MR. M. A. PARKER (Leicester) moved the next business, but THE CHAIRMAN said
sincerity, and to know there are still a few honourable men, and hope they can see the
Mrs. Richards' Reply on Behalf of the Leicester Women's Branch.
MRS. M. J. BELI RICHARDS (Leicester No. 3 Women's): I am glad to hear of your
attack is upon Mrs. Richards personally and not the No. 3 Branch. Mr. Law mentioned
about over some work sent from the Rossendale Valley to be done at a cheaper rate in
Northampton, and against which the men and women in Rossendale are out on strike
I said I should go to Northampton, not to the officials but to the factory. That came
to day. We have firms sending work to Northampton.
where it is going. Mr. Taylor, of the Rossendale Valley Union, went to Northampton.
a
You give us the list of addresses and we will go.
We have traced it and know
I said you don't understand our work
told Mr. Taylor he did not like it and thought it was impudent for Mr. Taylor to do such
not to the officials, but to the factory where the work was being done. Mr. Law says be
permission? well, we shall not. Mr. Law said we should deal with it at the Council
thing without consulting the Northampton No. 2 Branch, I said, do you have to ask
for Mrs. Richards and she would see them right. That being so, I sacrificed my time
thank you, nor our statements. That ends that statement of which so much has been
made. The statement about the girls who came up to London. They were told to look
selves. That's that. If you Council members think, or the Conference thinks, that is a
trying to educate their minds to take up these positions themselves, and to cater for them.
and during our discussion most likely I should be talking about the officials of Northampton
charge to bring against women you will fail. We shall go on trying to educate women
both industrially and politically and shall do so more after this Conference than ever
before-to take up their official positions and be their own experts in their own jobs. The
case against Mrs. Richards is as flimsy as it is possible to be.
It doesn't affect me that
case made out this morning is not the women's case at all. The case of my leaving the
---(snapping her fingers)-my aim is to lift up the women to the level of the men. The
Conference I will refer to. Why was it I left? The last three Agreements at which I
thinking I should be asked to represent not the women, but the operations in the machine
have been in, matters have been left to a sub-committee. The first time I waited patientl
room. My name was not mentioned. Next time I waited patiently in the 1919 Agree-
ment at the Russell, hoping I might be able to serve the women in their operations. My
not as a member, but an appendage for when women's questions were dealt with. The
name was not mentioned, but I was put on the Sub-Committee of the 1919 Agreement.
one Mr. Law referred to I was not asked to serve upon. No one has fought harder than
I have, and I ask for no credit. I did it for nothing at one time, and if necessary will do
it again. I saw the five men selected. I then asked if I might be one; there was some
and told them the Leicester women would not accept any reduction. The meeting
I left the meeting and went down to the manufacturers
adjourned until the next morning. Mr. Dobbs then said I don't agree, Mrs. Richards
should represent women. I told him I did not want to, but their operations.
demur and I was very cross.
MR. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): I took no exception to Mrs. Richards, but I
took objection to her representing women, and said if she does then Bleakley has as much
right to represent Scotland.
MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's): I may have said women, but
meant the operations. I think the delegates will agree that is a reasonable request. The
next morning-and I stand to be corrected, as I am not the Almighty-the Committee
was appointed to meet the manufacturers as a "feeler" to see how far they could go. I
said it was a waste of time; the Committee met and negotiated; nothing was said by me,
and it ended there. If you look at the minutes you will find Mrs. Richards did her share
for the women as she always does. The statement of Mr. Smith in his long-drawn out
speech-(Some cries of "Oh," to which Mrs. Richards said I have been listening all
morning)-that it is said these men are no good. That is not true. Nobody admires the
work of Mr. Thompson more than we do in Leicester. I have never said the men could not
cater for the women, but women, as women, can cater better for their own operations
as they have the expert knowledge.
Flickers' or rivetter's job or even a finisher's question. I should not think of going, because
I know nothing about it; not the technical part I mean.
are slow but they are coming along, and they will come along, and I hope this paragraph
ments for us. Certainly you do your best after consulting the women. I know the women
I have no recollection of being sent to settle a
were thrashed. I know this morning's debate has done the Union no good. Mrs. Richards
will be handed down to posterity so that the women of the future can see how badly we
Neither can you settle state-
Conference will pass a vote of confidence in themselves and their abilities. Mr. Manners
may have very little tact, but she usually gets home when she wants. The Council and
wants to know whether the position the Leicester women are taking up is a position of the

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

46
we have 4,500 members and always a floating membership,
But we intend to go on.
because with women we are faced with many difficulties. We lost one thousand members
outside the Union to day;
who were in men's departments during the war.
We are fighting for you.
lighting against the men.
We are not
It is only when you smell a rat and
will be no withdrawing of this leaflet. It is for you to decide against us; do as you wish
when you think of yourselves that you say these things. There will be no secession. There
A great body of men and male officials patting themselves on the back for what they have
We do not intend to give our rights away, but to fight on and make our lives more
I have been married for twenty-six years, so I know what it is to have a little bother in the
MR. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): I was very pleased to listen to Mrs. Richards
When you have an awkward woman to deal with it is about as hard to try and
brighter in the future than they have been in the past.
done.
pacify her as it is to get into the Kingdom of Heaven. Since then I have learned from
Tennyson.
house.
Wall
they take it on.
or two women on the Council.
of censure.
"Love one woman, and cleave to her."
I should oppose it.
when they were working for small wages, 12s. to 14s., and later 17s. per week. In the
We can never get the women in our district to attend the meetings. I know the time
We must all love another. It looks to me as if it fits Leicester more than any other part.
period girls went into men's departments and did nothing and received from 20s. to
they would not and the men had to do it for them. The men do their work in our part,
255. per week, and I said to those in the closing room, why don't you ask for more? but
but if women are to take up the work they must do a lot of studying and thinking before
It is no use having a war inside the Union, but I should like to see one
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): There is no need for any suggestion for a vote
There is no necessity to come into conflict with
Leicester, All we want to do is to try and remove any bad atmosphere now existing
I am pleased to hear Mrs. Richards say there
will be no secession. Everyone of us must realise it would be a tragedy to allow such a
point that females should look after their own affairs. I have argued from many
of Mrs. Richards, and think much can be said. Many delegates may disagree with the
thing to happen, and we must not follow any misguided policy. I know the difficulties
points. I have said to our women in Norwich that it would be better if they came along
and developed generalship and capacity, and so if necessary take on the work for them
there will be no change in our machinery, but they should have the right to govern in their
not want to change the present method of administration. Until such times do come
selves. We have so far always been able to satisfy our women in Norwich, and they do
own affairs. The Council have improved the position of the women. Don't usurp the
position at all, but look at all the difficulties in the best way and try to bring about harmony
As Mrs. Richards said, the future is ours.
good results.
women in the interests of
policy of the Leicester women will be modified so as to bring about sound judgment and
Miss BIRKENSHAW (Leeds) We have no women representing us in Leeds; the men
have done very well for us, and the women of Leeds are the last to have a reduction in
wages and are quite satisfied with all that has been done.
MR. J. T. REID (Arbroath): We have a paragraph in the report, and I belong to a
Branch which is in an outlying district. In Scotland we did not know whether the Union
was convulsed over a threatening of women.
against this cancer which it appeared was threatening the Union. It appears to me it
did not require such amazing denunciation as we have had from Mr. Smith this morning.
I find Mr. Smith threw himself into fury
Women are anxious to look well after their own interests and develop within the Union.
I am with them. I would like to advise the Council not to push them too hard. The
women are only doing what the suffragette movement did years ago. The greatest talent
in the land told those women they were acting foolishly. The women fought and by the
militant movement brought about more than they would have done by sitting still. Our
women are doing the same. Instead of using eloquence to put them down I think we
should study the matter from a psychological point. Mrs. Richards has presented her
case, and shows they can do something. If we have women of sufficient capacity let them
come on to the Council if they think the Council is not looking after them to the best of
their ability. I think we should have a woman organiser. We have nearly as many
women's position. In our district to have a woman like Mrs. Richards would give the
girls a chance. Women like Mrs. Richards could stir them up. That circular has nothing
I have never pretended to be an exponent of the
it more bare. I do not think you should forget the importance of the subject; they have
the spirit, and that is the thing. We have overdone the criticism. We have been too
masculine upon the matter. We should try to be friends instead of challenging them,
and then it would work out to the benefit not only of our own Union but to the movement
It is a poor letter, but the poverty of the expression makes
women in our Branch as we have men.
wrong in it so far as I can see.
as a whole.

---


---
going to the expense.
18
and in some instances we have had three or four reports,
I don't know that we can de
the constituency, the number of labour pe
is a Conference can do better than we as a smaller body can do.
The funds of our Union should be preserved, and we don't want
wer footer" is put out, but I should like to know whether the Council are warranted in
to spend 1200 or 1 300 on a constituency where there is no chance of success,
THE CHAIRMAN I like to talk in placards and lot other people do the filling in, a۲۱۲۱
thought I did that already, No candidate can be adopted until we have sent a dep
people on local bodies, &c. I don't see how you
tation of two down to the constituency to make enquiries to see what the prospects are
more so long as those reports are satisfactory taking into consideration the prospects of
placed Mr. Len Smith in Wells: Mr. Buckle in Eccles, where there are no shoe worker
You must not blame the Parliamentary Agents if someone else is placed in a boot and
That is not their fault, but the fault of the local people. So far as the fund
are concerned you will save because it had taken 1670 to elect me, and then you decided
to limit the amount to £500 and lost the seat, The Council have made no departure from
the amount allowed by law, 5d. for boroughs and 7d. for counties. Mr. Walter Smith'
Shoe centre
election was fought much cheaper.
(Applause.) We have
MR. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member): I think it is a reflection upon us that with
ing we have men whom we can place. I think it is a reflection upon us in not placing them
If the General President and General Secretary are good enough to represent us in our
organisation, they are surely equally good enough to represent us in Parliament. I feel
large centres up and down the country none of our candidates are placed there. Know-
very strongly upon this point. We believe by getting representation in Parliament they
could assist us very materially, and why do they not utilize the opportunity presented
to us.
We should waken up in places where we have any strength at all.
regarding the war.
WHY NOT MORE BOOT OPERATIVES M.P.'s ?
MR. W. PITTS (Northampton): Seeing some slight inference on some industrial
centres had been made I should like to say both Mr. Richards and Mr. Poulton were before
our Labour Party. The Labour Party of Northampton controls the political machine of
the district, and they were biassed against our selection of men because of their attitude
Their views and mine were the same, that we had to take part in the
war, but the position was controlled by the Labour Party. I urged our special meeting
to run a man in spite of the Labour Party's decision. I had to submit to the position
that we could not. I have been in favour of political action for a good many years, and
our interests should be served in the same way as any other industry. Other industries
miners, railwaymen or teachers if they come forward and tell a plausible tale, and we should
are more alive to see that their interests are looked after. We are prepared to accept
see our men have a chance.
MR. J. GREAVES (Leicester): I happened to be selected to represent our industry
or the workers on a local body. I got my backing from the trade union to which I have
belonged for thirty years and won the seat. I don't say the Labour Party did not do all
they could, but to me I say in a boot and shoe centre no man is greater than the man
who has given his life's work like our friend Buckle.
MR. A. BIRT (Northampton): It is our own rank and file who let us down every time.
The stranger in most constituencies has the support, and the more he is unknown the better
they like him. Our local president put up for political honours, and he has done valuable
work in the town, but was not returned because the members said he had sufficient work
to do at the office. He tried again and failed, and he pointed out he could look after the
interests of the town after six o'clock at night in the same way as a man looked after
his 40 poles of land. I am afraid our members let us down every time. It was not the
Labour Party who turned down either Mr. Richards or Mr. Poulton. Our representatives
did not vote for Poulton when they were sent to do so.
true man than Macdonald.
MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2): You will remember at Edinburgh this was thrashed
out. The Boot and Shoe Union is only one part of the Labour Party. We send delegates
and they vote. Every time in a boot and shoe centre you could have a boot and shoe
operative. In East Leicester we had Banton up. He deserved his success. No man
has worked harder than he. The Boot and Shoe Union worked hard and it was through
their efforts he got returned. It is the delegates who turn these men down. It is not
fair for Mr. Pitts to say what he did. In Leicester we know what happened in 1918 when
Macdonald was rejected. His words have come true. There has never been a more
The make up of the Labour Party is mostly trade unionists and very few others.
THE CHAIRMAN: I wish you chaps would give everybody credit for having his view.
there. If I had not been a boot and shoe operative I should have voted for the other man.
MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2): I was at the selection conference when Buckle was
MR. G. PARBURY (Leicester): And he turned you down.
1
ς
1
ت
1
L
L
it
11
am
Ke
to
100
mi
it
1116
ow
he
toc
VO
jea
in
be
m
in
کمن
66
C
Of

---


---
of Walter Smith as the boot operatives.
position.
50
He has done more for them than any other
They are
Member of Parliament. There are 26,000 trade unionists in Northampton, and it has taken
us ten years to get four labour representatives on the local body, so you will see our
shall discuss at this Conference, not only from the point of view of parish pump politic
MR. A. 1. DOBBS (Council Member): This is one of the most important things
Possibly W. R. Smith did more for the agricultural
possibly the only section of workers who, until quite recently, have never been rерrо
ers than anyone, because he has many agriculturists in his division. Th
sented anywhere, Consequently they have got behind, and it is because of trade uni
don't care what a man's trade is, nor whether he has worked or not, so long as he carri
insisting upon their own man that the agricultural labourers have been neglecterl. I
and shoe operative in Parliament without improving other people's position. Even V
W. R. Smith cannot improve the status of the boo
he could, is it desirable? There has been too much of that in the Labour movement and
but also the politics of the Universe.
labourer
out the policy of the Labour Party.
it is time we worked for
EQUALITY.
leaving other people behind. I am not blaming our members any more than member
other unions. They are all to blame. Some of us have taken up the point of view of ex
The railwaymen and engineers are suffering to-day as a result of pushing themselves
know and study the position the more you understand some know less than ever
treme politics for a long time. Some of us held very extreme views. The more
only way of doing it is to get a majority of the people with you who want to do it.
that is done the ordinary member will not be interested at all. If there is a questi
of a shilling per week extra, or an hour a week less, he may be interested for a while 14
are appointed, it is usually the few who are interested and the few advanced members wh
it is a question of politics he cannot follow you, nor does he understand. When delegate
get there. I would not complain if they were only particular about the point of view
the candidate, but having had some experience on these Committees. I am bound to a
the election. The Union or organisation who offers the biggest purse get their man selected
one of the greatest factors is how much are you prepared to put behind the man to
to fight with the members to pay for their politics, but until they are prepared to pay for
I don't say that is true in every case, but it is true in many of them. I know how you name
them there is no hope for them. Mr. McCarthy raised the question of Stafford and its
It was not a question of us as a Council, nor the Parliamentary Agent, but the rank and
file members of Stafford, who, until they thought they could get one of our candidate
never affiliated with the Labour Party, and they did not deserve a candidate. You will
hear when our M.P. reports, and Mr. Hindes' resolution is put, of the deliberate and definite
httacks made on organised labour in the House of Commons. The point I want you to
understand is, whether we like it or not, the fight of the future, as it has been in the past
is going to be largely upon the political field. It is no use thinking we can keep ourselves
free from the political fight. The members who complain about their officials spending
their time in the office should be told differently. The members of the Union must be told
there is such a thing as an eight-hour day for officials as well as for members, and ther
have no right to claim our services for twenty-four hours each day. They think because
you are an official they can call upon you at any and all times, but we must have some
freedom and members must understand that. Attention must be paid to the political
work of the Union as well as the industrial work. Let us insist upon our representatives
being men who have some ideals and the interests of the Union at heart. The wisest
thing we can do is to develop along those lines and instruct members generally instead of
leaving the work for a few. All should take a share of the hard work and get the type of
candidate they want to represent them. Buckle has a good chance at Eccles, quite as
good as he would have had at Leicester, and I say let him be elected so that he can repre-
sent the interests of the workers.
MR. J. BUCKLE (Organiser): I have never complained, and I want to report when I
appeared before the Leicester Committee, so far as I know, everything was carried out
constitutionally, and I suppose those on the delegation were justified in selecting the one
whom they thought best. The kind observation of Mr. Harris is that if he had been a
free man, he would have voted against me; he would have been quite justified. When I
went to Stafford certain things happened there, and no one has heard me complain. Being
exiled from boot and shoe constituencies, other offers came along. I accepted one, not
because it was a cake walk, but because I suited them and was selected by a unanimous
vote. Sometimes you are liked better where you are unknown. I have had thirty years
experience with our Union, and have imparted some enthusiasm and interest into it. It
labour. All I can say about my moderate views is, that you are largely responsible for
is twenty-four years ago since I stood against liberal and tory and carried the banner for
those. I went to Eccles. There are six repairers, and in no sense could it be considered
to be a shoe centre. I am pitted against the strongest man in Lancashire. It is more
difficult to get through the Selection Committee than the constituency. After the simple
Tra

---
Here is the text from the image:

51

modesty of Mr. Townley I might add the constituency I am in was visited by Mr. Smith and Dobbs, and a report had been made thereon as to expenses in-
This is what I don't like about the introduction of Mr Wheeler
posed upon myoleerd and th
possibility of success. He introduces himself by eulogising our present M.P.
the statement of the fact, and no one needs
more loyal to our M.P. than 1: no one is more proud of it and he has some doubt about the other.
Wheeler asked what would it cost, and said he should not nor begrudge the
It has already been proved by the opportunities which have presented themsele

xpense in the direction of the present member, but he ha
MR. J. WHEELER (Leicester) : 1 never said that
political agents. No man har
1
MR. J. BUCKLE (Organiser): You are smarter than that, but you insinuator 11
present it because it is an improper statement. Under any method of reasoning youn
have a standard of ability. If there is any doubt I will take my friend Hill or Len Smith
and say if they are returned they will justify being returned by their experiences. What
a beautiful opportunity we have to go to a man who has had five year
want to see our Union raise its status and personality in the country. years' exper
MR. J. WHEELER (Leicester): 1 cast no aspersions upon Buckle nor anyone e
MR. J. BUCKLE (Organiser): It hurts me, but no so much for myself, because of the
delegates think it is squandering money after a vote of the members was taken, then when
these men are accepted objection should not be taken. The Council went further and you
a resolution to extend the five elected and have two additional chances to put men im
constituency if they think there is a chance of success. I don't think it a proper way of
raising the question in the manner done by Mr. Wheeler. Neither do I think he is justified
in the method he adopted to boost one member up and try to persecute the other. I have
Eccles on a Sunday. 1 say they are the judges as to whether I am a fit and proper person
travelled all night many a time, after a week's hard work, to speak at three meetings in
of your speech? Would it not be a grand testimonial to shew how we develop on the lines
to represent them in Parliament. What would the Eccles people think if they had a report
of unity. It was an uncalled-for expression, and unjustified from every point of view.
because it is impossible to get one standard of efficiency for all men, and the time is not

ripe for insinuations to be indulged in.
MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2): I am extremely sorry I made the statement I did
and unreservedly withdraw it. One of the delegates on the Selection Committee said he
disappointed with our representative, and in my opinion Buckle was not at his best.

was
MR. W. MOORE (Leicester): As an individual who has taken some interest in the
Labour Party and trade union movement, I remember other people have an opinion as
well as myself, and it is as well for us to allow other people to express their opinion. The
average trade unionist, Mr. Chairman, has not got far beyond his Liberal and Tory ideas
and men who have done good work all over the country in the interests of working men.
or they would not have gone mad in 1918 by turning down men like Macdonald, Snowden,
Our General President was one of the first men 1 went to listen to as a lecturer, when he
was quite a youth. There was no branch of the I.L.P. in Leicester then, but in 1914 I joined
it and I say our General President was one of the first men 1 heard speak on the subject.
After that the L.R.C. came along and we set to work. We went along very well until this
damnable war came along, and we are as much to blame as the blooming Kaiser. In spite
of all our efforts it has split us up. That is deplorable because we allowed ourselves to be
lead by the nose of either the Liberals or Tories; they squeezed us like a child squeezes
an orange. It is not for us to say whether we, as a strong Union, should force a candidate
upon any constituency. If you do force him you will get no success. You must consider
the local people, although 1 hope constituencies will be found for all our men.
MR. J. T. REID (Arbroath): I do not understand why the remarks of Mr. Wheeler
should get Mr. Buckle into a fury. Objects 20 and 23 set forth the position of the Union
I take it we cannot raise new issues and we ought to say whether we approve this section.
Mr. Buckle said it was more difficult to pass the Selection Committee than to win votes.
Surely there must be something wrong.
MR. J. H. BAUM (Leicester) considered this a most important clause. I feel some
credit is due to the Council for the work put forth in East Leicester Bye-Election. 1 remem-
ber the work put in by Council Members to convince the boot and shoe operatives in regard
to voting Labour. Another thing I am pleased to see is the continued reference to political
matters in the Council's address in the Monthly Report. I don't think we go deeply enough
into political matters. 1 agree with Mr. Dobbs. Without any doubt whatever the future
of the Labour Party is going to be put to a severe test, and the future progress of the
working classes is going to be intensified. It is our bounden duty as members of the Boot
and Shoe Union to try at all times to put before our members all those ideas of greatness,
not mere petty-fogging matters. Each individual member must be prepared to do their
Whether we like it or not, depend upon it new standards
part if the position is to be won.
are being created almost without our will, and in these developments of new standards a
weat deal depends upon our will and purpose as to how the society will move. As a


---
52
boot and shoe trade you must take into consideration the many changes which have taken place during the war, and so far as our industry is concerned we depend on export trade, and the economic development follow up closely we shall have to develop upon other lines, and prepared to go. We must College in which it was stated many labour leaders of us are Ruskin being served up for consumption, and if you only recently have had report from ideas and matters are being served up for consumption, and if you only recently have had a report from ideas and matters are concerned they are fully alive to the position, I recently in their ideas and matters are concerned they are fully alive to the position, I will see turned back and read many of them so so Election comes along much political intelligence will see the danger. So far as our Council is along much political intelligence will will see the danger. So far as our Council Election comes along much political intelligence will be altogether a period for putting forward ideas. It is only when you have a normal flow have collapsed for another five or six years, or perhaps longer than that ; the old standards depression in Europe, never to be put on their feet again. You will have a must be fully aware of the fact that there are being born new ideas within the minds of a few persons. Whether you disagreed with Mrs. Richards this morning or not, remember there are one or two new ideas which she believe it is our duty as trade unionists to look after that side in the political side of our work. I believe it is our duty as trade unionists to look that has to be put in by local bodies, in the power of our representatives, but the personal touch from time to time. depends not so much in the members to conceive the necessity of voting for the Labour candidates

The paragraph was then endorsed, seconded by COUNCILLOR G. PARBURY (Leicester), the Address (Leicester No. 2 Branch), to the Council was agreed to.

The Parliamentary Representative's Report to Conference.

MR. W. R. SMITH, M.P., presented his report as follows :—

The past year has not been one that enables the forces of labour to look back upon it with any degree of satisfaction. It has largely been a replica of the previous one, but on the whole worse, for it must be obvious that the further the present industrial depression goes the more difficult does the position of the wage earner become. The small savings become exhausted, the power of friends and relatives to extend the helping hand become less and less possible, the funds of trade unions are depleted, and the resulting poverty and misery reaches a level that is at once despairing and depressing.

One can only hope that the present condition of things will bring home to the minds of the people how futile, nay, how criminal war is, how little it contributes to the solution of any problem and how it leaves us with even greater troubles and difficulty than those which we had before ; that as a factor in human affairs it settles nothing, it solves no problem, it leaves humanity on a lower level, it degrades and destroys, and while it may give to a few wealth and position to the many it brings tragedy and disaster.

It is necessary to emphasise this, because if the world is to develop upon lines that lead to greater happiness and well being, if the mass of the people are to lead lives that will enable them to develop the best that is within them, if the poverty and misery of to-day is to be replaced by wealth and the joy of living, then Peace must be permanently secured. War must cease to be. If jealousies and antagonisms cannot be entirely eliminated at least the method of meeting them must be changed, and if for no other reason than that the Labour Party of all others stand for this policy it should and must be supported by the organised workers and the people generally.

This is a feature that stands out in the work of Parliament. The Labour Party is always insisting upon a policy that will carry us in that direction. We are for curtailing the forces that lead to war, and for the development of housing, in all that will take us to the higher level. In education, in public health, in all that will help to produce the healthy mind and body, the

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

53
Labour Party stands for a bold and progressive policy.
financial stringency is great enough to warrant this aspect.
narrowed or curtailed it must be pressed forward. If Labom i
govern which we do not admit) we will make them fit
to give them a standard of intelligence and knowledge that will ٠٠١٠٠
direction which brings us to the chaos and disaster of to day
giving support to those who have led and continue to lead the
There is one point worth mentioning here. The powers that b
leave the people entirely unprovided for, the help and assistance ov١١١٧
local authorities, the provision made by Parliament, small and meagre aji
are to-day, they would have been worse, and this carries with it the funtie
is a tribute to the efficiency of political action, as had not our Labour Patt
firmly established itself in our Local and National political life, bad at
fact that with Labour stronger it can be made better.
There have been many measures before the House during the year, and
is worthy of note that the Labour Party insisted upon the House being called
together to deal with the question of Unemployment in October. The
though we might be strong and influential enough to secure the meeting of
Parliament, we could not dictate what it should do to meet the existing need
previous provisions were inadequate, something more was necessary, but
of the people. The Party has never left this question of Unemployment. On
claims of the workless. We opposed the raising of contributions and the
any and every occasion that presented itself we have pressed forward the
lowering of benefit, also the lengthening of the waiting period from three too
six days, We tried to secure benefit for those thrown out of work through a
dispute in which they were not participators but in vain.
On August 4th, on the Ministry of Labour vote, the Party once more
expressed disappointment that the Ministry had nothing to say about any
pians for dealing with the question in face of the coming winter. In the
division we got 77 votes against 266.
In the October Session, which we had brought about by our demand that
Parliament should meet, the Government proposals were most inadequate.
On the second reading of the Bill which had been brought forward, we moved
the following reasoned amendment:
"That, whilst anxious to take every step calculated to relieve distress
during the present unemployment crisis, this House cannot assent to
the Second Reading of a Bill which provides inadequate assistance to
some working-class families and no assistance to others, which adds
to the burden upon certain industries and imposes a further tax upon
a section of the workers whilst exempting from direct contribution
other and wealthier classes of the community, and which fails to
recognise the full obligation of the State towards every citizen deprived
of the means of livelihood."
In the division 226 voted for the Bill and 70 for the Amendment.
The chief Amendments put down for the Committee and Report Stages
were as follows:-
1. To cover all dependents. (Ruled out of order.)
2. To provide the grant in respect of the dependent husband of a working
woman. (This was conceded.)
was con-
3. To cover children up to the age of 16 instead of 14. (What
ceded was that any child between 14 and 16 undergoing full-time
its,raction at school should be included.)


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

56
Alternative to the present Government. They urge each other to hang
together for fear they will hang separately. They launch a campaign of abuse
because they dare not adopt a policy of argument. They accuse us of a policy
of violence and of trading upon the ignorance of the people, but they seek to
prevent the will of the people being operative by making the Constitutional
settle more difficult, and they oppose our efforts to spread education among
the people.
They speak of the Red Army we are supposed to be organising, but
they know it is an educated democracy we seek to bring into being, and though
the task may be difficult we shall ultimately succeed.
Our greatest need to-day is unity of effort and purpose, and a concentra-
tion upon the education of the people upon the political economic needs of the
present and the future. The past is a monument of the inefficiency of those
who have been in power, and records the fact that it is they who move and
legislate upon class lines. I trust that our union will play its full part in the
task that lies ahead, and that its candidates will be among those who will
constitute the Labour Party in the next House of Commons.
I hope I may be pardoned for mentioning that last year I was elected on
a ballot vote one of the Party whips, and for suggesting that this indicates I
have earned the confidence of my colleagues in the House.

On the first portion I refer to what may be termed as a policy of war. That can never
be helpful to the working people. I hope the experience of the movement, both as to what
is obtaining here and abroad, paralysing industry, will be fully understood by our people.
In my judgment there is no such thing as foreign politics; they are all home politics and
every question has its effect and bearing in our domestic lives, and by that fact comes
under domestic and home politics. I have referred to the work of the Party on Unem-
ployment. I wish our members would watch their present representatives as to how they
vote on these issues. We all know and realise that the shilling per week for the children
of the unemployed workmen is one of the greatest insults ever offered to the workers of
this country. The present representatives of Leicester voted against our proposal of two
shillings, although we know how inadequate that sum was. That is just an indication of
the wonderful conception that is up against the Labour Party in the House. I would
like to add to the paragraph about Old Age Pensions, and would refer to the resolution
moved in regard to this matter which I believe was framed in the lines which friendly
societies are seeking to get established. That was defeated by twelve votes only last year:
this time it was defeated by 43 votes. That merely indicates the growing tendency
obtains to our side of the Chamber. I have watched the House of Commons, and noticed
the further we got away from the war, the further the minds of these people got away from
the fine sentiments expressed during that period. Now there is a definite conversion.
not only against those things being made possible, but it is of such a character that it is
going to make it impossible for us to do it even when the people are with us. My views
are expressed in the last paragraph of my report where I state " I trust the Union will
play its full part in the task that lies ahead, and that its candidates will be among those
who will constitute the Labour Party in the next House of Commons." I trust that
will be remembered.

So far as it is possible I am prepared to do all I can to help our people. Now I want
to refer to recent matters in the House of Commons. I understand a resolution will be
moved regarding the Bill which was introduced in the House of Commons, and I think it
will be as well if I give you some idea of it. This Bill was presented by Colonel Meysey
Thompson and had for its object the complete change of the policy of trade unions with
respect to trade unions taking on political action. In 1910 this question was fully dis-
cussed in Parliament. The whole standing of trade unions in relation to political action
was reviewed, and much time spent in debating the question, and ultimately an agreement
was reached by all sections in the House. So much so that after consultations had taken
place there was no division in the House upon the third reading. It had been debated,
and the Government accepted it; Mr. Bonar Law, then the leader of the opposition,
accepted it, and the Labour Party also gave its acceptance. Under the Trade Union
Act, 1913, we have to ballot our members as to whether they are in favour of political
action, and then get our rules endorsed by the Registrar. This Bill states we shall take a
ballot, but unless 50 per cent. of the members vote it is void; of those who vote at least
there must be a 20 per cent. majority. Further, if those votes are in favour, no member
can pay his contributions to the political fund until he has signed the form giving power
to take it from him. To-day, if a man wants to pay he makes no request at all, but if he
does not want to pay he contracts out, whilst under the Bill he must contract in. It will


---


---


---
YS

59
rule it out of order.
cial part in order.
the Wellingborough
Council should have put it out of order the same as they did the W
THE CHAIRMAN: The General Secretary marked the Wellingborough 10 plusie
MR. G. PARBURY: We did not consider that point of view. If it out of m
of order and we did not fall out with his ruling.
MR. G. PARBURY: We agree that you should rule it out of order
THE CHAIRMAN: All I am anxious to do is to help the Congress, Rea
guide us all. It was not intended we should alter our rules at these policy conferenc
resolution is in order, so if you adopt the policy this year, next year you can put the fina
MR. J. T. REID (Arbroath): Rule 14 is quite clear and you will find the Rihmaroel
THE CHAIRMAN: How can we provide industrial classes and send members to C
ing to our friend's reasoning you can adopt it as it is only an expression of opinion, but there
without putting our hands into our pockets? AsaUnion we have not done s
is cash attached to it. Beyond a subscription to the W.E.A.central funds we hard
MR. G. PARBURY: Asa Standing Orders Committee we withdraw our recommendati
simply because you refused to carry out Rule 19 last year, although it has been in the
MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's): You spent half a day yesterday
nothing to provide working class education.
regarding items 6 and 7.
Rules over twenty years.
The question then dropped.
Policy.
MR. J. OSBORNE (Bristol) asked on behalf of
on Day-work versus Piecework."
Noord
BRISTOL NO. 1." To ask what action the Council propose to take re the vote
In asking this question we fully realize the Council have had their hands tied since
the vote was taken. Is the Council taking any action? If not, do they intend to take
action in the near future?
MR. S. THOMPSON (Northampton No. 2) seconded. I wish to draw the attention of
limited earnings, the same price per operation acts. It would be a very serious thing for
the delegates to the day and piecework systems. Whether it is a regulated wage, or un-
daywork with unlimited quantities. The opportunity offered to the Leicester No. 3
those districts where statements have been fixed up and accepted if other areas have
lost by areas working on daywork unlimited. It would be a hindrance to the No. 3 Branch
Branch yesterday to build up and develop their statements should not be allowed to be
officials. We want to destroy unlimited quantities on the daywork system. I know
the Council will do their best, but it seems to me a very important point, because it will
undermine all the statements fixed up. It is very serious and should be reviewed in the
sense that it would destroy the status of statements in every area.
ALD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2): Will it not be right for this Conference to assume
Federation? There was quite a long discussion, but up to last year and I suggest it can
whatever we may do, it is a matter to see what happens at the next conference with the
only be put up at the meeting between the two executives.
MR. C. MAYES (Council Member): Seeing you have a lot of firms up and down the
country putting operatives from piece to daywork, we claim the wages should be fixed
by the statements. Our members should do no more than the statement calls for. That
wants watching. When we go to see firms we have other districts pointed out to us. So
far as the Northants County Board is concerned we have a resolution that dayworkers'
wages shall be governed by the statement.
MR. F. C. JEX (Norwich): The question is what action will the Council take to put
the resolution into operation passed last year.
THE CHAIRMAN: Up to the present we have done nothing definitely. It will be when
we meet the employers that the matter can be raised. We are certainly watching the point
raised by Mr. Thompson. There are two ways of "scabbing." One is working under-
price, and the other is giving zos, worth of labour for a qiud. We have one of our greatest
firms where a woman earned £5 odd and they put her on day wages at 39s. They merely
said you lower your quantities. She could earn that in a couple of days. She was very
apable. I suggest to our friends at Bristol that they leave the matter with the Council.
MR. W. R. TOWNLEY (Northampton): There is an attempt to-day to break away from
The manufacturers try to bring the workpeople back to daywork because
Wey think they can get better results. A manufacturer told me they had gone back to
work and, as a consequence to-day, they had a difference in their selling prices. It
this, it is the daty of the Council to see in the next agreement that position is safe-
The position.

---


---
officials it is evident some evidence of this kind would be Valito
proceedings of the Union as did the Executive and officials theme
bers are apathetic, but the active minority in the county took
ments were made after the last conference which were
members who hold the Union together and help the officiale
our Union in its political education. They were reported by the col
important it is that our members should have
and if we are going to take a strong line in regard to polit


---
our negotiations.
by the employers.
62
conference it would help us, but we should be handicapped later on.
If all the spec
to a degree. 11
do behind losed doors.
comed, I don't want it published to all the members.
not of the Sub-Committee
should be there to be seen when required.
you would see our side beat them every time. There was no attempt to put up a case
There is no doubt about it if you had a report of the last conference
They stuck, as they knew we were in their power. Whilst I don't
Spreches made. I don't feel even if we got the manufacturers' consent that at the next
want to keep information back from the members, and I would like them to read the
MRS. M. L. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's): I rise to support Northampton
speeches are going to be reported, people would not say what they
That applies to both sides. So far as a verbatim report is con.
To safeguard the honour of the
Council I think a report should be taken. One was taken of the last conferences, but
tee Meetings, and it should be at the Central Office to-day. It
I would also like to add that a verbatim report
There is one matter I should like to refer to
be taken of the Council meetings. It would be most interesting. A report taken by an
Council members said I was prepared to accept 26s, for women, and the men wanted 30s.
When I was on the Council about two months ago, amongst the questions raised, some
That was in the forg Agreement, I thought to myself I will go to the Branch as we
had a number of mass meetings. I contradicted the statement. There was a report
taken, not a verbatim report, and one was at the manufacturers' offices and the other at
the trade union office, I asked for the one at the trade union office, but it could not be
tound, but I got the information. The other copy may be with the members who charged
The conferences started on 12th December, 1918, and ended 13th February, 1919,
" MRS. RICHARDS objected to a second grade minimum for women there were
not enough vacancies in the higher grade operations to absorb all the highly skilled
honest reporter would be an honest report.
me with making the statement.
and the minutes say:-
women who were thus compelled to do less skilled work."
That contradicts the charge made against me.
"
Later it says:-
MRS RICHARDS stated that she would agree to 26s., plus 45. in January and
the consolidation of the two amounts in July with the addition of 25 per cent. for
pieceworkers. Manufacturers agreed to waive the contention of the two grades as
far as the Closing Room was concerned, but they insisted upon a second minimum
for the Heel Building, Stock and Shoe Rooms."
I support the resolution and add to it that a report of Council meetings be taken.
The Minutes at present are a disgrace to a big union like ours.
MR. W. HINDES (Council Member): As this question has arisen I might say that
I retaliated to Mrs. Richards and said if you are so interested in the conditions of women,
why were you prepared to accept 265. when we wanted 30s. Mrs. Richards denied the
statement, as she usually does most things unless you take it up at the time.
MRS. RICHARDS: I object to that.
MR. W. HINDES: I know you will; this is what we had to deal with at every Council
meeting. It is nothing new to us.
apply to the statement I made at all, because the statement I made was when we retired
That minute Mrs. Richards has read out does not
and so does not come on the minutes. Mrs. Richards was prepared to accept 26s. and use
the other 4s. for organising purposes.
THE CHAIRMAN: I was charged along with Mrs. Richards, and my thirty years'
previous experience-
MR. W. HINDES (Council Member): I never charged you, Mr. Chairman.
THE CHAIRMAN: There were two of you, and I was charged. I have had to wait
until 1922 before anyone charges me with doing anything against the best interests of our
members. The position is as read out by Mrs. Richards. Mrs. Richards said accept
26s., and the floating bonus could be used as an organiser until the period arrived when
the two are lumped together. If I look round and made a note of all my colleagues say
they are prepared to do-well, where should we get. Everyone goes a little bit, and a
little bit. I am sorry this thing has cropped up in this way. It is not becoming of
men. You ought to have some sympathy, if only for a woman's sex.
sympathise with them.
get abuse and never give it? We have put up with people who lose their heads and
report of the Arbitration Board Meetings too ?
Don't we always
MR. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): Will the Northampton No. 2 Branch want a
is because we do not think it a good thing or we should have done it.
THE CHAIRMAN: They ask for a report of the Conferences with the Federation. It
serve to themselves the right to throw bricks, and resented the return of them.
MR. J. MANNERS (Council Member): The present exponents of fair play liked to re-

---


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
position and bring in a report at the
66
next Conference.
Centralisation will help to bring
MR. WR SML M.P., appealed to the delegates to give the question serious cons
sideration, and empower the Council to investigate all the circumstances surrounding the
In one area operatives had been organised and linked up with a Branch.
about a better state of ethciency and enable the Council to keep a stricter observance
would be prevented under centralisation, and I appeal that you pass this resolution.
only for that Branch to neglect them and the members allowed to lapse, Such occurrences
The question was still under discussion when the delegates adjourned at 12.30
upon Branche.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The delegates reassembled at 2 p.m., MR. T. F. RICHARDS presiding.
1. Stanford (London Metro.), were absent, but arrived later.
be wasted
merits.
get the money.
Upon the Roll being called, Mrs. M. L. Bell-Richards (Leicester Women's), and Mr
RESUMED DISCUSSION ON CENTRALISATION.
MD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2): I don't think there is any great objection to the
resolution, because if the Council have sufficient time, the possibility is the time will not
Personally, I believe in trying to look at everything and judging it on its
Two sides can be taken on this question. After hearing the other speakers for
it our hunds are centralised all the troubles of the small branches would be at an end
the resolution they leave me unmoved because the argument is illogical. They suggest
Nothing of the sort, and I would warn our smaller branches not to be led away with the
suggestion. The work of a secretary of a small Branch may be burdensome, but it would
be three-fold as burdensome under centralisation. The Central Office will want to know
every particular of every item of expenditure. Don't think because you are a small
Branch you would be able to pay what you like, and send the bill to the Central Office and
It would be checked and you would have to get permission first. The
point was made about one Branch, but if our funds were centralised no one would assume
was mentioned, but I venture to say if every boot and shoe operative was organised there.
our Executive Council would appoint a full-time official for a handful of members. Chesham
official Surely the
tuided by some percentage of membership. You would get what you get in the Politicat
Fund to-day. There you have a centralised fund, and you are tied down, although I have
get their share from that centralised fund. Will the Council have anything to say or not
tried to get conferences to get away from the hard and fast rule. The small Branches only
how many Branches there should be in a town or how many officers you would have
Of course they will. The Council will have to pay them, so they will say how many officers
you will have, and I ask those officials of the small Branches not to throw away their
position for a will o' the wisp. I can enter sympathetically into the position of friend
Dobbs, but I don't want us, as a conference, to do anything to-day that, after the next
conference, would not be helping the small Branches; it would give them more work
without any help. All the help the small Branches want can be given by the Council now.
If a fighting fund is necessary it does not matter whether all the money is in London, or
some here and some elsewhere. If any of you have any idea that you will be a delegate
next year, be quite sure to vote against it. The Central Office is always at the disposal
of any Branch, and I am sure is always willing to help. If a Branch doesn't ask then it
cannot have assistance. There is enough clerical work to-day; you'll have more if you
centralise the funds. The more you centralise the more clerical work will be required.
If you think the Central Office will give you a permanent officer for a handful of members
you are asking too much.
MR. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): I would have preferred this should have been dis-
cussed in private by all the officers of the Union. When I was a Leicester delegate I voted
against centralisation. If the delegates knew all the facts they would be prepared to alter
the rules. The smallest branch of the Union should have as broad an outlook as the well
organised towns. A place like Stafford; there members can easily be got at. I've made
myself a nuisance at past conferences (hear, hear and laughter) by my insistence that the
outlying Branches without permanent officials should have the same benefit as big centres.
I have in mind a place like Derby, which is 8 miles from Melbourne. The Secretary from
Derby went there and organised 290 operatives. If Mr. Blissett had the time to settle
things he would have been able to keep them together, but they left us.
a living for a man at Derby and Melbourne. I go to a place and organise it. It is left and the
the local men are not free to defend it. I beg of my friends Hill and Parbury to allow the
resolution to go through. We do not want to humiliate anyone, nor take away their
knows all the operations in the trade. I think there should be more elasticity in our
administration. If there are three branches in a fifteen miles radius and they have one
official it would help. One place where Mr. Richards has been to and settled things has
No one
It would have made
1
10元
me
one
the
the
FOL
car
an
dor
toc
1
1
e
11
TF
0
C
h
T
t
F
1
Th
ma
ha
Ju
ag
te
of
th
10
31
fu
الج
نان

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

45
like you can reject it.
you don't
MR. 
make the enquiry.
the smaller ones.
67
go
1
s
07
gone back as soon as it is left, as the local men cannot deal w
they expect someone to look after them, and I don't care
means losing their work. When I first went to the London Me
one permanent official, and I hinted there should be another Go
they should allow this resolution to go through. If the co
carried it too far in our agreements. Why not go on as we ar
away all the initiative. If a small Branch can be helped by the t
MR. R. HARRIS (Leicester No.2): We can carty centralban
too far to-day. Centralisation kills things, and I hope the resolut
done and not go in for too much centralisation. The
R. A. BIRD (Norwich): Most of us agree with the resolut
The Council should make the enquiry and get further evidence, and col
hand we are convinced the smaller Branches should be saved. 1
MR. A. W. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): Centralisation may be bad
lution for one reason, .c. the strength of a chain depends upon its weak
terms have helped the smaller districts from being crushed lower and lov
agree with our Leicester friends that it would take away local automotors
of the Union is in its weakest branch, and the Leeds Branch having disawed the
to centralise the funds to get out of the difficulty. Surely the delegatescan come
the Council should prepare a scheme to meet the needs of the moment
arrangement whereby the small Branches can be protected.
MR. W. N. BLISSETT (Derby): I followed Mr. Dobbs and Mr. McCarthy ver ca
fully, and I ask you to support the resolution. Our big branches should try to suppor
cart. I have not a big office and have to do my work on Sunday in my front toon froma
MR. W. R. TowNLEY (Northampton): The resolution looks very innocent, but its
effects would be so vast and sweeping that I cannot support it without more information.
withdraws his resolution and gets the Council to consider the question. During my career
on the Council we had lots of appeals from the small Branches, and the Council always
We don't want to change our constitution for the sake of doing it. I suggest Mr. Dobbs
helped them. Centralisation will not bring about the change desired for small Branches.
think. I don't feel our organisation will be made more effective. Our local people are
proud of our position. We preserve our funds with more concern than we should if they
The Council can give the help necessary and do it. As an officer of a large Branch I don't
MR. G. CAMPBELI. (Kettering): Whilst it is quite right we should have a change, as
a delegate I cannot agree. We know something of centralisation at Kettering, not in my
without the consent of their head office, and their activities are crippled. They cannot
own union, but from other unions. They could not increase their fees to the Labour Party
move without sending to their head office, and it is no exaggeration to say that had it not
been for the Co-operative Party Waterson would not have represented Mid Northants
Boot and Shoe Union. It is a pet theory of our General Secretary, and has been for some
to-day. If that is the active result of centralisation of funds I don't want it for the
time. We don't want to cripple our work and I, for one, shall not vote for it.
10a.m. to 12.
If Derby had to pay all its dues to the Central Office, it would be
It is all right, but by passing this resolution the position may be altered.
were centralised.
MR. J. GREAVES (Leicester) objected to the centralisation of funds. Every Leicester
delegate knows there has been differences and disputes with men who tried to improve
their position and lost considerable time in so doing you will find the Council turned
those claims down. In 1918 this question was raised and defeated. It will take away
your liberty.
MR. W. MOORE (Leicester): I am of the opinion the Council has power to assist
Branches needing help. I wish our General Secretary had been here so that we could have
His views would have made some smiling faces. I am always out to
heard his views.
assist the work of the Union. The strong should help the weak whenever possible. It
has taken years to build up our funds and to get to our present position.
THE CHAIRMAN: The Council helps all and everyone. We have helped Sileby for
months, and there is a representative here whose Branch we subsidised many months at
the rate of 30s. per week. Our Union is the best in the country in its symmetric scale.
Miners, Cotton workers and Engineers are in a bad way. If you want a revolution inside
the Boot and Shoe Union you will get it at Northampton and Leicester by having centrali-
sation, Buckle did not feel happy in the Leeds position, because it was not growing,
but no one expected it was going to die. If Branches are hard up we should give all the
Two Branches died a natural death through the secretary drawing
en the funds. I remember the Northampton No. 2 Branch had 37 members, although the
tary was a good friend of the union, and as good as gold. He had not that touch
wich Soum Thompson has. The great C.W.S. is good with all the capital behind it, but
assistance we can.


---


---
remember there is a trade union office. We have men who have exhausted their re-
scering on the administration of the Act from that standpoint alone
Neceft and having had their cards marked, keep in touch with the office; it is worth while
Ms. C. MAYES (Council Member): I am sorry to hear the difficulties of Mr. Jex al
o arcent, the cash comes through without any mistake whatever. If one of two days
So far as we are concerned we have had no difficulty whatever. With regard
Ur colleagues will bear out my statements. We had had a chance to understand the
Usemployment Act more than would have been the case had we not administered it
> been deleted we see the Manager of the Exchange and it comes along the next week
MR. Pirts.
We have 150 members
69
signing the book on the Government side, and they come everyday.
scisted but he made a report
and the local employers ring up the Kettering trade union office instead of the Exchang
When there is any relief work going we have all the men reporting and get our member
Ast we have some trouble. and we can be sympathetic whilst we do administer it.
broach in a queue at the Exchange. We can administer the Act with efficiency. There
sco question of queues like there is at the Exchange. Even if we do not administer the
e this mork. I hope you will not accept the resolution. I have seen the men get wet
air those who administer it know what happens. Is it not a fact that some Branches
Ms. J. WESCOE (Leeds): It is the most sensible resolution I have seen this week.
not administer? We had a gentleman at our office for two days and he went away
ears ago and now is at two extremes. It is out and above-shall not say the other but
the earth below. (Laughter.) All our officials are doing their best, but it should not be
worked by trade unions at all. We resent doing this work. If we
rening our own funds, surely we can do this. I trust there will be no divided opinion upon
is question, but when it is put to the vote I hope it will be unanimous, and if not un-
saimous, I hope the minority will be exceptionally weak.
MR. GEO. SMITH (Leicester No. 2): Our experience is the reverse of Norwich, North-
ampion and Leeds. We have very little difficulty at all. One reason perhaps is because
we have never had above 87 on at one time. Mr. Adnitt may have had a little more
Fother. As regards the members, when they report at our office that they are on a week's
weeks' benefit from the Union he follows on with his State and we have no trouble at all.
notice we investigate the case, and if it is all right when the member has had his ten
Leicester members prefer to draw their benefit through the Union.
MR. T. ADNITT (Council Member): I was very interested in the statement of Mr.
Pitts and Mr. Jex. They may have had a great deal of trouble. I am not going to say
have not, but so far as we are concerned it has been a success. I would rather we
members. We have been paying out something like f150 per week State benefit only.
continue to administer the Act for obvious reasons. We have to do the best for our
Unfortunately, our members are now on the five weeks'
Jose touch with our members. While we administer this Act I believe we have greater
to between 30 and £50. As officials it may put more work upon us, but we must not
power to enforce things at the Exchange and the Ministry of Labour than would have
Committees, and you will all agree we can put a word in more than the ordinary person.
been the case if we had not touched the Act. Many of us are members of the Employment
We have had good Managers in Leicester Exchanges. We have had occasions to grumble,
hat we have been able to overcome our difficulties. If our members are left to themselves
and the Exchange to be dealt with, and men are put off for various reasons, you would
not have so much chance at the Appeal Committee as you do now. Whilst we don't like
Far members to have to come to our office more times than they go to the Exchange,
ave no trouble with them. They come every day and sign the book, whether we have
mo hundred or three hundred men on, and not three of them grumble. They have been
brought up to it. It is a question of organisation. Not one in fifty prefers to go to the
Exchange that being so, it is our duty as a Union to do the work even if we cannot get
We have the machinery and should do all possible for our members.
all we want.
gap" and our benefit is down
are capable of adminis-
MR. J. MANNERS (Council Member) expressed the hope that the resolution would not
He passed. My experience is whilst there have been unfortunate delays in a few cases,
advantages have been greater than if the Union had not administered the Act. For
mery case we had to complain of, we could quote glaring cases which were direct claims,
We have been able to accelerate claims, and helpde people to get odd days benefit, which
they would have lost if they had not been coming to our offices. Quite recently I got a
ave reopened and benefit allowed. It has had a marked effect so far as our district is
nverned.
M. W. PAIN (Kingswood): I am one of those members who had to go to the Exchange.
proposer and seconder of the resolution may not have had a similar experience. They
what it means to stand in a queue for two or three hours. This also applies to
Surely you have not forgotten that we tried to get a scheme with the employers.
going to administer that, and if so, why should we not administer this Act, as it
he is a experience. We object to the drastic regulations as to signing the book,
overlook the fact that when members come for benefit and sign daily if
came to us for State benefit also it would mean eight signatures against the

---
Here is the text from the image:

present four. We dealt with one hundred an hour in our Branch, and we averaged over
seventy signatures an hour for three hours. We were talking this morning about educa-
tion this is a system of education and I hope the resolution will be defeated.
THE CHAIRMAN: The Council knew the difficulties local officers had to encounter.
We don't want to do the Government's work if we can avoid it, and if refusal would finish
the Government we would refuse to do it. But it won't. Many people say it is not the
work of Trade Unions, but we are anxious that our members should not go to the Employ.
ment Exchanges. Whether it is profitable or not depends upon your organisation. Some
people are doing very well out of it and the Government knows it too, and that is why
they are going to cut down expenses In some Branches they are doing very well, but
I do think we ought to continue this work.

The resolution was then put to the Conference, and only 27 delegates voted in its
favour, the Chairman declaring the same lost.

Married Women in Factories.
11. WELLINGBOROUGH.-" That this Conference is of the opinion that where
Married Women (with husbands at work) are employed, the Council
should endeavour to arrange terms with the Manufacturers' Federation
on the following lines-That in the event of trade depression so as to
necessitate the running of short time in any factory, Married Women
THE CHAIRMAN: Until you have taken the last portion of Rule 19 out of the Rules
(with husbands at work) should be the first to stand down."
this resolution is out of order. You might tell me we have done it before, but that was
a war-time agreement only. We will go on to Item 12.

Political Agents.
12. WELLINGBOROUGH.-"That in order to secure greater co-ordination in the
Political activities of the Union, the Political Agents employed by the
Union should be asked to attend periodically the Council Meetings, or
at other times when the Council think fit, when the Political policy of
the Union is under discussion. Further, that Political Agents be asked
to attend the Annual Conference for the day when Political matters are
being discussed."
THE CHAIRMAN: This also is out of order, as it means financial expense, which we
cannot entertain this year.
MR. L. P. POOLE (Wellingborough): I accept your ruling, Mr. Chairman, and will
bring it forward at the Conference next year.

Superannuation.
13. WELLINGBOROUGH." That this Conference is of the opinion that the time
has arrived for the establishment of a Superannuation Fund for its aged
members, and instructs the Council to appoint a Sub-Committee to make
Fund, and to place before the next Conference a scheme which could
inquiries from those Trade Unions who already have a Superannuation
be taken up by those members desirous of so doing."
MR. L. P. POOLE (Wellingborough) proposed the above resolution, and asked the
Council to make an investigation from other Unions, and if they feel justified, place the
matter before next year's Conference for the consideration of the delegates.
MR. J. T. REID (Arbroath) seconded the resolution, and added: It is of great advan-
tage to our members. To ask the Council to enquire into the matter is very reasonable,
and if they explore all the possibilities it will be for us to accept or reject.
THE CHAIRMAN: This will encourage us to raise the contributions next year, and
when you vote I hope you will do it with your eyes wide open as it is a serious matter.

There voted-
FOR THE RESOLUTION
AGAINST
::
1923 Conference.
64
32
14. WELLINGBOROUGH. - "That the words 'At the Seat of Government' in
the minute passed at the Edinburgh Conference relating to the Annual
Conference be rescinded. Further, that all future Conferences be held
away from Boot and Shoe Manufacturing Centres."
The resolution No. 14 having been ruled out of order, the question was not proceeded
with.
This concluded the business of the Conference, and the Chairman declared the same
closed at 4.30 p.m.

E. B.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

353
SUDDEN DEATH OF ALDERMAN A. E. MARLOW
The passing of ALDERMAN A. E. MARLOW, AF.
and sudden circumstances he apparently bung m
day before, when he was taking part in meetings 1010
connection with the Manufacturers' Federation the
then proceeding to London in the evening to tala
taking place at 7 a.m. on Tuesday, the 11th July, 1075
shock to all connected with the boot and shoe indust
activities for many years past have been well known in
the trade, and also the strong line he usually adopted in
settlement of any differences between the Union and the ۱۰۰۰
Differences of outlook there were bound to be, but we
where Mr. Marlow stood, and we have no doubt upon new tr
his influence has been of benefit generally when matters requim arh
goes out to Mrs. Marlow and her family in the loss they have sustained
ment have called for the two sides to consult together. Our sympathe
especially under such tragic circumstances.

The funeral took place at Northampton,
٠٠٠١٠
on Saturday afternoon,
the 15th inst., amid general manifestations of sympathy and condolence,
and the General Secretary, as representing the Executive Council of the
Union, officially attended the funeral.

POLITICAL.

The political situation during the past month, as viewed from the stand-
unsatisfactory. It would really appear that the Government does not know
point of work done or attempted to be done in the House of Commons is very
its own mind two days together. The amount of wobbling indulged in, if it
was not for the serious consequences to the nation, would indeed be amusing,
as also the halting and hesitating way with which Ministers from time to time
deal with questions of supreme importance, not only to this country, but the
effect it may have upon world politics.
}
We would especially call the members' attention to the Trade Union Act
(Amendment) Bill, which ought to have been called " A Bill to Prevent Trade
Unions from Taking Political Action." The Labour Members in Committee
put up a strenuous fight, but were constantly voted down, and the present
position of the Bill is that it has passed Committee, but has not yet been
reported to the House.

The attitude taken up by a number of Members of the House of Commons
should show to the workers of the country the absolute necessity for a radical
change of the membership of the House of Commons so as to ensure not only
national, but international problems being dealt with upon broad and statesman-
like lines. We therefore once more ask the members to keep themselves fully
i


---
alive to what is taking place at St. Stephen's, and as far as possible in their
several districts to so use their influence that when the time does arrive for
an appeal to the electorate, influence may be so used as to ensure that the
majority may be Labour Members in the next House of Commons.
supporting the Government, cannot refrain from speaking very strongly upon
the Government's reactionary tendencies as is shown in the following article
The London Daily Chronicle, which may be looked upon as a newspaper

TRADE UNION LIBERTIES.
which appeared in their issue of the 4th inst.:

time when the Trade Union Act (Amendment) Bill comes back to it.
It gave a second
We hope that the good sense of the flouse of Commons will avoid further waste of
reading to this short-sighted private Bill, and the Committee to which it was referred
has now decided to report it to the House. The amazing thing is that this tyrannical and
absurd measure has received so much support, and it is time that the House of Commons
protect trade unionists against themselves, but in effect will make any use of their funds
in the interest of sanity, got rid of it once and for all. It is a measure which purports to
for political purposes impossible unless such use is actively supported by an immense
"Of course, the Labour Party are bound to resist with just indignation such a denial
majority of members.
action through
of facilities for Parliamentary representation. But why do the Tories support it?
it not obvious that if Labour is denied the opportunity of constitutional actio
Parliament, it will be thrown into the arms of those who advocate unconstitutional action.
yesterday uttered a warning against driving workmen out of collective bargaining and
legitimate trade unionism. We are surprised that such a warning was necessary bure
Such a Bill, if it became law, would be a godsend to the Syndicalists. Mr. Lloyd George
it was necessary. We hope the intelligence of the House of Commons will reassert itself
when the measure comes up again.

is herewith presented, details will be found on reference to pages 363-393.
The half-year through which we have passed has been a very trying one, and
from the standpoint of payments from the Trade Fund somewhat heavy
this being due to the large amount of Unemployment on the one hand, and the
for the safeguarding of our agreements on the other. The sum spent at
cost of the fight which we felt bound to put up in connection with Chesham
Chesham up to the time of the audit was £8,503 10s. od. This sum, though
somewhat large in itself, is such a sum of money we feel quite justified in having
spent to support our national agreements, and also to let it be known generally
that the Union, whilst always in favour of arbitration, nevertheless when such
methods fail does not hesitate to take action as will prove that the Union does
not in any way shirk its responsibility in declaring a strike to enforce its reason-
able demands. The Trade Fund shows a decrease on the half-year of
£8,512 9s. 2d.

The Political Fund also shows a loss of £1,094 7s. gd. This loss is due
largely to the fact that we have now four prospective Parliamentary Candidates
adopted, which has meant the engagement of Agents for the various con-
stituencies, which, with the fitting up of offices, &c., is the main reason for the
decrease in the fund.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

```text
AK BHOCOLATE NOT
10
201
NA
358
POSTAL RATES.
Some of our correspondents are not conversant with the new postal
the Central Office each day. It may be of some assistance to set forth
rates, judging from the number of claims for excess postage made upon
the new scale for letters herewith, with the hope that Branch Officers
and members generally will see that their correspondence is sufficiently
stamped.
Inland rates for letters are:
Not exceeding 1 oz.
Exceeding 1 oz., but not exceeding 3 oz
For every additional oz. or fraction thereof
1d.
2d.
d.
Articles admissible under the existing regulations may be sent as
printed papers, up to a limit of 2 lb., at the following rates:-
Not exceeding 1 oz.
Exceeding 1 oz., but not exceeding 2 oz.
For every additional 2 oz. or fraction thereof
d.
Id.
d.
The new postcard rate is 1d. for each postcard, and 2d. for a reply
postcard.
Despite the above appeal, which we issued last month, the Central Office
has been called upon to pay excess postage amounting to several shillings per
week, and we trust, after this reminder, the matter will be remedied.
During the month a
"DAILY HERALD."
meeting of the Debenture Holders has been held.
the General President of the Union having attended on our behalf. A new
scheme has provisionally been agreed upon, and the whole matter will be
dealt with at the Trades Union Congress in September. Meantime we hope
the members will do their utmost to push the sale of the "Herald " and so
help reach the half million circulation.
SUPPORT YOUR OWN PAPER.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that " Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only
Footwear."
Union Stamped
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President. W. WARNER.
T. ADNITT.
W. HINDES.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES
APPROVED
SOCIETY, 281.
INCREASED BENEFITS
and
HOW TO GET THEM.
SIX POINTS.
1 Every member should realise that practically the only source of income of a Society is the individual contributions of its members.
2 Every stamp is essential if increased benefits are to be paid. A loss of one stamp per member per Half-Year means a reduced income of £2,400 per annum. This would provide sufficient money to pay another 2/- per week increased benefit.
3 Every member must insist on the Employer stamping his or her card EVERY WEEK ANY EFFECTIVE WORK IS DONE.
4 Every member must return their stamped card to the agent, no matter how few stamps may be affixed thereto, immediately upon receipt of same from the Employer. 500 cards are still outstanding for the Half-Year ending December, 1921. If you have one in your possession return it at once.
5 Every member should make it his or her duty to make every young person a member on reaching the age of 16 years. Upon the due observance of these simple instructions depends the possibility of increased benefits.
6 Every member below 18 years of age is entitled to a free transfer. A fee of 6d. is paid to every member introducing a new member to the Society.

On behalf of the Council,
JOHN W. MURBY, Manager.


---


---


---


---
```
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR.
241, Uppingham Road, Leivester.
To the Members of the Executive Council.
I have examined the Receipts, Vouchers and Bank Balances for the
period ended 30th June, 1922.
The Total Funds standing to the credit of the Central Office amount
to £264,603 7s. 3d., and but for the heavy cost of the Chesham Dispute
would have shewn an increase over last half-year,
I have examined all the Deeds and find them intact. There is a
new investment of £6,000 with Kingswood, bearing interest at 5% per
annum.
The State Unemployment Section shews a balance of £6,825 13s. 8d.,
this amount including the £5000 loaned from the Trade Fund.
My thanks are due to the General Secretary and the Staff for the
information supplied as required, and I testify to the excellent manner in
which the books are kept.
I certify the Accounts to be correct, and in accordance with Law.
JAS. B. B. ROBERTSON,
Corporate Accountant and Auditor.
Oh My of July. 1922.
```

---


---
415
Even now I am not sure that cobbling is not a goblin trade in
the East End where the law of trade unionism does not run, and
profit out of shoddy leather and the wages of a handful of men
They may be goblins, those poor cobblers who make you and me
shoes in which we go about our business, but they are goblins in dingy
goblin king who welcomes not visitors to the dingy hovels that only by
Amongst all those petty manufacturers there is not, I believe, a single ogledale
birth. And I was glad of it when I saw what things were like.
call a workshop.
In one factory," amidst an indescribable litter, seven men were at work in
jointed hands, spectacled, sunken-cheeked, consumptive. And in the doorway the heir
what had once been a stable. Goblins they were goblins, if you like.
goblins warmed their poor numbed fingers at a fire of leather chips and cotton fragments
to the goblin-king, with pink face and full red lips. They told me that in winter
underground, in a cellar lighted only by a grating, and of others whose pay for an hour
What kindness, combined with economy They told me of other men who had worked
work amounted to the noble sum of sevenpence.
arms gleam in a half light, made yet more obscure by footwear pendulous from beam
It is a goblin world right enough-a dim underworld in which yellow faces and bo
like some protozoic vine. It is a world in which nothing is put to its rightful end, in which
public-house and stable loft and miserable living-room have been metamorhosed into
factories where sweated labour may put footwear into the market at a price the decent
manufacturer cannot reach-factories where perhaps four or even eight hands may b
Over the shoulder of one protesting foreigner I looked into a tiny pit of a room dark
as the secret haunts of an Arab hovel-where mother, father, son and three employees
"Vat iss goot enough for me," said he, "iss goot enough for them." But it is not.
English working conditions progress forwards they cannot retrocede to the level that
obtained in back-streets in Warsaw or Cracow. I was told that this particular man had
endeavoured to make a shoe which he could dispose of incredible as it may seem-for
five shillings, at his men's expense. He had attempted to chisel down their pay, for
instance, in the case of one operation to a third of the rate required for trade union labour.
I can see him now, fat, evil and protesting, standing broad athwart his low doorway,
employed.
shackle his goblins even yet more firmly to their serfdom.
a rush of words in his mouth against the " slacking," " thieving" workman-he would
There are, too, women goblins-two thousand of them, I believe-who sit all day in
their little dingy caverns at home stitching children's shoes.
When you hear the patter of children's feet upon the stairs, remember that perhaps
those little feet were shod by a goblin cobbler who stitched and "lasted" and "pasted
in" and all for twopence farthing.
Aye," she said, there are whiles when the thread breaks that I simply lays my
ead down and cries and cries.
Tuppence farding a pair is what they give me for nurseries,' linen-lined, like what
this is, and tuppence 'a'penny for these 'ere white bucks. Pretty little things they are
when they've bin ironed and put pom-poms on."
Her little girl sat at her side. I don't know why I looked at the child's feet, but I
did, and the mother caught my glance-
I carn't give 'er no white bucks wiv pom-poms," she said, a trifle bitterly.
I works never so I carn't make no more than a tanner and an 'a'penny an hour. And I
works eleven hours a day. Fifteen years I been at it-and fifteen years more I'm like to
go on. It's 'ard work, and its bad pay-crool 'ard, but wot is one to do?"
She had stitched on as she talked. Suddenly the thread broke; she held up the last
with a gesture of despair.
The thread's rotten. If you 'adn't been 'ere I should 'ave 'ad a good cry, I should.
There's some says they make two pun a
Six times it's 'appened this morning.
week; but I don't believe 'em. They carn't do it-not if they don't get their children
to do the pastin' in.
My little gal ain't touched a last in 'er life; and she shan't,
not if I knows it. It's crool work, it is."
Yesterday evening I watched some children dancing in the dusk under the trees on a
lawn. The sound of their laughter came to me on the still air and the glimmer of their
little white shoes in the half-light.
Perhaps those very little white shoes had been made by a goblin woman and wetted.
Ly her tears.

---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

417

Candidates all over the country unless the Labour Party allowed the National Unemploy
kers' Committee to affiliate, and agreed to support their demands. The threat wa
A deputation was then received from the local Unemployed, who threatened the Labode
At the opening on the platform were : Monsieur Montel, French Deputy Mi
them and their insecurity of employment. Mr. Henderson said the only remedy mo
The Party Agents complained of some of the local Labour Parties indebted t
the Executive of the Labour Party to take control of all Agents, and until that was dow
such complaints could not be dealt with.
The following new rule was then carried :-..
Party."
"Conditions of Eligibility of Delegates from Constituent Bodies to cither Local Labour
Parties or to any National or Local Conference of the Labour Party.
(a) Every person nominated to serve as a delegate shall individually accept thr.
constitution and principles of the Labour Party.
(b) No person shall be eligible as a delegate who is a member of any organisation
having for one of its objects the return to Parliament or to any Local Governing
the Labour Party, or have been approved as running in association with the Labour
Authority of a candidate or candidates other than such as have been endorsed by
Political Organisation, and surely we cannot complain. Mr. Henderson said this would
This is shutting out from the Labour Party Conference all men interested in any other
charges of reactionaries so described in the movement, with such names as Havelock
leave a door open for say Lord Haldane, but was meant running in association with the
Co-operative Societies. The new rule was carried by an overwhelming majority. Other
Organisations. The next business was, however, carried after the Executive had promised
Wilson, George Roberts, C. Jesson, were mentioned, all of whom belonged to Affiliated
After the Conference a Tea was given by the Daily Herald Directors, and the facts
were made known that unless the movement supports the Daily Herald at once, we shall
soon be without that journal.
to give the matter attention.
A very successful open meeting was held in the same Hall in the evening for the
Councillors only two represent Labour, although they have one Member of Parliament,
benefit of the public. Labour propaganda is sadly needed here, when out of 74 City
who won the seat with a narrow margin of 364, and to maintain this position they will
need much hard and continuous work.
"No more war
"
resolution met with an amendment from the Social Democratic
Federation, which said that we should only go to war to defend our democratic institutions.
The Conference felt it would be unwise to commit themselves to war at any time as being
the best means whereby you can induce the Government not to involve any Nation, if
that Government was not sure of the support of the people, and to this end we believe
that if you are going to gain you must take risks. The amendment was defeated by a
large majority, there voting for the amendment 194,000, against 3,231,000.
"That this Conference is of opinion that the Socialist and Labour Parties of all nations
should agree to oppose any war entered into by any government, whatever the ostensible
object of the war, and asks the Labour Party delegates to bring forward this policy at the
next
International-Socialist Congress."
The following are the principal resolutions passed by the Conference. One dealing
with interest upon War Debt was referred to the E.C. after a somewhat heated discussion,
while those dealing with the Drink Question were also referred with the instruction that
consultation between the different sections should take place with a view to an agreed
programme if possible :-

FOREIGN POLICY.
"This Conference holds that the disastrous economic, political, and social conditions
which prevail throughout Europe are very largely the result of the mischievous policy
pursued by the Supreme Council and the Allied Governments since the Armistice.
"The Conference also holds strongly that in the following three main points Govern-
ment policy is chiefly responsible for the existing international situation :-
(1) The Peace Treaties have crushed and impoverished the peoples of Central Europe,
and, by hindering the revival of economic intercourse, have caused unemploy-
ment and depressed the standard of life in Great Britain and other countries.
Delay and indecision in regard to Reparations, and the ever-changing but always
fantastic claims made upon Germany, have been among the chief obstacles to
a return to normal economic relations. The repeatedly renewed threats to enforce
Payment by military measures maintain an unrest in Europe calculated to bring
about another great war.

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

419

Communists' Affiliation was discussed at great length and money but the idea of the policy of dictatorship by any class of the contiinitie
to any right-minded man. The Communists moved the reference back
FOR
AGAINST ..
THE LIQUOR PROBLEM.
There were nine resolutions on the Agenda for this subiect and referred to the Executive, there being at present such a vast diference of opinion
subiect. In fact the Executive asked for leave by the Arrangements Committee
not hesitate to make the above recommendation secing the various haultes
ailed to agree. The points in dispute were: Local Option, Nationalist rend

INDIA.

Saktalbata attacked the Act, saving it would only enfranchise 5 per cent
Mills, M.P., said Saktalbata should have given this information to the Parlia
Party. This matter was referred to the Executive.

CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES.

An attempt for affiliation with the Labour Party was defeated by the previous question
ving moved to allow things to develop naturally.

UNEMPLOYMENT.

The resolutions appended were carried unanimously.
"This Conference is of opinion that the Labour Party's declared policy on Unemplo
ment is the only constructive scheme for mecting the present Unemployment crisis, and
urges that the Party press it upon the public insistently, this Conference believing that
nising that attempts to revive foreign trade as a method of providing employment a
Unemployment is fundamentally due to the inequitable distribution of wealth, and recog
doomed to failure, inasmuch as Great Britain can never again be the 'workshop of the
world,' hereby declares that the only policy which will materially help to solve the Un-
employed problem to-day is that of the national organisation of industry, particularly
in the field of agricultural production, so that we may not continue to be dependent upon
foreign sources for our food supplies, which the restriction of our foreign trade now seriously
endangers."
"The Conference further strongly condemns the neglect of the Government to take
efiectual measures to remedy the deplorable hardships and suflering to which Unemploy-
ment is now giving rise."
"That this Conference expresses its regret at the manner in which the Prime Minister
received the deputation, representing about one hundred Boards of Guardians in special
distressed districts, and at the refusal of the Government to accord to those Boards of
Guardians any financial assistance to enable them to meet the special needs of those
Unions, in which there are many hundreds of thousands of Unemployed who are subjected
to the new regulation of five weeks' suspension of Unemployment Benefit.
"The Conference calls on the Government to take such measures, including the use
of National Funds, as will relieve the Poor Law Authorities of the exceptional burden
now thrown on the local ratepayers."
No Coalition with the "Wee Frees" was, with one exception, carried unanimously,
which means that in future no Liberals will be tolerated.
"That this Conference, believing that the success of the Labour Party and the rea'isa-
tion of its programme will be more assured by the Party maintaining its complete inde-
pendence as a political force, declares against any alliance or electoral arrangement with
any section of the Liberal or Conservative Parties."
On Political Independence we remain as before. After the last two lines of the resolu-
tion had been withdrawn, because, said Henderson, these two lines would undo the
resolution passed earlier in the week, allowing the Executive to have a working alliance
with the Co-operative Movement.
When will secret diplomacy
A resolution to withdraw all members from the Privy Council resulted in a good
discussion, which might have been better understood had all the members, including
M.P.'s, J.P.'s, C.B.E.'s, O.B.E.'s, &c., &c., been included. The Conference generally
felt the resolution was aimed at one man and one only. There voted :--
386,000
3,69.4,000
and back stair work cease to operate in the Labour Party.
FOR THE MOTION
AGAINST


---


---


---
423

The actual recommendations resulting from those considerations are
(3) That it be the duty of a Trade Board to fix
(a) a general minimum time-rate for the general body of
such rate to be fixed with reference to the lower.
workers in the trade
and that a Trade Board be authorised to fix
(b) if so authorised by Order of the Minister of Labour,
time-rate for workers performing work ancillary to that perforin
the general body of workers:
the trade;
(c) a piece-work basis time-rate;
(d) a guaranteed time-rate for piece-workers:
(e) minimum piece-rates for out or home-workers engaged in piec
(f) overtime rates based upon the above rates;
Trade Boards Acts.
and that such rates when confirmed be enforceable in manner now provided by the
(4) That a Trade Board have power to fix-
(a) special minimum time-rates and piece-work basis time-rates for special
classes of work in the trade or workers engaged in any special process;
(b) minimum piece-rates for in-workers;
(c) special minimum piece-rates for in-workers to be fixed on the application
of an individual employer to apply in respect of workers employed
by him;
(d) overtime rates based upon the above rates;
and to apply for confirmation of such rates, and that such rates if confirmed be
recoverable by civil proceedings only.
(5) That any question arising under the last preceding recommendation be deter-
mined by agreement between the members representing employers and the
less than three-fourths of the members of either side present and voting on
members representing workers, and that for this purpose the assent of not
the question (not less than one-half of the members on the side being present)
do bind the side.
Under the existing Acts the body of rates thus divided into two classes by the Cave
Committee are criminally enforceable, and can be fixed by a bare majority.
The position recommended by the Cave Committee cannot be reached without altera-
tion of the existing statutes. The Minister of Labour, however, in confirming rates will
hope that rates other than rates for the general body of workers in the trade would be
bear the recommendations of the Cave Committee in this respect in mind, and would
commonly fixed by the Trade Boards by agreement of the two sides. It must not be under-
stood by this that the Minister will necessarily confirm in every case where such agreement
it has not been reached. But it is desired that Trade Boards in fixing rates shall have
has been reached, nor that he will necessarily withhold confirmation in every case where
this recommendation of the Cave Committee in mind.

(5) MISCELLANEOUS.
These are the principal recommendations of the Cave Committee. There are, in
addition, a certain number of other recommendations of considerable, though less, import-
ance, most of which would require statutory amendment. No action, therefore, can be
taken upon these recommendations pending legislation.
Finally, attention is called to certain points of administration with regard to the
relations between the Trade Boards and the Minister of Labour which have been the
regular Departmental practice for some time and which will continue to be the practice of
the Department---

(1) There should be a regular practice of early consultation between the Department
and the Trade Boards as to the form in which the determinations of the Boards
are to be expressed.
(2) The Trade Boards should have facilities for obtaining at any stage legal advice
on questions relevant to their work, and should have an opportunity of
expressing their views themselves to the Minister's legal adviser.
(3) While the Minister is ultimately responsible for the enforcement of the Acts and,
subject to the Courts, for the interpretation of scope, arrangements should be
made to ensure the closest co-operation between the Department and the
Trade Boards in the carrying out of these duties.

Ministry of Labour,
th July, 1922,
(Signed) T. J. MACNAMARA.


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

427
ENCOURAGING "NOSEY PARKERS."
More Bright Interludes in House Committee. Trade Union Finance.

The Trade Union Act Amendment Bill was further considered by a Committee of the House of Commons to-day, Sir Watson Rutherford presiding.

Mr. Geo. Balfour moved to amend the clause by inserting words to secure that the amount paid by each member of a trade union towards the political fund shall be recorded on the card.

Mr. Swan, opposing, said it would be infra dig, and a piece of impudence to enforce such a demand.

This would enable the "nosey parkers" to poke their noses into other people's business.

Amendment withdrawn.

Taking the Law "a Hass."

Mr. Swan moved an amendment to leave out the words "and the source and nature."

He said that the insertion of these words would render the law "a hass."

Mr. Naylor, supporting the amendment, said that because the members of trade unions were working men they were to be suspect as to their political funds.

Mr. Balfour explained that the words did not affect voluntary contributions.

Joke About Sir George.

Mr. Sexton said it was most unfair to ask trade unions to disclose the source of all their political funds, and not to enforce the same principle in the case of other political societies.

For instance, a trade union might receive a contribution from the hon. member for Boroughs (Sir George Younger), in fact, he should not be surprised if the hon. gentleman became a Labour candidate—(laughter)-having regard to his sympathy with trade unions.

Temptation.

Sir George Younger: It is not intended to ask for the disclosure of funds except as raised by the levies made on the members for political purposes. If I gave you a contribution, you would not be obliged to disclose it.

Mr. Sexton: I don't expect we shall ever get a contribution from the hon. member. (Laughter.)

Sir George Younger: I may tempt you.

Mr. Cairns, opposing the amendment, declared that the "green-eyed monster" was behind these words.

Amendment Defeated.

They were prepared to disclose the source of all their income if other political associations were required to do the same.

Mr. Balfour said the promoters of the Bill were prepared, on the Report Stage, to insert words to meet the views of the Labour members, providing the amendment was withdrawn.

This offer was also declined.

On a division the amendment was defeated by 23 votes to 13.

"Road to Madness."

Speaking on a subsequent consequential amendment, Mr. Sexton declared that the promoters of the Bill were out to cripple trade unions.

"They will not succeed," he shouted.

"Those whom the gods wish to destroy they first drive mad, and the hon. member (Sir George Younger) is travelling in that direction." (Laughter.)

The amendment was agreed to and the Committee adjourned.—The Star, 12th July, 1922.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

420
GERMAN SHOEWORKERS' CONFERENCE
on 12th June, 1922.

Report of visit to German Shoeworkers' Conference, held at Mannheim
The Conference was opened by Herr Simon, the President of Munich, giving
a hearty welcome to foreign delegates, stating in the course of his speech that
there was a desire to learn from each other, which could only be accomplished
and by this method, to get a better understanding among the workers.
Roux, France; Muller, Austria; Dessinet, Belgium; Roth, Italy, and
Czecho-Slovakia, and W. R. Smith, England, addressed the Conference. Roth
explained the conditions in that country. He stated that although the Govern-
ment, and the workers had obtained many increases in wages, the cost of living was
higher and higher, and was getting beyond them. The falling in the value of the
brought fresh difficulties, and they contemplated even greater ones in future. They
could not prevent it, but they hoped to meet it with courage, and with as much success
as they could. In the course of his remarks he said they had a Socialistic Factory
had been selling goods as cheap as possible, and had realised up to the present
of six million kroner. He asked as to what profits are being made by the capitalists.
He added that the boot and shoe makers were amongst the best paid workers in the country.
There were too delegates present, seven of whom were women, representing the
members. There are four classes of members, the contributions ranging from 1 to 4
marks, but owing to the increased cost of living they would have to be raised.
As an instance of the changing conditions following upon increased price, an application
for 40 per cent. increase upon an agreement which was renewed in March last, was now
the subject of negotiations with the employers on May ist, when it was largely conceded.
Herr Simon, in his Presidential Address, condemned unauthorised strikes, of which
it was understood there had been a number in some districts. He also emphasised that
all members, whatever their political views, must carry out the rules- the Communist
had been giving trouble and were somewhat strong in one centre. He also pressed the
need of political action being kept outside the Trade Unions.
These points were sharply debated, the Chairman of the Executive Committee urging
that the line which divided industrial questions from the political was a very narrow one.
The question of time versus piecework was discussed and the latter was endorsed by
a big majority. It was also stated that very little overtime was being worked, and it
was understood the workers did not seek it, evidently believing that the normal hours
are sufficient in a modern shoe factory.
The discussions at times were somewhat heated, but on the whole an excellent spirit
prevailed. The Conference very much reflected conditions similar to our own, and the
delegates were of a type that were largely comparable to those attending a Conference
in connection with our Union.
Each delegate wishing to speak has to do so from the rostrum, and not from where
he sits. The spirit manifested was good, and though it was not altogether easy to follow
all the debates, the help rendered us by Miss Bickel was most beneficial, and was much
appreciated. She was an excellent interpreter and it will not be easy to replace her.
It may be added that the hours of Conference were from 9 to 6 with 2 hours for lunch
on the opening day, and from 8 to 6 on other days, the Conference lasting the week.
W. R. SMITH, 
LEN. SMITH,
}
Delegates.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
TOTAL UNEMPLOYMENT.
Estimated Number of Insured Workpeople:- Males, 94,190; Females, 52,560;
Total, 146,750. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 26th June,
1922:-Males, 8,995; Females, 1,812; Total, 10,807. Percentage Unemployed :-
Total, 7.4. Decrease as compared with 22nd May, 1922, 1.3.

SYSTEMATIC SHORT TIME.
Number of Short Time Workers claiming Unemployment Insurance Benefit at
26th June, 1922: - Males, 898; Females, 278; Total, 1,176. Percentage on Systematic
Short Time : Total, 0.8. Decrease as compared with 22nd May, 1922, 0.3. - The Labour
Gazette, July, 1922.


---
Here is the text from the image:

SUDDEN DEATH OF MR. A. E. MARLOW,
Heart Seizure in London this Morning. A Remarkable Public Career,

It is with profound regret that we announce the sudden death of Mr. A. E. Marlow
1. P. C. A. He had a heart seizure in London this morning and passed away at the Langham
Hotel, at the age of 52.

The sad news comes as a terrible shock to all Mr. Marlow's friends and to the general
public which valued so highly the work he has done in many capacities.
Mr. Marlow was in his usual health yesterday. Mr. and Mrs. Marlow went to London
last evening. He was expecting to attend meetings of the Boot and Shoe Federation
to day

During the night he suffered acute pain and thought it was indigestion. Later he
became unconscious and passed away in the early hours of the morning before a doctor
could arrive.
For many years Mr. Marlow was a very hard worker in connection with his own
businesses, as a leader in the local and national organisation of the boot trade, and as a
public man with many interests. Occasionally he had felt the strain, and he had been
advised to go slow." But it was not easy for a man of his temperament to go at half
pace he must either do a thing thoroughly or leave it alone.

Mr. Marlow was a native of Northampton. Born in December, 1870, he was the son
of the late Mr. John Marlow, the founder of the boot and shoe manufacturing firm of
Messrs. John Marlow & Sons, so that A. E. was born into the trade in which he played so
important a part after he came to manhood's estate. Mr. Marlow received his education
at Kingswell College, and at the age of fourteen entered his father's factory in Woodford
Street and started to master the whole process of boot and shoe making.

It was when he was close upon thirty that Mr. Marlow began to take a prominent
part in the boot trade. From the time he left school till 1899 he was with the firm founded
by his father. In 1899 he left to begin business on his own account, and built the factory
at St. James', Northampton, which he conducted with remarkable success.

War-Work.

Mr. Marlow quickly made his mark in the Northampton Manufacturers' Association,
and for many years he served the Association faithfully and well. He was its president
from 1913 until 1920, when he resigned and was succeeded by Mr. A. E. Tebbutt. Mr.
Marlow's period of office included the war years, and he played a great part in building up
the organisation which made it possible to meet the tremendous demand for boots for the
Allied Armies; while the trade at the same time found its full quota of men for service.
No industry responded better or more faithfully to the demands made upon it than the
boot and shoe industry, and the success with which the situation was tackled was due in no
small degree to the foresight, skill, and energy of two men, Mr. Marlow and Mr. Owen
Parker, then president of the Boot and Shoe Manufacturers' Federation.

When Mr. Marlow relinquished the Presidency of the Northampton Association,
his services were recognised by his fellow members by the presentation of his portrait
in oils.

He had not long given up the leadership of the local Association, when he was elected
President of the National Federation in succession to Mr. Owen Parker, and his death
creates a vacancy which the Federation will find it hard to fill with a man of equal ability.

"The Square Deal."
Mr. Marlow was a trusted leader of the trade. A man of keen observation and shrewd
judgment, tactful and always ready to see the other side of a question, he took a pro-
ininent part for years in the negotiations between the Federation and the National Union
of Boot and Shoe Operatives. The full value of such work is known only to them and to
those who met them in Conference, but it is admitted that much of the smooth running
of the trade during the last twelve or fifteen years was due to the wisdom and force of
character of Mr. Marlow. His motto always was "the square deal," and in pursuing
this he earned not only the esteem of his fellow manufacturers, but the respect and good-
will of those representatives of the men's Union who saw the most of him and knew best
the work he was doing.

In addition to carrying on the St. James' Works, Mr. Marlow was the head of the
large business carried on at the Mounts Factory; and on the reconstruction of Cave and
Sons Ltd., Rushden, sorne years ago, he became managing director of that important
business.

Other Activities.
Outside his trade and public work, Mr. Marlow was a very active man.
director of the Northampton Electric Light and Power Co. Ltd., and of its sister company,
He was a


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

SPECIAL NOTIOE TO MEMBERS.

Every precaution is taken by us to ensure
being men on whom we can rely :
same being pointed out to us, we shall be
correction as to the original matter.
the information contained therein must not be divulged

No FELT 4438 MUSEUM, LONDON.

ational UniON
Boot & Shoe Operates

Affiliated in the Tondes Unter Congres the General Federatio
Trade Unions and National Labaw Party
Appr
edunder the State Nolanal HealthIneurance Acts. Approval No. 281

General President
TFRICHARDS
General Secretary
EL POULTON JD.

34.GUILFORD (Def
LONGON NA

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Ofice
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. I.

MONTHLY REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
2IST AUGUST, 1922.

TRADE
has been somewhat quiet during the month, owing to the break caused by the
holidays. The figures for the month as given in the Gazette are as follow:-

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.

Employment showed a decline in most of the Midland centres and at Norwich, but
an improvenient at Kingswood and at Leeds, in the Rossendale Valley, and in Scotland.
These variations were partly due to the turn of the season, as the demand for light boots
slackened with the approach of autumn, while the demand for heavy boots, though increas-
ing, had not vet reached its full dimensions. On the whole there was a slight decline
during the month; but employment was still much better than in July of last year, and
at some centres (particularly at Norwich, at Bristol and Kingswood, and in the Rossendale
Valley) the improvement on last year was marked.

Returns received from firms employing 37,127 workpeople showed 29 per cent, on
short time, to the extent, on the average, of ro hours a week.

The percentage of workpeople unemployed in the boot, shoe and slipper making and
repairing trade, as indicated by the unemployment books lodged at Employment Exchanges,
was 6.7 at 24th July, as compared with 7.4 at 26th June.

The exports of boots and shoes in July, 1922, amounted to 55,919 dozen pairs,
or 2,073 dozen pairs more than in June, 1922, and 29,456 dozen paits more than in
Jaly, 1921.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
and the shortening of the "gap
same.
as it needs to be dealt with.
173-474-
"
454
between the time one may draw benefit.
and the great drain it is upon the country on the other. When they are con-
fronted with schemes for finding work for the workless schemes which if put
and thereby improve the position of the country they turn round and say how
wasteful such proposed schemes are, and they cannot therefore sanction the
into practice would not only find work, but work of a much needed character
It becomes clearer day by day that the Government are prepared to
resort to all sorts of shifts and subterfuges rather than deal with the problem
Other important national questions are HOUSING of the people, to which
this matter. In this connection interesting information will be found on pages
houses, the Government still, in our opinion, shirk their plain duty regarding
we have referred upon many occasions, and despite the admitted shortage of
COAL is also another serious question both for the Miner and the
below the 1914 standard, yet the price of coal to the consumer is high, and all
Consumer. The wages of many miners are deplorably low, in fact they are
kinds of statements are made by interested parties to assure a long suffering
unreasonably high in price. One reads in the newspapers of potatoes at B
public that no unfair profits are being made. MEAT and POTATOES are also
per ton wholesale, and yet the consumer pays at the rate of at least 12 per ton:
still no unfair profits. It reminds one of the statements made during the war,
and which upon investigation were found to be to a considerable extent due
to the fact that so many "middlemen " who rendered NO service to the com-
munity were having to be "carried," and each one had in turn a profit; hence
the poor consumer had all these extra sums added to the real price of the
article. If the Government were really in earnest to bring about an
improvement in the position of the people, they would tackle these subjects,
and in such a way as to bring about the needed reforms. The neglect of the
Government so to do, ought surely to show the people that what must take
place is to return a majority of men and women to the House of Commons
who will drastically deal with these important problems. Hence once again
we say, work and vote for the Labour Candidates.
Internationally, conference after conference with Government repre-
sentatives take place; resolutions are passed, expressions of sympathy one
with the other declared and the need for something to be done. Meanwhile
many of the European nations are drifting towards utter confusion, which
unless stopped, may mean a catastrophe of the first magnitude occurring.
We cannot but express our strong convictions that vested interests are once
more, in secret, working to prevent that amity between nations which is so
essential to bring into working order a state of affairs wherein nations will
trust one another and work together for the highest good of all. We would
remind the members that the international working-class organisations are
constantly having meetings and dealing with questions of great importance to
all. These meetings prove, more and more, that it is not the working classes

---


---


---


---
fully prepared for whatever happens and not to be caught, to use a vulgar expression,
"napping." I don't prophesy at all, but I am warning our members of what might happen
and what is possible. but shall still retain the idea that the best employers in the Federation
will bring those refractory districts to a better understanding.
We have already one firm, viz., Odell & Dixon, in Wellingborough, who are refusing
to pay to the Holiday Scheme with the other members of the Association, a matter which
one cannot wonder at that they should follow in their footsteps, but this firm is federated
with the Rushden Association and not with the Wellingborough Association. Further,
the firm has not paid the Holiday Fund for some months, and we are now determined that,
being refractory, in order that the whole of Wellingborough cases may be presented before
they shall bring themselves into line with those firms who we already look upon as
the Joint Board when they meet. It is our intention to press to the best of our abilities
to use all the machinery that we have at our disposal, and I hope that it will not necessitate
a stoppage in any of our districts; but the attitude of the Wellingborough Association
as a whole has caused great trouble and annoyance throughout the industry. It is a
great pity that the machinery of the employers of the Federation is not strong enough
to bring their members to book. Already this year we have had two districts in which
the Federation have failed, and we have been wholly successful in one and very largely
successful in the other.
I have had to attend several firms in Leicester who have promised after the holidays
to give the Holiday Scheme their most serious consideration. These firms are not large,
but at the same time they have an influence upon the larger firms, although that influence
may not be taken very seriously, and we have entered into an agreement that non-Federated
firms shall pay the same as Federated, and I am pleased to believe that the Federated
emplovers as a whole are not complaining, but are leaving these small firms for us to
endeavour to get them to subscribe to the National Terms.
SILEBY. - I had occasion the other day to go with Mr. McCarthy to Sileby, where
we held an open-air meeting of the members, and those who did not happen to be members
in that village. Our meeting was not as well attended by a long way as we expected, and
we Trade Union officials wonder very largely why this apathy among working men, whose
only means is their labour, and whose income and rates of wages are governed and controlled
very largely and obtained for them by their Trade Union. We wonder why they should
risk themselves to be imposed upon by those employers who have no other object in view
only living wholly and solely for the profit they can wring out of working men and working
women.
I have also had occasion to attend once more the NORTHANTS LEATHER CORPORATION
who are cutting stock for the trade, and here we are met with a peculiar position. The
whole of the directors are Boot and Shoe Manufacturers, members of the Federation, and
yet they coolly, calmly and deliberately tell us they consider these auxiliaries to the trade
should be treated as other than a Boot and Shoe Manufactory. We, on the other hand,
have informed them seriously, politely, but determinedly, that the Executive of the National
Union look upon this firm as being subject to the National Agreement of the Boot and
Shoe Industry. This is only another instance of the elasticity of our manufacturers'
minds. The Executive of the Union have only one policy for auxiliary firms' branch
factories, and people who want to cater for the trade, and that is to bring all the power
and pressure they have to bear upon these firms respecting the National Conditions.
Owing to the illness of the Manager, we have had to leave this matter for a short time,
but the Executive are determined on that policy, and one marvels why the state of mind
these gentlemen can work themselves up to that they should calmly and coolly ask for
exemption. We cannot agree to any departure, but as soon as this is quietly and calmly
understood, the better for our relationship.
LEICESTER. I have had occasion to visit the CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY in
the interests of our Girls. I have also seen the United Shops' Committee, who made an
appeal to the Management some years ago when the same was granted, that the opera-
tives' holiday fund should be based on the average earnings of the pieceworker, and
dayworkers should have at least the minimum. This agreement was entered into, but
it came to our ears that one year the girls on piecework received 4s. less than the minimum
according to their average. As soon as we knew of this we interviewed the firm, and I
should like to say we have obtained from them a promise that whilst they are prepared
to go on with the agreement, the policy which the operatives themselves prefer, they will
in future see to it that not less than the minimum rate of wage is paid to those of the
pieceworkers.
One does not wish to complain, but generally speaking this scheme is far better than
the dead minimum wage, that is whilst trade is fairly reasonable and that the agreement
is that no pieceworker can have less than the minimum rate. Thus we think we have
obtained practically all we are legitimately and reasonably entitled to.
The GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS have had several meetings during the
month, in which we have appointed Mr. Alfred Short, M.P., Chairman, and Mr. Mallalieu,

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

460
Vice-Chairman of the Federation for the coming year.
We have also been interested.
Germans and Hollanders that
representation.
the request, it will cause heartburn in some quarters.
ference.
As a Federation we cannot help
represent Labour at the Geneva International, and having been approached by both
as we understand there is a likelihood of a further two members being appointed to
hat those elements who don't touch politics, such as the American
additional Labour representative on that body. What the result will be I do not know,
Federation of Labour who do not adopt politics, may have an opportunity of getting
We have approached the Government of the intention of getting an
but if there is any possibility of getting an additional representative of Labour from this
country the opportunity ought not to be missed, although by the fact that we are making
ment to act as the Labour representative on the Government's behalf at the coming Con.
but feel pleased that our Treasurer, Colonel John Ward, has been appointed by the Govern-
to the movement, and in Mr. Ward, in my humble judgment, he is a very capable man,
It is only close contact with men of this type that one appreciates their work
although his independence of opinion does not coincide with many others.
Treasury on the new arrangement they are making regarding the Industrial and the
We have also attended a Sub-Committee, of which I am a member, to interview the
Insurance side of our movement of the Geddes Report, and make suggestions that certain
alterations should be made, as far as possible one stamp should be used and one card
Those Officials and Members of Parliament who have failed to get the Meysey Thompson
Bill through the House of Commons are interested, and endeavouring to cripple as far as
for both benefits. To our mind, here you have a cloven hoof of anti-Trade Unionism
possible Trade Unions. This is one of those moods which they are capable of carrsing
ance Companies for the purpose of administering Unemployment Benefit, which to my
The endeavour is to as far as possible bring in the Insur-
has been outlined for our industry. Newspapers have taken this matter up and are
are many schemes afoot. I must not speak at the present moment of the scheme that
mind would be disastrous, and would spell ruin to the future of Trade Union effort. There
It would be as well if, when that same kind Samaritan comes forth to render assistance
endeavouring to force it down the throats of the Boot and Shoe Operatives of the country.
to anyone, that it should not be done by a general advertisement, but should be done in
a very clear way, allowing the persons who are interested to consider the matter first
than what we gather from the newspapers. A tainted service in my judgment for labour
before it is emblazened abroad. Some of us do not know any more about this scheme
all these matters upon their merits, and will accept or reject according to their worth.
news, because it is invariably one-sided only. I am sure that both sides will consider
We are arranging for an Industrial Committee, when we hope to have the benefit of
the gentleman (whoever he may be) who is responsible for this particular scheme.
out. We can see very plainly.
NATIONAL UNION OF DISTRIBUTIVE AND ALLIED WORKERS.—We have experienced
Union, founded in Liverpool, and joined Congress in 1916. The old A.U.C.E., or Co-
some trouble with the above organisation, the same is composed of a Warehouseniced
operative Employees' Union, who had been convicted of poaching by the 1913 Congress,
and to evade the penalty withdrew from Congress because of the following resolution
"That the Co-operative Employees' Union should abstain from accepting as members
workers in skilled trades for whom separate and well-organised Unions have been estab-
lished." Rather than face this they left Congress, and only this year poached four of
our members at Leicester. We have already impeached their conduct with the General
Council of the Trades Union Congress, and are daily expecting to be called to prove our
charges, in the meantime will our members please watch this picker of other people's
brains and poachers of any Union they can affect, until such time as we can check their
voracious appetite for other people's members. We have already claimed they shall not
take our members' contributions, neither shall they act for them with the Society, that
being our business.
I hope our members will still bear in mind that the Trade Union Stamp is still in
existence, and TRADE UNION STAMPED BOOTS AND SHOES cannot be excelled anywhere,
and I hope the time is not far distant when the members will realise that it is the duty
of all of us to see to it that whatever articles of clothing or footwear are required, is to
assert ourselves first of all that the cheapest and best in the long run are those that have
been made under proper and fair conditions. Honest men will always give honest value.

7. MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
18th August, 1922.
Yours fraternally,
ichards
General President.


---


---


---
month. We regret that no improvement in the position in relation to the
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. Trade has improved slightly during the
Unemployed (Army and Navy) Handsewn Workers, the efforts of the Thray
to secure work for the unemployed men. The Officials responsible for Go
stone Board of Guardians and the Raunds Urban District Comcil having failed
ment Departments point out that deputations of workmen and Trade
had taken place since the replies sent to those deputations, viz., that the Ma
Union officials had met the Ministers responsible several times and no alter١٤١٢٠١١
chine-made boots had been tested and proved quite suitable for Government
purposes and were more economical. One of the oldest members of our Branch.
James Hodson, of Raunds, has passed away during the month. Mr. Hod-on
was at one time a collector. Member of Executive (Branch), and Arbitration
Board.

KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. - Trade in this centre is showing signs
centre has experienced such a prolonged depression. We are hopeful that the
of revival. This is very welcome, because it is very doubtful if any other trade
members will appreciate the value of the organisation to them in particular if
prosperity should return, and members who have lapsed their membership will
times are ahead! The employers have tabled a resolution which affirms that
the Hand Making Statement; unless the men directly affected give their united
to bring back a better state of trade in Kingswood there must be a revision of
support to the representatives appointed to meet the employers, the position
secured for them by much patience and perseverance will be still further de-
strong body of opinion behind us we will do all that is possible to maintain
pressed. We are confident we have a just case against a revision, and with a
probably realise "Safety First
"
can only be secured by "Unity." Difficult
the Statement in its present form and value.

LIVERPOOL. - Trade in this district during the past month has been
the holiday season, when everybody that can manage it endeavours to get away
on the quiet side which, in a great measure, may be accounted for by its being
if only for a few days for a
change from the daily grind to break the monotony
of life. We note our General President's remarks in the July Report re Daily
Herald. We quite agree that if it is ever made to pay it will be necessary to
adopt different methods by giving more news and less propaganda work and,
incidentally, get more adverts, which are the life and soul of every successful
newspaper; but if it has to be kept floating by utilising Trade Union funds
it is bound to go down "the nick " in time. We venture to assert that at the
present time there are not twenty per cent. of the members in the Labour and
Trade Union Movement who take the paper in regularly. We do not quite
see how Trade Union officials are to blossom out as newsagents. After having
carefully gone through the report of the Cave Committee, we are of the opinion
that the employers have scored against the workers by recommending that
the Minister of Labour's powers shall be limited by reason of the worker being
made a party to any action taken which means victimisation; as a matter of
fact certain employers have taken legal advice as to the best method of cir-
cumventing the Act without breaking the law and actually put it into practice.
There is an old saying that you can drive a coach and four through any Act
of Parliament and, judging by experience, this appears to apply rather aptly
to the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board. It will be interesting to see
what action the Board will take regarding those employers who try to work
the cute dodge by stepping round its authority.

NOTTINGHAM. Trade is again very quiet around here; our only firm
also a good deal of short time. Pleased to report no Out-of-Work Benefit or
ea New Work is working just about half-time, while in the repairing there is
Sick Pay has been paid out during the month of July.

---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

476
NOTED DUNDEE ARTIST DEAD.
Romantic Career of Late David Sellars.
A romantic figure, well known to many in artistic and literary circles in Dundee, has been removed by the death of Mr. David R. Sellars, 124, Hilltown. Mr. Sellars, who lived practically alone for many years, had been in bad health for several weeks, and was taken to the Royal Infirmary only a week ago.
Born in Mussel- burgh in 185.4 of Dundee parents, Mr. Sellars spent his youth in Dundee, his parents returning to the city when he was three years old. While at school young Sellars distinguished himself sufficiently to justify his teacher marking him out as a future assistant. His father's death, when David was 11 years of age, marked the beginning of his varied and romantic life. He became a message boy to a grocer, and spent his time reading and drawing in the cellar, and sub- sequently he was employed in the office of the Dundee Advertiser, working from four to nine in the morning, and attending school during the remain- der of the day. After some time, Sellars began to learn the shoe- making trade, under the division of labour system. When he was about 15 years of age Sellars saved several persons from drowning, and was presented with the medal of the Dundee Humane Society, and later received parch- ments, &c., for deeds of bravery. In his teens and early twenties he showed a pre- disposition toward art and Trade Union matters, and held several important positions, being Organiser for Scotland when he was 23 years of age.
Parliamentary Candidate.
At one time Mr. Sellars, who was a fine platform speaker, was chosen by the Bootmakers' Society as their Parliamentary candidate for Northampton, but his love for his art was such that he would not go forward, and came back to Dundee as assistant art master at the High School about 25 years ago. Since then he devoted himself mainly to art and literature. He gained numerous prizes and certificates from the South Kensington Department, and he was a well-known exhibitor at Fine Art Exhibitions all over the country. Some of his early work was very fine, and was on view in London and Edinburgh.
Mr. Sellars was a contributor to the daily newspapers and various periodicals and magazines. He wrote many poems, and was known under the nom de plume of "Small Tingle."
For many years Mr. Sellars lived a retired life, still continuing his art work, and producing many fine pictures. Several years ago he was presented with his portrait in oils, together with a purse of sovereigns, by his friends and members of the Dundee Branch. The occasion was a memorable one. On acknowledging the gifts, which were made by Mr. D. H. McIntosh, ex-president of the branch, Sellars, being in his most humorous and reminiscent mood, charmed the company with his witty sallies of what occasionally took place at the council meetings at 17, Silver Street, Leicester, forty years ago.
"
His day's work is o'er; After life's fitful fever he sleeps."
His portrait in oils is an excellent piece of art, painted by Mr. David Bathie, Shoemaker and member of the Dundee Branch, which was highly commented upon by Mr. Alex. Smith, Arbroath.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

478
HUGE SUMS IN RELIEF.
£233,250,000 Spent in Three Years. Official Figures.

Dr. Macnamara's Reply to Workless Marchers.

Dr. Macnamara, the Minister of Labour, gave some interesting figures yesterday as
to the money that has been disbursed by the Government for relief schemes since the
Fall of 1920. He was replying at Montagu House to a deputation from a party of unem-
ployed who had walked from Birmingham to London.

The following were the sums mentioned by Dr. Macnamara:
Government and Towns £50,000,000
Export Credit Scheme £16,250,000
Public Works £17,000,000
Relief £60,000,000
Insurance Benefits £90,000,000
Total £233,250,000

The deputation, who numbered twenty-seven, were headed by Mr. George Bridgen,
of the Birmingham District Committee of the National Unemployed Workers' Movement.
The case for the deputation was opened by Mr. Bridgen, who said that what they wished
to protest against was the "gap" system of unemployment benefits, ex-Service men's
grievances, Poor Law relief, and what he termed "the National question."

"Gap" Hardship.
Mr. Spencer, another member of the deputation, said that he failed to see why there
should be a gap system. He suggested that it should be done away with, and the unem-
ployment payment continued. A man on the Labour Exchange for five weeks, if single,
was forced into a Poor Law institution during the gap period if he had no money. He
could not see that the man should be forced into that institution at a cost of 25s. a week
when he could be kept out by the continued payment of 15s. unemployment pay.

A delegate named Waterall said that 15s. weekly was not sufficient to maintain a man,
nor was 5s. enough to keep a wife; while it was ridiculous to think that a child could live
on one shilling weekly.

The youngest member of the deputation, a youth of 19 named Ganley, spoke of the
unhappy position of the single men and women in receipt of relief-especially in the matter
of clothes. He urged that if the doles were decreased crime would increase. It cost
at least £3 a week for every youth in the Air Force and 15s. a week to keep him when out.
Either the first figure was too extravagant or the second was not enough.

Dr. Macnamara's Figures.
Dr. Macnamara, addressing the deputation, said that since the Fall of 1920 the Govern-
ment and the municipalities had between them put up between 40 and 50 millions for relief
work. That figure included special provision out of the Road Fund made by the Ministry
of Transport for road work.

Relief work under these schemes would continue, and they had a number of new
schemes before them for the purpose of meeting the situation in the winter. But relief
work could not provide for a large number of the community such as women, clerks, and
skilled artisans. There was only one way to meet their case-indeed, to meet the case
of all, and that was by getting trade restored. To that end they had established an export
credit scheme, which had already sanctioned 16½ millions, with the view to recovering the
foreign markets which were destroyed as the result of the war. That effort would be
continued.

Referring to a loan guarantee which had been inaugurated to provide work, such as
the electrification of railways, docks, and construction work, Dr. Macnamara said that
seventeen millions had been spent already in that direction. Since the slump developed
in the Fall of 1920, the Boards of Guardians had disbursed no less than sixty millions
by way of indoor relief for the aged, the sick and the destitute, and outdoor relief. An
appreciable proportion of that had taken the form of money grants, and grants in kind
to the unemployed. Since the Fall of 1920 the Insurance Act had furnished ninety millions
in benefits. The "gap" had been reduced to one week, and, added Dr. Macnamara,
"I cannot do more than that."-Westminster Gazette, August 18th, 1922.


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

480
BOOT REPAIRER AND THE HEALTH INSURANCE ACT.
£3 Fine and Four Guineas Costs.
Helen
Love Poire Coutt, on Fuesday.
Josatare Atmosprit to three of his employees.
thee business premises
mother outsid
Portsdown Road, Maida Vale, Swiss Terrace.
instance in regard to three employees, an
Expre
and had
Hampstead, and
Y, Mr. Ashworth pointed out that
To show that the accused knew of his liability,
trappato a magistrate's summons, Archibald Elmestone Quente
Road Westcliffe on Sea, formerly trading as the Modern F. Zhenate M
Rope sted on a warrant and was brought before the magistrate at the Marty
day,charged with failing to pay contributions under the National
Mssarth, prosecuting for the Ministry of Health, said the accused had ۲۰۱
outside the jurisdiction of that Court. He was liable for unemployment and health
Frumkanci might be still, for all be knew, as the Modern Express Boot Repairers,
and although he deducted the employees' Share
tate at a considerable loss, and the Ministry were only entitled to recover for health in
rom their wages, for insurance, no cards were, in fact, stamped. These ocople were th
com time the accused was secretary to Utility Ltd., and was responsible for the Staropar
of the cards of their employees, but it was not done, and he was seriously warned. Inspi
of that warning, however, he had done exactly the same thing here, the amo
ontubations which he had failed to pay, being nearly £6. Of that sum, however,
Comsel for the defence explained that the accused did not appear to the summor
because he had not the money to pay the fare from Westcliffe. But he wrote to the Coun
suggesting that the matter might be dealt with in his absence. In November, 1921
plus rates, and put 180 into the business. From the very beginning it was an utter fail are
opened a boot repairing business at Portsdown Road, took a shop at a rental of 2 a week
He lost his money in that business and in another which he opened at Swiss Terrace
He admitted his fault in not stamping the
and under the circumstances counsel asked the magistrate to deal leniently with him.
cards and expressed his extreme regret. He was now out of work and in dire straits
had deducted the contributions of these employees and kept them. But he (the Magistrate
did not think the accused meant to defraud, and under the circumstances he ordered in
contributions, and four guineas costs, a total of 18 5s. 4d. - Shoe and Leather News, August
to pay a fine of fI on each of the summonses, I IS. 4d, the amount of the recoverable
Ministry was only able to claim ft is. 4d.
Hampstead, his total loss being about froo.
Mr. Symmons, the Magistrate, said the matter was a very serious
24th, 1922.
one, for the acc
REDUCTION OF TRADE BOARD WAGES IN THE REPAIRING TRADE.
by the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board at its last meeting, has now received the
We are officially informed that the new wages schedule which was finally adopted
sanction of the Minister, and has been issued as an order the new scale of wages to come
into operation on Monday next, August 28th. Due notice, we are informed, was to be
sent direct from the Trade Board offices to every employer of labour in the industry, on
that some delay has been occasioned in the sending out of these notices on account of
Wednesday of this week, and a copy of the order will accompany the notice. We leam
trouble over the printing strike.
Any member of the trade who does not receive a notice and a copy of the Order before
Monday next, will be quite safe in paying to the reduced scale, which is generally per
cent. decrease on existing rates that is, is. 6d. less in the f.
The order which has just been signed by the Minister includes the new definition of
Trade Boards had been exceeding their authority in issuing orders for anything over the
a " Foreman or Manager." In view of the statement made by Dr. McNamara that the
secretary of the National Federation of Boot Trades Associations, to give his views as to
minimum rates to be paid to workers, a Press representative asked Mr. Hoyle, the general
how far any order made by the Board in the way of regulating wages for anything above
the lowest minimum, and especially in the setting up of rates for managers, could be
enforced.
had been done.
"These rates," he said,
Mr. Hoyle said he was of opinion that Dr. McNamara himself could not alter what
has been put into operation and they cannot do away with that. Standard rates regulating
the wages of skilled employees have been set up and acknowledged throughout the trade,
are in existence. A certain set of machinery
and are becoming more firmly established every day. How is Dr. Macnamara going to
alter that? So long as the Trade Boards are in existence, the rates they set up will con-
tinue to be enforced. If it is only the wage for unskilled labour that is to be enforced,
which will be the same in all trades, that could be fixed by Parliament or the Ministry of
Labour without Trade Boards at all. I believe that the minimum that the Trade Board
for any trade is entitled to set us is the minimum for its own skilled labour, and while they
continue in existence this will be enforced. As for the point about the manager, well I
could say a lot about it that I cannot say at present." The Shoe Trades Journal, August
25th, 1922.

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

481
HAND-SEWN BOOTS.
No More to be Ordered by War Office. Distress at Raunds.
For the time being, at any rate, the last word appears to have been said on the
subject of War Office orders for hand-sewn Army boots. Desiring to alleviate the distress
caused to many hand-sewn workers in Raunds by the cessation of the orders for hand-sewn
Army boots, Thrapston Board of Guardians recently asked Major Brassey to ask the
War Office to receive a deputation. Major Brassey did so, and a reply from the War
Ottice declining to receive a deputation was read at a meeting of the Board of Guardians.
The letter, which was from Colonel George Stanley, Parliamentary Secretary to the
Secretary to the War Office, stated:—
"With reference to your letters of the 20th and 21st inst., in which the Thrapston Board of Guardians desire to send on behalf of local bootmakers a deputation on the subject
of handsewn Army boots, this question has frequently received careful consideration
during the past eleven years."—Northampton Mercury, August 11th 1922

POOR CRICKET.
There is undoubtedly the makings of trouble in the Wellingborough district over
the dispute between the boot operatives and their employers about the holiday, for
The latest move is that the men's union have sent a formal request to the employers
asking that they will carry out the terms of settlement. This seems to be a preliminary
to more energetic measures, and it requires no special foresight to guess where things will
drift, if wiser counsels do not prevail quickly.
About the merits of the Holiday Scheme Fund we are not concerned ; we know there
are two opinions about it, and we are prepared to believe Wellingborough boot manufacturers
facturers have good grounds for objecting to it. We suggest, however, this particular
point is unimportant, if it be considered what principle is involved, and what repudiation
of the terms of settlement might mean.
Wellingborough manufacturers are members of the employers' association. The
executive of the association had powers delegated to them by the members to make certain
arrangements with the men's union. In such case there are always bound to be details
which will be disapproved of by individual members, both on the employers' and the
workers' side, but if collective bargaining is to continue, such dislikes must be suppressed,
and a signed agreement loyally carried out.
It should not be necessary to point out that it has been because collective agreements
have always been accepted as obligatory by individuals, that it has been possible to main-
tain industrial peace in the boot and shoe trade for so many years. If it were conceded
that individuals were at liberty to dissect an agreement to observe what suited them, and
to discard what did not, there would quickly be chaos in the industry, and such liberty
could not be confined to employers only. Loyalty to obligations is a good policy, and a
honour their bond, for it was signed by those they delegated to sign for them, and is as
profitable one in the end ; we appeal to the boot manufacturers of Wellingborough to
much theirs as if each had appended his individual mark.
Little good is ever obtained by repudiating representatives, and in this case to succeed
had previously reigned, and to sow the seeds of a bad harvest to be later reaped. —Shoe
in doing so would only be to create mistrust and suspicion where harmony and good-will
and Leather News, April 22nd, 1922.

BOOT REPAIRING WAGES.
Proposed Changes in Minimum Rates.
At the fourteenth meeting of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Wages Board last
week certain changes in minimum piece rates were decided upon. The general effect of
them is that during the period in which the cost of living figures published each month
in the Ministry of Labour Gazette is not more than 90, but more than 70, the present rates
shall with certain exceptions be subject to a reduction of 7 per cent.; and for the period
during which the cost of living figure is 70 or below, the present rates shall be subject to a
reduction of a further 5 per cent., the present rates to become operative again in the event
of the cost of living figure again rising above 90.
The principal exceptions are in the case of the minimum rates for male indentured
apprentices and the general minimum piece-rates for making (other than surgical" extras").
In both these cases, the present rates will continue to operate unless and until the cost
of living figure falls to 70 or below.
In the case of the general minimum piece-rates for making (other than surgical
"extras ") the reduction provided for on a cost of living figure of 70 or below is 5 per cent.
If and when the minimum rates are confirmed by the Minister, notices will be issued
to all employers in the trade setting out the minimum rates, and the dates on which they
will come into operation. Thereafter, a notification will be sent the employers in the
trade whenever any subsequent change in the cost of living index figure involves a change
in the minimum rates.—Northampton Echo, July 26th, 1922.


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

WELLINGBOROUGH.
nection therewith.
We have, as
to secure

502
chair.
the me
there
a dete
has de
in his
activi
the P
not n
The question of the non-compliance with the Holiday
Provision Clause in the National Agreement was next discussed, and after long
and careful consideration, it was decided that the General President of the
Union should endeavour to bring the firms into line with the Agreement, and
if necessary he should pay a visit to the Wellingborough Association in con
This question of non-compliance with the Holiday Provision Scheme ha
and the local officers both in Wellingborough and Higham and Rushden
taken up a good deal of the time of the General President (Mr. T. F. Richard
representing the membership of the Union, done what is possible
compliance by non-Federated firms to the Scheme, and it is to Us
great disappointment that Federated firms have refused to carry out the
The time ought surely to have gone by when the excuse "I will pay when all
agreement entered into on their behalf by the Manufacturers' Executive
others pay," is put forward. On the contrary, we submit that Federated
firms instead of taking up such an attitude ought to be helping us to bring
Higham and Rushden districts is now in a much better position. We shall
into line the non-Federated firms. The position in the Wellingborough and
however, continue to follow up any cases of non-compliance with the Holiday
Provision Scheme, and rely upon the members assisting as far as possible.

REVISION OF THE NATIONAL AGREEMENTS.
It will be remembered that in accordance with the National (1922) Agree.
Federation with a view to revising the 1919-1922 Agreements to bring them
ment, the time is drawing near when we shall be meeting the Manufacturers'
down to date in accordance with the general policy of the Union.

THE GENERAL ELECTION.
Statements are again being made that a General Election is near at hand.
Whether such election takes place this year or early in 1923, we would like to
impress upon the members of the Union the necessity of being ready to take
their part whenever the appeal is made to the country. Let it not be for-
gotten that the workers are in an overw elming majority. If they do their
part, both by work and vote, the next Parliament will be of an entirely different
complexion politically, and in its outlook generally, from the existing one.
Do not be caught napping as you were in many instances in 1918, but so
work and act as to ensure men and women being returned to the House of
Commons who will make it their constant aim to secure the passing of such
legislation as will rid us for ever from the injustices which we, and other
nations, are acutely suffering at the present time.

TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
The fifty-fourth Trades Union Congress has been held during the month.
Mr. R. B. Walker, president of the General Council of the Congress, was in the
atten
and 1
resolu
was a
activ
as th
const
there
and
mov
look
re-el
re-el
regn
the
1


---
Here is the text from the image:

WELLINGBOROUGH.
nection therewith.
502
The question of the non-compliance with the Holiday
Provision Clause in the National Agreement was next discussed, and after long
and careful consideration, it was decided that the General President of the
Union should endeavour to bring the firms into line with the Agreement, and
if necessary he should pay a visit to the Wellingborough Association in con
This question of non-compliance with the Holiday Provision Scheme hay
and the local officers both in Wellingborough and Higham and Rushden
taken up a good deal of the time of the General President (Mr. T. F. Richarday
compliance by non-Federated firms to the Scheme, and it is to Usa
representing the membership of the Union, done what is possible
great disappointment that Federated firms have refused to carry out the
agreement entered into on their behalf by the Manufacturers' Executive,
We have, as
to secme
The time ought surely to have gone by when the excuse
I will pay when all
firms instead of taking up such an attitude ought to be helping us to bring
others pay," is put forward. On the contrary, we submit that Federated
Higham and Rushden districts is now in a much better position. We shall
into line the non-Federated firms. The position in the Wellingborough and
however, continue to follow up any cases of non-compliance with the Holiday
Provision Scheme, and rely upon the members assisting as far as possible.
REVISION OF THE NATIONAL AGREEMENTS.
It will be remembered that in accordance with the National (1922) Agree
Federation with a view to revising the 1919-1922 Agreements to bring them
ment, the time is drawing near when we shall be meeting the Manufacturers'
down to date in accordance with the general policy of the Union.
THE GENERAL ELECTION.
Statements are again being made that a General Election is near at hand.
Whether such election takes place this year or early in 1923, we would like to
impress upon the members of the Union the necessity of being ready to take
their part whenever the appeal is made to the country. Let it not be for-
gotten that the workers are in an overw elming majority. If they do their
part, both by work and vote, the next Parliament will be of an entirely different
complexion politically, and in its outlook generally, from the existing one.
Do not be caught napping as you were in many instances in 1918, but so
work and act as to ensure men and women being returned to the House of
Commons who will make it their constant aim to secure the passing of such
legislation as will rid us for ever from the injustices which we, and other
nations, are acutely suffering at the present time.
TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
The fifty-fourth Trades Union Congress has been held during the month.
Mr. R. B. Walker, president of the General Council of the Congress, was in the
t
chair.
the m
there
a dete
has d
in his
activi
the P
not
atten
and
resol
was a
activ
as t
cons
ther
and
mov
look
re-el
re-e
reg
the


---
Here is the text from the image:

chair.
503
The Congress was upon the whole a most stteessful١١٢and al
The Pre
so necessary in the inte
11:
۱۱
there was no sign of gloom or weakness on the part of the delegate T
the membership showed a decrease, due largely to the slump in trade
a determination to make still more effective the trade union ١١١٠٠٠
has done so much for the workers of this and other countrie
in his Address, after reviewing the situation generally, called fo
activity to bring about those radical changes
the people. A report of the delegates will be found on pages 511 517
not necessary to state here the many resolutions passed, except that ٢٠١٠١
attention should be called to the fact that our resolutions on Unemplos m
and Housing were embodied with others and unanimously agreed to
resolution asking for an increase in the affiliation fee from Id. to 30 per membe
was also carried. This increased contribution is necessary owing to the increase
activities of the General Council, and also the taking over of the Daily Herald
as the official organ of the Labour movement. We trust our members will
constantly support this newspaper, and do all they can to extend its circulation,
thereby not only increasing the number of copies sold, but also to try
and speedily bring about the time when no subsidy will be required from the
movement, but that the Herald will be a financial success as well as
looked upon as the leading Labour newspaper. Our General Secretary was
re-elected to the General Council unopposed the General President was also
re-elected to the General Purposes Committee for the 1923 Congress, but we
regret that Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., was not successful in securing election as
the Canadian Delegate.
RESULT OF VOTING.
The result of the Voting is as follows:-
COUNCIL MEMBER. DISTRICT NO. 5.
Mr. C. Mayes, 869* ; Mr. W. Wyman, 791.
DISTRICT AGENT. DISTRICT NO. 6.
Miss E. Sherwin (unopposed).
DISTRICT AGENT. DISTRICT NO. 9.
being
Mr. G. Green, 72; Mr. E. Riordan, 47; Mr. G. Weir, 208*.
* Elected.
Details will be found on page 505.
RESIGNATION OF MR. ALEC SMITH, ARBROATH
It is with regret that we have to record the fact that one of the oldest
officers of the Union, in the person of Mr. Alec Smith, of Arbroath, has felt
the time has arrived when he must resign from the position of Secretary to the
Branch, which position he has held for many, many years. Mr. Smith was
dso a member of the Executive Council for many years prior to 1912. In

---


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

Will you therefore please let me have six
copies of the Agreement respecting the "Closing or Stock and Shoe Room"
on the 11th September next.
dated 17th June, 1920, re inexperienced female workers.
Your early attention to this matter will oblige.

Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.

LEICESTER,
MR. E. L. POULTON

DEAR SIR, We have not in hand six copies of the agreement, but we
have handed to the General President, Mr. T. F. Richards, all we have, and
all correspondence and details in connection with the case.

Yours faithfully,
A. MUIR

LONDON,
MRS. M. J. BELL RICHARDS,
Leicester.
29th August, 1922.

DEAR MRS. RICHARDS, The National Joint Committee will meet at
2.30 p.m. on Monday, the 11th September, at 7, Tavistock Square, W.C.1, to
consider, amongst other matters, the interpretation of the Clause dealing
with "knot-tying." Our side of the Committee will meet at 11.30 a.m.,
at the Central Office on the same day. Please arrange to be present in
order that our side of the Committee may decide upon their line of action
to be taken.

Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.

To this NO reply has been received. - E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.

LIVERPOOL.-Trade appears to be on the "mend," we only hope it
will "last." The Trade Union Congress, sometimes termed "The Workers'
Parliament," has just held its annual rally at Southport. Having casually
perused the various speeches as reported in the local Press we fail to find
anything very startling, the extremist section not being much in evidence.
We note the Congress has decided to take over the Daily Herald and make
it the official organ of the Trade Union and Labour Movement. We also note
change of Editor, which may prove beneficial.

LONDON METRO.-Trade is very bad, with an ever-increasing number
of unemployed. There is a great similarity to the big slump of two years
ago, but we hope we have reached bottom and that trade will take an upward
turn. The following resolution was unanimously carried at our September
Monthly Meeting: - "That this meeting of the London Metropolitan Branch
of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives strongly protests against
the action of the South African Government in reviving the Roman-Dutch
law. It further desires that the General Council of the Trades Union Congress
be approached in order that the workers may obtain equal representation on
the Committee of Enquiry into the recent Mining dispute."

MAYBOLE.-Trade has very much improved, nearly all our members
are started again; also pleased to say sickness very light. It is hoped that
members will do their best to keep their books clear and so build up an organisa-
tion that has done well by them in time of need.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

512
PARLIAMENTARY AGENT'S REPORT.
The House of Commons has suspended its labours until November 14th, 1922, when
they will meet again to give attention to those matters which in the judgment of the Govern-
ment are matters of importance to the people remain. Whether they will be such questions as
Unemployment, Housing will usually be productive of much sympathy, but little else will be forthcoming.
or not is safe to predict that at the moment such a blot upon our so-called civilia-
tion will be removed is
I have long reached the conclusion that it is useless to expect anything from this
Government, it is hopeless. It is lacking in all those qualities that are essential for the
handling of big social problems, its supporters are largely of the class that can only judge
National prosperity from the standpoint of dividends. The human side is beyond them,
and so we drift on while thousands of our fellow citizens struggle against poverty and
disease, which in a well ordered community need not exist.
All this would be bad enough if we could only see some way out, if there were only
Just a glimmer of light to give us some hope of a brighter to-morrow. But on the con
trary the clouds gather more heavily over us. We have been told so often it is our foreign
trade that we must seek to re-establish, and which is only possible under conditions of
peace, yet, abroad nothing is heard but the rumblings of threatening war, while at home
the late war is apparently forgotten, and our newspapers speak of the next war, and advise
what we must do in order to be ready.
All this is due to the fact that those who claim to have won the war have lost the
peace, it is idle to pretend otherwise. There is no peace. In the Near East the old question
of Constantinople again raises itself, and British warships are held in readiness for emer-
gencies, while Turkey, urged on by their success over the Greeks, are declaring they will
not rest until they have their Capital back, even if it means war with Great Britain. How
far this attitude is due to encouragement given by those who are supposed to be our Allies
it is difficult to say, but it is perfectly obvious that France and Italy are backing the Turks
very largely, while the British Government is to say the least of it sympathetic towards
Greece. What madness, how is it possible to establish peace when those who are supposed
to be working together are really pulling in opposite directions.
And so to sum up the situation, all this greatest of all Governments have to offer us
in regard to our problems at home, is a condition of muddle, disaster, and chaos abroad
But of course we shall be better off when our foreign trade is re-established!

There has been much talk during the last two years about stabilising the exchanges
and yet to-day the situation is worse than ever. Germany is fast following in the wake of
Austria. The Mark to-day is worth less than the Kroner was twelve months ago. It is
difficult to properly understand the meaning of it all. There is one remarkable feature
in connection with this question, namely, that the countries with the higher rates of
exchange, have a high percentage of unemployment, while those with low exchange
rates have a low percentage of unemployment. One is forced to the conclusion that
high international finance is largely responsible. The gambling that is going on must be
It is no doubt a good thing for some people, but for the mass of the people
enormous.
it spells disaster and ruin.
At times like the present we should be almost without hope were it not that we have
our own Party to give us courage for the future. That Labour is gradually but surely
gaining the confidence of the electors is evident from the results of the Bye-Elections,
while at its National Conferences it shows a capacity to grasp and appreciate these wide
issues that speak well for the future.
One is also glad to note that industrially, Labour is showing an appreciation of present
and future obligations. This was manifest at the Trades Union Congress recently held at
Southport. While their is still room for improvement in the Congress, yet there was
an indication that before long the lessons of the recent past will be learned by those who
have responsibility, and ultimately reflect itself in a closer welding together of the different
units. This is absolutely essential, if we are not only to make progress, but be able to hold
our own against the forces that are arrayed against us.
The possibility of greater unity was evident in the various resolutions that were
discussed. The common needs of all was the driving force that enabled so many to be
carried with unanimity. If only we can forget our narrow personal point of view and keep
ever before us the main principles upon which our movement rests, then the time is not
far distant when organised labour will be better equipped for its great work. Then we
shall no longer need to pass resolutions calling upon the Government to do this, that,
and the other, and which, had past Governments really governed in the interests of the
people, would have been done long ago, but we shall be doing our own work and in the
only way whereby the future shall give to all the possibilities of a full life.


---
Here is the text from the image:

513
The Southport Trades Union Congress was on the whole a ne.... ١٠٠ .. 1.
the recent happenings in many trades were far from what ca
vet the note struck in all the speeches was one of hope for the future, and the ١٩٦١٧٠١
It is up to all of us to make the year
and every Union living
one of determination to win through. It is
must have every worker a Trade Unionist, and
and responsibilities to the national movement.
the
te oblat
1
idle, the claim are mars
have addressed a series of meetings in my constituency as well as a number in other 101
During the past month I have been fully occupied as, besides attending Cow
the calls are frequent, and one likes to do one's best in responding
There is neither the need nor the chance to be idle a
of the country.
Sept. 18th, 1922.

WAUER R SMOOTH
FACTORY ACT OFFENCES.
Three Bristol Boot Manufacturers Fined.
At Lawford's Gate (Bristcl) Petty Sessions, last week, Messrs. T. W. Brain & Son,
boot manufacturers, North Common, were summoned for not fencing the flywheel attached
to an engine, as required under the Factory Act.
Mr. Joseph Owner, Inspector of Factories, said that some two-and-a-half years ago
Messrs. Brain laid down a modern gas engine with a single flywheel, running 200 revolution
a minute. It was placed in an engine-house, through which workers had access from on
part of the factory to the other. The flywheel had not been fenced.
Mr. Albert George Endicott, Inspector of Factories, said he had seen the flywheel.
and as it was not fenced, he considered it dangerous. A worker passed through the
engine-room while he was there.
Mr. Samuel Brain said the engine-room was not connected with the factory. As
soon as the Inspector said the flywheel should be fenced, it was done. A fine of I was
imposed, including costs.
Messrs. Walter Brain & Son, boot manufacturers, answered five summonses charging
them with employing young persons under 16 years (where machinery was used) who had
not been medically examined.
Mr. Owner stated that in regard to the five young workers the firm had no medical
certificates. This was essential where machinery was employed in order to ensure that
such employees had not defective eyesight.
Mr. Walter Brain deposed that some of the boys had been working only a few weeks.
A fine was inflicted of IOS. in respect of each of the five charges, including costs.
Mr. Chas. Neads, boot manufacturer, Oldland Common, was summoned for not keeping
his factory limewashed, &c., in accordance with the Factory Act. Mr. Owner said that
when inspected on April 13th it was found that the premises had not been limewashed
since August, 1919. The sanitary arrangements were also unsatisfactory.

Harry Higgs said it was through his neglect that the whitewashing had not been done.
He could not get men when Mr. Neads sent for him to do the work. It had since been
done. Fined 2, including costs. - Shoe and Leather Record, September 8th, 1922.

SCOTTISH CO-OPERATIVE BOOT TRADE.
The difficulties of co-operative trade during the past half-year were not confined to
England, as the half-yearly report of the Scottish Co-operative Wholesale Society for the
half-year just concluded shows a decrease of over 27 per cent. as compared with the corres-
ponding six months of 1921. so far as the total turnover is concerned. The sales for the
six months of this year were £8,468,578. Grocery suffered most; but the trade of the
boot and shoe departments showed a decrease of 18.3 per cent., falling from the £493,728
of the first part of 1921 to £403,303. Strangely enough, the society's own boot and shce
works revealed a greater decrease than the distributive departments, for the production
fell from 217,331 to 171,422, a decrease of just over 21 per cent., or £45.909. The
expenses of the boot and shoe factories were £63,108, of which £51,116 were for wages.
Power, light and heating took £2,431, and repairs were £2,814. The stocks were reduced
from 400,004 to £51,220, and there was a profit of £3,317 in the factory for the six months.
The manager of the whole of the boot trade of the society is Mr. J. J. Horn.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

In proposing, Mr. E. L. Poulton, of London, said they had for the national experiment in Labour legislation. He ventured to say he spoke for the speakers who were at Geneva last year, when he said a good good work.
throughout that session they ever had before them the knowledge Mr. The were constantly striving to side-track the work of the Internation, The resolution asking that the sessions be only held once every two years, position where they were becoming a menace to those people's interests.
to say, the plain indication that certain people thought they had armed but in other countries. They felt a very beneficial work had already in
menace was going to grow stronger and stronger against the reactionary work in helping slowly to lift up the low standard of industry in that way be
They had it from the lips of one of the workers of India that already a be
was a strong competitor, and she was developing more and more industry an essential that they should have at any rate as the resolution stated,
tain real international power for the raising of the whole of the workers
He trusted they would do all they could to help the International (Applause.)
This Congress, representing over five million organised British workers has secured for the German
that the decision of the Reparations Commission has secured for the Germ
temporary respite from the impossible burdens imposed upon them by the Allied Go
ments, and hopes that the crisis will have served to emphasise the imperative need for
immediate and final settlement of the reparations problem.
The Congress confirms its adhesion to the plan of International Labour for the restore
tion of the devastated regions, which was unanimously adopted by the Internation
and Socialist Parties of Great Britain, France, Belgium, Italy, and Germany, at Frankfort
Federation of Trade Unions at Amsterdam on March 30th, 1921, and by all the Labour
unless the occupation of the Rhine and the policy of force are abandoned. Time and
The Congress further declares that no plan for the restoration of Europe is possible
facilities for payment must be given, and German industry must not be stifled if France
and Belgium are to be restored. There must be an impartial court of the League of
Nations to which difficulties and disputes can be referred for arbitration. Germany's
present state of uncertainty is the most disturbing factor in the economic life of Europe.
responsibilities must be fixed on a reasonable basis and made known to the world, as the
Germany and Russia must be invited to join the League of Nations with exactly the
same rights and duties as the present members of the League.
The Congress appeals to the French people to give encouragement to the new Republi-
can Democracy of Germany by a policy of mutual trust to reconsider the offers to restore
rejected by French Capitalism; and to join in support of all those who would find the
the devastated regions made by German Governments, accepted by French Labour, and
security of France and the security of their own countries in a reconstituted and all-
inclusive League of Nations, pursuing a policy of progressive and universal disarmament.
in February, 1922.
The Congress instructs the General Council to take immediate steps to bring this
resolution, by deputation, before the Prime Minister.
The General President of the Union was re-elected at the head of the poll for a seat
on the General Purposes Committee for the 1923 Congress, and the General Secretary
was re-elected to the General Council unopposed. We regret that our other nominee,
Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P. failed to secure election on the Canadian Delegation.
Matters aflecting the Daily Herald are referred to in the Council's Address for the
month.

T. F. RICHARDS.
ALFRED HILL.
W. A. WYMAN.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
S. THOMPSON.
J. WHEELER.
J. MANNERS.
W. R. SMITH.
W. LANGLEY.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
ALEX. SMITH.
F. 1.. POULTON.
Delegates.


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

522
ANOTHER MARE'S NEST GONE.
Critics of the Political Levy Answered by Chief Registrar.
Ex-Service Men's Clubs Mismanaged.
Critics of the Trade Linions, especially those who support the Bill now before Parlia
ment which interferes with the right of Trade Unions to raise funds for political purpose
may get little satisfaction from the Annual Report of the Chief Registrar of Frien
Societies, just published
Trade Unionists have been represented as groaning under the tyranny of their offi
who compel them to pay into the political funds of their Unions against their will.
It is suggested that thousands of members are victimised because they object to b
mon engaging in political work.
Yet the Chief Registrar states that under Section 3 (2) of the Trade Union Ser
tots under which complaints can be made by aggrieved members, a microscopical nam
of complaints were made last year.

Baseless Complaints.
Up to the end of May, 1922, only 68 complaints were made. No fewer than 2
them were found on the face of them or after investigation, not to be complaints und
the Act, and the complainants were informed that the Chief Registrar had no jurisdict
and could not interfere.
part cannot therefore be alleged.
avoid delay he had them sent after him when he was away on leave. Lack of zeal on
The other 12 complaints were duly dealt with by the Registrar, who says that
These figures do not bear out the allegation, frequently made by Labour's enem
in political effort; still less do they show any evidence of coercion directed against th
that a large number of Trade Unionists are opposed to their organisations participatin
contract out" of the political fund of the
There are millions of Trade Unionists in this country, and only 42 made any con
small minority of Trade Unionists who
Unions.
plaint at all regarding the Trade Unions' political activities.

Ex-Service Men's Clubs.
The Report contains some startling disclosures regarding the methods of the ex-
Fund to help the establishment of these clubs, the money representing a proportion of the
Large sums of money are granted by the organisation known as the United Service
a proper application of the grants, and the Chief Registrar states that the annual return
Service men's clubs in administering their finances.
profits realised by the canteens during the war.
Officials of this fund are not in a position to exercise any direct supervision to ensure
show that the method of dealing with the grants is sometimes lax.
"It is evident," he says, "that in certain cases the grants are being frittered away and
in some cases deliberately misapplied."

Gross Mismanagement.
Specific instances are given of gross mismanagement of the ex-Service men's clubs
One case cited is that of a National Federation of Discharged and Demobilised Soldier
and Sailors' Club in the London area, which received a grant of 2,270 from the fund, and
lost £1,717 175. osd. of that amount by gross mismanagement in one year's working.
It bought refreshments at £1,511, and only realised from the sale of them £1.394
so that they must have been sold below cost, or consumed in some cases without payment
or money was misappropriated.
wages, and directors' fees.
The officials responsible for this mismanagement received nearly £500 in salaries
discontinued payment. They later wished to return it to the firm which supplied it
They bought a billiard table on the hire purchase system, and after paying £41 45.
the firm offered to take it back and allow the club £45 if the balance of the instalment
was paid off.

A Losing Hazard.
The club paid another instalment of £4 4s., returned the table and got no allowance
for it; and then purchased another table from another firm, for which they paid £105
Evidence that in other clubs refreshments were being sold at a loss is given in the report
It is also stated that in some cases grants made are frequently credited to the revenu
accounts. The effect of this was, in 19 cases dealt with, to show an aggregate balance of
profit amounting to £14,196, when actually a loss of £5,316 represented the true position
-Labour Press Service, August 31st, 1922.


---


---


---
late
of migration
bich Sounding phrase
ald valutions.
disenos sich questions.
nd such inform
*
526
de
X
(antimo contined to the rendering of uniform information and statistics on the
Draft Convention seems essential before any definite reform in conditions
Dull as it may sound, such a system of international agreement
sine prin arose in connection with unemployment. During the crisis of
mont through which the world has been passing we have continually heard the
and the truth of this statement being demonstrated, there has been a
unemployment is a world problem, and world problems ne
certain amount of disappointment that world solutions have not been immediately forth.
coming and discredit has therefore been thrown upon world Conferences summoned
But world solutions are impossible without world knowledas.
formation regarding unemployment has been found sadly lacking. Ver
Mecolils the International LLLabour Office bas been studying the question and gatherin
but these facts partly depend on the ratification by the States of the Draft
in Unemployment adopted by the Conference at Washington in 1919. An
Each member which ratifies this Convention
shall communicate to the International Labour Office at intervals as short as possible
cerning unemployment, including reports on measures taken or contemplated to combat
not exceeding three months, all available information, statistical or otherwise, con-
This Draft Convention has been ratified by Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland
The Genoa Economic Conference held carlier this year, in discussing solutions of the
Labour Organisation to ratify this Convention, and suggested that the International
experience gained by the different countries in dealing with unemployment. The facts
unemployment crisis, recommended all States which are members of the International
Labour Office should collect and publish periodically all information available on the
are essential, and the facts must be put in such a way that they are clearly understandable
the bar ts
Convention tion on
stick in this Draft Convention runs:
and no
unemployment
Great Britain, Greece, India, Norway, Roumania, and Sweden.
and admit of no misconstructions.
*
*
*
Thus it will be seen that the International Labour Organisation is in no way spec.
tacular. First the facts, then the international Draft Convention, then the national
ratification. It sounds a long and cumbersome process, but the stroke of the "pen"
such as the conditions of work. Careful and patient examination must be the first requisite
in world matters is in most cases a dangerous method, and especially in an involved subject.
for a permanent solution.
that, despite the decision at Washington, it is still unfulfilled in the legislation of a large
I have mentioned the eight-hour day above. It has been a disappointment to many
number of countries. The International Labour Office, however, is maintaining the
round-table idea," and the matter is still being kept before the attention of the Govern-
ments, so that together the solution of their difficulties in this regard may be reached.
*
*
*
The International Labour Office has been given a great task. Pitfalls there are, and
with the best will in the world they cannot always be avoided. Prejudice is strong, and
"internationalism" has passed through a violent and stormy period since the conclusind
of the war.
But I see a bright light on the horizon-an omen, I trust, for the future. After the
and conciliation, arbitration, and friendly discussion seemed to have fallen into neglect.
first flush of idealism the "round-table idea" has been somewhat heavily submerged,
Looking around the world, however, to-day, I see, especially in England, a return to the
idea that Labour questions should be settled by friendly discussion between the parties
concerned; that fighting should be a last resort; that a national Labour Parliament
representing all interests is better than a series of industrial Waterloos. We who have
kept our eyes fixed on the " round-table idea "internationally welcome its return nationally.
ALLOCATION OF HOUSES.
houses cannot be allocated to them.
borough, that in some cases better-housed tenants are given the opportunity to move
I have heard significant rumours in connection with one housing scheme in a London
into new dwellings, while others whose need is far greater, are told that for the present
any satisfaction from his repeated claims for accommodation in new model dwellings
One man who was living in a house which has been condemned for years, failed to get
until he pointed out this disparity of treatment.
to need.--Labour Press Service, 31st August, 1922.
It would be interesting to know how far Council houses are being allocated according

---


---


---


---


---
In the Spring of 1921 a Government Committee, investigating
this body, whose original rules frankly stated: "THE OBJECT
HAS IN VIEW IS THAT OF RAISING AND KEEPING UP THE
THE BUYER OF GOODS AND ARTICLES MADE OR STOCKED BY
MEMBERS." When we learn that an Association inspired by such
controls (according to the Committee report) about 95 per cent. of the small Gas
light castings industry in the kingdom, the prospect is not reassuring.
it is remembered that probably four-fifths of the total product ventiled ordan
It was this same organisation, one of the most elaborate and thoroughly org
the country, which recently asked the Government for protection under the Salin
Key Industries Act! Protection of the public against the Light Castings Co
be much nearer the mark.

I say frankly it should be made a penal offence for two or more firms engages
trading to meet and arrange prices. Associations of employers generally end in
prices, and the only justification for private enterprise in trading is free compr
not only is the consuming public held up to ransom by the operation of these Trust dur
depression. With Trust control the arranged prices are always those which allow prof
boom period, but they also play a detrimental part in preventing recovery during
much on a froo worth of business as they formerly did on a £1,000. With Troo About
on the working of the least efficient firms, and you have the others expecting to make
stop, costs to the users of the product become so prohibitive that enterprises must
of the market, initiative is unnecessary, developments in the processes of the induc
dropped, and stagnation and unemployment ensue. Trusts and controlled prices do not
cousequent initiative, lowered prices and stimulated demand.

A solution to the breaking of the building materials Combines lies along these lines
no arranged prices between the Government departments and the makers-an arranged
market: give the contractor an added interest by allowing a percentage on all savings
price is always a high price-but all contractors to purchase all materials in the open
on the original offer, especially on materials: free import of foreign materials and heavy
penalties on Rings and Combines. - Forward, September 9th, 1922.

GERMAN TRADE UNIONISM.

German trade unionism has since the Armistice, says Mr. J. H. Thomas, stood not
only for sane Government but a constitutional policy. This in reply to the appeal from
German trade unionists to the urions of Britain. It is of interest, perhaps, to add to
Mr. Thomas's remark that during the same period the trade union movement in Germany
has made remarkable progress. Before the war the number of German workers whose
wages and working conditions were governed by collective agreement was 1,399,000,
according to figures given by the Reichs-Arbeitsblatt and reproduced by the Labour Gazette.
By the end of 1919 the number had grown to 5,986,000, and at the end of 1920 had further
increased to 9.561,000. There has also been a noteworthy expansion in the scope of
individual agreement. The following table summarises the positioni

Scope of Agreement.
Percentage of total number of
workers covered by agreement
at end of year.

1913.	1920.
One tirm
One locality
One district
The whole country

30.4	12.2
17.9	9.7
46.1	56.5
5.6	21.6

Practically the whole of the agreements in force at the end of 1920 were without
recomse to strikes or lockouts. At the end of 1913 66.1 per cent. of the workers covered
by agreement belonged to four industries, ie., building, engineering, wood-working, and
clothing. In 1920 these four trades covered only 33.7 per cent., which illustrates the
growth of collective bargaining in other directions. The new groups" affected were
mining, transport, and other (largely salaried) employees. The growth of trade
unionism in the German mining industry is of importance in regard to the question recently
wised by France and demurred to by Great Britain of instituting Allied control of the
Nemce mines, Westminster Gazette, 31st August, 1922.

---


---


---


---
BOOT AND                                                                      557
SHOE REPAIRERS.
The following Agreement in connection with Boot and Shoe Ret.
for South Yorkshire has been arrived at:
Agreement.
South Yorkshire Hours and Wages Board and the National L
Operatives, the Amalgamated Society, and the National Union of
Workers.
WHEREAS the above South Yorkshire Hours and Wages Board having made app
tion to the Unions named above for a variation in wages, the parties met af Hol
House, Manchester, on Tuesday, 26th September, 1922, and
scale of wages for Boot Repairers shall be amended as follows:
IT IS HEREBY AGREED : That on and from the first jay-day in Octuber,
(a) Piecework rates. Trade Poard D.21 plus 15 per cent.
(b) Daywork rates.
(c) Junior rates:
MALES.
Age
Wage
FEMALES.
side.
14
15
21 years of age and over, 68 per cent.
15
20/-
16
23/-
17
29/-
18
34/-
19
201
40/--
18/
18/-
20/-
31/--
21 and ove
30/-
42/-
45/-
21-
SIGNED on behalf of the South Yorkshire Hours and Wages Board
J. CHAPMAN, Chairman.
T. LANGMEAD, Secretary.
SIGNED on behalf of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives:-
ALFRED J. DOBBS.
SIGNED on behalf of the Amalgamated Union of Boot and Shoe Makers:-
W. RENWICK, National Organiser.
J. FLESH.
SIGNED on behalf of the National Union of Distributive and Allied Workers :-
WILLIAM ORCHARD, National Organiser.
W. MACKMAN, Yorkshire Divisional Officer.
SIGNED On behalf of the Toint Committee of Trade Unionists and Co-operators:-
C. W. BOWERMAN.
A. W. WHITEHEAD.
No alteration in the above rates shall be made unless notice has been given by either

for delegates to the
NOMINATIONS
*TRADES UNION CONGRESS,
GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS,
*NATIONAL LABOUR PARTY,
WOMEN'S LABOUR CONFERENCE,
SCOTTISH TRADES UNION CONGRESS,
SCOTTISH ADVISORY COMMITTEE,
must be taken at the November Branch Meeting, and the names of the
Cominees sent to reach the Central Office NOT later than the 15th prox.
*The General President and General Secretary ATTEND THE TRADES UNION
NGRESS AND THE NATIONAL LABOUR PARTY by virtue of their office, but
uid be nominated the same as other members of the Union for the Annual Meeting
The General Federation of Trade Unions.

---
Here is the text from the image:

558
THE JOINT INDUSTRIAL (WHITLEY) COUNCIL.
The Jomt Industrial (Whitley) Council met on 26th September 1944,
enable Mr. Broad. M.P expound his scheme for dealing with Benefits a
Pensions for Boot and Shoe Operatives.
Industrial Council held at Montagu House, Whitehall, S.W.. on Tuesda
The following is a copy of the Minutes of the Eighth Meeting of the Jou
26th September, 1922, commencing at 2.30 p.m., Mr. T. P. Richards presiding
He was supported by:
Representing the Manufacturers' side:
Present
MR. JOHN ADAMS,
MR. G. BARNES,
MR. H. J. BOSTOCK,
MR. W. W. CANN,
MR. G. A. DENMAN,
MR. GEORGE GEARY,
MR. D. HENDERSON,
MR. B. J. HANLY,
MR. C. W. HORRELL,
MR. E. LEWIS,
MR. JOHN LOAKE,
Representing the Operatives' side:
Present-
MR. T. F. RICHARDS,
MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P.
MR. C. BATES,
MR. L. SMITH,
MR. A. W. LYNE,
MR. ALEX. SMITH,
MR. W. R. SMITH, M.P., J.P.
Mr. H. MARLOW,
MR. OWEN PARKER.
MR. G. POCOCK,
MR. C. H. ROBERTS,
MR. T. W. SMITH,
MR. A. E. TEBBUTT,
MR. W. H. TOMLINSON
MR. J. W. TURNER,
MR. A. WILKES,
MR. F. WRIGHT,
MISS R. TOMLINSON,
Federation of Boot and Shoe Manufacturers
MR. J. MANNERS,
MR. C. BLEAKLEY,
MR. T. ADNITT,
MR. W. WARNER,
MR. W. HINDES, J.P.
MR. C. MAYES,
MR. D. MCCARTHY.
Tine Minutes of the previous meeting having been circulated were endorsed, and the
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
Chairman signed the same as a correct record of the business transacted.
The Chairman feelingly referred to the death of Alderman A. E. Marlow and the
of the Council to the relatives of the late Mr. A. E. Marlow. As a token of sympath
high regard in which he was held by both sides of the Council, and expressed the sympathy
and respect, the members of the Council stood in silence.
The draft scheme set out below was submitted to the Council by Mr. T. I. Broad
Mr. Broad dealt with the question
M.P., who was present by invitation to explain the same.
with great ability, and in an interesting and informative manner.
At the close of Mr. Broad's speech many questions were asked by the members of
the Council, and Mr. Broad answered them as far as possible.
replied.
After the question had been dealt with for two hours, the Chairman, on behalf of the
Council, thanked Mr. Broad for the way he had dealt with the question, and Mr. Broad
Mr. Richards proposed, and Mr. H. J. Bostock, J.P., seconded, that the Executive
of the Manufacturers' Federation and the Council of the Union should discuss the matter
separately, and, if necessary, a further joint meeting could be held. The resolution
was unanimously endorsed.
The meeting was then adjourned.
ANNUAL CONFERENCE.
Under the new Constitution of the Union the Annual Conference will be
held in LONDON, 21st to 26th May, 1923, inclusive. If any Branch has
questions of procedure or principle they wish to raise, or alterations of rules,
the same should be sent along AT ONCE to the General Secretary.


---
559
Benefits and Pensions for Boot and Shoe Operatives.
INCOME
1/3 per week from 35,000 Women Operatives
2/- " " 65,000 Men
3d. per pair on roo million pars Boots and Shoes
From State (1) Unemployment (1920)
(2) Old Age Pensions
(3) Health (a) Sickness
(b) Administration

EXPENDITURE
1. Sickness, Accidents,
Diseases, Permanent
Disablement
Unemployment
Beneficiaries.
W. 900 p.w. 25/- P.w.
M. 1,400 " 40/- p.w.
Women.
Men
2.
Widows
W. 800
M. 1,200
25/-
40/-
3.
3. Children (to 16) ..
500 in 1923
5,000 in 1940
20/- "
30/- "
W. £58,500
M. 145,000
£204,100
"
2,000 in 1923
10,000 in 1940
20/- "
4. Pensions, Women 60
1,000 in 1923
2,000 in 1940
25/- "
7/6
W. 41,000
M.
93,000
"
5.
Men 65
135,200
3,000 in 1923
6,000 in 1940
as now
26,000
200,000
190.000
6.
Medical Benefits
38,000
..
65,000
130,000
7.
312,000
208,880
624,000
208,880
£989,180 £1,752,180
We shall further discuss the Scheme at a future meeting of the Council,
and probably also in conjunction with representatives from the Manufac-
turers' Federation.
POLITICS.
The past month has once again seen the nation close upon the brink of
war; this in connection with matters in the Near East. The Government
of this country in our opinion has developed an extraordinary aptitude for
bringing into existence a condition of affairs whereby (instead of the policy
of trust and goodwill being engendered amongst the nations of the earth)
mistrust, suspicion and doubt becomes paramount, bringing in their train the
warlike spirit. The three bodies representative of Labour in this country, viz.,
The General Council of the Trade Union Congress, The Labour Party and the
Parliamentary Labour Party, at once took up the matter and by a series of
meetings and propaganda in the Press, made it quite plain that differences of
nations must be settled by methods other than war. It surely must by this
time have become quite plain to the people of this country that what is
imperatively needed is the "will to peace." It is of minor importance to
say we desire peace when the policy pursued is one likely to lead to war. The
world has had more than enough of the horrors of war. We are the more
convinced of this from first-hand evidence of the many Conferences that have

---
waг,
561
unfortunate incident, the Government haw
bstanding the grave predato
without Parliamentary authority. The
vernment.
The people's repre
money are being spent upon prepar
epresentatives have no opp
"The National Joint Council regrets that, notwithstanding
moo-British war arising from some
moned Parliament to consider the situation.
"Despite their policy of national economy on housing, education, and the
ance of the unemployed, millions of public money
ity of receiving information as the crisis develops, or of controlling the pole of
onference of representatives of the whole of our affiliated organisations and do all
We are, therefore, compelled to make this protest, and, if necessary, we shall s
wer to avert the national calamity of another war." September 20th, 1922
We urge, not only upon this question of peace, but upon the many matter
importance affecting the well-being of the people that the work of organi-a
made to the electorate for a new House of Commons, ensure the return to
n politically be kept up and such action be applied as will, when the appeal
Stephen's, of those in accord with the policy of the Labour Party.
POSTAL RATES.
Some of our correspondents are still not conversant with the new
stal rates, judging from the number of claims for excess postage made
on the Central Office each day. It may be of some assistance to again
ficers and members generally will see that their correspondence is
forth the new scale for letters herewith, with the hope that Branch
fficiently stamped.
Inland rates for letters are:-
Not exceeding 1 oz.
Exceeding 1 oz., but not exceeding 3 oz.
For every additional oz. or fraction thereof
1d.
2d.
d.
Articles admissible under the existing regulations may be sent as
inted papers, up to a limit of 2 lb., at the following rates:-
Not exceeding 1 oz.
Exceeding 1 oz., but not exceeding 2 oz.
For every additional 2 oz. or fraction thereof
d.
1d.
d.
The new postcard rate is 1d. for each postcard, and 2d. for a reply
ostcard.
Despite the above appeal, which has been issued for three months, the
entral Office is still called upon to pay excess postage amounting to several
hillings per week, and we trust, after this reminder, the matter will be
emedied. Quite twenty-five per cent. of the Returns to hand this month
tere insufficiently stamped.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
During the month the case of E.B.W.J., of Leicester, has been settled.
n addition to the member receiving the full rate of compensation from 24th
ktober, 1921, £35 as a lump sum was also secured by Mr. Evan Barlow,
Leicester, and £5 5s. towards the solicitor's costs.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEEΝΤΗ!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
I the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

562
returns teaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off then
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tende
upset th the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We bey
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretar
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returm
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion
TRADE UNION STAMP.
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Unior
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
make a success.
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only
Footwear."
"
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Union Stampe
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
order.
We remain,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
A. W. LYNE.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
and light, &c.).
Month
(beginning of)
1915 1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
January
10-15
35
65
85-90
120
125
165
92
February
15
35
65-70
90
120
130
151 88
March
15-20
35-40
70
90
115
130
141
86
April
15-20
35-40
70-75
90-95
I10
132
133
82
May
20
40-45
75
95-100
105
141
128
81
June
25
45
75-80
100
105
150
119
80
July
25
45-50
80
100-105 105-110
152
August
119
84
25
45-50
80
110
September
115
155
122
81
25
50
October
80-85
110
115
161
120
30
November
50-55
75-80
79
115-120
120
164
110
78
30-35
60
December
85
120-125
125
176
35
65
103
85
120
125
169
99
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement,
1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, and present date.


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

565
BRANCH REPORTS.
rather curious. One of our four factories has been on full time for folly tee
ARBROATH.-Any report on the state of trade in this district me
at all. One place has managed thirty-two hours for some time, for month.
months, while the other three have, at times, been hardly able to keep zos
back another could only give work for sixteen hours per week, while the ۱۰
that the great bulk of our members here are having a bad time, and it is stuall
maining one varied its working week from a few hours per week to one depa
ment, to three, perhaps four days to other departments. It means of cou
wonder that great apathy prevails. Even although little can be done in
loval to the ideals of Trade Unionism, and be ready to support ev
forward movement at the present time, it yet behoves the rank and file to remain
quietly, it has agreed to recognise Labour College Classes in this town as well
likely to strengthen their organisation. Although the branch has been working!
as supporting W.E.A. Classes, which is placing at the disposal of members
educational facilities of the most helpful nature. During a spell of depression
sincere worker. Loyalty to the Union will assuredly grow if this practice of
nothing excels educational classes as a medium of uplift to the serious and
subsidising such agencies is continued.
everything
BRISTOL No. 2.-The improvement in the Heavy Trade still continues,
trade as being fair. This means a smaller out-of-work list, and we hope for
but there has been a falling off in the demand for Ladies' work, but we report
experience of the last two years. During the month Mr. Buckle has been with
a continuance of the present conditions, which are a big improvement on our
our members, which has reached a low ebb owing to the long depression. We
would remind members that no matter how loyal some employers are to our
National Agreements, it is up to our side to show that we value the Agreements,
us in the Kingswood area, endeavouring to create some enthusiasm among
slide those advantages which the Union has fought so strenuously to obtain,
and to insist on their being carried out. The worst kind of apathy is to let
and which can be had if all operatives remain loyal to the Union. We hope
the efforts of Mr. Buckle will bring good results.
BURNLEY. - We are experiencing some trouble amongst some of our
members, particularly in the Co-operative workshops, who seem to think that
now we are under the Trades Board the Union is of no more use to them, and
have refused to pay further contributions, forgetting that it is the result of
the stubborn fight put up by the Unions that has made possible the present
Trade Board minimum, and only by continued effort will that minimum be
maintained.
CHESHAM.-Trade here has slightly improved since our last report.
We are also pleased to report a few more of our members who came out on strike
have again resumed work. Those who still remain out appreciate very much
the extension of Dispute Benefit. During the month Messrs. Poulton and
Buckle have interviewed our local employers with the object of trying to induce
them to reinstate their employees who still remain out of work. We are pleased
to report some success attended their efforts.
CHESTERFIELD.-Trade here has again fell off and members making
new work are working 24 hours per week. Repairing still bad.
CORK.-Trade still remains bad.
EDINBURGH.--Trade still continues quiet. During last week, however,
small shop has been able to resume full time. The Branch has been
see in procuring for two members, through the Wages Trade Board

---
Here is the text from the image:

566
Now Wages Boards may be slow but they
may be slow but they
should like any of our members who have any doubt about the
e being paid to communicate with the Secretary, when he would
matter reported to proper quarter. It may seem strange but our
mainly with Co-operative Societies, who, either in ignorance or
apparently study the Schedules issued by the Board. On
stated that their District Co-operative
considered the position when proposals were issued, and seem
they only reduced their foreman IOS., whereas this employee
ving the full £4 per week. After having an interview
they still adhered to the position, when we were forced to report
RUSHIDEN. Trade during the month has been fairly
slight falling off has taken place in several shops, while
worse condition. Now the Trade Union Movement
the Daily Herald, we are circularising our district, 8,000 leaflet
have received a final definite reply from Government
no Hand-Sewn Contracts can be issued to Raund
Workers to take the Herald. The Thrapstone
Trade is still bad with us, no less than f784 175. 6d
during the month of September, which
t month's figure. We are still in hopes of reporting
the near future.
Our out of work among the women of this
We cannot get enough labour to supply the
Young labour is not coming into our trade. Parents are
their children enter the shoe trade. We have to
he Council as well as the members of our Union..
special study of women's operations.
are trying to earn their wages by finding out where the
has been drawing more than statement, or trying to cut off per-
eratives in times when manufacturers were full of orders
which attracted our women.
are being kept fairly busy by some firms who are
e, to reduce to flat statement price, and to knock off
The local Federation Officials have done their best to
manufacturers to pay no more than the flat
and we Leicester women will not be surprised if the Council
of things, when meeting the National body for the
ment in November. The Leicester women wish to
our dayworkers cannot live respectably on 36s. per
e hours employed and the class of work performed, it is
he Council to press for the same, for dayworkers.
rers here are a danger to the pieceworkers. Following upon
t, may we make it quite clear that so far as the Standing Joint
concerned, we criticised the Governing Body because
Committee to put the womens' case first hand
omens' operations arise.

We are not in a position to report trade as being flourish-
be able to do so later on when the employers reduce their
blic, and thereby keep pace with the recent reduction in wages
Board Scale re cost of living. We are still paying
t seems quite an age since we had a clean sheet. We often


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

Dutch Labour and the International Labour Office.
The Permanent Court of International Justice, in nominating the Deputy-
Session of the International Labour Conference (Geneva, 1921), to decide
whether the Dutch Government, in nominating the industrial organisations for
requirement of the Peace Treaty that the appointments should be representative of the
the industrial organisations most representative of the workers’ delegate, had complied with the
opinion of the Court was that the Government had complied with.
This incident gives point to the following announcement
published in the Industrial and Labour Information of the International Federati
The negotiations between the Executive Committee of the Internationa
Catholic Trade Unions and the Netherlands General Trade Union Federation
the appointment of the workers' delegate to the Fourth Session of the Internation
of Trade Unions, the Federation of Christian Trade Unions, the Netherlands General
Minister of Labour is to be asked to appoint as workers’ delegate agn
Labour Conference (Geneva, 1922) have resulted in complete agreement. The
Netherlands Federation of Trade Unions (affiliated to the International Federation of
Trade Unions of Amsterdam) and to appoint technical advisers from the several
central trade union organisations.

International Labour Office. Governing Body Meeting.
The Governing Body of the International Labour Organisation of the League held a
short session before the General Conference which opened on the 17th inst. Sir Montague
Barlow, M.P. (Government Delegate), General Baylay (Employers), Mr. E. L. Poulston,
J.P. (Workers), and for Canada the Rt. Hon. James Murdock, Minister of Labour and
Mr. Tom Moore (Workers) represented the British Empire at this meeting.
The Governing Body took note of the announcement that Switzerland had ratified
the four Washington Conventions concerning unemployment, the night work of women,
the minimum age of admission of children to industry, and night work of children, and
that Finland had ratified the Genoa convention concerning the finding of employment
for seamen.
M. Fontaine, Chairman of the Governing Body, underlined the importance of the
official intimation that the Government of the United States, being desirous of co-operating
in a work which had for its chief object the protection of workers against disease, had
appointed Dr. Dorsett, of the Department of Agriculture, to co-operate with the Advisory
Committee on Anthrax set up by the International Labour Organisation.

A long discussion took place upon the demand that German and Spanish should be
added to the official languages, but it was decided by 13 votes to 6 to maintain the present
official languages which are English and French.

M. Michaelis (Italy) presented a proposal to place the question of "factory inspection
in different countries (practical results obtained, recommendations to be made)” on the
Agenda of the 1923 Conference. It was decided to place this proposal before the new
Governing Body that is to be elected during the forthcoming Conference.
The offer of land which was recently made by the Swiss Government to be used for
the erection of a building for the International Labour Office was cordially welcomed for
the Governing Body, and a sub-committee was set up to supervise the preparation of plans
and erection of premises.
The following members were appointed to represent the Governing Body on the
Joint Advisory Agricultural Committee: Count de Altea (Spain), for the Governmental
group, Herr Leipart (Germany) for the workers, and M. Jules Carlier (Belgium), President
of the Central Industrial Committee, for the employers.

The Fourth International Labour Conference.
Prominent figures in the world of industry, both employers and workers, together
with Government delegates, assembled in Geneva for the fourth general session of the
International Labour Conference of the League of Nations which opened on the 18th
inst. Over 50 States were represented. Hungary, which has just been admitted to the
League of Nations by decision of the Third Assembly, will attend the Conference for the
first time.
Each country is entitled to send four delegates: two delegates representing the
Government and one each for the employers and the workers. Each group is accompanied
by several technical advisers. The British delegates are Sir Montague Barlow, M.P.,
Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Labour, Sir David Shackleton, Mr. James
President of the Shipbuilding Employers' Federation and Vice-president of the


---
National Confederation of Employers' Organisations. Mr. J. H. Thomas, Brigadier General Baylay,
President of the Trades Union Congress. Mr. Harry Gosling, Mr. John Turner, Sir Andrew Duncan,
Mr. Humbert Wollte and Mr. Bellhouse, will be among the Advisers present.

Case of Non-European Countries.
The first item deals with the revision of Part XIII. of the Treaty of Versailles with a
view to modifying the periodicity of the sessions of the Conference. At present the
Governing Body consists of twelve representatives of the Governments (eight of these
Governments being those of States of chief industrial importance), six members appointed
by the employers' delegates at the Conference, and six members appointed by the workers'
delegates at the Conference. A large number of States, particularly the extra European
States, desire to be directly represented on the Governing Body. The Asiatic and South
American States, for instance, hold only two seats, those of Japan and Argentina, though
India's claim to be considered one of the eight States of chief industrial importance, which
implies a seat on the Governing Body, has been endorsed by the recent decision of the
assembly of the League of Nations. A similar need for fuller representation is felt both
in workers' and employers' circles. This demand should be met by the proposal to increase
the number of members from twenty-four to thirty-two: (sixteen Government, eight
employers' and eight workers' representatives) with a definite provision that a certain
number of these seats shall go to the non-European States. It is interesting to note that
the amendment proposed to the Peace Treaty to bring about this change still retains the
United States as a member of the Governing Body, though, as at present, her place will
probably continue to be taken by a substitute country (Denmark), until such time as she
joins the Labour Organisation. Germany, though not belonging to the League, has been
a member of the Labour Organisation for over two years.

Periodicity of Future Conferences.
The Treaty lays down that the Conference shall take place " from time to time as occasions
The periodicity of the Conferences is likely to be a very keenly debated question.
take place at greater intervals than one year. Judging from the resolution of the Trades
may arise and at least once a year." It is now suggested that the Conference should
An alternative proposal has, however, been made that the Conference should take place
Union Congress this proposal is likely to be strongly opposed by the workers' group.
putting into effect the decisions of previous meetings.
every year but that it should be alternately a large and a minor Conference the small
Conference and to review the work of

Emigration Problems. The Ground Work.
The second item on the agenda is the communication to the International Labour
Office of statistics and other information regarding emigration and the repatriation and
transit of emigrants. The problem of emigration is essentially an international one.
Many aspects of it were considered last year by the International Emigration Commission,
composed of representatives of the chief emigrating and immigrating countries, members
of the Organisation, and presided over by Lord Ullswater, former speaker of the House
of Commons. Though at first it was thought possible to bring the decisions of this Com-
mission before the 1922 Conference, considerations have since appeared to render the
discussion of certain of these questions momentarily inopportune. Moreover, it seemed
unwise to attempt to settle the world problem of emigration during the present period
of economic and political uncertainty and without the co-operation of the United States.
The standardisation of emigration statistics and the collection of information regarding
emigration will enable the Conference at a later date to examine the wider aspects of this
problem with all the clements of success in its favour.
The meeting of this Conference will also be the occasion of a broad discussion of certain
of the main labour problems of the day.
A report will be submitted concerning the unemployment crisis, which is still acute
throughout the world. The International Labour Office, in accordance with the resolu-
tions adopted at the Third International Labour Conference (Geneva, 1921) and at the
International Economic Conference held at Genoa in April, 1922, has studied this question
and has investigated both the general causes of the phenomenon, and the preventive and
remedial measures adopted by different States. The position with regard to the ratifica-
tion of Conventions by the various national Parliaments, in particular, of the Hours
Convention, will also be brought to the notice of the Conference.
The efficiency of the procedure of the last Conference was in no small measure due to
the tactful and impartial chairmanship of that old parliamentary hand, Lord Burnham.
So great has been the appreciation of his qualities as Chairman at this international gathering, that, contrary to previous customs, he has been nominated again as President of
Conference this year.


---
Here is the text from the image:

581

INTERNATIONAL LABOUR.
Condition of Workers.
The whole of this morning's sitting (Monday) was taken up with speeches of
workers' delegates, with the exception of two speeches made by M. Stern and Madame
Kjelsberg, (Government delegates of Czecho-Slovakia and Norway respectively).
it may be said that the sitting was devoted exclusively to the Labour interview
The first speaker was Mr. YOSHIHARU TAZAWA (Japan), who spoke in Japanese
the speech being translated into English and French. He culogised the work of the Labour
Office, described the unsatisfactory condition of workers in Japan, and observed that
three years had elapsed since the Washington Conference decisions, which his Government
had not yet applied. He added that many women were employed in mines in Japan
and that the mortality was great.

MR. E. L. POULTON (Great Britain), in addition to the remarks already relegated
alluded to the refusal of Salvador to pay its contribution to the Labour organisation, and
in this connection said that the unpaid contributions in 1920 amounted to 7 per cent,
in 1921 to 19 per cent., and in 1922 to 45 per cent. Mr. Poulton deplored this, and added
that should the present state of affairs continue it would seriously endanger the work.ing
of the Labour Office. In reference to the ratification of the various conventions, Mr.
Poulton appealed to all those having influence with their Governments to get them to do
the needful Speaking of the United States, he hoped to see American delegates present
at the next Conference. In conclusion, Mr. Poulton referred to the favourable report
received from Persia regarding the improved conditions of workers in that country, which
he described as the brightest picture in the directors' report. He had suggested it being
issued in the form of a special paper.

MR. E. L. POULTON, in the course of his interesting speech, also referred to the dis-
proportion in the present representation at the Conference. For example, out of a total
of 100 delegates there were fifty-six Government delegates, twenty-two employers' dele-
gates, and the same number of workers' delegates. Thus, the last-named were seriously
handicapped when it came to a vote, as there were always seventy-eight representatives
of the owner side against only twenty-two workers' delegates. The workers' delegates
regarded this in a most serious light. Continuing, Mr. Poulton said: "We have not had
the opportunity of that higher education and wider knowledge that the Government
and employers' representatives possess. In my own case, I had to earn my own living
hefore I was ten years old, and have had to keep my nose to the grindstone ever since.'
Mr. Poulton then submitted that the spirit of the resolutions of the Washington Convention
were hardly being carried out, and appealed to Governments to see that another year the
workers were adequately represented. - Daily Telegraph, 24th October, 1922.

BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-

SICH BENEFIT.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.

£ s. d.
To December, 1921 564,917 6 11
January 3,269 15 6
February 5,196 17 4
March 4,685 6 9
April 2,366 2 9
May 5,066 9 0
June 2,117 5 6
July 2,066 13 2
August 2,274 15 10
September 1,967 0 0
£592,425 10 9

£ s. d.
To December, 1921 228,942 7 1
January 3,755 7 7
February 3,298 6 1
March 3,904 6 9
April 3,800 18 9
May 4,821 15 9
June 3,746 14 0
July 2,484 18 7
August 3,313 9 9
September 2,929 11 6
£260,997 15 10


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

CORRESPONDENCE.

The Council do not hold themselves responsible for the views expressed by Correspondents.

ORGANISATION AND EMANCIPATION.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY, NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
Everywhere the fact is recognised, and should be deplored, that the membership
of the British Trade Union movement is falling off to an alarming degree. This is held
in some quarters to herald a return to pre-war strength. If this is true, then the worker
and it is nothing less than a duty to those who fell "to make the world safe for democracy"
and their dependants, as well as for those who follow us, to do all we can to stop the rot
haronk pre war conditions to look forward to, which, to my mind, were terribly inhuman
and put new life into our trade union.

New Ideas.
To do this, it behoves us to concentrate our energies into certain channels. The
channels should be chosen judiciously, so that not only will we get back our old members
but also gain new ones. This being the case, we should look to those methods of pro
Paganda used in the past, compare them with those of other parties and find out and
develop for ourselves, those which are most applicable and have proved themselves most
successful.

Missions.
It is a well-known fact that the I.L.P. holds Mission weeks in which meetings and
demonstrations are held, tending to revive interest and increase the membership.
For us to do likewise, it would be necessary for each branch to form Speakers' and
Educational classes as a preparation. The nucleus for these classes could be obtained by
organising all the Shop stewards and other members interested of each locality into a
Committee. The W.E.A. and the Herald League would be pleased to arrange for lecturers
and teachers and after a few months we would have in every factory at least one mar
who had all the union's aims at his fingers' tips, with the ability to put them forward in an
interesting and convincing manner.
Then it would be possible for Mission weeks, organised meetings and the like to be
held very successfully.

Local Journals.
Some branches which cover a large area and have a considerable financial member
ship, would find it a profitable undertaking to run a branch paper. This could be supplied
to every member, who would then be in touch with all the social, economic and political
movements and activities in which his branch and union are interested. The initial
cost, providing the editorial work and articles were done voluntarily, would be surprisingly
small. The return would be enormous and after the first issue, the cost would be amply
covered (if provision was made) by advertisements.

It would be necessary first, however, to obtain the sanction of the National Council,
as there is no provision in the rules for this type of innovation.

Social Clubs.
Far too long have our members been without their own Social clubs. These could
include Literary, Dramatic, Musical (choral and instrumental), Social and Sports sections.

No difficulty would be experienced in obtaining good support if these were started
for large numbers of our members belong to working-men's clubs, cycle clubs, and sports
clubs, and would be delighted at the prospect of taking part with their shop mates and
fellow unionists in diversions which would get them to know and understand each other
better and bring about a finer fraternal feeling.

Guilds.
Finally, as the present economic system leaves very much to be desired, and as at the
best of times it can only, for us, provide the bare necessities of life, we should make efforts
to use our Trade Union organisation to improve upon it.

It is perfectly true that if every member of a Trade Union or similar society was also
a co-operator, a large number of our economic difficulties would cease to exist. But as we
can see no immediate prospect of this taking place, only good would come of our following
the lead of the Building, Clothing and Furnishing workers and start in business for our
selves. This could be done at the commencement as repairers and bespoke makers, as no
great capital would be required; and as it prospered it would be possible to make, in
competition with profit-making concerns, for sale through the ordinary trade channels.


---
Here are the bounding box detections:
```json
[
  {"box_2d": [184, 44, 217, 303], "label": "LABOUR'S CALL"},
  {"box_2d": [185, 316, 218, 452], "label": "FOR A GENERAL"},
  {"box_2d": [217, 267, 239, 349], "label": "Government"},
  {"box_2d": [358, 39, 381, 150], "label": "War-Makers"},
  {"box_2d": [246, 15, 275, 117], "label": "Representing"},
  {"box_2d": [241, 442, 266, 489], "label": "at the"},
  {"box_2d": [751, 6, 786, 34], "label": "ally"},
  {"box_2d": [554, 6, 580, 46], "label": "their"},
  {"box_2d": [395, 330, 420, 428], "label": "now be taken"},
  {"box_2d": [575, 57, 603, 94], "label": "This"},
  {"box_2d": [820, 234, 838, 313], "label": "GOVERNMENT"},
  {"box_2d": [818, 324, 837, 455], "label": "CONTRACTS."},
  {"box_2d": [858, 245, 875, 314], "label": "BOOTS"},
  {"box_2d": [838, 337, 859, 467], "label": "Walgrave,"},
  {"box_2d": [837, 471, 857, 551], "label": "Northants."},
]
```

---
Looking at the production of the C.W.S. (as the society is generally
the industrial districts where co-operative stores are strongest) the figures
become unpleasantly familiar. From the five boot and shoe works of the
rosy, although they probably show a decline with which some of the private
for the half year were £640,596, as compared with £1,071,272 in the corresponding
Wholesale Society, with its three fellmongering and tannery establishment
a year ago. The heaviest falling off was at the Leicester boot works where the
During the period Mr. Belcher has been appointed manager, and hopes are entertained in
the town that a better state of employment at these extensive works may make itself
dropped from £273,461 in the first half of 1921 to £237,158 in the first part of this
are recorded, and there have also been better figures at the fellmongering places at Leeds
recorded. From the Leeds and Rushden works increases of 14 and 30 per cent may be
fract and Buckfastleigh; but at the tannery at Grappenhall the output of leather is
only just over 1 per cent. below the corresponding period.

During the half-year 987,079 pairs of boots were sent out, this being an increase of
40,000 pairs, so that falling values must be held as partially responsible for the decline in
trade. This increase is wholly due to the activity of the factories at Leeds and Rushden
Leicester, Derby and Heckmondwike works-large as they are are substantial deductions
from previous results. The supplies from Leicester were 462,335 pairs; from Derby
117,958 pairs; and from Heckmondwike they were 79,137 pairs.

So far as concerns the contribution of the boot and shoe works to the final returns
they each show a small profit, varying from £14 at the Leicester works to £1,165 at
Rushden. But the losses at the fellmongering and tannery yards have turned this into
an aggregate loss of £4,533 for the combined leather works of the society. Shoe and
Leather News, September 28th, 1922.

LEST WE FORGET.

It is now a little over twenty-seven years since the formation of the Boot and Shoe
Workers' Union in April, 1895.
During this long period there have been quite a number of attempts made to start
rump factional movements in the vain hope to find some short cut to the industrial
millennium.

To attribute such movements to the hope of industrial paradise is charitable in the
extreme, for nearly every one of such movements was really instigated by itch for office
by individuals whose unfitness for such was proved by their willingness to lead a faction
in dividing the ranks of labour.

Be that as it may, it is a fact that every one of these factions has proved a failure
in that not one of them has been stable or dependable either in membership, finances or
leadership.

Such of them as are now in existence have empty treasuries and some of them are
obliged to economise by laying off their organisers at a time when they should be working
overtime.

Should any of these factions now be obliged to fight they must do so without funds
which means with empty stomachs and to almost certain defeat.

After years of bombast and pretentious claims they are now reduced to a condition
of impotence and are talking some of uniting, forgetting that adding zeros together still
leaves nothing as the result.

Lest We Forget! During all these years what union has always upheld the banner
of unionism in our craft? Which has never failed in membership or money or leadership
to meet every single obligation?

Our Boot and Shoe Workers' Union is the only one that has met the test. We stand
to-day solvent in principle and solvent financially, the one and only solid bulwark against
attacks that might be directed against the wages and working conditions of shoe workers.

Let us say to the membership that while your officers are proud of the condition of
this union in this time of crisis in union affairs, we realise that you have made that position
possible.
Your support, your loyalty, your contribution to the common strength, your adherence
to our laws and policies have helped us to make this union supreme in its field.

Lest We Forget. May the same principles guide us all in the future, so that our
experience in working together in the years that are gone may render our efforts doubly
for union progress and success in the years to come.--American Shoe Worker
September, 1922.

---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

593

Miss Smith undertook to report to the Home Office the
Local Authorities should have their attention drawn to the
of the lists, which if carried out, would assist the Board
ontworkers employed by retail shops which ar
and of which the Factory Inspector womd

Surgical Work Contracts for the Ministry of Pensions.
The Committee appointed by the Board at their last
of the prices at which contracts for surgical work were given
reported the result of their investigations and of the proseedings
The Committee had examined a large number of Costings Stavent
work which had been received from firms in different parts
of comparison with the prices stated in the specifications of the
The Deputation were received at the Ministry of Pensions by
Medical Service Section, the Contracts Section and Finance Section
The Deputation pointed out that many complaints had been
Board that the prices fixed by the Ministry of Pensions for the supply of surge alte
surgical work to be paid, and that the view of the Trade Board was that either
were so low that they would not enable the minimum rates fixed by the Trade Pavard
supplied were not in accordance with the specifications of the Ministry of Persons
class of boots required, or employers were evading the Orders of the Trade Board
regard to the minimum rates of wages fixed for surgical work.
competitive principles, that many employers had agreed to undertake the work at
The reply of the Ministry of Pensions was that their prices were fixed upon
insisted upon the insertion of the "Fair Wages Clause" in all contracts. The Ministe
assured by employers that the Trade Board rates were being paid and that the Ministry
undertook to examine the Costings Statements prepared by the Committee and stated that.
after investigation, it was ascertained that firms doing work for the Ministry of l'ensions
not complying with the Trade Boards Acts, the question of their continuance on the
lists of contractors for the Ministry of Pensions would be considered.

Powers of District Trade Committees.
prices fixed by
were
the Ministry and even lower, but in such cases the Ministry have been
The most important matter before the Board was the consideration of the Parlia
mentary White Paper (C.M.D. 1712). setting out the Government's policy in the adminis-
of the Cave Committee. One of the proposals of the Cave Committee with which the
tration of the Trade Boards Acts pending legislation dealing with the recommendations
and retail making-up trades the Minister should be authorised to set up autonomous
Board was chiefly concerned was the recommendation that as regards the distributive
District Boards composed of representatives of local employers and workers for the regula-
The Minister drew the attention of the Trade Board to this recommendation of the
Cave Committee, and asked the Board to consider, in the light of the recommendation,
the question of investing the District Trade Committees already in existence, with a wider
measure of responsibility than they now possess. He intimated that before he took into
consideration the question of forming autonomous District Boards for this trade. an attempt
should be made to set up satisfactory machinery of District Committees which would give
effect to the suggestion that district considerations would be predominant in fixing minimum
rates of wages. In reply to a request from the Administrative Committee for further
details, the Minister had forwarded two alternative suggested schemes for the practical
devolution of powers and duties upon the District Trade Committees and had also pointed
out that it was open to the Board to delegate to the District Trade Committees the fixing
of special piece rates and the granting of Permits of Exemption.
tion of the trade in the respective areas.
The Minister had also suggested to the Board the desirability of revising the existing
constitutions of the District Trade Committees with a view to securing, amongst other
things, that all members of the Committees (including the Trade Board representatives
on the Committees) should be representatives of local firms and workers, and that the
number of members on each Committee should be reduced to not more than six a side.
The Board discussed the proposals of the Minister at considerable length. With
legard to the alternative schemes of devolution, the opinions expressed on both sides of
the Board were strongly unfavourable to either scheme. It was pointed out that the
proposals would impair the effective control of the industry by the Central Board, would
crease the expense of administration considerably and intensify the delays in bringing
operation changes in the minimum rates. It was also emphasised that the boot repair-
and hand sewn making trades were more akin to the manufacturing trades, in which


---


---


---
596
Johnson is an old warrior. He went through the South African War, and has won
king and queen's medals. He joined the Army again on the outbreak of war, but was
too old for foreign service and served at home with the Royal Defence Corps.
The ironical part of the whole business is that not a few cottages at Peatling May
mately occupied during the week end by folk who have permanent residences in and
around the city
"The Barr" is situate in the rural district of Lutterworth, and the local authorities
should, if only on humanitarian grounds, make some special effort to alleviate the occupants
plight. - Leicester Daily Mercury, October 3rd, 1922.
Common decency demands it
HOUSES BEYOND REPAIR.
Thirteen Families in Seven Dwellings "Unfit for Habitation."
Fulham Indictment.
Surprising disclosures are made by Dr. A. M. Hewat, Fulham's new medical officer
in his housing report, just issued.
Each house in a group of seven in one Fulham street, he declares, "is in a state so
dangerous or injurious to health as to be unfit for human habitation, being damp, draughty
and verminous, and having a leaky roof, and, in most cases, bulging walls, in addition to a
large number of other serious defects."
The Public Health Committee of the borough council have considered the question
of entering the property to do the repairs, and have passed a resolution stating that "The
cost will be so high that the Council would no ver be able to recover anything like the amount
expended."

Closing Order Urged.
The committee's report states: "The property is really beyond repair, and it is
absolutely impossible to get any repairs done. There are at present thirteen families
housed in the premises."
On the representation of the medical officer the committee recommend that the
council make a closing order "prohibiting the use of each of the dwelling-houses for
human habitation until, in the judgment of the council, each dwelling house is rendered
fit for that purpose."; further, "That a notice thereof be given to the owners and occupiers
as required by the Statute."

The committee's report adds: "We are hopeful of making arrangements for the
transfer of a number of these families into new flats now nearing completion, so as to cause
the least trouble and discomfort to the tenants." - London Evening News, October 17th,
1922.

22,000 PEOPLE IN CONDEMNED HOUSES.
Bradford to Build Without Waiting for Subsidy.
Appalling housing conditions were revealed at a meeting of the Bradford Corporation.
It was decided to build houses without troubling about the Ministry of Health subsidy.
Cases quoted were :--
Three girls sleeping in the same room as a mentally defective youth of 20.
Two married couples sharing one room.
Eight people-father, mother, married daughter, and her husband and four children,
aged 14 to 21-all living in one room.
Father (a consumptive), mother, and four children living in a cellar dwelling so damp
that the paper was hanging from the wall.
It was stated that about 22,000 people were living in houses that had been condemned,
and that 10,000 houses were needed. -The Star, October 13th, 1922.

---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accorat being men on whom we can rely: us to ensure accorat same being pointed out to us, we shall be most ۱۰۰ correction as to the original matter. should, howe the information contained therein must not be divulee NAT TELI 4438 MUSEUM, LONDOR. As theer Reports Bolt Shoe OperatiNGS Affiliated to the Tondra Walon Centreh the General Enduration Anneeredunder the State NationalHealthInsurance Acts. Approval No. 281 Trade Unions and National Labour Party Nearest Post Office: Lamb's Conduit Street, London. W.C. 1. M т.г. LONDON FRICHARDS General Secretary 332 Nearest Telegraph Red Lion Street, London, W... 1. NTHLY REPORT. FELLOW MEMBERS, CHESHAM. 27TH NOVEMBER, 1922. The position at Chesham remains the same as last month, one firm still refusing to come into line and pay to the National Conditions. REVISION OF NATIONAL AGREEMENTS. A meeting with the Manufacturers' Federation and ourselves was held Willis. Very considerable headway was made in relation to a New Agreement, on the 23rd and 24th inst., under the Chairmanship of Mr. W. Addington so much so, that a Sub-Committee will meet on the 30th inst. to draft the same, and then report back to a full Conference for adoption. THE STATE OF TRADE continues about the same as last month. The figures recorded by the Ministry of Labour Gazette are as follow :- BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. In this trade employment during October continued slack. There was a marked decline at Stafford, at which centre much short time was reported. Short time also became more prevalent at Norwich. On the other hand, there was some improvement in the Kingswood district, in the Rossendale Valley, and in Scotland. The percentage of workpeople unemployed in the boot, shoe and slipper making and spiring trades, as indicated by the unemployment books lodged at Employment Ex- hogas, was oo on the 2310 October, as compared with 7.0 on the 25th September,
B


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

NOMINATIONS
for the various delegations will be found on pages 652, 655. Voting on the
place on the December meeting night; votes counted on 12th prox;
posted to reach the Central Office by the 15th prox.

GENERAL ELECTION.
The General Election is now a thing of the past, and whilst the
Party may be congratulated upon the increased number of Labour Members
returned to the House of Commons, it is nevertheless very disappointing that
the country, as a whole, should have sent so many members pledged to support
the Rt. Hon. Bonar Law, M.P., and his policy of "'e-dunno-where'fore."
We, however, accept the verdict of the country because the people had it in
their power, as we have stated so many times, to determine who shall repre-
sent them in the British House of Commons. Thus, whilst we regret the
decision and accept the same, we must still continue with the clarion call to
plod along and educate the people to the real position of the affairs. So far
as the four Union Candidates are concerned, we heartily congratulate Alderman
Alfred Hill, M.P., J.P., in his successful fight at Leicester West upon having
turned the great majority of 14,223 for the ex-Member into a minority of
4,792: the figures are:-

LEICESTER, WEST (39,604).
A. Hill (Lab.) . . . 12,929
*J. F. Green (N.D.P.) . . . 8,137
Dr. G. Spero (L.) . . . 7,631

LABOUR GAIN. Majority
1918-J. F. Green (Co.-N.D.P.), majority 4,792.
4,223.

At ECCLES our old colleague, Mr. John Buckle, M.P., J.P., had a most
strenuous fight; he went into the division a complete stranger, but owing
to the work of a good Chairman, in the person of Mr. J. Pollitt, J.P., and
many others, very considerable help was given to Mr. Buckle. With the
presentation of Labour's case by Mr. Buckle he has also been able to
turn a Coalition majority of 12,413 into a minority of 803, as the following
figures show:-

ECCLES (35,899).
J. Buckle (Lab.) . . . 14,354
*M. Stevens (C.) . . . 13,551

LABOUR GAIN. Majority 803
1918-M. Stevens (Co.-U.), majority 12,413.

These two victories show what can be done by enthusiastic plodding work,
and we most heartily congratulate our colleagues upon winning these seats
and are confident they will act with credit in carrying out the duties of a
Labour Parliament.


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

627
BRANCH REPORTS.

ARBROATH. - Trade in our district remains chaotic. For a long time now our members have hoped and hoped for trade revival working for a new social order would be better-but only disappointment followed. One is often forced to wonder how workers, as badly hit as our members have been, can live at all, and unfortunately the truth is that most are existing to-day by laying up a heavy burden against the future. The worst feature of the depression here is the fact that short-time workers have been subject to so many disqualifying conditions regarding Labour Exchange benefit that for the last twelve months very few of our members have managed to get the additional assistance of the "dole" to their scanty wage. Luckily this is altered again in the new "Fourth Special Period" of benefit which began on November 2nd, and the Branch is contriving to get all short time regulated in such ways as will yield the maximum amount of Labour Exchange benefit in addition. This is so important that secretaries who have members on short time should take notice, and if they fail to understand what is meant by the foregoing, explanations can be sent. We have been reading about the wages in the Shoe Trade being stabilised over certain periods, and it is the wish of this Branch that our Executive may manage such an advantageous settlement. Speaking of wages brings up a grievance that is keenly felt by clickers, finishers, and machine-room workers. Each of those departments have been run on piece-work for the past two years, and during such slack times the results have been revealing. Those workers have, by this form of pressure, only got employment for time varying between 9 hours and 18 hours per week; perhaps a fair average would be 14. And there seems no likelihood at all of such departments ever being needed for more than half time. We are following the Council's advice re supporting Labour at the polls, and active as well as financial help is being given to the Labour Champion in the Montrose Burghs. We have also agreed to promote, if possible, the circulation of the Daily Herald. Our help in those directions will be a prelude to our own fight for better trade conditions when circumstances make it possible for us to move.

BELFAST. - Trade still remains very quiet. The slight improvement reported has been maintained, but trade is still far from normal. Many of our members are still on the idle list. We regret to record the death of Shopmate, Thos. Magee, of the Derry Section. To his sorrowing widow and family we tender our sincere sympathy.

BRISTOL No. 1.-Trade has fallen off considerably on light goods here, but considering the season it might be much worse than it is. We are sorry to report the sudden death of one of our old and much respected members, Mr. Hy. Drew, who, in the old days when it was not fashionable to be a Trades Unionist, did real hard work for the Union. One by one the old stalwarts drop out, and it is up to our young members to fill the gaps in the same spirit as the old brigade did. Another old member, Mr. G. Belsten, has passed away, and although he has not worked at making boots for many years (being engaged in selling them), he took great interest in the Union up to the close of his life. One other member has passed away during the month. To the relatives of our deceased brothers we extend our deepest sympathy.

CHESHAM. - Trade here is about the same as last month. A few more of our members who came out on strike have been reinstated. We are watching with great interest the fight on behalf of Labour that our four Boot Operative lines are making, and trust before this report is published they will become M.P.'s.


---


---


---


---
"Millions of newspapers definitely
hostile to Labour circulate every
day because they are bought by
working men who have not yet
acquired the habit of spending
their money on a friend instead
of an enemy.

"The Daily Herald wants more
readers."

-J. R. Clynes, M.P.

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

Labour's remarkable gains place the
Parliamentary Labour Party in a
position of great importance. Labour
will now be the leading Opposition
body. The Daily Herald will thus
become the principal opposition news-
paper, and no one who wishes to
follow the new career of Labour can
afford to be without the Daily
Herald.

Under its new Editorship and control,
the paper will gain many friends and
readers among the thousands who will
now buy it for the first time.

Read Labour's Case in

THE DAILY HERALD


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

638
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR CONFERENCE,
MR. POULTON (Great Britain): Mr. Chairman, I am not quite certain as to what
is meant by Sub Section (3), and, for the sake of clarity and to prevent any misunder-
standing, I should like to ask the reporter, through you, what really is intended by the
words "The Group Secretary shall report to the Office forthwith the results of all official
meetings." We workers have had a great many meetings during this present Session to
deal with matters arising out of, or in connection with, the agenda and its business, but
those matters are, I submit, not necessarily such as arise solely out of or in connection
with the business of this Conference. They must, on the contrary, necessarily develop
from time to time into business which might be said to be personal to the Group itself.
Ant I therefore to understand by this paragraph that, because we have a meeting
we have therefore to report to someone in connection with the Secretariat of the Office
as to the result we have come to ? I submit that we cannot do anything of the Office,
nor can the Employers' Group, nor can the Government Group. We should not, I venture
to say, report to someone else, what we have been doing in these meetings of ours which
have been officially called. I should like to know what really is intended, because we do
not want afterwards to be accused of failing to carry out the regulations. It is much
better that we should have it out here first of all rather than afterwards have it said "Here
is a Group. They have had an official meeting. We have had no information as to what
has been done." The Group say "This was not an official meeting. It is termed an
official meeting; but we refuse to recognise it as such."
THE PRESIDENT: The drafting of this particular Article is rather in the nature of a
joke, and at present it must not be taken too seriously. For example, the "Office" of
which a report must be made of the different acts under Sub-Section (1) a, b, c, d and e
is the Office of the Conference and not the Labour Office. Therefore, of course, that
must be defined, because otherwise the word "Office," used as it is in Sub-Section (3)
would be interpreted to mean the Labour Office. I pointed out that "The Chairman"
is meant to be the President of the Conference. Over and above that, however, I think
there is substance in the point which Mr. Poulton has raised, and for that reason there
must be a further definition of what is to be reported. It is clear that the Conference
does not wish to interfere in the private and internal matters of Groups, even if they
are holding official meetings. So, in order to carry out the clear view of the Conference,
I think the Drafting Committee must insert further words. By its acquiescence, I consider
that the Conference is of opinion that the Drafting Committee should go rather beyond
its usual function in this matter, and define more clearly the meaning of Sub-Section (3).
MR. POULTON (Great Britain): Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, I was very
pleased to hear the Vice-Chairman of the Commission state that, in suggesting that we
should adopt this Report, this was really only a beginning in connection with this great
work of immigration and emigration, and that it was hoped that we should receive, in the
very near future, some practical results from this preliminary work which it is proposed
to undertake on behalf of the men, women and children who travel in various parts of the
world. I was also delighted to hear our two lady delegates speak in the way they did on
behalf of the women and children, and I venture to say that they have made a valuable
contribution to the proceedings of the Conference, and that they have proven the practical
value of having women here to speak upon these important matters. I think the appeal
which is made to us by the lady delegates can largely be met by the passage on page V.
of the Report of the Commission, where it states: "The Commission noted that a repre-
sentative of the International Labour Office had been invited to attend the first session
of the Advisory Committee on the Traffic in Women and Children," and it finishes up by
saying "the Commission is of opinion that a continuation of this collaboration is desirable.'
Personally, I should use a stronger word than the word "desirable." I should say that a
continuation of this collaboration is essential, because we want this inter-working of the
two departments, and not separate machinery set up by one organisation overlapping the
work of the machinery set up by the other organisation. They may both be doing prac-
tically the same kind of work, and yet, if we are not very careful, they may be doing it
upon different lines. Therefore I trust that this work will be continued by the one col-
laborating with the other, so that there will be a saving both of time and money, and so
that we can achieve those results which are most desirable.
In supporting the whole of the Report-because I take it that the whole of the
Report is before us at once-I should like to say a word upon Recommendations (1)
and (2), more particularly No. 1.
THE PRESIDENT: It would be more convenient, if particulars are to be entered
into, that they should be taken on the resolutions, although I cannot say that it is
out of order.
MR. POULTON (Great Britain): The only point is that I did not want to get up again.
I simply wanted to say what I desire to say on the Report as a whole, so as to avoid the
necessity of getting up again. A resolution mentioned in the Report as being put forward
1


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

641
Decision. On the facts before me, my decision is that the..
• I agree with the Court of Referees. The applicant amba
as branch secretary to particular days of the week"
November 18th, 1922.
The Nobrand 1.
of 105. a week. The t
Trade Union Sued by Member, Unemployment Benefit. Statutory Defence
At Lincoln County Court, on May 2nd 1022, the local branch ci
of Foundry Workers had a claim brought against them by one of www
employment benefit amounting to 13 Ss. 4d.
The plaintiff, who conducted his own case, stated that he had on
vear he made a claim on the Union for the full benefit
tions to the Union for some time, and that on becoming unemployed is 16G
that their funds had been seriously depleted by the number of
refused to pay him this amount, and, after deducting the club imone 4٤٠٠
sum of 3s. 4d. per week. The plaintiff contended that, before a reduction in
resolved upon, the rules of the society required that a ballot should be taken and
be put on half benefit the officials of the Union ought to be put on a 50 perco٠١
thirds majority obtained. This was not done. He further contended that if
and that the society relied upon the defence filed in the case and provided for b
For the Union it was submitted that they were not in a position to pay the full
4 of the Trade Union Act, 1871. This section reads as follows:-
(a) Nothing in this Act shall enable any court to entertain any legal pro
instituted with the object of directly enforcing or recovering damages for the he
of any of the following agreements, namely
(111) any agreement for the application of the funds of a Trade Union-
The Judge gave it as his opinion that this was a very serious matter, and he did not
think it desirable for the society to make use of the drastic defence which had been set up,
in fact, he was of opinion that it was liable to do the society a great deal of harm. Counsel
offering the man half benefit, which had, in other cases, been accepted, and that his
for the society explained that the Union had done their best to meet the situation by
instructions were to rely on the section of the Act quoted above. His Honour gave judg.
ment for the defendants, costs not being asked for. - National Insurance Gazette, th
(a) to provide benefits to members."
October, 1922.
DEATH OF MR. T. A. WATTS.
The death occurred suddenly on Saturday night of Mr. Thomas Amos Watts.
of Far Cross Bank, Kendal. Mr. Watts had been out in the evening and returned
to his home, where he lived alone, shortly before ten p.m. On Sunday morning
the milkman, getting no response to his knocks, informed Mr. Watts' niece, who
lives across the street. The house was entered and Mr. Watts was found to be in
bed, dead. A doctor found that life had been extinct for nearly twelve hours,
bed Watts apparently expiring directly after he had retired for the night. He had
suffered with his heart for many years, and had gradually become worse. He was
57 years of age. Born at Weedon, Northants, he came to Kendal at an early age
as a rivetter at Netherfield. Later he went to Maybole, but after a period of twelve
months returned to Kendal, where he became secretary to the Boot and Shoe
Operatives' Union. He had been president of the Kendal Trades Council for up-
wards of twenty years, and had also been instrumental in forming many trade
unions in the town. He had been a member of the Kendal Town Council for a long
period. He was a Justice of the Peace for both the county and the borough, was a
member of the Kendal Watch, Electricity, and Education Committees, and the
chairman of the School Attendance Committee. He was also a manager of the
Kendal Council School. His wife died eight years ago and he leaves a grown-up
daughter and adopted son. At the Kendal Police Court, on Monday, appreciation
of Mr. Watts' service and regret at his untimely end were voiced on behalf of the
magistrates and police by the Mayor, Mr. E. W. Wakefield, and Inspector O'Neil.
At the Mayoral installation on Thursday reference was also made to the loss which
the Council had sustained and a vote of condolence was passed. The flag at the
Town Hall was lowered to half-mast. The funeral took place on Thursday and was
agely arrended, the Mayor and Corporation and representatives of other
dfs being present, and members of the Kendal Borough Police Force acted as
The general mourners included over 200 employees of Netherfield.
f Sucette, zith November, 1922.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

schemes in operation in both countries. This convention follows the
passed at the International Labour Conference, held in Washington in 1919:
ference, recognising the difficulties of laying down rigid world regulations for the treatment
of foreign workers, decided to recommend to its State members that they
foreign workers on conditions of reciprocity and upon terms to be agreed upon between the
countries concerned.

Under the terms of the new Franco-Belgian convention, a French worker
that he has been employed for thirty years in Belgian mines and also fulfils the
is entitled to grants from the State and provident funds. A French worker in a
ditions as to age and continuity of employment required by legislation on the
mine is entitled to the State premiums respecting old age pensions, without regard
or has spent 30 years as a wage-earner in France, 15 of which have been spent in the
is to be on terms of equality with the French worker French worker in the Independent
by the French Government, and by the Independent Fund for miners' pensions.
Conventions between States providing for reciprocity of treatment of foreign
are already in operation in Argentine, Czecho-Slovakia, Italy, Luxemburg, the Nether-
lands and Poland, among other countries.

Russian Railway Situation. Critical Autumn Prospects.
"The critical situation of the Russian Railways is at present causing great anxiety
to the central authorities at Moscow," states an article quoted in the "Russian Supple-
ment" of "Industrial and Labour Information," the weekly publication of the Inter-
national Labour Office of the League of Nations at Geneva.
The article which appears in Economicheskaia Zhizn (Economic Life), an official
Soviet organ, continues "After a somewhat quiet summer, during which the volume of
traffic diminished considerably, the railways are faced with the problem of coping with
the requirements of the autumn traffic, which, like that of the spring, places a great strain
on the rolling stock available. Extra transit facilities are required for the transportation
of the large quantities of grain collected in the outlying districts as payment of the food
tax, as well as for transportation of seed grain to districts where the harvest has been an
entire or partial failure. The prospects for the accomplishment of these two essential
tasks are, however, not at all promising, owing to the great dearth of fuel and the large
number of unserviceable trucks.

"The best equipped lines have fuel reserves for five days, while the majority have
only sufficient for from one to four days. The number of serviceable trucks is inadequate
and decreases daily, while those still in use are liable to break down at any moment as no
repairs have been made in them for eight years. As regards locomotives, the position is
better, thanks mainly to the new engines imported from abroad. But it is significant
that the number of unserviceable locomotives remains practically stationary and reaches
the very high figure of 60 per cent."

Labour Conditions in the East. Japanese Action.
The Japanese Government has just informed the International Labour Office of a
series of measures which it has undertaken to amend its social legislation in accordance
with many of the decisions of the International Labour Conference of the League of Nations.

Japan has ratified the draft convention on unemployment and the draft convention
for establishing facilities for finding employment for seamen. The Government is intro-
ducing Bills to make amendments in existing legislation to bring it in conformity with the
Convention fixing the minimum age for admission of children to industrial employment
and the convention fixing the minimum age for the admission of children to employment
at sea. As soon as these Bills have been adopted by Parliament the Privy Council will
give its consent to these two conventions, and the Japanese Government will take the
necessary steps for their ratification.

As regards the convention concerning the employment of women before and after
childbirth, the Japanese Government states that certain provisions concerning the pro-
tection of women before and after childbirth have already been inserted in the Health
Insurance Act of 1926 which will come into force in the near future. As, however, social
Insurance legislation in Japan may be said only to have commenced with the passage of
the Health Insurance Act, the Japanese Government find it difficult to conform to the
greater terms of this convention but promise, at every opportunity, to develop and improve
legislation in this respect.

As regards to the draft conventions concerning the employment of women during
and governing the night work of young persons employed in industry, the
Government is presenting a Bill to Parliament amending its present factory laws
ut the prohibition so far as it concerns factories in Japan. It is
ed in the next session of Parliament.


---


---


---
on
Stampin.
ad
১
$
ly
R
9
15
2
22
being being pom
sure aco
us, we shall be most happy to give the
should, however, any errors...
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
same
MAT FELT 4438 MUSEUM, LONDON.
Tel Addressa
2 of
Nationa Bast & Shoe Operatives
Affiliated to the Tenden Union Centers the Control Jacoalian
Aspreredunder the State Nationalitealth insurance Acu. Arevalo. 281
Trade Unions and National Labour Barte
Vearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London. W.C. 1.
34.GUILFORD SOFT)
LONDON
General President
T.F.RICHARDS
General Se
EL POULTOND
Secretary
Nearest Telegraph
Red Lion Street, Londen. 4.5 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
18TH DECEMBER, 1922
13
FELLOW MEMBERS,
1
2
8
3
12
11
DISPUTES.
There is no change in the position at CHESHAM, Messrs. G. Long & Sons
Ltd. still refusing to pay to the National Conditions.
THE STATE OF TRADE
for the past month continues about the same. The figures in the Gazette issued
by the Ministry of Labour are as follow:-
During November employment in this trade continued slack and short time was
prevalent at all the principal centres. A few districts showed a slight improvement, but
in the majority of districts there was little change, or employment showed a slight decline,
as compared with October. The improvement reported last month in Scotland was not
maintained, employment being slack in all the principal centres except Kilmarnock, where
it was fair.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed in the boot, shoe and slipper making and
repairing trades, as indicated by the unemployment books lodged at Employment
Exchanges, was 7.0 on the 20th November, as compared with 6.6 on the 23rd October.
Returns received from firms employing 37,537 workpeople showed about 46 per cent.
on short time at the end of the month, to the extent of about 12 hours a week on the
average.
The exports of boots and shoes in November, 1922, amounted to 80,000 dozen pairs,
or 2,744 dozen pairs less than in October, 1922, and 34,485 dozen pairs more than in
November, 1921.

---
Here is the text from the image:

667
STATEMENTS B. All Statements which came into operation on or after
STATEMENTS C.-Those Statements, the piecework prices of which included the percentage
and upon which 7½ per cent was added to the total earnings under the
Interim (1920) Agreement.
increases granted by the Interim (1920) Agreement.

(b) FEMALE OPERATIVES.

After Index Figure
falls to-
70 points
50
30
Reference.
Corresponding
Minimum Wage
Rates.
34/- per week
33/-
31/-

PERCENTAGE TO BE ADDED TO OR DEDUCTED
FROM TOTAL EARNINGS
Statements A.
Plus 21½%
11½%
Nett

Nett
Statements B.
Deduct 1½%
2½%

STATEMENTS A. - All Statements compiled or revised under the 1919 Agreement, which came
into force on or before 31st December, 1919, and upon which 10 per cent.
was added to the total earnings under the Interim (1920) Agreement
and upon which 7½ per cent. was added to the total earnings under the
STATEMENTS B. - All Statements which came into operation on or after ist January, 1920,
STATEMENTS C. - Those Statements, the piecework prices of which include the percentage
Boot and Shoe Manufacturing Industry on 27th May, 1919, is hereby confirmed as an
Interim (1920) Agreement.
increases granted by the Interim (1920) Agreement.
Holiday (Provision) Scheme.
9. The Holiday (Provision) Scheme adopted by the Joint Industrial Council for the
integral part of this agreement.

Variation of Day Rate Wages.
10. (a) The day-rate wages of the operatives who, when this agreement comes into
operation, are employed at or above the minimum wages or graduated scale rates applicable
to them by this agreement shall not be reduced in consequence of this agreement beyond
the amounts of reductions made in the corresponding minimum wage rates provided for
in this agreement.

Compilation of Piecework and Quantity Statements.
(b) Where Piecework or Quantity Statements do not at present exist Local Arbitration
Boards will forthwith prepare new Piecework or Quantity Statements on a basis to ensure
the average worker earning not less than 25 per cent. over the minimum wage, and where
necessary will revise the existing Statements on the same basis.

Revision of Anomalies.
(c) Local Arbitration Boards are recommended to exercise their power of reviewing,
on the request of either side, existing piecework or quantity statements, other than the
Government Green Book Statement Handsewn List, for the purpose of adjusting any
specific anomalous item or items, whether unfavourable to employers or operatives, brought
before the Boards in accordance with the customary procedure; provided always that any
adjustments of existing Statements or any new Piecework Statements shall ensure the
average worker earning not less than 25 per cent. over the minimum wage in operation
for the time being.

Country District Piecework Statements.
II. Local Arbitration Boards operating in outlying districts accustomed to manu-
facture goods of lower grades shall, in the compilation of Piecework or Quantity State-
ments, have regard to the grade when estimating the productive capacity of the average
worker.

Settlement of Differences.
12. In the event of differences arising on a Local Arbitration Board as to the procedure
to be adopted in giving effect to classes to and II either side of the Board may require
the Standing Committee of the Conference to advise upon such procedure, provided
always that the piecework rates to be finally fixed shall be determined in accordance
with the rules of such Board.

Freedom of Contract with Operatives under 16.
13. The employers shall retain freedom of contract with all operatives under 16
years of age.


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

673
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
NATIONAL CONFERENCE (DECEMBER, 1922) AGREEMENT. The most
matter dealt with during the month was the question of the National Agreement. The
most of you are aware the matter should have been dealt with in October, but owing to
the General Election we did not meet until the 23rd November. It would be as well to
depart from the usual course-which is not our custom-and pay tribute to the oft
repeated statement, that with the determination on both the Employers side and the
Union's side to keep the peace is having its reward by better relations existing betwee
the two bodies. So far as this Conference is concerned it passed without a hitch or any
unnecessary heat. Of course we naturally put in for a shorter working week in order to
if possible, relieve the unemployment market, if only very slightly, but the employers
could not see their way to grant us any concession, so the hours will remain at 48. Many
other changes, such as lowering the age from 17-as the employers proposed to 14 did
not meet with their approval, but they agreed to reinstate the clause that young persons
shall come under our jurisdiction at the age of 16. The employers think that juveniles
at 14 and 15 years of age should be left for them to have freedom of contract, because
it is hard to tell what is the tendency of a boy or a girl in regard to what part of a factory
they prefer to be employed in. Girls have the choice of two Departments, whilst the
boys have the choice of five. An attempt was made by us to get the minimum wage at
21 years of age, but we did not meet with success, owing to the fact that the foreign trade
is so very small at present, and nothing which will interfere with it would be good for the
industry. We obtained a concession in the fact that when the cost of living falls below
70 points, the men in the Heel Building, Stock or Shoe Rooms Departments, will have the
same minimum rate as those in the Clicking, Lasting, Finishing, and Rough Stuff Depart-
ments, and in future there will only be one minimum for male operatives in the trade.
This we have sought to obtain for many many years. We intimated there was a feeling
amongst the girls that the Women's Minimum rates should be the same as for men. This
point was made clear and definite, and we had given the employers warning that our
women think when they do the same amount of work they should be paid the same wage.
We persuaded the employers to accept a new clause under that dealing with Women's
Exempted Operations. This will be found in the agreement and states that no adult
is permitted at these operations at less than the minimum rates unless they have a permit
to do so.

The Holiday Scheme is made part and parcel of the Agreement although with great
reluctance by some employers in various parts of the country. We have strengthened
the clause for Pieceworkers which allows 25 per cent. over the Minimum Rates by adding
the words "to ensure the average workers earning not less than 25 per cent. over the
Minimum Wage." By strengthening this clause we made it clear to the employers gener-
ally that so far as pieceworkers are concerned that point must be rigidly adhered to.
These remarks not only apply to the employers but also to our officials and members,
as this matter has been very loosely dealt with by those officials who do happen to be
members of the Executive Council. Much was made by the employers of "anomalies"
in the statements. We contend, and can prove, that where anomalies do exist and give
operatives a large amount of money, that these items should be readjusted so as to give
the more badly paid operative a better price. Other matters touching the agreement
are dealt with elsewhere, and I think this has been the most successful conference we have
ever entered into on behalf of our members.

There are three outstanding features. We are asking the Government to give power
by legal enactment to our agreements, in order to force them upon non-federated firms
and non-unionists. The second item is that at the end of the agreement will be found a
clause adopted by the Joint Industrial Council requesting Manufacturers and Operatives
to be well organised, and we hope that very shortly that all operatives in the trade will
belong to the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives. The third item is the question
of back pay from those firms who have not been paying to the Holiday Provision Scheme,
and it is my intention to ask for some penalty to be imposed upon employers who fail to
carry out the National Agreement.
In this connection I am still pressing employers at Wellingborough where back money
is owing by 23 firms and in Rushden area by 7 firms.

LEICESTER. It has been my duty to investigate a case at the C.W.S. Works, Dun's
Lane, Leicester, where a young man was given notice, and ultimately discharged, for
claiming the Minimum rate of wages for the hours he was in the factory. My colleagues
in Leicester had interviewed the Management and secured 6 weeks' back pay, with the
result that this member found himself without employment. I volunteered to take the
C


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

676
BRANCH REPORTS.

ARBROATH.-Trade in the district of our branch remains very bad.
Instead of improving our factories are forced to go on even shorter time than
heretofore, and members are nearly losing heart. We try to think it a case
of night looking darkest just before the dawn, and hope the industrial darkness
will yield to life-giving rays of “money-moons." The Executive of the
Union have been busy preparing matter for the Conference Agenda, and are
submitting several proposals which we think will be for the welfare of the
Union. We are opposed to permanent officials being at conferences without
arrangements, with the addition of fixing all future conferences of the Union
standing election, and are also proposing to revert to the old biennial conference
to meet in Leicester. Apart from saving a great deal of expense on travelling
we think it more natural to meet in Leicester than in London, while there is no
point in the belief that delegates will devote themselves entirely to business.
Not that we deny beauty or attractiveness to Leicester-on the contrary we
admire the "stately factories” and other "architectural wonders," as well as
when nothing in the nature of scenery or beauty spots form a counter-attraction
situation and sylvan charm-but we expect the "call" of these to weaken
as delegates find themselves back for the "umpteenth time. We are trying
also to get Rule 68 amended to include the payment of expenses of such meetings
by the Union. It is a real pity to have such fine machinery, and not get any
benefit from it simply because branches cannot afford to pay to use it. Short-
time workers are being put on the same footing as those who are fully unem-
ployed. Three of our girls, although not wholly idle, were asked to take work
in a neighbouring city where machinists were wanted at 36s. per full week.
They refused on the grounds of domestic hardship and unsuitability of employ-
ment. Their benefit is being suspended meantime, but the Branch is to carry
the fight to the Court of Referees so that members may not be penalised wrongly.
Along with those cases is the case of a shopmate who was driven to give up his
employment, first by being overloaded with work and responsibilities, and
secondly by being interfered with by an unauthorised person. His benefit is
refused for six weeks, but we mean to fight the appeal, and the Court of Referees
may agree with us. Members are glad and grateful to have the strong help
of the Union in their work-day troubles.

BARNSLEY.-We hope that trade will be better next year, and that we
shall be free from disputes and sickness. Wishing all our members the Com-
pliments of the Season.

BELFAST.-Trade is very bad both in the manufacturing and repairing.
We were hopeful when we were able to report during the two previous months
that a slight improvement had set in, that trade was going to revive, but again
we have been disappointed, as we have so often been during the past two
years. We are almost at the end of the year 1922. A most gloomy and
depressed one it has been to the workers, many have not had one hour's work
during the whole year. We can only hope that the year in which we are about
to enter may be a bright and prosperous one for each officer and member of
the Union. We hope that our members will resolve to take a more active
interest in the workings of the branch. The branch meetings are held on the
first Monday in each month at 7.30 p.m., in the Typographical Hall, Frederick
Street.

BRISTOL No. 2.-Trade has slowed down considerably during the month
but we hope for a quicker revival than we had a year ago. Now the new
Government is in power, we hope that the “tranquility" we are promised
will percolate from the Cabinet down to the workers. We want them to


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

679

We hope the promises made by or on behalf of the Government will wait early in the New Year, although it is futile to expect the millenium m next few months.

MAYBOLE. - We are sorry to report that trade has somewhat slackened time.
Nine clickers of T. Lees & Co. have been dismissed, and all the rest of the team are slack with the exception of J. M'Creath & Sons, who are still running full time. We are also sorry that sickness is on the increase. According to Provisional reports the Sub-Committee of the Union on the National Agreement quite ton have done very well in view of the reductions in other trades. As this is the last report of the year 1922 we wish all the officials and members the Compliments of the Season, and hope that next year may be brighter for all workers.

NEWCASTLE. - Trade here is very bad. In fact it has never been known to be so bad in the history of our oldest member. Still we are hoping for the best. Probably after the General Election and a change in the Government, things will take a turn for the better. After all it seems to be the general report of trade all over the country. We are pleased to see two of our Members have been returned as Labour Members at the General Election, Mr. J. Buckle and Alderman A. Hill, but were rather disappointed when it became known that Mr. W. R. Smith had been defeated at Wellingborough. We thank the Council for sending Mr. A. J. Dobbs, our Council representative, to Newcastle, on behalf of our members working at Messrs. Pearsons' Slipper Factory, where there had been a reduction in wages. Although his visit did not secure all we had hoped for, still we feel that he did his best, and in the near future his visit will have brought about the result we aimed at. We attempted to do some organising at another local slipper factory, but the result was very disheartening. We are very sorry to hear of the death of one of our oldest branch secretaries, Mr. T. Watts, of Kendal. A letter of condolence was sent to the Kendal Branch on the great loss they have sustained.

NORTHAMPTON No. 1. - Trade remains slack here with very little prospect of improvement apparently. We think we are inclined to rely too much on foreign trade instead of seriously tackling the Agricultural industry, a revival of which would stimulate all other industries. Sickness is fairly light just now with members. We wish officers and members a better New Year than has been their lot during 1922, and hope for a great year of Labour legislation to cope with the difficulties of the working classes.

It is with deep regret we have to report the death of one of our prominent members, Mr. William Johnson, age 54 years, after a short illness. He was of a quiet disposition, but was always in the forefront of working class organisations, being elected to the Northampton Town Council about 12 years ago as an avowed Socialist. He was also President of the Northampton Trades Council for several years, both of which positions he held with marked ability. We can ill afford to lose men of his level-headed character during the trying His interment was attended by the Branch times immediately in front of us. Officials and a number of old trade unionists and friends. Greatest sympathy is felt for his relatives in their bereavement.

NORWICH. - Trade in Norwich has become much worse during the month, discharges taking place on a large scale in many factories. The turn- shoe has eased up considerably with the prospect of remaining quiet till the New Year. We in Norwich offer our hearty congratulations to Alf. Hill and Johnny Buckle on their splendid victories in the election. We must also express our regret at the loss of the seat defended by our comrade, Walter Smith; verily the boot operatives of Norwich and Wellingborough have some- thing to answer for.

PLYMOUTH. - Compliments of the Season to all members. Trade has had this month and has occasioned still further discharges of our members.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

680
which we much regret, especially at this time of the year when we usually
expect trade to brighten up somewhat, but with wage reductions generally
in the dockyards, and the large number unemployed, we cannot
reasonably expect trade to improve. We invariably find that when the people
have little money in their pockets and short time prevails, they begin to cobble
their own boots and shoes, and worse still other peoples, to the detriment
and annoyance of the genuine tradesman. It now becomes a matter of vital
concern and importance to all classes of the community whether or not wage
cutting should be stopped, and the Government should cease to countenance
any further reductions, and if necessary introduce a Bill to maintain the sub-
sistence level of the people, based on the cost of poor law maintenance. Surely
this would not prove too difficult with 142 Labour members in the House of
Commons, and all the Liberals and Tories returned with a tear in their eye for
the sorrowing poor?

SOUTHAMPTON. Trade slack, with tendency to slight improvement.
WATERFORD. Still working short time.

GREAT YARMOUTH. - Very pleased to report trade still good in
Yarmouth.

LIST OF PERMANENT BRANCH OFFICIALS, DECEMBER, 1922.

BELFAST Nil J. Manners.
BRISTOL No. 2 1 I. H. Johnson, J.P.
DAVENTRY 1 S. J. Barnes.
DESBOROUGH 1 M. Gamble.
GLASGOW 3 C. Bates, E. Batchelor, W. Langley, J.P.
HIGHAM & RUSHDEN 1 W. Warner.
HINCKLEY 2 C. Mayes, G. Chester.
KETTERING 1 J. E. Chapman.
KETTERING NO. 2 Nil
KILMARNOCK 2 A. J. Dobbs, J. Wescoe.
LEEDS Nil
LEEDS NO. 2 6 T. Adnitt, J. Wheeler, M. A. Parker, G. Parbury.
LEICESTER A. Worth, D. Astley.
LEICESTER No. 2 3 T. H. Vallance, G. W. Smith, Ald. A. Hill, M.P., J.P.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S 2 Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards, Miss A. Muir.
LONDON METRO. Nil A. Mason, J. Woodward.
MANCHESTER 3 W. Hindes, J.P., F. C. Jex, A. Bird.
NORWICH 2 F. H. Segon, A. H. Folkard, J.P.
NORWICH No. 2 3 W. R. Townley, Len. Smith, W. Pitts.
NORTHAMPTON 1 E. Law, A. W. Lyne, S. Thompson, J.P.
NORTHAMPTON NO. 2 1 F. Leader.
SILEBY 1 R. Dunn.
STAFFORD 1 R. Glover.
STONE 2 J. H. Hooper, J.P.
STREET 1 L. P. Poole, W. A. Wyman.
WELLINGBOROUGH
WOLVERHAMPTON 1 A. Smith.

Circular 293 sent out 5th December, 1922, asking for a reply by return of post; list
closed 13th December, 1922. No replies received from Aberdeen, Arbroath, Ayr, Barnsley,
Bishop Auckland. Bristol, Bromsgrove, Burnley, Chesham, Chesterfield, Colchester, Cork,
Derby, Dublin, Dundee, Edinburgh, Eyam, Glasgow No. 2, Halifax, Heckmondwike.
Hull, Ipswich, Kendal, Kingswood, Lincoln, Liverpool, London South, Mansfield,
Maybole, Midsomer Norton, Newcastle-on-Tyne, Nottingham, Oldham, Plymouth, Reading,
Redruth, Sheffield, Shepshed, Southampton, Waterford, Whitwick, Worcester, Yarmouth,
York.


---
Here is the text from the image:

DELEGATES TO THE SCOTTISH TRADES UNION CONGRESS (1923).
Two Required.

| BRANCH      | BLEAKLEY Mr. C. | CAMPBELL, Mr. J. | GAMBLE, Mr. M. | MCGLONE, Mr. F. | REID. Mr. J.P |
| :---------- | :--------------- | :--------------- | :--------------- | :--------------- | :------------- |
| Aberdeen    | 28              | 10              | 12              | 4              | 6            |
| Arbroath    | 66              | 7               | 14              | 6              | 209          |
| Dundee      | 37              | 8               | 20              | 3              | 17           |
| Edinburgh   | 173             | 12              | 46              | 4              | 27           |
| Glasgow     | 18              | 2               | 32              | 13             | 3            |
| Glasgow 2   | 3               | 164             | 13              | 25             | 1            |
| Kilmarnock  | 99              | 3               | 16              | 15             | 10           |
| Maybole     | 24              | -               | 5               | -              | -            |
| TOTALS      | *448            | 209             | 158             | 70             | #273          |

\* Elected.

No result was received from Ayr Branch.

BENEFITS.

Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union has paid out :-

| SICK BENEFIT. | £      | s.   | d.   | OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT. | £        | s.   | d.   |
| :------------- | :----- | :--- | :--- | :-------------------- | :------- | :--- | :--- |
| To December, 1921 | 564,917 | 6   | 11   | To December, 1921    | 223,942 | 7   | 1   |
| January         | 3,269  | 15  | 6   | January              | 3,755    | 7   | 7   |
| February        | 5,196  | 17  | 4   | February             | 3,298    | 6   | 1   |
| March           | 4,683  | 6   | 9   | March                | 3,904    | 6   | 9   |
| April           | 2,866  | 2   | 9   | April                | 3,800    | 18  | 9   |
| May             | 3,066  | 9   | 0   | May                  | 4,821    | 15  | 9   |
| June            | 2,117  | 5   | 6   | June                 | 3,746    | 14  | 0   |
| July            | 2,066  | 13  | 2   | July                 | 2,484    | 18  | 7   |
| August          | 2,274  | 13  | 10  | August               | 3,313    | 9   | 9   |
| September       | 1,967  | 0   | 0   | September            | 2,929    | 11  | 6   |
| October         | 2,298  | 11  | 4   | October              | 3,598    | 0   | 3   |
| November        | 1,823  | 4   | 0   | November             | 3,135    | 4   | 9   |
|                 | £596,547| 6  | 1   |                      | £267,731 | 0   | 10  |


---
680
“S.O.S.

“Millions of newspapers definitely
hostile to Labour circulate every
day because they are bought by
working men who have not yet
acquired the habit of spending
their money on a friend instead
of an enemy.

“The Daily Herald wants more
readers."

—J. R. Clynes, M.P.

---


---


---
must review the results of action in the
ment. The Director of the International Labour Office, M. Albert Thomas, present
Conference a report in detail on the activities of the Organisation for the past year
The Conference during this session has made much progress in its Parliamentary do
693
during the fourth Conference sufficient time was set apart for a fairly full disces WA
this report.
nection with it, and it is not beyond imagination that a large amount of time, wheth
It was possible to bring up a large number of subjects in the general debate in c
yearly or two-yearly, will have to be allotted for the detailed and "Parliamentar
discussion of the activities of the Office in the future. One of the most encouraging is
the obvious difficulties of two official languages.
of the growing life of the Organisation was this spirit of Parliamentary debate de jab
Convention. Little progress was recorded in this direction and few helpful suggestion
made. The employers group made a joint declaration to the effect that the applica
of the Convention was difficult in the present economic state of the world. This
On this debate rose the question of the ratification of the Washington Fight-Nour
answered by Mr. Jouhaux (French Workers' delegate), who said that the workers f
deplored the lack of success in applying the principle of the universal eight-hour des
there was a tendency on the part of many countries to evade their obligations, and
The Director hoped that it would be possible to find by means of agreement some way of
protection of all possible interests, and offered the help of the International Labour Office
adapting in industrial practice the proposals which had been made, while guaranteeing
tions revealed that, though the Convention has not been ratified to the desired extent.
On the other hand, the declarations made by successive.delega
the eight-hour day has, in practice, become the normal working day in every important
The question of world unemployment also arose on a special report presented by the
industrial State in Europe.
Director on the present position, and the measures taken to combat unemployment in
and women who are at the present time suffering so much in their everyday life." All
Conference to do all it could " to bring hope and joy and gladness to these millions of men
the various countries. A moving appeal was delivered by Mr. Poulton, who asked the
groups of delegates, Government, employers, and workers emphasised the need of studying
international measures for dealing with unemployment, and the Office was instructed to
continue the researches it had already made into the present crisis. The Office was also
instructed to study the general problem of unemployment with a view to combating the
finding these means.
crises which occur periodically in the world.
Apart from the formal and regular business of the Conference, a number of resolutions
proposed by the workers' representatives and adopted by the Conference instructing the
were brought before it by different delegates. The most important of these was that
International Labour Office to inquire into the standard of working-class life in relation
to the pre-war standard in Germany and the other countries with a seriously depreciated
adopted or contemplated in such countries for securing to the workers an adequate living
exchange in order to throw light upon the situation, and to ascertain the means already
wage.
One of the principles which the Peace Treaty states " all industrial countries should
endeavour to apply so far as their special circumstances will permit" is "the payment
to the employed of a wage adequate to maintain a reasonable standard of life," and a num-
the conditions of life for workers in countries with low exchanges.
her of delegates spoke of the alarm they felt at the possibility of the serious worsening of
Thus it will be seen that there was little scope for the lover of sensation or the ardent
patient work and solid achievement. Even in organising a local cricket club the drawing
writer of headlines in the fourth International Labour Conference, but its record is one of
essential, and, despite the heaviness of such work, the delegates to the fourth Conference
up of rules is a dull but necessary task. In the International Labour Organisation it is
carried it through thoroughly and earnestly. Future conferences will look back with
drudgery which was necessitated.
gratitude to the fourth Conference for smoothing their task and for undertaking the
Finally, one cannot leave the record of the Conference, especially of a Conference which
dealt with perfecting its machine, without a word of tribute to its Chairman, Lord Burnham.
For the second time in succession, Lord Burnham presided over the Conference, and his
work is a record of unswerving good nature, patience, and tact. His great knowledge
of Parliamentary procedure in Great Britain has been of inestimable value to the develop-
dren of the Conference itself. The servant of the wishes of the Conference, he yet held
Se gulding rein firmly, and saved the Conference from the fate of incoherence which is
heed reached in such assemblies which do not possess determined heads. As future
allences will be grateful to the fourth Conference, so they will thank Lord Burnham
Selling its destinies. The Labour Magazine, December, 1922.

---
Here is the text from the image:

694
REPORT OF ALD. A. HILL, M.P., J.P.

On Thursday, November 23rd, there was opened, what in some respects is the most
remarkable Parliament of modern times. Mr. Bonar Law, it is true, had a sufficient
number of supporters to form the Government, but the Labour Party was there in sufficient
force as to be acknowledged the Official Opposition. When one remembers that something
it is really wonderful the great change which has come over public opinion, and when one
like twenty years ago the Labour Members in the House could be counted on one hand,
witnessed the spectacle of Ramsay MacDonald walking side by side with the Prime Minister
as the Commons were summoned to the Lords, it was indeed a day of great rejoicing.
and pardon could be given to any who thought of the place now occupied by some who
had been the most violent and unscrupulous in the persecution meted out to the one who
was now the Leader of the Labour Party.
the Bill which has given to Ireland her freedom. At long last, after long years of coercion
The first great thing to be accomplished in this Parliament was the passing into law
and force, reason has been allowed to triumph, and despite the happenings which are
taking place in Ireland, one likes to believe that here, in the Treaty, is laid the foundation
of what will ultimately become a great and prosperous nation.
humanised, that is, humanity will be considered more and property less. The Labour
It has already been demonstrated that national politics will become more and more
determined that these questions should be sincerely considered. It was interesting to
and no doubt the explanation for the House sitting up to Friday, the 16th inst., instead
of rising as was anticipated on the 7th, is to be found in the fact that the Opposition were
Party have initiated two great debates, on Housing and Unemployment respectively.
the awful conditions under which thousands upon thousands of fathers and mothers,
study the looks on the faces of the Government supporters as one after another depicted
with their families, have to live. The debate on the Amendment to the King's Speech,
put down in the name of the Labour Party, on Unemployment, was initiated by J. R.
Clynes in a very masterly fashion, and was conducted during the process of the debate
with great skill and power by several of the Labour Members, the speech which stands out
could prevail then the Amendment ought to have been carried, but here in this Assembly.
argument seems to avail but little. As you make your way into the lobbies you discover
as most pre-eminent being the one delivered by Philip Snowden If convincing argument
number of supporters as to place it on the opposite benches, will there be a chance of accom-
the vote is the thing that counts, and not until the Labour Party has secured a sufficient
plishing anything very great.
one is led to wonder whether all the intricacies of procedure will ever be learned. Still,
To a new Member like myself, there was a feeling that was wondrously strange, and
I am assured that as time goes by you gradually grow into the situation.
of their fellows to such a degree that they are privileged to represent them in what is, in
Naturally one is proud of the fact that they have received the support and confidence
some respects, the most ancient and the best place of Government the world knows.
With a deep and keen sense of the great responsibility of the honour conferred, I trust
that I shall be enabled, if only in a small measure, to merit the confidence placed in me.
ALFRED HILL,
M.P. for Leicester West.

COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.

1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922
January 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92
February 15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88
March 15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 86
April 15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 82
May 20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 81
June 25 45 75-80 100 105 150 119 80
July 25 45-50 80 100-105 105-110 152 119 84
August 25 45-50 80 115 155 122 81
September 25 50 80-85 110 115 161 120 79
October 30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 110 78
November 30-35 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 80
December 35 65 85 120 125 169 99 80
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement,
1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922)
Agreement, and present date.


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

697
Mr. Astley asked what was the position supposing permission was given and the tenant left.
The Clerk: The lodger gets possession
Mr. Astley: And he takes up the tenancy?
The Clerk : That is so.
Mr. Powers said if the Council were going to allow tenants to take lodgers in ser-
they going to say what they should charge.
The Chairman: That is nothing to do with us.
Mr. Powers said he knew of a tenant not in a Council house, who was letting other
two rooms and charging them three times the rent of the house.
Mr. Powers: We ought to try and stop that sort of thing.
The Chairman: I don't see very well how we can.
The Chairman: That is pretty general.
number of occupants being reduced.
Barwell and Earl Shilton. Mr. Astley said at the latter place there was only one instance
Permission had also been given, it was stated, in certain cases, by the Council, at
of overcrowding, and in this case it was agreed to instruct the collector to insist upon ther
MINIATURE RABBIT WARREN."
man and his wife, seven females, and three males were living in two rooms and two small
The Sanitary Inspector reported a bad case of overcrowding at Burbage, where a
bedrooms. The case had been reported before, but nothing had been done to abate the
family, the woman had a family, and they were all living together. (Laughter.)
nuisance. The people themselves did not seem to trouble about it. The man had a
The Chairman said it was no doubt a shocking case of overcrowding, but if the Council
issued an order he did not know where on earth the people were going.
Mr. Freer thought the only way was to use moral suasion, and see if two or three
Mr. Astley said the attention of other authorities ought to be called in this case. It
of the children could not sleep out.
seemed to him like a miniature rabbit warren.
be brought to bear.
The Inspector promised to enquire further into the case and see what pressure could
AN EARL SHILTON DRAIN.
drainage at Carr's Row, Earl Shilton.
The Sanitary Inspector reported that nothing had yet been done with regard to the
Mr. Astley said something ought certainly to be done. It was now several months
since the Council decided to insist upon the defect being remedied.
The Clerk said there was a question as to who were the owners.
Mr. Astley said a drain ran the length of the property in question at the back of the
The Chairman said notices had been served, and it was a question as to what action
houses.
should be taken.
It was decided to leave the matter over till the next meeting.
It was further reported that some of the water taps at the Council houses at Stoney
Stanton were leaking, and Canon Disney said Lane, the water inspector, was without
instructions so far as it applied to taps in Council houses.
Mr. Freer said new washers were required, and the water inspector was authorised
to see these were fitted under the supervision of the surveyor.
DEPUTATION WHICH DIDN'T TURN UP.
It was reported that when the deputation from the Bosworth Rural Council put in an
appearance at Stapleton to meet representatives from the Hinckley Council concerning
a drainage matter none of the Hinckley councillors turned up.
Mr. Bradbury: Who were the deputation?
The Chairman: Mr. Powers, Mr. Freer, and myself. I notified the Clerk I could
not ger.
Mr. Powers said he had a note from the Sanitary Inspector asking him to tell Mr.
Reer about the meeting.
Dr. Astley said the deputation was to blame.
nspector said the Bosworth councillors were on the spot for over an hour. Their
Opelewes that the Hinckley Council was to blame over the drainage more than Bosworth.
Chey excessed regret that the Hinkley councillors did not meet them as arranged.
apology was suggested, but the Chairman said this had already been sent.
1


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

701
"In Belgium unemployment has been almost negligible and in the near
countries, the Netherlands and Switzerland a steady decline has taken place
1922. In Canada a greater activity is indicated for September than for
provinces, with the exception of Nova Scotia and British Columbia where
of unemployment is reported.
shows an encouraging condition. In Italy the latest figures received indicate an incre
"In the United States employment has improved in all sections of the countr
of unemployment, due chiefly to unemployed agricultural worker
unemployment hardly exists, the number of applicants for work at the end of
slightly increased on the other hand the number of persons in rec
"In Germany the figures for August and September show an increase
ment as compared with previous months. This is the first time that an increar
ment benefit has declined.
has
recorded since January, 1922."
International Labour Conference.
A World Committee. Settling the Subjects for the Next
Labour Office of the League of Nations, which was elected at the last International Laboran
The first important business meeting of the new Governing Body of the International
Conference held in October, will take place at Geneva, on January 30th, 1923.
quarterly. It consists of 24 members-12 representing the Governments and 6 cach
The Governing Body controls the work of the International Labour Office and ince
elected at the first International Labour Conference held at Washington in 1919.
employers and workers, and is elected for three years. The first Governing Body
Ist, gives stronger representation to countries outside Europe, and the following countries
The present Governing Body, which held a formal opening meeting on November
are represented. :-
GOVERNMENTS: Belgium, Canada, Chili, Finland, France, Germany, Great Britain,
India, Italy, Japan, Poland and Spain.
EMPLOYERS:
WORKERS:
Africa.
Great Britain, France, Italy, Belgium, Czecho-Slovakia and South
France, Netherlands, Great Britain, Germany, Canada and Sweden.
One of the most important questions before this meeting will be the selection of subjects
for the agenda of the next International Labour Conference which, under the terms of the
Peace Treaty, must meet at least once a year.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES IN GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND.
TOTAL UNEMPLOYMENT.
Estimated Number of Insured Workpeople: - Males, 97,300; Females, 53,080;
Total, 150,380. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 20th November,
1922: - Males, 8,690; Females, 1,801; Total, 10,491. Percentage Unemployed:-Total,
7.0. Increase as compared with 23rd October, 1922:-0.4.
-The Labour Gazette, December, 1922.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. -Membership of Unions reporting at end of November,
1922, 75,490. Unemployed at end of November, 1922, 3,207; percentage, 4.2. Increase
as compared with a month ago, 0.3. Decrease as compared with a year ago, o.1.-Labour
Gazette, December, 1922.

WHY YOUR FOOD IS DEAR.
At the South Lincolnshire Fat Stock Show Dinners, held during the
past week, a point emphasised by Speakers was the tremendous differ-
ence in prices obtained by the producer and paid by the consumer.
It was pointed out that although wheat is now at its pre-war price,
the loaf is still Ninepence. Those who drink it are still having to pay a
high price for their beer, yet the farmer cannot sell his barley. Beef is sold
in the market at a certain price, and a few days later sold over the
counter at 100 per cent. more. -Reynold's Newspaper, 17th December, 1922.


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives.
The	Branch.
THIS Copy of the Monthly Reports is issued by
the Council for the use of the Officers and
Executive of the above Branch of the Union; the
Branch Secretary for the time being to retain possession,
and upon his retirement it must be handed over by
the Branch Committee to the future Secretary.
By Order of the Council.
Seat of Government:
34, Guilford Street,
LONDON, W.C. 1.


---
Here is the text from the image:

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members, the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NAT TELI 4438 MUSEUM, LONDON.
Tel Address: NATUNISHOP, HOLD., LONDON
National Union Boot & Shoe Operatives

Affiliated to the Trades Union Congress, the General Federation of
Trade Unions and National Labour Party
Approved under the State Nowosal Health Insurance Acts. Approval No. 281
General President
T.F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
E.L POULTON J.P.
SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
34,GUILFORD STREET
LONDON. W.CI.
COPYRIG

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London. W.C. 1.

MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
26TH FEBRUARY, 1923.
TRADE
for the past month has somewhat improved, the figures recorded by the Ministry of Labour Gazette being as follow:-

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
During January employment in this trade continued slack. In some districts it was slightly better on the whole than in December, but in others it was worse. Short time was still very prevalent at nearly all the principal centres.

There was a marked improvement at Stafford, and some improvement at Leicester and Northampton, as well as at one or two other towns. On the other hand, there was a decline in a number of districts, including the Leicestershire country district, Welling- borough, the Bristol and Kingswood district, the Leeds district, and Scotland.

The percentage of workpeople unemployed in the boot, shoe and slipper making and repairing trades, as indicated by the unemployment books lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 8.8 on the 22nd January, 1923, as compared with 8.3 on the 18th December.

Returns received from firms employing 31,500 workpeople showed about 34 per cent. on short time at the end of the month, to the extent of about 10½ hours a week on the average. At the end of the previous month, about 38 per cent. of the workpeople covered by the returns then received were on short time, to the extent of about 13 hours a week, on the average.

The exports of boots and shoes in January, 1923, amounted to 73,211 dozen pairs, or 6,609 dozen pairs more than in December, 1922, and 29,182 dozen pairs more than in January, 1922.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

ΙΟΙ
fighting
day by day it will be seen how strenuously the Labour Members are
to compel, if at all possible, the Government to take a wider view of its obliga-
tions to the Nation. The European situation is also receiving close attention
both on the industrial and political sides by the respective National Committees
and the Parliamentary Labour Party. The following is a copy of a resolution
that we have passed recently, the resolution being the result of investigations
by the General Council of the Trade Congress and the Labour Party
Executive:
This meeting of the Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
appeals to the people to realise the gravity of the present international situation, and the
failure of the Governments to make and maintain peace among the nations.
"In the East we are threatened by a new war. In the West, the French troops have
invaded Germany's richest and most densely populated region, and imposed a new hunger
blockade upon the already underfed and overworked German people. Others also suffer,
because the invasion of the Ruhr strikes at the economic reconstruction of Europe, delays
the rebuilding of the devastated areas, and threatens our own people with greater unem-
ployment and misery. Meanwhile, the British Government, an idle spectator of the
impending ruin, is regarded by the French and Belgian people as an accomplice of their
Governments.
"This meeting of the Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
sends fraternal greetings to the working classes of Belgium, France, and Germany, and
joins with them in the strongest possible denunciation of this policy of violence, which
brings neither reparations nor security, and is making of the Rhineland and the Ruhr
the Alsace-Lorraine of the future. We send an expression of sympathy in their suffering
to the workers in the Ruhr Valley.
"This meeting calls upon the British Government :
"(1) To adopt a policy of active diplomatic intervention, if possible, with the
co-operation of the United States Government.
"(2) To remove all misunderstanding by making a public declaration that in their
view the action of the French Government is a breach of the Treaty of Versailles and
is one from which they formally and unmistakably dissociate themselves.
"(3) To support any proposal that the Ruhr situation, the payment by Germany
within the limits of possibility of the equitable reparations indispensable to restore
devastated France and Belgium, as well as the whole problem of the inter-Allied
debts, should be dealt with by the League of Nations under Article II of the Covenant;
and at the same time to propose that Germany be admitted into full membership
of the League with a seat on the Council.
"(4) To propose as part of a settlement the withdrawal of all the Armies of
Occupation, and to make it clear that in any event no general settlement which
includes French or Belgian occupation of the Ruhr can be accepted by the British
Government."
Article II of the Covenant to which reference has been made, states :-
THREATS OF WAR.
Any war or threat of war, whether immediately affecting any members of the League
or not, is hereby declared a matter of concern to the whole League, and the League shall
take any action that may be deemed wise and effectual to safeguard the peace of nations.
In case any such emergency should arise, the Secretary-General shall, on the request
of any member of the League, forthwith summon a meeting of the Council.
It is also declared to be the friendly right of each member of the League, to bring to
the attention of the Assembly or of the Council, any circumstances whatever affecting
international relations which threatens to disturb international peace or the good under-
standing between nations upon which peace depends.
In reference to the above-named resolution we call special attention to
Circular 298.
At our meeting this week we
granted £100 to the Special Fund raised
by the General Council of the Trades Union Congress for German Trade

---
```
102
Unionists in the Ruhr, such fund to be disbursed by the Trades Union
Congress and the General Federation of Trade Unions.
We would also call special attention to the question of Hours of Labour
and the efforts made by some employers to increase the same. We hope the
movement will officially back up the efforts made by Unions to fight against
any increase.
We especially, therefore, congratulate the Building Trade Unions in the
stand made to prevent the increase in the working week, and wish them
complete success.

DEATH OF MR. J. W. MURBY.

We have to record, and do so with very sincere regret, the passing
away of our colleague, MR. JOHN WILLIAM MURBY, Manager to the
National Health Insurance Department. Mr. Murby had been ill for a
very considerable time. We were, however, always hoping he would pull
through. Unfortunately he did not, despite all possible care and expert
advice. We have lost a valuable officer of the Union by Mr. Murby's
death. The work of the National Health Insurance Department calls
for careful and constant supervision, and in Mr. Murby we always felt
that the work of the Department was in capable hands, he having been
in the position for ten years. Mr. Murby will also be missed in the
political world, as for many years he was a very active member of the
I.L.P., and was constantly speaking on their behalf in various parts
of the country. In fact, we do not think it too much to say that Mr.
Murby's activities in this work and his great anxiety to bring into being
better conditions of living for the workers hastened his death. For ten
years he was a member of the Leicester City Council, and resigned upon
the Union headquarters being moved to London.
To the Widow and Daughter we tender our sincere sympathy and
condolences in this their great loss. We hope that the fact of the high
regard with which Mr. Murby was held by many who knew the great
amount of work he did for the people will be some consolation to them
in their sorrow and loss.
At the funeral, which was largely attended, the Union was repre-
sented by the General President, Mr. T. F. Richards; Mr. D. McCarthy,
National Organiser; Mr. T. Adnitt, Council Member; Mr. R. D. Mayes,
Chief Clerk in the Insurance Department; and the General Secretary,
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P.
Further references to Mr. Murby will be found on pages 110-III.
```

---
Here is the text from the image:

103
NOMINATIONS FOR POSITION OF MANAGER TO NATIONAL
HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.
Owing to the death of Mr. J. W. Murby, nominations for the position of
Manager to the National Health Insurance Department must be taken at the
MARCH meeting night, and nominations sent to reach the Central Office
not later than the 15th prox.

NOMINATIONS
for the delegates to the Conference to be held at Whitsuntide will be found on
pages 113-119. Voting must take place at the MARCH meeting nights, the
votes counted on the 12th prox. and the results posted to reach the Central
Office not later than the 15th prox., otherwise they will not be reckoned in the
final count.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same.  Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.

TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that " Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only " Union Stamped
Footwear."

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.

We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
W. WARNER.
T. ADNITT.
W. HINDES.
C. BATES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. W. LYNE.
A. J. DOBBS.
L. SMITH.
ALEX. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.


---
Here is the text from the image:

10.4
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
I have just returned from the Memorial Service of our Shopmate, Comrade and
Brother Officer, Mr. J. W. Murby, who after an illness of several months has passed away
to that home from which no traveller returns, and so passes away another of those who
fain would have lived to see the great change in human society for which he lived and
worked. We all are here to-day and gone to-morrow, therefore let us make the most of
that which comes to our hand, and when we are called upon to lay down our work for
the Great Reaper, we shall do as he has done, and be grateful that we gave to humanity
the best we had to give.
The Daily Herald's future has played no unimportant part of our thoughts during
the month, the Unions being asked to guarantee its future for the next five years. Those
Unions, who like ourselves elect their Executive for two years only, may find that any
new body may not feel bound by the acts of their predecessors, and may undo at one stroke
that which the present body may think to be both right and proper. Still, with this proviso,
we are willing to help the paper. Speaking for myself alone, the paper on its merits, on
its deserts, on its genuine power for good ought to need no pushing. To lose the paper
now is unthinkable, but circulation is its one and only sure future for existence. Let
us all privately and publicly help to sustain this priceless organ, without which even our
Labour Members in Parliament would have a very poor reception in the Press.
I learn that the LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH are distributing four dozen copies
per day amongst their members. This is certainly a sure way of increasing the circulation
until such time as individuals will act for themselves. Read the Daily Herald. Posters
are being placed outside all our Offices, and also outside the offices of Political Agents,
and Herald Committees are being formed to further the claim of this superb journal.
Will all our members please do their best, not alone for the paper, but for our own move-
ment. By this means and method it will give to all readers strength and inspiration.
RAUNDS.—The attitude of one of the members of the Federation in Raunds, Northants,
has caused some amount of attention and one which will have to be dealt with by the
Union and the Employers' Federation. The firm of Messrs. Adams Bros. disputed a
price for Stitching the Egyptian Army Boot, and after disagreement at the Board it was
submitted to the Arbitrator who was dealing with the question of Hard-Cased Toe boots.
The Umpire decided in the Employers' favour respecting Hard Toes, and in our favour
respecting the Stitching, by increasing the price by 1d. per pair. The firm immediately
accepted the benefit of the Hard Toc award, but declined to pay the Stitching award unless
7½ per cent. was deducted in accord with the 1919 National Agreement, which is never
considered by New Prices. The firm pleaded for a re-hearing on a technical point. The
Government, with our advice and consent, allowed a re-hearing, and the Umpire confirmed
his award ; still the firm declined to pay. Some advise we stop the firm, we say "no,"
for two reasons; the firm is Federated and we may be mulcted in damages. Secondly,
we have no right to spend Trade Union money to compel members of the Federation to
Officers of the Federation agree that it is their duty to see their members are loyal to the
carry out their part of the National Agreement, and it is a real pleasure to learn that the
Agreement. (Will all Officers please note). The worst of the matter is that the men,
some sixty or thereabouts have no work, and have been waiting for this money for the past
that any one man can punish his fellows by such a stupid policy, especially after the
six weeks. We must have some quicker machinery than this. It is a burning shame
matter had been before the National Joint Standing Committee and advice given. My
reason for dealing with this at so much length is to warn the Trade that such ought not
to happen, especially after my three different visits to the firm and every conciliatory
method tried.
A meeting called by the GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS and
attended by Mr. J. Buckle, M.P. and myself, for the purpose of considering the best way
to settle disputes in the Co-operative and Distributive movement, and we learned that
no less than one hundred and fourteen disputes had occurred, and were referred to the
Joint Committee of Co-operators and Trade Unionists, and this work is such that the
General Council, although some of their members are occupied three and sometimes four
days per week, all the work cannot be adequately coped with, and the General Council
set up a small Committee to und a way out of the impasse. The Committee reported to
the Conference referred to, and I could not agree with the setting up of a Committee of
seven without some of the General Council having a seat on that body, for guidance and
help in having our findings placed before the General Council, whose large experience and


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

105
backing should be had for the asking, and with colleagues on this sub-committee confidence
would be greater. However, in the end a small Committee was appointed to draw up an
amended scheme to the one submitted. I was appointed one of the seven chosen. The
demand for a change is coupled with the astonishing statement that the National Joint
Standing Committee of Co-operators and Trade Unionists have given awards below the
Trade Boards rates. This certainly will need some explanation at the forthcoming Trades
Union Congress. I still hold that our Co-operative movement must lead in wages and
never be behind. This should be universal and not confined to one area.

HOLIDAY FUND.- There are still a few small firms who have not yet met the claim of
the Holiday Fund, and since my last Report we have had to "strike" one firm, who agreed
to comply after the men had been out one week, and another firm who had refused to pay,
advised us they were paying as last Friday. We have satisfied ourselves that the firm
"struck" has also paid. Two other firms have agreed with us this week, and as we have
so many small firms to deal with the notice has been handed in to another of those whom
we hope will be as good as the rest before the notices expire. All our members appear to
be very anxious to obtain this benefit added to their own contributions, and holidays
made a little more pleasant.

A visit to the NORTHANTS DISTRICT COUNCIL had more than a passing interest. Presi-
dent Townley, of Northampton, opened up a discussion on the question of Daywork
versus Piecework. All appear in our industry to agree that Piece payment is the most
satisfactory, but that some think the wage should be set or limited to a certain amount of
work, and a very proper suggestion was made by the speaker that employers whilst having
the power to choose Day or Piecework, we, as a Union, ought to have at least a fair notice
that such change is about to take place in order that the system should bear its quota of
responsibility with the NATIONAL AGREEMENT. As an instance, at a recent dispute at
the C.W.S. Works, Duns Lane, Leicester, I had occasion to make enquiries at Knighton
Fields, and find that some of the girls are not getting the full benefit of the National Agree-
ment, although the Management admit they ought to have known, but because the Heads
of Departments fail to realise the operatives must suffer. We are claiming for at least
the back money for one week. Our members with their fear of discharge, fear of asking
for that due to them, often neglect to make the demand, the responsibility for which is
no more theirs than the employers, but with this big difference, the employers benefit at
the expense of the indolent, careless or frightened operative. We hope to educate our
employers to that standard that they will overlook their wages books each week and see to
it that the National Agreement is being carried out in its entirety, one half of the responsi-
bility being the Federation's and the other the Union's.

GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS held their usual monthly meeting and
congratulated their Chairman, Mr. Alfred Shortt, M.P., on being called to the Bar, a
distinction that any worker should be proud of, but let us hope that the movement will
not give him the cold shoulder as was done to Clem Edwards and Fred Brocklehurst.

The Deputation to the MINISTRY OF LABOUR reported the success of their visit to the
Minister and the administration of the Unemployment Insurance Act. A sub-committee
was chosen to see the Minister of Labour and to deal with the subject matter of the Act.

EDUCATION AT KETTERING. - A very good Conference was held at Kettering addressed
by Mr. Mactavish, of the Workers' Educational Association, his subject being "Education
and the Working-class Movement." The Conference was arranged by the District Council
of Northants Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union. Some 80 delegates attended and listened
with interest. In the absence of Mr. Bradley, through illness, the General President was
asked to take the chair, and a very good address was delivered by the General Secretary
of the Educational Movement, who believed that the Education Minister could be and
should be more important to the nation than even a Prime Minister. Views were expressed
that our girls should go from the elementary school to the university and our boys be
compelled to win a wife by sheer ability and merit and affection, the children of such a
mother would be an addition to the race.

Above all things if you do not wear Stamped Boots, read the Daily Herald.

7, MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
20th February, 1923.

Yours fraternally,

ihards

General President.
B


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

107
per week rather than shut down. They would not accept that, and our mem-
bers were out in the streets for two periods, and when we started again we
started on 16 hours per week. What would be the position of many of our
members to-day if the firm decided to shut down again. From 1919 to 1923
we have not averaged more than 20 hours per week on the highest point, with
holidays, and the firm closing down twice during that time it has left our members
on a bare existence. They have paid their subscriptions every week whether
they have worked or not, and then if the employer does not want them for a
period he can close down, and then the members are stranded. We have
employers who get at members when they know they are doing nothing, and
offer them work at a reduced price as was the case at Chesham, when the
members were at starving point. Looking at the Balance Sheet of the Half-
vearly Report (on gains and losses), we fail to see why Council have had to
use the axe, and at the next Council meeting we hope we shall have this circular
revised.
[NOTE.-It is quite apparent that the Chesterfield Branch has misread
Circular 296. The rules regarding Unemployed members are still operative,
but when members were suspended for an indefinite period, unemployment
benefit was not payable. Circular 296 gives an additional advantage, because
if members are bona-fide suspended for more than FOUR weeks, unemployment
benefit will be paid from the fifth week as against NO benefit paid previously.-
E.L.P., G.S.]
CORK.-Trade here unfortunately still remains very slack..
EDINBURGH.-Sickness with our Branch is on the upgrade this month.
By the suggestions put forward in last Report it looks as if the Union is going
to revert to Biennial Conferences. We, along with other centres in Scotland,
are mapping out an organising campaign. All Unions affiliated to local Trades
and Labour Council have formed a special committee for this work. They
in turn are divided into three sub-committees: (1) Organising; (2) Recreative
and Educational; (3) Daily Herald. The first sub-committee is starting
off with A.E.U., as they are about the hardest hit, having lost a large amount
of members since lockout. Let us hope this endeavour will meet with success.
We are pleased that Mr. W. R. Smith has given warning through his report
about the proposed amendment or abolishment of Wages Trade Boards.
This would be a serious matter for the boot repairers. Of course what can we
expect when the citizens returned to Parliament members who make no bones
about it that they are determined to lower wages at every opportunity. The
unemployed, who have drawn uncovenanted benefit for the 12 weeks' period,
are now at the Labour Exchange's Committee consideration whether further
benefit should be paid or not. We trust the unemployed will not fail to apply
to Parish Councils to keep them from absolute destitution. Edinburgh
members have been making enquiries of the Secretary why the Branch did not
send voting returns to Central Office. The only explanation is that with
New Year's holidays it is very difficult to have returns back from all sections
in time for counting same. In future we should like an extra week for taking
the vote. This would save worry to Scottish officials and give a larger vote.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.-Up to 1st February, 1923, Messrs. Adams
Bros. had not paid the Award for Egyptian Army Stitching. We are awaiting
the reply of the General President in respect to future action in this case.
The operatives are naturally very dissatisfied with the delay.
LEEDS No. 1. We regret to report that trade here is not as good as we
would like it to be. We hope for a change for the better in the near future.
Mr. Dobbs and Mr. J. Buckle, M.P., gave interesting addresses at our Monthly
Meeting on the New Terms of Settlement, which were much appreciated by
our members.

---
Here is the text from the image:

108
LEICESTER No. 1. - We are pleased to report a slight improvement in
trade during the month.
LIVERPOOL. - Boot repairing is still quiet, although not much below
the average for this time of the year. The industrial magnates are prognosti-
cating a boom in trade in the near future. Let it be soon. We are looking
forward to the opening of Parliament with mixed feelings as to what the
Government programme will be like, more especially in regard to unemploy-
ment, the housing question, and Rent Restrictions Act, whether they will
adopt the majority report of Lord Onslow's Committee or adopt, a middle
course; that is where the Labour Party will come in. We note by the General
President's report in the Half-yearly Report that the Trade Board has been
considering the duties and definition of foremen. That is rather a vexed
question with some of our members and one that we should like to see clearly
defined, as at the present time it is possible to get behind the Act of Parliament
and so evade payment of the full rate per week, even though they have been
employed by the firm more than forty-eight hours, and it is not much use for
the workers to kick up a shine in these hard times as there are too many men
looking for work, and glad to step into their shoes, or in other words take their
situations when vacant on the employers' terms.
MAYBOLE. We are sorry to report trade still very bad, some of our
people are only making half time.
NEWCASTLE.-Trade here is still very bad, but according to all that we
read in the papers there must be an abundance of orders in the offices of the
local shipyards, and we expect before very long there will be an improvement
in all trades, and that our trade will benefit, as well as others. There is a
rumour going around that the local representative on the National Committee
of the Trade Board is going to propose another reduction in employees' wages.
If this is so, we hope that our representatives who sit on the same committee
will strenuously oppose any reduction whatever. According to the Govern-
ment official Gazette for last month the percentage above pre-war has not dropped
to warrant any interference with wages at the present moment.
PLYMOUTH.-Trade remains quiet. We regret to record the death of
one of our oldest members, Mr. J. Waterfield, who had been a loyal member
for over thirty years, and although never taking any prominent position in
the work of our branch, his loyalty to the Union and faithfulness to his
shopmates never wavered. Steadfast and unselfish, his example was always
helpful and good; his loss will be deeply felt by all members of the Plymouth
Branch. We have endeavoured to help forward the circulation of the Daily
Herald by purchasing copies and getting them into a few of the workshops
during the past month, for we realise what a great power the paper must wield
in moulding public opinion, which is likely to become more and more the arbiter
on all questions dealing with wages and conditions of employment, as the
people advance towards the goal of real democracy.
SHEPSHED. - Voting for New Agreement caused a large attendance of
our members at our January meeting, and it was generally admitted that the
Council had done their best for the trade. There is still a lot of feeling with
the men over 40 not being able to get Sick Benefit, but why did not these
members look to it when they had the chance. The Union was established in
1874, and they had all these years before them. Our President. Mr. J. W.
Smith, is to be nominated for the Whit Conference.
SOUTHAMPTON.—Trade fluctuating with tendency to improvement.
STREET. - Trade in the Street district has been bad during the month
and one factory has been practically without orders, and seventeen of our
members have been discharged in consequence. This number is more than we

---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

110
DEATH OF MR. J. W. MURBY.
Former Active Member of the City Council.
The Labour Party of Leicester has sustained a heavy loss by the death of
Mr. John William Murby, which occurred at his residence, 6, Aylestone Street.
yesterday, at the comparatively early age of 50.
He was a native of Leicester, and attended St. Martin's Church School till he
was 14. Then he entered the shoe trade, taking up clicking.
The deceased, for a number of years, occupied a seat on the City Council, being
one of the representatives of Castle Ward. He took a deep interest in all matters
appertaining to the gas undertaking, and he was a fearless and able critic, carrying
conviction by the intense sincerity with which he advanced his various claims.
He was an official of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union, the Insurance
Department being under his control. In this work he was equally painstaking and
successful, and his loss will be severely felt by that organisation. When the head-
quarters of the Union were moved to London Mr. Murby went with them, but
continued to maintain his home in Leicester.
He was an ardent politician and lost no opportunity of advancing the Labour
cause both in Leicester and in other places. At one time he was regarded as the
prospective Labour candidate for the Bosworth Division, but health and other
considerations induced him to withdraw:
At the 1918 election he was the prospective Labour candidate for Ilkeston
Division, but retired owing to illness. Early last year he was chosen to fight Mr.
Neville Chamberlain at the General Election, but again he had to stand aside because
of his health.
He was hon. secretary to the Leicester "Right to Work" Committee from
1910 to 1913.
Mr. Murby had been in failing health for some months, but his death will come
as a shock to many of his friends.---Leicester Mail, 9th February, 1923.
FUNERAL OF MR. J. W. MURBY.
Mayor's Tribute at St. Mark's Church.
Many representatives of the Labour Party were at St. Mark's Church this after-
noon to pay a tribute to their old colleague, Mr. John William Murby, of 6, Aylestone
Street, Leicester, who passed away after a prolonged illness on Thursday last. All
his working life Mr. Murby had been identified with the boot and shoe trade, and of
late years he had held the official position of manager of the Health Insurance Depart-
ment of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives ; while also from his youth
he had espoused the cause of Labour.
The service was conducted by the Rev. A. Linwood Wright, vicar of St. Mark's,
assisted by the Rev. J. Beddow. Boys of the day school acted as acolytes and torch-
bearers. A hymn was sung, an address was given by the Mayor, and Mr. Walton
Knight, the organist, played the Dead March in "Saul."
The principal mourners were Mrs. J. W. Murby (widow), Miss Elsie Murby
(daughter), Mrs. Murby (mother), Mr. G. Murby (uncle), Mrs. and Mr. Smith (sister
and brother-in-law), Miss E. Murby (sister), Mrs. and Mr. J. Lilley (sister and
brother-in-law), Mr. A. E. Nicholls, and Mrs. Cook.
The body was enclosed in a shell and oak coffin, with solid brass mounts. On
the breastplate was the inscription: John William Murby, died February 8th,
1923, aged 50 years.
The bearers were Councillors H. Hand, G. A. Kenney, J. H. Baum, and A.
Monk, Mr. P. Acton (Municipal Employees' Association), and Mr. T. R. Hill (vice-
president I.L.P.).

In the Congregation.
The Mayor and Mayoress (Councillor and Mrs. A. Sheriff), Councillors H. Carver
(High Bailiff), W. E. Hincks, W. E. Wilford, W. Oram, J. K. Kelly, and J. Minto,
Mr. J. T. Boulter, Mr. C. Harris, and Mr. W. J. Moore were noticed in the very
large congregation, in which also were many persons in representative capacities.


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

113
London Conference, Whitsuntide, 1923.
NOMINATIONS.

MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
General President: Mr. T. F. Richards.
General Secretary: Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P.
Organisers: Mr. D. McCarthy and Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P.

Mr. T. Adnitt.
Mr. C. Bates.
Mr. A. W. Lyne.
Mr. L. Smith.
Councillor C. Mayes.
Councillor W. Warner.
Council Members:
Mr. J. Manners.
Mr. W. Hindes, J.P.
Mr. C. Bleakley.
Mr. A. J. Dobbs.
Mr. Alex. Smith
Parliamentary Representative: Mr. J. Buckle, M.P., J.P.

LIST OF PERMANENT OFFICIALS.
Branch.
Bristol
Bristol No. 2
Daventry
Desborough
Glasgow
Higham and Rushden
Higham and Rushden
Higham and Rushden
Hinckley
Kettering
Kettering
Kettering No. 2
Kingswood
Leicester
Leicester
Leicester
Leicester
Leicester
Leicester
Leicester No. 2
Leicester No. 2
Leicester No. 2
Leicester No. 3
Leicester No. 3
Leeds
Leeds
London Metro.
Names
Mr. J. T. Osborne.
*Mr. J. Manners.
Mr. I. H. Johnson, J.P.
Mr. S. J. B. Barnes, J.P.
Mr. M. Gamble.
*Mr. C. Bates.
Mr. E. Batchelor.
Mr. W. Langley, J.P.
*Mr. W. Warner.
*Mr. C. Mayes.
Mr. G. Chester.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Mr. A. G. Randall, J.P.,
*Mr. T. Adnitt.
Mr. M. A. Parker.
Mr. J. Wheeler.
Mr. A. Worth.
Mr. G. Parbury.
Mr. D. Astley.
Mr. Alfred Hill, M.P., J.P.
Mr. Geo. Smith.
Mr. T. H. Vallance.
Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards.
Miss Annie Muir.
*Mr. A. J. Dobbs.
Mr. J. Wescoe.
Mr. A. Mason.
*Members of Executive Council.
C

---


---
Here is the text from the image:

115
Branch entitled to Vote-Higham and Rushden.
SEVEN required.
(Division by Agreement).
Name of Member.
Branch to which
Member belongs.
Branches Nominating.

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN-Three required.
Crouch, Mr. A. ... ... Higham and Rushden ... Higham and Rushden
Groom, Mr. T. ... ... " ... ... "
Sanders, Mr. H. ... ... " ... ... "
Short, Mr. F. T. ... ... " ... ... "
Smith, Mr. C. ... ... " ... ... "
Sugars, Mr. E. ... ... " ... ... "

IRTHLINGBOROUGH SECTION-One required.
*Hartwell, Mr. S. ... ... Higham and Rushden ... Higham and Rushden

STANWICK AND RAUNDS SECTIONS-One required.
*Underwood, Mr. G. ... ... Higham and Rushden ... Higham and Rushden

FINEDON AND KINGSTEAD SECTIONS-One required.
*Nash, Mr. W. ... ... Higham and Rushden ... Higham and Rushden

BOZEAT, IRCHESTER AND WOLLASTON SECTIONS-One required.
*Goff, Mr. J. ... ... Higham and Rushden ... Higham and Rushden
*Elected.

Branch entitled to Vote-Northampton.
FIVE required.
Attewell, Mr. H. C. ... ... Northampton ... ... Northampton
Baker, Mr. G. ... ... " ... ... "
Birt, Mr. A. ... ... " ... ... "
Crane, Mr. S. ... ... " ... ... "
Hawgood, Mr. H. ... ... " ... ... "
Piggott, Mr. E. ... ... " ... ... "
Stanton, Mr. F. ... ... " ... ... "
Stringer, Mr. J. ... ... " ... ... "
Swannell, Mr. W. ... ... " ... ... "

Branch entitled to Vote-Northampton No. 2.
SIX required.
Four Males and 2 Females. (By Arrangement).
MALES-Four required.
Barker, Mr. A. E ... ... Northampton No. 2 ... ... Northampton No. 2
Brown, Mr. E. ... ... " ... ... "
Claypole, Mr. J. ... ... " ... ... "
Cooper, Mr. T. ... ... " ... ... "
Farey, Mr. G. ... ... " ... ... "
Fountain, Mr. J. ... ... " ... ... "
Hefford, Mr. W. ... ... " ... ... "
Hill, Mr. F. ... ... " ... ... "
Hirons, Mr. T. ... ... " ... ... "
Hornsey, Mr. W.... ... ... " ... ... "
Johnson, Mr. A. ... ... " ... ... "
Marriott, Mr. E. ... ... " ... ... "
Needles, Mr. F. ... ... " ... ... "
Norman, Mr. F. ... ... " ... ... "
Pendred, Mr. T. ... ... " ... ... "
Smith, Mr. H. ... ... " ... ... "
Whiting, Mr. A. H. ... ... " ... ... "
FEMALES-Two required.
Bannard, Miss K. ... ... Northampton No. 2 ... ... Northampton No 2
Lawrence, Miss K. ... ... " ... ... "
Moore, Miss B. ... ... " ... ... "
Smith, Mrs. E. ... ... " ... ... "
Warner, Miss E. ... ... " ... ... "

---
Here is the text from the image:

116

Branch entitled to Vote-Leicester No. 2.
FOUR required.
Two Clickers, One Pressman and One County Delegate. (By Agreement).

| Name of Member.        | Branch to which Member belongs. | Branches Nominating. |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| Clickers-Two required. |                                   |                         |
| Baum, Mr. J. H....     | Leicester No. 2                   | Leicester No. 2         |
| Burdett, Mr. E.         | "                                 | "                       |
| Harris, Mr. R.         | "                                 | "                       |
| Perkins, Mr. H.        | "                                 | "                       |
| Martin, Mr. A.         | "                                 | "                       |
| Mayer, Mr. W.          | "                                 | "                       |
| Pressmen-One required. |                                   |                         |
| Burke, Mr. F.          | Leicester No. 2                   | Leicester No. 2         |
| Golding, Mr. R.        | "                                 | "                       |
| Jeffs, Mr. A.          | "                                 | "                       |
| Shingler, Mr. A.       | "                                 | "                       |

COUNTY SECTION (BARWELL)--One required.
*Barrows, Mr. J. (unopposed)... Leicester No. 2      Leicester No. 2
*Unopposed.

Branch entitled to Vote-Norwich.
FOUR required.
Three Males, One Female. (By Agreement).

|                    | MALES-Three required. |      |      |
| ------------------ | ---------------------- | ---- | ---- |
| Butcher, Mr. A.    | Norwich                |      |      |
| Chapman, Mr. B.    | "                      |      |      |
| England, Mr. W.    | "                      |      |      |
| Fraser, Mr. H.     | "                      |      |      |
| Lawn, Mr. T.       | "                      |      |      |
| Neal, Mr. F.       | "                      |      |      |
| Watson, Mr. H.     | "                      |      |      |
|                    | FEMALES-One required. |      |      |
| Fox, Miss H.       | Norwich                |      |      |
| Hindes. Miss M.    | "                      |      |      |
| Howard, Miss V.... | "                      |      |      |
| Trimby, Miss M.... | "                      |      |      |

Branch entitled to Vote-Kettering.
THREE required.
(Division by Agreement.)

|                     | KETTERING-Two required. |             |      |
| ------------------- | ------------------------ | ----------- | ---- |
| Campbell, Mr. G.    | Kettering                 | Kettering    |      |
| Southwell, Mr. W:   | "                        | "           |      |
| Swingler, Mr. J. ... | "                        | "           |      |
| Yeomans, Mr. W. J. | "                        | "           |      |
| *Taylor, Mr. C.    |                          |             |      |

ROTHWELL AND BURTON SECTIONS-One required.
Burton Latimer        Burton Latimer
*Elected.


---
Here is the text from the image:

117
Branch entitled to Vote-Wellingborough.
THREE required.
(Division by Agreement.)
Name of Member.	Branch to which Member belongs.	Branches Nominating.
Gale, Miss D.	...	WELLINGBOROUGH-Two required.	...
Plowman, Mr. А ...	...	We lingborough	...	Wellingborough
Rabbitt, Mr. Т.	...	"	...	"
*Tebbutt, Mr. Е.	...	EARL'S BARTON SECTION-One required.	...
		Wellingborough	...	Wellingborough
		*Elected.
Branch entitled to Vote-Bristol No. 2.
ONE required.
*Curry, Mr. R.	...	Bristol No. 2	...	Bristol No. 2
		*Elected
Branch entitled to Vote-Leicester Women's.
THREE required.
*Billings, Miss P.	...	Leicester No. 3	...	Leicester No. 3
*Jeffreys, Miss L.	...	"	...	"
Sherwin, Miss E.	...	*Elected.	...	
Branch entitled to Vote-Street.
ONE required.
*Davies, Mr. H. G.	...	Street	...	Street
Webb, Mr. B.	...	Street	...	Street
		†Retired.	*Elected.
Branch entitled to Vote-Glasgow.
ONE required.
*Robertson, Mr. T.	...	Glasgow	...	Glasgow
		*Elected.
Branches entitled to Vote-Kettering No. 2, London Metro.
FIVE required.
Buse, Mr. A.	...	Kettering No. 2	...	Kettering No. 2
Coltman, Mr. W. G.	...	"	...	"
Fox, Mr. A. J.	...	"	...	"
Hardy, Mr. G.	...	London Metro.	...	London Metro.
Herbert, Mr. R.	...	London Metro.	...	London Metro.
Ingyon, Mr. G.	...	Kettering No. 2	...	Kettering No. 2
Lecomber, Mr. J.	...	London Metro.	...	London Metro.
Poulton, Mr. H.	...	"	...	"
*Rawson, Mrs. A.	...	Kettering No. 2	...	Kettering No. 2
Robins, Mr. C.	...	London Metro.	...	London Metro.
Shaw, Mr. L.	...	"	...	"
Taylor, Mr. J. E....	...	Kettering No. 2	...	Kettering No. 2
Ziggles, Mr. H.	...	London Metro.	...	London Metro.
		*Elected.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

118
Branches entitled to Vote - Norwich No. 2, Kingswood.
THREE required.

Name of Member.	Branch to which Member belongs.	Branches Nominating.
Amond, Mr. G.	Norwich No. 2	Norwich No. 2
Britton, Mr. F.	Kingswood	Kingswood
Cohen, Mr. H.	Norwich No. 2	Norwich No. 2
Jones, Mr. G. H.	Kingswood	Kingswood
Pain, Mr. W. E.	Kingswood	Kingswood
Richer, Mr. А.	Norwich No. 2	Norwich No. 2
Roberts, Mr. A.	Norwich No. 2	Norwich No. 2
Segon, Mr. A.	Norwich No. 2	Norwich No. 2

Branches entitled to Vote-Stafford, Leeds.
THREE required.

*Housby, Mr. E.....	Stafford	Stafford
*Peat, Mr. А.	Leeds	Leeds
Silvester, Mr. H.	Stafford	Stafford
Walsh, Mr. J.	Leeds	Leeds
*Elected.

Branches entitled to Vote-Hinckley, Desborough, Wolverhampton.
TWO required.

Jolley, Mr. J.	Wolverhampton	Wolverhampton
Parker, Mr. F.	Hinckley	Hinckley
Whymant, Mr. W.	Desborough...	Desborough

Branches entitled to Vote-Bristol, Kendal.
ONE required.

Rooke, Mr. J. T.	Kendal	Kendal
West, Mr. F.	Bristol	Bristol

Branches entitled to Vote-Daventry, Stone, Chesham.
ONE required.

Arnull, Mr. D. C....	Daventry	Daventry
Goodger, Mr. F.	Chesham	Chesham
Holland, Mr. J.	Stone	Stone

Branches entitled to Vote-Leeds No. 2, Mansfield, Derby.
ONE required.

*Blissett, Mr. W. N.	Derby	Derby
*Elected.


---
Branches entitled to Vote - Ipswich, Colchester, Sileby, Heckmondwike,
Newcastle. - ONE required.

Name of Member.                                     Branch to which
                                                      Member belongs.               Branches Nominating.
Edwards, Mr. F. C.                                    Ipswich                                     Ipswich
Pattison, Mr. J.                                       Newcastle                                Newcastle
Stott, Mr. A.                                             Heckmondwike                          Heckmondwike
Branches entitled to Vote-Chesterfield, Eyam, Hull, Halifax, Nottingham,
Sheffield, Shepshed, Whitwick, York, Bromsgrove, Barnsley, Bishop Auck-
land, Lincoln, Yarmouth.
ONE required.

Mansfield, Mr. T.                                    Hull                                            Hull
Smith, Mr. J. W.                                       Shepshed                                  Shepshed

Branches entitled to Vote-Belfast, Burnley, Cork, Liverpool, Oldham,
Waterford, Manchester.
ONE required.

Cotter, Mr. M.                                          Cork                                            Cork
Hargreaves, Mr. H.                                Liverpool                                 Liverpool
Mason, Mr. J.                                           Manchester                             Manchester
White, Mr. G.                                          Belfast                                       Belfast

Branches entitled to Vote-Plymouth, Midsomer Norton, Redruth, Worcester,
Reading, London South.
ONE required.

Gould, Mr. F.                                          Midsomer Norton                   Mid. Norton, Plymouth
Standeven, Mr. G.                                London South                           London South

Branches entitled to Vote-Aberdeen, Arbroath, Ayr, Dundee, Edinburgh,
Glasgow No. 2, Kilmarnock, Maybole.
TWO required.

Brown, Mr. A.                                       Dundee                                      Dundee
†Campbell, Mr. J.                               Kilmarnock                                Kilmarnock
Flanagan, Mr. A.                                 Kilmarnock                                Glasgow No. 2
Noble, Mr. R.                                      Glasgow No. 2.                           Arbroath, Dundee
Reid, Mr. J. P.                                        Arbroath                                    Arbroath
White, Mr. R.                                         Edinburgh                                Edinburgh
†Retired.

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

120
MEMBERS RECEIVING OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.

| BRANCH.              | Half-year ending June, 1921. | Half-year ending Dec., 1921. | Half-year ending June, 1922. | Half-year ending Dec., 1922. |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Aberdeen              | 42                           | 10                           | 38                           | 5                           |
| Arbroath              | 99                           | 45                           | 6                            | 5                           |
| Ayr..                 | 16                           | 11                           | 40                           | 15                           |
| Barnsley              | -                            | -                            | -                            | -                            |
| Belfast               | 48                           | 29                           | 53                           | 21                           |
| Bishop Auckland       | -                            | 20                           | 2                            | 8                           |
| Brighton              | -                            | 1                            | -                            | -                            |
| Bristol No. 1..       | 275                          | 54                           | 58                           | 16                           |
| Bristol No. 2..       | 956                          | 136                          | 188                          | 92                           |
| Bromsgrove            | 8                            | 1                            | 1                            | 1                           |
| Burnley               | 10                           | 4                            | 7                            | 7                           |
| Chesham               | 264                          | 169                          | 68                           | 62                           |
| Chesterfield          | 20                           | 24                           | 21                           | -                            |
| Colchester            | -                            | 3                            | 2                            | -                            |
| Cork                  | 144                          | 1                            | 3                            | -                            |
| Daventry              | 154                          | 24                           | 48                           | 40                           |
| Derby                 | 6                            | 106                          | 16                           | 1                           |
| Desborough            | 165                          | 14                           | 17                           | 4                           |
| Dublin                | 8                            | 14                           | 3                            | 32                           |
| Dundee                | 101                          | 13                           | 62                           | -                            |
| Edinburgh             | 45                           | 20                           | 12                           | 55                           |
| Eyam                  | 9                            | 4                            | 1                            | 8                           |
| Glasgow No. 1         | 107                          | 54                           | 62                           | 15                           |
| Glasgow No. 2         | 93                           | 42                           | 43                           | 33                           |
| Halifax               | -                            | 1                            | 1                            | 10                           |
| Heckmondwike          | 3                            | 6                            | 9                            | 2                           |
| Higham and Rushden    | 2927                         | 946                          | 569                          | 451                          |
| Hinckley              | 98                           | 29                           | 18                           | 95                           |
| Hull                  | 6                            | 3                            | 6                            | 5                           |
| Ipswich               | 61                           | 45                           | 9                            | -                            |
| Kendal                | 413                          | 16                           | 33                           | 2                           |
| Kettering No. 1       | 894                          | 275                          | 225                          | 177                          |
| Kettering No. 2       | 671                          | 181                          | 152                          | 124                          |
| Kilmarnock            | 13                           | 14                           | 12                           | 12                           |
| Kingswood             | 1447                         | 176                          | 292                          | 172                          |
| Leeds No. 1           | 201                          | 174                          | 126                          | 75                           |
| Leeds No. 2           | 49                           | 48                           | 35                           | 16                           |
| Leicester No. 1         | 2256                         | 406                          | 466                          | 590                          |
| Leicester No. 2         | 1191                         | 188                          | 234                          | 266                          |
| Leicester Women's     | 773                          | 87                           | 53                           | 49                           |
| Lincoln               | -                            | 2                            | 2                            | 1                           |
| Liverpool             | 13                           | 9                            | 6                            | 6                           |
| London Metro.         | -                            | -                            | -                            | -                            |
| London South          | 835                          | 461                          | 286                          | 301                          |
| London No. 2          | 44                           | 35                           | 16                           | 29                           |
| Londonderry           | 71                           | 3                            | -                            | -                            |
| Manchester            | -                            | -                            | -                            | -                            |
| Mansfield             | 42                           | 50                           | 25                           | 28                           |
| Maybole               | 32                           | 24                           | -                            | -                            |
| Midsomer Norton       | 96                           | 43                           | 8                            | 4                           |
| Melton Mowbray        | 98                           | 20                           | 57                           | 16                           |
| Newcastle             | 30                           | -                            | 31                           | 22                           |
| Northampton No. 1      | 31                           | 31                           | -                            | -                            |
| Northampton No. 2      | 2214                         | 347                          | 18                           | 18                           |
| Norwich No. 1         | 2858                         | 457                          | 501                          | 412                          |
| Norwich No. 2         | 2251                         | 396                          | 624                          | 473                          |
| Nottingham            | 807                          | 123                          | 120                          | 193                          |
| Oldham                | 4                            | 36                           | -                            | 81                           |
| Plymouth              | 4                            | -                            | 4                            | 1                           |
| Portsmouth            | 2                            | 8                            | -                            | -                            |
| Reading               | 5                            | 1                            | -                            | -                            |
| Redruth               | 2                            | 8                            | -                            | -                            |
| Sheffield             | 1                            | 3                            | 2                            | 1                           |
| Shepshed              | -                            | -                            | -                            | -                            |
| Sileby                | 8                            | 4                            | 1                            | -                            |
| Stafford              | 15                           | 9                            | 5                            | -                            |
| Stone                 | 28                           | 12                           | 1                            | 1                           |
| Street                | 816                          | 67                           | 4                            | 2                           |
| Walsall               | 284                          | 20                           | 62                           | 5                           |
| Waterford             | 112                          | 67                           | 19                           | 78                           |
| Wellingborough        | -                            | -                            | 10                           | 14                           |
| Whitwick              | 1                            | -                            | -                            | 4                           |
| Wolverhampton         | 1325                         | 5                            | 538                          | -                            |
| Worcester             | -                            | -                            | -                            | -                            |
| Yarmouth              | 39                           | 538                          | 398                          | 240                          |
| York                  | 2                            | 35                           | 1                            | -                            |
|                       | 24                           | 1                            | 70                           | 21                           |
|                       | 1                            | -                            | 7                            | 1                           |
| Total Members who received Benefit | 25,466                      | 6,093                       | 5,188                       | 4,321                       |
| Benefit Paid Out      | £76,020 17 10                | £10,536 17 11                 | £23,304 6 11                  | £18,534 12 4                  |


---
Here is the text from the image:

LABOUR
MARCHING ON!

“Daily Derald”
Edited by HAMILTON FYFE.

No Millionaires behind the Daily Herald.
No Peers. No Baronets.
It is owned by its readers: the property and the organ
of Labour--the Coming Power.
A real Co-operative enterprise.
All the News that is news can be briefly told. The
Herald is the right Newspaper for the busy man.
It gives you news and ideas: not stunts and wood
pulp for your Penny.
Notes for Home and Children: free comment on public
affairs.

PLEDGE YOURSELF TO
TAKE THE LABOUR DAILY FIRST.

THE DAILY HERALD
ORDER IT FROM YOUR NEWSAGENT TO-DAY.


---
Here is the text from the image:

122
ANNUAL RETURN OF ACCOUNTS (for 1922)
(1) GENERAL

INCOME.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
From Members-
Contributions for Trade Fund 60198 7 11
Sick Fund 47635 6 10
Branch Fund 39552 16 3
"
GROSS TOTAL 147386 II Ο
Less proportion deducted and carried to Political Fund under
Rule No. 280 2192 2 3
NET TOTAL 145194 8 9
Entrance Fees and Fines 104 3 2
Emblems, Rules, Cards, &c., sold 284 8
Benefits returned by Members for Sick and Trade Benefits 112 14.7
Buttons Ο Ο 6
Fidelity Insurance Fund 43 5 0
544 II 4
From other Trade Unions-
General Federation of Trade Unions 426 17 6
International Shoe and Leather Union 9 10 2
436 7 8

From other Sources-
Bank Interest 7150 3 I
Other Interest and Dividends on Invested Funds (less Income
Tax recoverable) 5803 8 0
Income Tax recoverable 2284 4 2
Returned Share Trade Board Expenses 2044 13 6
Administration Expenses receivable from Ministry of Labour
under Section 17 (6) of Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920
82
Rent
79
Meetings
Health Insurance Department Share Executive Committee 250 Ο 0
Grant
Ministry of Labour, Section 6 Insurance Act, 1912.. 316 0 6
Boot Manufacturers' Federation for Chesham Dependants' 2000 0 0
666 18 0
20597 15 0
Total Income
166773 2 9
Amount of General Funds at beginning of year, as per Balance Sheet (4) of
previous year's Annual Return
GRAND TOTAL
340164 11
£506937 14
1
I


---
```text
123
TO THE REGISTRAR OF FRIENDLY SOCIETIES.
FUNDS ACCOUNT.
Benefits-
EXPENDITURE.
Unemployment, Travelling and Emigration Pay
Less amount incurred during the year on behalf of and repay-
able by Ministry of Labour under Section 17 (1) of
Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920
Net amount of Unemployment, Travelling and Emigration
Pay chargeable to the Union's own funds
Dispute Pay
Sick and Accident Pay
Funeral Benefit
Victimisation Benefit
L
s. d.
f
s. d.
868.30
2
3
44978 9
41857 13 3
8669 16 0
30465 2
4
3659 Ο Ο
63 I
61 2
4
3
Loss of Tools by Fire
Contributions to Out-of-Work Members
Other Trade Unions, &c.—
General Federation of Trade Unions
Trades Union Congress..
Scottish Trades Union Congress..
Grants to Societies and Charitable Donations
General Working Expenses—
Salaries and Allowances of Officers, &c.
Auditors' Fees
Rent, Rates, Taxes, Gas, Light and Coal
Stationery, Printing, Postage, &c.
Expenses of Executive Committee
Expenses of District Conferences
Expenses of General Conferences of the Union
Travelling Expenses not included above
Legal Expenses other than Legal Defence of
Members and those shown under the
following heading
Expenses incurred on Negotiations or Arbitra-
2001 9 I
3151 6 6
829 18 10
26 13 5
4041 13 6
86777 4 3
8049 12
3
tion Proceedings
Purchase of Lease of Offices
Carriage of Parcels
Commission to Shop Presidents
Investigating
Trade Union Stamp
Organising
Miscellaneous Expenses
1265 II
Head Office.
£
s. d.
3556 5 0
8 11
14
468 7 9
8
3923 12
1225 II 10
515 9 II
1134 3 1Ο
13 14
Branches.
£ s. d.
15965 13 6
383
1320 18 6
1581 5
I
0
6
272 4 5
0
231 3 3
53 16
0
568 12 10
2200
0 0
61 10 8
8415 6 10
2
0
334 12
7 10
1397 5 7
7
261 4 2
2504 14 10
Administration Expenses incurred during the
year in connection with National Unem-
ployment Insurance as follows :-
Salaries
200 0 0
Printing, Postage and Office Furniture
Auditor's Fee
134 3 II
3 3
0
Allowed to Branches for Administration
868 16 3
18124 3
2
30758 4 9
Total Expenditure
Amount of General Funds at end of year, as per Balance Sheet
GRAND TOTAL
48882 7 11
143709 4 5
363228 9 8
£506937 14
I
```

---
Here is the text from the image:

124

(2) POLITICAL FUND ACCOUNT.

INCOME.
EXPENDITURE.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
From Members-
Exemptions
853
Contributions from Branches 738 4 8 Local Labour Parties
735 5 3
Central Funds
2192 2 3 Trade Councils
276 13 2
Delegation Fees
163 19 8
From other Sources- Lost Time
273 15 3
Bank Interest
333 16 4 Head Office Expenses
5097 17 3
Returned Election Expenses 240 0 1
Total
6555 15 10
Total
3504 3 4

Amount of Political Fund at
Amount of Political Fund at end
beginning of year, as per
Balance Sheet of previous
year's Annual Return
8676 2 3 of year, as per Balance Sheet 5624 9 9

TOTAL
£12180 5 7
TOTAL
£12180 5 7

(3) BALANCE SHEET OF FUNDS AND EFFECTS
at 31st December, 1922.

FUNDS AND LIABILITIES.
ASSETS.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Unemployment, Travelling and
Cash in hands of Gen. Secretary
2 3 0
Dispute Benefit Fund .. 160347 19 5 Cash in hands of Branch Officers 93979 6 10
Sick and Funeral Benefit Fund 108398 12 10 In the C.W.S. Bank..
146503 2 7
Branch Funds
93979 6 10 In Trading Firms
128368 7 0
Fidelity Fund
502 10 7
Total Amount of General
Funds
..363228 9 8
Amount of Political Fund
5624 9 9

TOTAL
£368852 19 5
TOTAL
£368852 19 5

Signature of Secretary, E. L. POULTON.
Signatures of Trustees, GEORGE HORACE PARBURY.
ELIZABETH ANN TIMMS.
HARRY H. WOOLLEY.
16th January, 1923.
Signature of Auditor, J. B. B. ROBERTSON,
Corporate Accountant and Auditor.

RETURN AS TO MEMBERS.

Number of Members on Books at the beginning of the Year
77,210
Number of Members admitted during the Year
4,850
Total
82,060
Number of Members who left during the Year
6,963
Total Number of Members on Books at the end of the Year :-
Men
53,939
Women
21,158
Number of Members contributing to Political Fund
75.097
68,600


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

127
GROWING VOLUME OF INTERNATIONAL LABOUR LAW.
Results of the International Labour Conference.
A note on the results achieved by the International Labour Conference of the League
of Nations up to the end of last year has just been issued by the International Labour
Office. This note summarises the action taken by the various countries in execution of
the Draft Conventions and Recommendations adopted at these annual Conferences, of
which four have been held (Washington 1919, Genoa 1920, Geneva 1921, Geneva 1922).
The fifth Conference is expected to open in Geneva during the month of October.
A detailed account of the results which the growing influence of the decisions of the
Conference has achieved, states the note, would be of inconvenient length. Such results
are frequently outside the sphere of legislation proper and States which have not yet
adopted definite legislative measures have recognised nevertheless the importance of the
principles embodied in the Conventions and Recommendations, and in many cases pre-
paratory work is in hand and the way is clear for eventual ratifications.
Further, no account is here taken of previously existing legislation which may corres-
pond with the provisions of a Draft Convention adopted by the Conference at a subsequent
date. It should be noted that in a number of cases ratification of the Convention
in question has been delayed by constitutional or other internal difficulties.
A number of countries have informed the Office that their previously existing legis-
lation already conforms with the provisions of certain of the Recommendations.
The following figures summarise the results attained up to the present :—
Ratification.
Number of ratifications registered by the Secretary-General .. 63
Number of countries which have notified their adherence to the
Berne Convention on white phosphorous since the Washington Conference 11
Number of cases in which ratification has been authorised by the
competent authority but has not yet been communicated 16
Number of cases in which ratification has been recommended to the
competent authority by the Government but approval has not yet been
signified.. .. .. .. .. 89
Application.
Number of measures finally adopted by legislative authorities, and
measures of an administrative character, giving effect partially or wholly
to the provisions of the Draft Conventions or Recommendations .. 78
Number of legislative measures of all descriptions proposed but not
yet finally adopted, which are intended to give effect partially or wholly
to the provisions of the Draft Conventions and Recommendations .. 63
The States in which different Draft Conventions have been ratified include:—Bulgaria,
Czecho-Slovakia, Denmark, Esthonia, Finland, Free City of Danzic, Great Britain, Greece,
India, Italy. Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Roumania, South Africa, Sweden
and Switzerland.
REMOVAL OF RENT CONTROL IN ITALY.
International Labour Office Information.
A decree has recently been issued by the Italian Government, states Industrial and
Labour Information, the weekly publication of the International Labour Office of the
League of Nations at Geneva, removing all control regarding rent regulations as from
July 1st, 1923.
Since the beginning of the war, tenancies have been regulated by Decrees prolonging
existing leases in favour of tenants. The Government had only allowed small percentage
increases of rents varying according to the rental.
Landlords who desire to regain control of their houses or flats on July 1st, or who
propose to raise the rent, must notify the tenant before February 1st, 1923. Tenants
who do not wish to leave their flats or desire to contest the proposed increase, must appear
before an arbitration court. Arbitration courts will be instituted in the chief towns of
the various administrative districts (mandamenti). They will consist of a landlord and
a tenant with a magistrate (pretore) as chairman. There will be no appeal against the
decision of this Court.


---
Here is the text from the image:

128
WORLD LABOUR "PARLIAMENT."
Programme of Fifth Meeting Next October.
The fifth annual session of the International Labour Conference of the League of
Nations will open at Geneva, on Thursday, October 18th.
The programme for this Conference was discussed by the Governing Body of the
International Labour Office during its recent meeting at Geneva. In view of the general
movement which has taken place in the direction of establishing the eight-hour day and
in view of the increased leisure enjoyed by the workers, the Governing Body considered
that it would be useful to establish guiding principles, based on experience already acquired
in a number of countries, relating to the use of the leisure hours of workers and therefore
decided to place this question on the agenda.
Other questions to be discussed will be the determination of general principles for
factory inspection work; the consideration of practical schemes for equal treatment for
national and foreign workers who are the victims of industrial accidents in a country;
and the question of a 24 hours' weekly rest-period in glass works where the processes are
continuous.
The Governing Body decided to defer their decision as to placing on the agenda the
prohibition of night work in bakeries until their next meeting in April.

INTERNATIONAL LABOUR LEGISLATION.
The attitude of the Government towards the proposals for labour legislation adopted
at the Third Session of the International Labour Conference held under Part XIII. of the
Peace Treaty is to be the subject of a question to the Prime Minister in the House of Com-
mons to-day. Mr. J. G. Hancock, Liberal Member for the Belper Division of Derbyshire,
will invite the Prime Minister to state what action has been taken or will be taken in regard
to the Draft Conventions and Recommendations of the Conference, seeing that the period
provided for in Article 405 of the Treaty, during which they should be submitted to the
competent authorities for legislative or other action, has expired.
The provision of Article 405 to which reference is made is as follows:-
" Each of the Members (of the International Labour Organisation) undertakes
that it will, within the period of one year at most from the closing of the session of
the Conference, or, if it is impossible owing to exceptional circumstances to do so
within the period of one year, then at the earliest practicable moment and in no case
later than 18 months from the closing of the session of the Conference, bring the
Recommendation or Draft Convention before the authority or authorities within
whose competence the matter lies, for the enactment of legislation or other action."
As the Third Session of the Conference closed on November 19th, 1921, the normal
period of one year has expired and three months of the extended period have elapsed.
Seven Draft Conventions and Eight Recommendations are involved. They deal
with the following matters :-
Prevention of unemployment in agriculture.
Protection before and after childbirth of women wage-earners in agriculture.
Night work of women in agriculture.
Age of admission of children to employment in agriculture.
Night work of children and young persons in agriculture.
Development of technical agricultural education.
Living-in conditions of agricultural workers.
Rights of association and combination of agricultural workers.
Workmen's compensation in agriculture.
Social insurance in agriculture.
Use of white lead in painting.
Weekly rest in industrial undertakings.
Weekly rest in commercial establishments.
Minimum age for admission of young persons to employment as trimmers and
stokers.
Compulsory medical examination of children and young persons emploved at sea.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

"
130
That the members of the Board have had many difficult problems to determine
everyone knows, and that their decisions have not on all occasions pleased everybody may
be taken for granted. But any one who has been in constant attendance on the Board
from the outset must have noticed the improvement which has taken place in the character
of the deliberations and in the relations between the two representative sections. Fuller
knowledge of each other, and fuller experience of each other's conditions and difficulties,
has engendered mutual respect and confidence. Serious points of divergence still arise
and must continue to arise, causing vigorous, and sometimes voluble, debate: but as a
general rule the discussion proceeds on no merely selfish lines, and it is controlled by a real
desire to arrive at conclusions which will be consistent with the best interests of all affected
by them. Except on very rare occasions these conclusions are reached by compromise
or agreement, towards the accomplishment of which the independent members may proffer
advice or suggestion." - The Shoe and Leather Record, 9th February, 1923.

ORGIES OF WASTE AT MONTE CARLO.

Centre of Luxury and Extravagance.
Monte Carlo seems to be the one spot on earth where everyone has not only everything
he wants, but masses of this world's goods to throw away.

To go to Monte Carlo after London is like stepping out of reality into a highly-coloured
novel. Everyone is spending money right and left, everyone is prosperous and care-free;
no one thinks of anything but pleasure and profit. It all seems rather unfair that all this
should be going on as if there had been no upheaval in Europe, when some poor devils are
having such a terrible time to make ends meet. I wonder. when I see these masses of
people, all of them from countries which have been as badly hit as our own by the war,
where they manage to get the money, which our fellows can't get hold of in sufficient
quantities for comfort, let alone luxury.

Scenes of Magnificence.
Never has Monte been more crowded, even in pre-war days. Visitors are content to
put up with indifferent lodging when the hotels are full, in order that they may be within
hail of the Casino. All available villas and flats are bespoken at lavish figures. Carnivals,
tournaments, balls, thés dansants, concerts, theatres, pigeon-shooting, riding, golt, every
form of expensive amusement is in full swing, in addition to the main attraction of the
town-the Casino.

Prices are higher than usual as regards accommodation, amusement, transport, and
club and hire fees-yet the demand is greater than ever.
The comparative quietness of the dress, possessions, and jewels of the women which
characterised Monte two years ago has disappeared, and in its stead the full splendour of
brilliant silks and priceless tiaras and rings, furs, and motors have once more made their
appearance.

Habitués of Monte Carlo, who have known her in all her phases, say that they have
rarely seen her look as prosperous as she does this year.
The famous Café de Paris is serving as many customers a day now as it usually does
in March, and the dancing room, in which your bill for a cup of tea and a cake amounts
to 15 or 20 francs a head, is filled to overflowing every afternoon. Rival cafés are springing
up like mushrooms: every hotel is engaging bands and dance orchestras: the motor-hire
and carriage proprietors are working overtime people who look as if they were in trade
or in quite a small professional way are engaging motors or carriages by the week, without
even inquiring the price of hire.

Bank Notes and Diamonds.
But, despite all the expenditure that goes on under the glorious health-giving sunshine
during the day-time, it is during the Monte Carlo night-the night of the gambler, the
dancer, the diner, the operagoer, and playgoer that one can really judge of the limits of
extravagance of which Monte Carlo of post-war days is capable. The restaurants are
filled to capacity with people of all classes and all nationalities, who think nothing of five
pounds a head for their dinner, preceded by innumerable cocktails and followed by in-
numerable liqueurs of the rarest and dearest brands. Then, as the diners disperse, the
theatres and concert and dance halls, all with expensive entrance fees, fill with marvellously
dressed crowds, who come in the cars which line the roads leading up to the town for a
distance of several hundred yards, without standing room between them.


---
Here is the text from the image:

Crowd of the Casino.
131

Then there is the real crowd-the crowd of the Casino. There are three principal
places where gambling is in full swing day and night in Monte the Sporting Club, patron
ised by the elite who gamble in thousands the public rooms of the Casino, in which
congregate a strange and incongruous medley of humanity, ranging from the millionaire
in full evening-dress to the small shopkeeper in his working clothes; and the Municipal
Casino, the players in which are all townsfolk who come as much to dance and drink and
see the variety show as to play "Boule," the only gambling game which is allowed there
The Grand Casino opens at ten in the morning, and the public rooms close at midnight
after which the salons privés of the Sporting Club remain open till two or three a.m.
trente-et-quarante tables; when the game is in full swing people are often standing six
deep behind the chairs, staking over one-another's shoulders. The sums represented by
the counters lying on a single table during one spin of the roulette would keep a man in
Park Lane for the rest of his life.

One man will sometimes stake as much as a thousand pounds with thirty-five chances
against him, and a curious feature of this year's play is that the even chances, those on
which you have one chance in two of winning, are far less patronised than those in which
the odds against winning are six, eight, or even thirty.

Behind all the glare and glitter there is a side which is not made too public. A gambler
is ruined; a shot rings out, or blood spurts from a stab. The Casino is prepared for it all.
A motor-ambulance, organised like a fire brigade, dashes to the scene; there is a little
temporary excitement, the blood is mopped up, and play goes on as usual. The body
is hurried away; and the rest is silence.

No Rates and Taxes.

What I have seen of Monte Carlo leaves me wondering what the man who has done
his bit and is up against it over here would say and do if he could see it all. There is no
discontent here, no jealousy, for the fortune of the man of ease is shared by the townsman.
Everyone shares in the colossal luxury which the place breathes. Otherwise there would
probably be a revolution !

Throughout the Principality no one pays any rates and taxes-the Casino is the pro-
perty of the Prince, and out of its profits come the upkeep of the palace, the Municipality,
the roads, the huge public gardens, the hospitals, the police, the soldiery, and everything
else for which the British ratepayer has to disburse out of his hard-earned wages.

The foreigner alone is taxed. If he wishes to share in the well-being and prosperity
which this people has worked up for itself, he has to contribute towards the upkeep of the
State, and a tax for this purpose is added to his hotel bill-a form of direct taxation by
means of stamps which costs nothing to collect.

Out of the profits of one building the upkeep of an entire State comes-and it is one
of the richest and one of the smallest monarchies in the world.-Reynolds' Newspaper,
11th February, 1923.

COST OF LIVING.

Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.

         1915     1916    1917    1918  1919    1920   1921   1922 1923
January     10-15      35      65     85-90  120     125    165    92    78
February     15        35     65-70     90   120     130    151    88    77
March        15-20    35-40      70      90   115     130    141    86    --
April        15-20    35-40   70-75   90-95  110     132    133    82    --
May          20        40-45      75   95-100  105     141    128    81    --
June         25        45     75-80     100   105     150    119    80    --
July         25        45-50      80  100-105 105-110    152    119    84    --
August       25        45-50      80     110   115     155    122    81    --
September    25         50     80-85     110   115     161    120    79    --
October      30        50-55   75-80  115-120   120     164    110    78    --
November     30-35      60      85  120-125   125     176    103    80    --
December     35         65      85     120   125     169     99    80    --

Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1910 Agreement,
1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922)
Agreement, and present date.

---


---
133
The belief exists amongst organised workers, that employers are determined to utilise
the present slump for the purpose of degrading conditions of employment to the lowest
possible point. The action of certain Employers' Federations fully justifies the impression
that they consider the reduction of labour standards the line of least resistance as a means
of cutting down expenditure and reducing the cost of production.

As one group of employers secures success, others follow, and the low standards
obtained in one industry are quoted in other industries as a reason why the worker should
submit to reductions without protest. The conditions of labour in foreign countries are
also being quoted to demonstrate to the British worker why his standard of life should be
reduced.

Organised labour will not adopt a policy which will hinder a revival of trade, but we
cannot accept a degradation of the conditions of employment as a means for securing
trade success, nor will the workers agree that trade prosperity secured by degrading their
conditions of life and labour is in any way a success.

We are satisfied that attacks on labour standards develop a serious state of labour
unrest and revolt. A trade revival without industrial peace is impossible, and industrial
peace is out of the question if attacks are made on organised labour for the purpose of
securing extensions of the normal working day or week.

United Resistance.
Accepting the responsibility for defending labour standards, the Trades Union Congress
General Council will encourage resistance to all attempts which may be made to degrade
the conditions of labour, and will use all the power at their disposal for the purpose of
securing a united and determined stand against any effort which may be made by an
employers' combination, however powerful, to restrict the opportunities of the workers by
extending either the normal working day or week.

On behalf of the Trades Union Congress General Council,
J. B. WILLIAMS, Chairman.
C. W. BÓWERMAN, Secretary.

HOUSES FALLING TO PIECES.
Scandalous Conditions Revealed. Stairways Collapse.
Terrible Plight of Evicted People.
GLASGOW, Saturday.-It is difficult to believe that such terrible housing conditions
as those here revealed could exist in any civilised country, and if anything were necessary
to stimulate the Health Ministry to produce a new building policy, surely this should be
enough.

Owing to the collapse of a stairway the dwellers in a tenement at Dale Street, Bridgeton,
have to reach their apartments by way of a ladder.

There are fourteen tenants, comprising about sixty people, both young and old.

Now, the tenants have been ordered to quit by noon on Monday, as the building is
on the point of collapsing altogether.

Words fail adequately to picture the plight of these people in this congested working-
class locality.

Gas Cut Off.
The gaping entrances to the flats stand exposed to the elements, and the gas has been
cut off for safety.

Nowhere to Go.
Apart from their perilous situation the tenants are indignant at being ordered out on
such a short notice. "Where are these kiddies to go on Monday?" was one woman's
comment, as she pointed to her family all huddled round the kitchen fire. "There's
nothing but the street for us if the authorities can't find us a house," she added.

The problem on Monday will be how to remove the furniture from houses which have
no stairway, and it is understood that the fire brigade will be called in to assist in hoisting
out the household contents.

On the other side of the muddy courtyard is another tenement where the sixteen
tenants were ordered out owing to a bulging wall, and other properties in the vicinity are
in an equally dilapidated state. - Reynolds' Newspaper, 4th February, 1923.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

135
For this reason it is the duty of the proletariat in all countries to carry on the war against war and against every cause of war, using every means, direct and indirect, inside and outside Parliament.
For this purpose it is necessary to put an end to the division which exists in the Trade Unions and to invite the minorities to rejoin their national federations in order to restore the unity of the working classes.
Constant and energetic propaganda for peace must be organised among the people against militarist and imperialist forces.
This propaganda and this action have a double aim.
They must support all efforts tending to remove all factors which propagate the spirit of war.
They must serve to lead to real and actual disarmament and prevent all impending threats of war and direct the struggle against the influences which render war possible.
In order to realise these two aims the Labour movement must counteract all wars which may threaten to break out in the future, with all the means at the disposal of the Labour movement, and to prevent the actual outbreak of such wars by proclaiming and carrying out a general international strike.
By speech and written word the Labour movement, if possible in collaboration with non-labour organisations, must conduct propaganda for the idea of the brotherhood of the peoples, and against everything which sustains and encourages existing antagonisms.
In particular the Labour movement must devote its attention to the education of children and young people in an anti-militarist and anti-capitalist spirit, and, with this aim in view, must bring all its influence to bear on the present educational system.
It is of supreme importance that the Labour movement must exercise a more rigorous supervision of the Press. The Labour movement must devote its full attention and all its energy to establish and maintain its own Press in all countries and also to establish relations between the whole Labour Press.
Of equal, if not still greater importance, is the propaganda and organisation against the possibility of war and for the action to prevent it.
It is with this aim in view that the Labour movement must, on the basis of the Rome resolution, not only exercise supervision over the manufacture and transport of all war materials, but must also, by constant and energetic propaganda, by educating and instructing the workers themselves, and with the briefest possible delay, render the manufacture and transport of war materials impossible.
The Trade Union organisations shall combat all threats of war and demand recourse to arbitration (between all countries concerned) in all differences that may arise between nations.
In this connection the International Federation of Trade Unions should undertake the responsibility to decide upon and to effect the general strike and the economic boycott in accordance with the Rome resolution.
The Labour movement must do all in its power to bring about the establishment of a real and true League of Peoples in which the workers can have confidence and to the jurisdiction of which all differences between the nations can be submitted.
This propaganda for peace must be conducted in collaboration with all who accept the Rome resolution as the basis for the struggle.
The preparations for all definite action shall be in the hands of the Committee set up by the International Trades Union Congress at Rome and composed of the representatives of the International Federation of Trade Unions and of the International Secretariats of the workers in the transport, mining and metal industries.
The direction of all definite action shall be in the hands of the Management Committee of the International Federation of Trade Unions
World peace can only be finally established when the present system of capitalist production, which is based on the idea of personal gain is replaced by a system of pro-duction which shall serve the needs and interests of mankind in general.
The resolution was carried, only the Russian delegates voting against the same.


---
```text
136
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
President: Rt. Hon. J. H. Thomas, M.P.
WAR AGAINST WAR
THE INTERNATIONAL PEACE CONGRESS.
held at The Hague (Holland) from December 10th-15th,
1922, under the auspices of the International Federation
of Trade Unions, attended by 650 delegates from 29
different countries, representing more than 40 millions
men and women, decided to open a World campaign
for the abolition of all wars.
0
Workers of Great Britain,
help us to organise for Peace.
It has been decided by the organised workers of several con-
tinental countries to contribute an hour's wages towards
THE ANTI-WAR FUND
which the International Federation of Trade Unions has
opened to defray the large expenditure for conducting
its World Peace Campaign.
66
Workers of Great Britain, we ask you to do
buting, every one of you, both men and women, HALF-A-CROWN,
or more if you can afford it, but at least ONE SHILLING to the
your bit" by contri-
Anti-War Fund, and join forces with your fellow-workers in other
parts of the world in their efforts to prevent war.
Send your contributions to :
E. L. POULTON, J.P.,
34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
```

---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

139
charges for furniture to be reckoned as a premium); (d) restriction upon the levying of
distress for recovery of rent. It suggests that the benefit to the landlord of the system
of "compounding rates, which was taken away by the decision of the House of Lords
in the case of Nicholson v. Jackson. should be restored. It also recommends that notices
of increase of rent should be simplified, and, in order that landlords shall not be penalised
invalid only in respect of the excess.
Further, where a tenancy is determinable by notice,
the notice of increase should be deemed to constitute a notice to determine the tenancy
at the earliest date at which it could be determined.
The Report also recommends that an attempt should be made to provide machinery
whereby cases may be heard and decided, or a settlement arrived at, before the cost of
litigation is incurred.
There are five separate reservations to the Majority Report. The principal reserva-
tion, signed by the Chairman and three other members of the Committee, recommends
that all restrictions on dealings with mortgages should be allowed to lapse with the present
Act. (The Report itself recommends the maintenance of the present restrictions, subject
to relaxation by leave of the Court in certain cases.) The other reservations, signed by
the individual members of the Committee, deal with the dates at which, and methods by
which, restrictions should be withdrawn; with a reduction in the 25 per cent. increase for
repairs; and with the rate of mortgage interest.

MINORITY REPORT.
The Minority Report, signed by Mr. Duncan M. Graham, M.P., and Lieut.-Col. D.
Watts Morgan, M.P., recommends that the present restrictions should be maintained until
1930 for all classes of houses. As regards the classes of houses whose rents were first
restricted by the Acts of 1919 and 1920, however, it should be permissible to withdraw
the restrictions before that date by Order in Council submitted to and approved by Parlia.-
ment. An immediate reduction is recommended of 25 per cent. in all rentals, irrespective
of the category in which the house is placed, and at Martinmas, 1923, a further reduction
of 15 per cent. Compulsory letting of vacant houses and restrictions upon the sale of
houses within the provisions of the Act are recommended.
The signatories of this Report disagree with most of the proposals in the Majority
Report for the alteration of the present Act in other respects; and conclude with the
following general observation :-
"In our opinion, the whole crux of the question is the deplorable shortage of
housing accommodation for the working-classes throughout the country, especially
in the industrial centres. It is imperative that the State-aided Housing Schemes of
Local Authorities should be at once revived, particularly when it is the case that well
over 100,000 building operatives are unemployed at the present time and drawing
unemployment benefits." - The Labour Gazette, February, 1923.

KING'S SPEECH.
Housing, Taxation and Rents. Unemployment. Reforms and
Economy Promised.
The King's Speech, with which His Majesty opened the new Session of Parliament
yesterday, declared that
Reductions in public expenditure are essential.
Full effect will be given to the special measures to deal with unemployment.
Proposals for granting credit facilities to agriculturists will be put forward.
Local taxation reform is to be considered.
A housing measure will be introduced.
It is evident that Mr. Bonar Law's period of "tranquillity
The text of the King's Speech is as follows:
My Lords and Members of the House of Commons.
"
is ending.
The Conference which was held in London early in December on the subject of the
in their desire to hasten a complete settlement of the Reparation question, offered to the
payment of Reparation by Germany was resumed in Paris in January. My Government,
Allied Governments far-reaching concessions on Allied debts to this country. I greatly
regret that it proved impossible to reach a general agreement.
The French and Belgian Governments have, therefore, proceeded to put into force
My Government, while feeling unable either to concur or participate in this operation,
are acting in such a way as not to add to the difficulties of their Allies.

---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

141
KINGSWOOD AND THE NEW AGREEMENT.
Non-Compliance to be Reported to the Federation.

A meeting of the Kingswood Arbitration Board was held at 22, Clare Street, Bristol, on Friday last under the presidency of Mr. S. Iles, chairman. The principal item on the agenda was consideration of the ratification of the National Conference (December) 1922 Agreement.

A lengthy discussion ensued, following which it was proposed from the operatives' side that the Agreement should be ratified. The manufacturers declined to vote, and retired to consider the matter. On their return the Agreement was further discussed, and eventually the following resolution was passed :-

That this Board instructs the Secretary to communicate with the federated manufacturers in the Kingswood and District Association, requesting that they shall forthwith carry out the terms of the National Agreement, December, 1922, including the holiday provision scheme. That in the event of any firm not complying by the week ending February 9th or 10th, such firm or firms to be reported at once to the Federation.

Owing to the time spent in discussing the Agreement, consideration of other items on the agenda was held over until the adjourned meeting on the 15th inst.

* * * *

The Secretary of the Kingswood Boot Manufacturers' Association has notified those members who are federated of their obligations under the National Agreement of December last. In particular, they are requested to adopt, as from next week, the Holiday (Provision) Scheme, and those who fail to do so will be reported to the Federation. It is to be hoped that there will be no defaulters, as the disorganised condition of the industry in Kingswood will not be amended so long as federated firms ignore their duty to their fellows. As to the non-federated concerns, means will be found of dealing with them when the Agreement is respected by those who are nominally bound by it. The question of outdoor working is admittedly a difficult one, but is not insuperable. There is no good reason why the lowest grades of goods made in the Kingswood area should not be produced under factory conditions, though a good deal of prejudice and tradition remains to be broken down before that consummation is reached. The advantages of employing outdoor workers is more fanciful than real, as the experience of other centres has shown. In any case there must be no slackening in the determination of the Federation to bring Kingswood into line with those districts in which modern - and decent - conditions are the rule. Shoe and Leather Record, 9th February, 1923.

MANY POTATOES WASTED.
Washington, Feb. 10th.-About 50,000,000 bushels, or more than 11 per cent. of last year's record crop of white potatoes, were wasted or consumed on farms or left undug, according to the department of agriculture.

Heavy production last year resulted in prices which made it unprofitable for many farmers, especially those in the central northwest, to dig their crop, some sections being able to obtain only 20 cents or less a bushel.-American Federation of Labour Weekly News. Service, roth February, 1923.

[One more example of the unjustified waste going on under the present system. Millions wanting food, yet, owing to proper facilities as between grower and consumer, such waste as named above takes place. - E.L.P., G.S.]

BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union has paid out:-

SICK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1922 598,886 9 3
January, 1923 .. 2,872 12 4
£601,759 1 7

OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1922 270,614 8 4
January, 1923 4,768 13 9
£275,383 2 1


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

143
Of the total number of cases, as shown above, compensation in cases of industrial
disease was paid in 14 fatal and in 9,276 non-fatal cases in 1921. Of the non-fatal cases,
no fewer than 8,711 (or 94 per cent.) were in the mining industry. The mining cases
been a very remarkable increase in cases of nystagmus since 1908, the first full year after
were principally due to miner's nystagmus, "beat hand," and "beat knee." There has
the disease was scheduled under the Act, the total number rising from 460 in that year
to 7,028 in 1920, and 6,717 in 1921.
Statistics are also given as to the administration of the Acts, showing that the number
of applications for arbitration taken into Court in 1921 under the Workmen's Compensation
Acts was 5,232. The number of memoranda of agreements and informal arbitrations
registered in the Courts was 24,311; and the number of actions under the Employers'
Liability Act, 1880, was 27. The remedy provided by the Employers' Liability Act has
been steadily falling into disuse since the Workmen's Compensation Act of 1906 came into
operation. Labour Gazette, February, 1923.
MINERS' LIFE THE MOST DANGEROUS.
£5,509,395 Compensation Paid to British Workers in a Year.
Which is the most dangerous industry?
From the statistics of compensation paid in cases of disablement, it would seem that
mining entails the greatest risk of accident.
The annual charge for compensation in the mining industry averaged in 1921 40s. 9d.
per person employed. For factory employees the figure was only 9s. 5d., and for railway
workers IIS. 8d.
During the year £5,509,395 was distributed among 285,746 persons eligible under
the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Act and the Employers' Liability Act.
Taking establishment charges and other expenses into consideration, it is estimated
that the total cost of compensation in 1921 was about £8,500,000. Daily Chronicle,
31st January, 1923.
"CLASS UNITY" FIRST!
Mr. Clynes' Hint to Rank and file of Trade Unionism.
There was much loose talk to-day about "class war"; what was wanted first was
"class unity," said Mr. J. R. Clynes, M.P., addressing a meeting under the auspices of the
National Union of General Workers at Edmonton last night.
During recent years, said Mr. Clynes, trade unions had suffered more from ingratitude
than from anything else. Their ranks had been thinned by members who had forgotten
the benefits received from them.
The unions were not humiliated, however. Their records justified their existence,
and he hoped that trade unionists would some day apply to their unions the same spirit
that they did to football and cricket.
"I have often been called 'Moderate Clynes,' " he added, but he only wished that
all trade unionists would be as PROGRESSIVE AS HIMSELF, IN WHICH CASE THE MOVEMENT
WOULD BE FAR STRONGER THAN IT WAS AT PRESENT. --Daily Herald, 19th February, 1923.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.
MEMBERS
should see that the members of their families, who are members of
the Union, should BELONG to their own Approved Society. All persons
belonging to the Union, upon attaining the age of 16 years, should
approve AT ONCE with the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
Transfers can now be dealt with,
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

144
THE PRESS AND LABOUR.
The capitalist Press itself provided an effective illustration of the importance of the
Here are the numbers of words given by the London penny morning papers to Labour
M.P.'s who took part in the House of Commons debate on the opening day of Parliament:
Daily Herald.
Daily Westminster
Express. Chronicle. Gazette.
Daily
Herald.
Daily
News.
Daily Daily
Mail.
J. R. MacDonald
927
232
348
133
177
998
C. R. Buxton
283
64
31
Tom Shaw
165
32
44
C. H. Wilson
140
39
G. Lansbury
410
14
87
J. Wheatley
393
30
W. M. Adamson
208
J. Jones
120
45
The papers other than the Daily Herald made no reference to the intervention in the
debates of David Kirkwood, J. Maxton, J. Buchanan, Neil Maclean, Campbell Stephen.
J. Muir, and T. Johnston.
PROSPEROUS BOOT COMPANIES.
The following is a summary of the balance sheets of some of the leading Boot
Companies for 1922:-
Capital.
Profit.
Percent-
age of
Profit on
Capital.
£
£
Freeman, Hardy & Willis Ltd.
925,000
175,196
19
Stead & Simpson Ltd.
400,000
63,217
15
J. Sears & Co. Ltd.
740,000
132,777
18
Faire Bros. & Co. Ltd.
300,000
60,125
10
John Loveys & Co. Ltd.
160,000
3,742
24
Lotus Ltd.
1,250,000
142,622
II
L. & J. Weber & Phillips Ltd.
186,000
49,466
26
-Shoe and Leather News, 25th January, 1923.
DR. BRACKENBURY'S STRANGE DISCOVERY.
Most of our readers know something about panel doctors, for the only doctoring they
get comes from them. Very few of them will agree with the statement of the chairman
of a conference of bodies interested in the National Health Insurance Act (Dr. H. D.
Brackenbury) that doctors claim that "the insured patient is on exactly the same footing
as the private patient."
Doctors may, indeed, claim it; but it is not true. One of the greatest scandals of
modern times is the fact that panel patients, who have raised thousands of doctors from
Poverty to comparative affluence, and from Shanks's pony to motor-cars, are, in an enor-
mous proportion of cases, fobbed off with very different treatment from that given to the
is sheer effrontery on the part of doctors to pretend that it is not so.
This is the experience of almost any working-class district in our big towns. And it
who assert that they "are
"
Panel patients "ought" to be on an equal footing. But we wonder where the doctors
concealed from a very large proportion of the working classes. - Reynolds' Newspaper,
in fact have picked up their knowledge. It certainly has been
4th February, 1923.


---
Here is the text from the image:

145
What the “Shoe & Leather News”
thinks of
Boot Manufacturers who refuse
to honour National Agreements.

"NIGGLING” HOLIDAY FUND.

" We are very sorry that, after all that has gone before, there are still some firms in the boot manufacturing trade which are not taking the recent national settlement with very good grace. Where a number of people are concerned, we are perfectly well aware that no agreement ever could be made absolutely satisfactory to all, indeed, there is Biblical evidence that the covenants the Almighty made with the chosen people in ancient days were frequently quibbled over and sometimes broken. One may recognise the inevitability of this divergence of view, and at the same time question the wisdom of giving active expression to it.

We suggest to the few who are inclined to refuse recognition to the section of the agreement dealing with the holidays to ask themselves "Is it worth while?" The cost to the employer of putting the holiday scheme into operation is not great. Its incidence will hardly be felt on the costs of a year's trading. There is no principle at stake, so far as we see, though we heard one employer say it was against his principle to be forced to pay for something he had never received. If that can be called a principle, in its present application, the same man has broken it many a time by continuing to pay contributions to Unemployment and Health Insurance.

On the other hand, there certainly is a principle at stake in refusing to accept the whole agreement, and that one which we think should stand the highest of all-honour. Even the gambler is said to recognise that, and will pay a debt of honour when he pays nothing else. The trade, through its chosen spokesmen, has entered into a definite undertaking with its employees to do certain things, and it cannot afford to palter with its bond. The point needs no elaboration, for it is obvious that if agreements may be observed or disregarded at will, there can be nothing left but reversion to the old-time arbitrament of brute strength."

" Shoe and Leather News," 15th February, 1923.

If your firm is not paying the National Conditions, you should report the matter at once to your Local Official.


---
Aberdeen.
J. Grant .. 5535
D. Campbell .. 4490
Bristol.
CORRECTED NAMES.
F. Dunkey .. 86494
A. Dyke ..146861
Bristol No. 2.
Females
Mrs. Godfrey T..106377
Now become full members
E. Haskins ..140656
G. Tippett ..141432
P. Pillinger ..135716
Bromsgrove.
Now become full members
D. Chance ..140323
Female
L. Troth ..140324
Chesham.
Now pays to trade and funeral
C. Spicer .. 88006
Female
Now becomes full member
W. Taylor ..140032
Daventry.
Now pays to sick only
Female
E. Lattaway ..128243
Edinburgh.
Now becomes full member
W. Hendry ..140349
Glasgow No. 2.
Now become full members
Females
W. O'Brien ..141890
A. Money ..141894
Heckmondwike.
Now pays to sick only
J. D. Sharpe .. 6147
Higham and Rushden.
A. King TF.. 64337
J. Ward ..135789
W. Reynolds ..127195
Female
M. Taylor .. 72668
Now become full members
H. Wells ..100995
J. G. Thacker ..106543
147
Joined by Book Debts or Clearance.
Higham & Rushden-
Con.
H. Asher ..106517
S. Payne ..135801
E. Jones ..138223
B. Parker ..139792
T. Pearson ..139793
C. Woodhams ..139794
C. Humphrey ..125602
W. Hill ..103994
F. Rice ..106579
F. Steel ..106628
Female
M. Perkins ..104138
Now pays to sick only
G. Green .. 6667
J; Dickens .. 6800
Hinckley.
W. Bramage ..113312
W. Bason ..106918
C. Flowers ..125687
Ipswich.
Now becomes full member
Female
D. Butcher ..135866
Kendal.
Now pays to sick only
R. Holme .. 16246
R. Winter .. 16259
J. Hooton .. 16282
Kettering.
A. Harris ..124211
E. Robinson .. 14392
F. H. West ..140721
Now becomes full member
P. Bates ..109221
Kingswood.
REINSTATED
G. Hale T..103120
Female
B. Sheppard .. 79217
SCRATCHED IN FRROR
J. Osborne .. 17304
Now become full members
W. B. Randall ..140092
W. Gibbs ..135934
Leicester.
L. Winterton .. 93729
REINSTATED
J. Tompkins .. 58623
J. Ward .. 73950
S. Tomlin .. 90463
Leicester Con.
C. Curtis .. 81011
T. B. Dawkins .. 91100
H. W. Dilke ..11.372.1
A. Foode ..12.42%3
J. Smith ..1377.34
0111178
Leicester No. 2.
J. Carr .. 22129
C. G. Curtis .. 30540
H. W. Lord ..139850
Now become full members
C. Burt ..126035
E. Reeves ..128921
C. F. Jacques ..142403
L. Liquorish ..144233
L. Brooks ..149097
W. King ..139581
Now pays to trade and funeral
H. A. Embry .. 77696
Liverpool.
L. Quarry ..145801
London Metro.
Now become full members
W. Ryder ..139630
J. Rope ..144928
RETURNED TWICE IN ERROR
C. Woodroffe ST..148905
G. Edwards Τ..148908
C. Goffee ST..148910
G. Goodwin ..148912
P. Webb ..148913
J. Cole T..148917
Females
C. Lane Τ..124844
A. Cornish ..116317
E. Fowler ..114101
CHANGE OF NAME
Mrs. Barker ..102555
Mrs. Read ..141302
London South.
A. Roy Τ.. 48645
Manchester.
J. Ward .. 40024
Mansfield.
M. Stapleton ..105513
Midsomer Norton.
T. Chivers .. 16893
Now pays to sick only
F. Bailey .. 40919


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

```text
149
New and Re-entered Members.

Arbroath.
D. M'Laggan
D. Birsh
R. Ritchie
..149204
..149205
..149206

Females
C. Sherriffs
M. Littlejohn
A. Ritchie
C. Martin
M. Pearson
D. Cuthill
L. Livingstone

..149207
..149208
..149209
ΗΜ..149211
ΗΜ..149212
HM.149213

Bristol.
G. Bridges
G. Fudgell
A. V. Squires
H. Pantiin
R. Monks
C. Pearce
..149214
..149215
..149216
..149217
HM..149218
HM..149219

Bristol No. 2.
G. F. Smith
W. Hartley
R. Saunders

..149220
..149221
ΗΜ..149222

Females
R. Rogers
E. Coles
A. Haggett

..149223
..149224
..149225

Chesham.
F. Houghton
TF.. 149226

Females
M. Gunnell
W. Gomm
N. Hill

..149227
..149228
ΗΜ..149229

Daventry.
W. D. Major
S. Billingham

TF..149230
ΗΜ..149231

Females
E. Hall
C. B. Gillett
A. Liddington
A. G. Newell

..149232
..149233
..149234
..149235

Derby.
Females
A. Lennell
I. Shields

..149236
ΗΜ..149237

Desborough.
J. E. Sparkes
A. W. Dixon

..149238
ΗΜ..149239

Dundee.
A. S. Morrin
R. Young
J. S. Scott
..149240
..149241
..149242

Female
F. Bisset
..149243
Edinburgh.
A. Gunn
..149244

Females
M. Younger
M. Boland

..149245
..149246

Glasgow No. 2.
W. Dunn
TF..149247

Females
C. Buchanan
C. Inglis
A. Stewart
N. Rowan

HM..149248
ΗΜ.. 149249
ΗΜ..149250
HM..149251

Heckmondwike.
Female
J. E. Wilson
..149252

Higham and Rushden.
F. Meekins
F. P. Anderson
D. Morris
H. Seamark
J. W. Mitchell
G. H. Darnell
H. Travill
S. Roberts
J. H. Sale
R. G. Hall
A. Brown
G. Brown
A. E. Maile
J. L. York
F. Richardson
C. F. Smith
P. Marlow
H. Gaunt
L. Whitney
S. Hardwick

..149253
..149254
..149255
..149256
..149257
..149258
..149259
..149260
..149261
..149262
..149263
..149264
..149265
..149266
HM..149267
HM..149268
HM..149269
ΗΜ..149270
ΗΜ..149271
HM..149272

Females
F. Dickens
D. I. Hodson
Mrs. Lawman
G. E. Harbour
E. Wells
M. Gaunt
I. Hall
W. Taylor
E. Hall
P. Britten
Mrs. Patchett

..149273
..149274
..149275
..149276
..149277
..149278
..149279
..149280
..149281
..149282
TF..149283

Hinckley.
A. Geary
1. Forsythe
Š. C. Bailey

..149284
..149285
..149286

Kettering.
L. Hawkins
B. Charlton
H. Wilson
A. Chambers
A. W. Jeffery
R. West

..149287
..149288
..149289
..149290
HM..149291
HM..149292
Kettering No. 2.
J. Fox
..14929.3
Female
S. J. Elmore
HM..149294
ROTHWELL
Female
L. Wilson
..149295

Kilmarnock.
J. Roberston
A. Blyth
J. Boyd
A. Simpson

..149296
..149297
..149298
HM..149299

Female
J. Duncan
..149300

Kingswood.
H. Hulbert
T. Hale

..149301
..149302

Leeds.
H. Mace
..149303

Females
M. Freeman
A. Prince

..149304
..149305

Leeds No. 2.
C. Germaine
W. Quirk

..149306
..149307

Leicester.
E. Gutteridge
J. Amor
J. Hunt
A. E. Smith
W. A. Summers
W. Bailey
W. Taylor
S. Hanson
W. A. Carter
A. Scott
J. Naylor
E. Hine
H. Fray
F. W. Hill
W. H. Martin
T. Ward
H. Garner
W. Boulton
T. Duggan
A. Hales
C. Clark
T. Player
W. Gowan
A. Baildham
H. Orton
F. Prince
F. Jones
J. Deacon
E. R. Fisher
G. Stacey
W. H. Taylor
W. Purbeck

..149308
..149309
..149310
..149311
..149312
..149313
..149314
.149315
..149316
..149317
..149318
..149319
..149320
..149321
..149322
..149323
..149324
Τ..149325
..149326
..149327
HM..149328
..149329
..149330
Τ..149331
Τ..149332
..149333
..149334
HM..149335
..149336
..149337
..149338
..149339
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

150
New and Re-entered Members-Con.

Leicester-Con. | Leicester No. 2-Con.
WIGSTON No. 2
W. Farnell T..149340 | H. Tunnicliffe ..149399 | J. Woodward ..149451
J. Towell T..149341 | Leicester Women's.
J. Lloydall T.. 149342 | Females |
J. A. Clarke T..149343 | Mrs. Newcombe ..149400 | B. Neap ..149452
A. Pratt ..149344 | E. Lee ..149401 | L. Adams ..149453
F. Tibbles ..149345 | D. Vann ..149402 | W. Smith ..149454
J. R. Perry ..149346 | S. Hill ..149403 | L. Allen ..149455
J. Palmer T..149347 | A. Moore ..149404 | I. Astley ..149456
L. C. Cooke ..149348 | N. Phipps ..149405 | E. Allen ..149457
J. Weston T..149349 | E. Herbert ..149406 | B. Wilby ..149458
H. E. Wisdom T..149350 | A. Sinith ..149407 | A. Olphin ..149459
H. Marshall T.. 149351 | N. Pawley ..149408 | E. March ..149460
G. R. Jarvis ..149352 | D. Clarke ..149409 | H. Holt ..149461
F. Deacon ..149353 | E. Hassell ..149410 | L. West ..149462
E. W. Thornhill ..149354 | D. Underwood ..149411 | H. Meakin ..149463
A. Hipwell T..149355 | G. Medhurst ..149412 | K. Boswell ..149464
B. Page ..149356 | A. Jones ..149413 | S. Gale ..149465
A. Bevans ..149357 | S. Clarke ..149414 | F. Spencer ..149466
J. Nutting ..149358 | Mrs. Wale ..149415 | E. Piggott ..149467
G. Tidmas ..149359 | A. Kenney ..149468
C. B. Woodcock ..149360 | COSBY | D. Newbury ..149469
J. Borthwick ..149361 | B. Ashby ..149470
F. E. Sargent ..149362 | T. Merry ..149416 | M. Robinson ..149471
P. Ashton HM..149363 | EARL SHILTON | L. Martin ..149472
H. Baker ..149364 | Females | E. Waring ..149473
C. P. Armson HM..149365 | D. Smith ..149474
A. Freestone T.. 149366 | A. Faulks ..149417 | A. Hardy T.. 149475
J. Sharpe T.. 149367 | G. Wells ..149418 | F. Orphen ..149476
H. Lee ..149368 | F. Jelley ..149419 | L. Mansell ..149477
T. Breward ..149369 | E. Richards ..149478
C. Oakley T..149370 | OADBY | F. York ..149479
H. Hartwell ..149371 |
G. A. Wilde ..149372 | A. Cartwright ..149420 | - Webster ..149480
J. Ellis HM..149373 | Leicester No. 2. | M. Clarke ..149481
- Pickering ..149374 | F. Watts ..149482
E. W. Ward ..149421 |
ANSTEY | A. L. Johnson TF..149422 | L. Thompson ..149483
S. Spencer HM..149375 | J. W. Brown • 149423 | L. Smith ..149484
A. Varnham ..149376 | S. Foster ..149424 | A. Tansley HM..149485
| Henstock T..149486
W. E. Collins ..149425 |
BARWELL | S. Spiers ..149426 | D. Smith ..149487
W. Woodward T..149377 | J. W. White ..149427 | V. Sharpe ..149488
M. Weston ..149378 | J. H. Measures ..149428 | L. Baxter ..149489
| A. Knapp • 149429 | E. Tuck .149490
Females | F. A. Chapman • 149430 | D. Vaughan .149491
L. G. Smith ..149379 | C. B. Tandy ..149431 | M. Burdett .149492
D. B. Astley ..149380 | T. Challoner ..149432 | L. Davies .149493
E. Jaques ..149381 | C. Broughton HM..149433 | A. Weston .149494
E. Bonser ..149382 | H. Pantling ..149434 | M. Andrews .149495
I. Payne ..149383 | T. Wright ..149435 | E. Wilson .149496
N. Woodward ..149384 | A. Fritchler ..149436 | D. Smith .149497
| S. Hobbs ..149437 | - Pym .149498
BLABY | A. Allen ..149438 | G. Jobin .149499
W. Martin ST..149385 | C. Sabin ..149439 | C. Lewis .149500
T. Dexter ..149386 | W. Healey ..149440 | O. Sharpe .149501
A. Hunt ..149387 | P. Correll HM..149441 | G. Payne .149502
E. Lee IIM..149388 | C. Pratt HM.. 149442 | V. Dolan .149503
H. Pawley ..149389 | A. Fowkes ..149443 | E. Wren .149504
A. Bennett .149390 | C. E. Haywood ..149444 | A. Attcliffe .149505
S. Harrison HM.. 149391 | E. J. Heringshaw ..149445 | E. Sowerbutt .149506
V. Burnham ..149392 | F. Stevens ..149446 | E. Daniels .149507
G. Pawley ..149393 | R. Postlethwaite ..149447 | E. Coles .149508
A. Doughty HM..149394 | N. Toone .149509
W. Snow HM..149395 | ANSTEY No. 2 | N. Mursell .149510
A. Pawley ..149396 |
S. Pawley HM..149397 | H. E. Raynor, jun. ..149448 | E. Rudkin .149511
R. Arnold ..149398 | R. Smith ..149449 | O. Neal .149512
| E. Walton ..149450 | M. Walshoe .149513
| O. Farrar ..140514


---
Here is the text from the image:

151
New and Re-entered Members-Con.

Leicester Women's-
Con.
L. Bliss HM..149515
C. Towe HM..149516
M. Thompson  ..149517
H. Goodman T..149518
L. Johnson ..149519
L. Willis ..149520
L. Foster ..149521

Liverpool.
C. Hawksworth ..149522
J. Lonsdale TF..149523

London Metro.
J. Adams  ..149524
Š. Bloomberg ..149525
G. Bagwell ST..149526
B. Sierles ST..149527
D. Bass ..149528
J. Powell ST..149529
Š. Jacobs ..149530
S. Goldstein ..149531
A. C. Rowe ..149532
E. Kilby HM..149533
J. Lynham ST..149534
Ť. Gibbs ..149535
E. Balis ..149536
F. Clarke HM..149537
A. Dickson ..149538

London South.
W. Frost ..149539

Manchester.
G. Betts ..149540
J. Degning ..149541

Females
B. Rix ..149542
H. Vipond ..149543
M. Sowerby HM..149544

Mansfield.
A. Pegg TF..149545

Female
E. Holman ..149546

Maybole.
P. Horbett ..149547
A. McCartney ..149548

Midsomer Norton.
E. Goulding ..149549

Newcastle-on-Tyne.
P. Woolley ..149550
G. Houghton ..149551
T. Stannard ..149552
A. Moorhouse ..149553
H. Smith HM..149554
S. Reed HM..149555

Northampton.
W. Wallis HM..149556
T. Smith HM..149557

Northampton-Con.
E. Smith HM..149558
R. Harding HM..149559
H. England ..149560
T. P. Whitworth HM..149561
L. Tilley ..149562
G. Tebbutt ..149563
A. Timms HM..149564
R. Dunkley ..149565
W. F. Smart ..149566
S. G. Wilkins ..149567
F. Boulter HM..149568
A. W. Baker ..149569
C. F. Cave TF..149570
W. Hillyard ..149571
H. Bullock ..149572
P. Adams HM..149573
W. Lee ..149574

Northampton No. 2.
S. Finch ..149575
F. Prentice ..149576
T. Hardwick ..149577
F. Hancock ..149578
H. Smith ..149579
A. Lyne ..149580
W. Richards ..149581
T. Rogers ..149582
H. Cooke ..149583
F. Attwood ..149584
F. Packe ..149585
A Watts ..149586
A. Day ..149587
H. Perrin ..149588
W. H. Yorke ..149589
M. Eales ..149590
A. Loakes ..149591
C. Herbert ..149592
1. Garden ..149593
C. Dix ..149594
W. Clay ..149595
H. Knight HM..149596
W. Goodridge HM..149597
W. Bland HM..149598
A. Hickman HM..149599
C. Tremaine HM..149600
L. Tarry HM..149601
H. Hornby ST..149602

Females
E. Mandley ..149603
M. McNamara ..149604
M. George ..149605
M. Routhorne ..149606
L. Moore ..149607
F. Abbey ..149608
M. Jennings ..149609
A. Evans ..149610
Mrs. Winterburn ..149611
A. Sturgess ..149612
H. North ..149613
W. Ryan ..149614
M. Blakley ..149615
L. Faulkner ..149616
M. Billingham ..149617
G. Lovell ..149618
Mrs. Addicott ..149619
A. Finney ..149620

Northampton No. 2
Con.
J. Warren  ..149621
L. Tilley  ..149622
E. Jenkinson ..149623
Mrs. Babbington ..149624
N. Soames ..149625
Mrs. White ..149626
M. Dickson ..149627
R. Clarke ..149628
D. Solomon ..149629
Mrs. Smith ..149630
A. Dix  ..149631
Mrs. Westley ..149632
C. Timms ..149633
Mrs. Hamson ..149634
F. Gibson HM..149635
F. Merry HM..149636
G. Waller HM..149637
A. Knight HM..149638
M. Marriott HM..149639
S. Brazier HM..149640
E. Harris HM..149641
F. Tebbett HM..149642
A. Handley HM..149643
R. Cox HM..149644
N. Chapman HM..149645
A. Allen HM..149646
L. Wright HM..149647
N. Balderson HM..149648
N. Ayres HM..149649
E. Wright HM..149650
E. Page HM..149651
A. Weston HM..149652
A. Twiselton HM..149653
F. J. Tarry HM..149654
E. Garrett HM..149655
E. Payne HM..149656
W. Foster HM..149657
W. Fall HM..149658
V. Adams HM..149659
V. Driver HM..149660
F. Ingram HM..149661
F. Retford HM..149662
E. Young HM..149663
G. Brown HM..149664
Valentine HM..149665

Norwich.
C. Norton ..149666
S. Symonds ..149667
A. Chittleburgh ..149668
J. Howard HM..149669
W. Cossey ..149670
G. Back ..149671
J. Grady ..149672
H. Ireland HM..149673
E. Gaul HM..149674
H. Cushion ..149675
D. Whellum ..149676
A. Hornsby HM..149677
S. Scotter ..149678
A. Hart ..149679
C. Cogman ..149680
G. Eggett ..149681
T. Paston ..149682
F. Somerville ..149683
E. Wimberley ..149684


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

Norwich-Con.
A. Wyer ..149685
J. Hill ..149686
W. Claybyn T..149687
Fisher HM..149688
J. Baker ..149689
W. Moore HM..149690
L. Sheldon HM..149691
W. Campling HM..149692
E. Wyer HM..149693
R. Hudson ..149694
H. Newman HM..149695
Palmer ..149696
C. Bishop HM..149697
H. E. Johns ..149698
C. E. Cogman ..149699
A. H. Blyth ..149700
Batley HM..149701
W. Lawn HM..149702
C. Keen ..149703
H. Pegg HM..149704

Females
E. Clarke HM..149705
H. Oates ..149706
A. Barnes ..149707
H. Bygrave HM..149708
Mrs. Watts ..149709
G. Balls HM..149710
E. Bolton HM..149711
Mrs. Pye ..149712
E. Edwards ..149713
N. Porter HM..149714
D. Starkins HM..149715
K. Rooke ..149716

Norwich No. 2.
G. A. Piggin HM..149717
R. H. Smith ..149718
A. Pearson ..149719
C. Colman ..149720
F. C. Middleton ..149721
R. Sole ..149722
F. R. Seeley ..149723
H. Mallett HM..149724
A. Pye HM..149725

Females
Mrs. Downes ..149726
Mrs. Phillips ..149727

152
New and Re-entered Members -Con.
Norwich No. 2-Con.
E. M. Sadd HM..149728
E. Burgess HM..149729
C. L. Nelson HM..149730

Shepshed.
R. Bennett ..149731

Sileby.
J. Newbold HM..149732
T. Barwell ..149733
P. Blunt HM..149734
R. Godwin HM..149735
J. R. Raven HM..149736
W. Smith ..149737
W. Ward ..149738

Stafford.
J. Dix ..149739
A. Willetts ..149740
E. Walthorne ..149741

Females
E. Lakin ..149742
E. Sadler ..149743
H. Brown ..149744
Mrs. Pittard ..149745

Stone.
E. Buckley ..149746
A. Banks ..149747
W. Cartwright ..149748
G. H. Reason ..149749
F. Pearson ..149750
J. Pearson ..149751
W. Salt ..149752
F. Brough ..149753
K. Hodson ..149754
J. F. Booth ..149755
E. Ferrie ..149756
A. Warrillow ..149757
W. Harvey ..149758
A. Booth, jun. ..149759
M. Tunnicliffe HM..149760

Females
F. Heeley ..149761
V. James ..149762
L. Sims ..149763
B. Ward ..149764

Stone-Con.
J. Brown ..149765
E. Booth ..149766
E. Bradshaw HM.149767
G. M. Plimmer HM.149768
W. Bennett HM.149769
H. Booth HM.149770
K. Daniel HM.149771

Street.
S. Bryant ..149772
W. Nurse ..149773
J. Marsh ..149774
C. H. Clarke ..149775
M. Pursey ..149776
R. Jeanes ..149777
J. H. Mills ..149778
J. Ash ..149779
G. Hoare ..149780
W. Chick ..149781
E. Langdon TF..149782
J. Martin TF..149783
H. Dowden T..149784
H. Hooper HM..149785

Females
Mrs. Linnett ..149786
Mrs. Ross ..149787
O. Harris ..149788
W. Underwood ..149789
W. Vowles ..149790
M. Tucker ..149791
Mrs. Rapson TF..149792
L. Rice HM..149793

Wellingborough.
W. Moore ..149794
A. A. Rowett ..149795
F. Barker ..149796
W. Houghton HM..149797

Females
A. Cooper ..149798
V. Earl ..149799
W. Wallis ..149800
C. Bayes ..149801

Wolverhampton.
J. Childs ..149802

Ayr.
R. Blyth TF..123671
H. York ..122497

Bishop Auckland.
Female
D. Sewell ..122285

Bristol.
H. Stewart ..119841
J. Jeffries ..134781

Scratched List.
Bromsgrove.
Female
Mrs. Banner ..143083

Burnley.
T. Stansfield .. 89069
J. Foley ..106408

Chesham.
W. Plested .. 2771
J. Bates .. 2790

Chesham-Con.
J. Webb .. 2792
W. Speller TF.. 3018
J. Price TF.. 68150
A. Brandon ..132457

Female
W. Puddephatt .. 95592

Cork.
M. Harte ..125361


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

```text
Daventry.
G. Liddington ST.. 125400
Females
A. Johnson
M. Frost
Derby.
F. Andrews
W. Allen
C. J. Glew
Ipswich.
C. Downs
Leeds.
M. Crowther
A. Pickett
A. Holroyd
A. Towers
E. Walton
H. Bragg
J. Kennedy
I. O'Brien
J. E. Schofield
H. Carr
M. McMullen
L. Johnson
Leicester.
J. Priest
L. Blackwell
B. Stodd
G. E. Darby
W. Smith
T. Hanger
J. Hubbard
IV. Hurd
T. H. Ward
C. Bull
A. Soden
H. Farmer
W. Willis
G. Earl
A. Eaton
S. Parsons
F. Underwood
A. Simpson
A. Sheffield
S. Norman
A. Wright
W. Curtis
R. E. Stokes
F. Warner
BLABY
Females
I. Martin
Mrs. Green
COSBY
G. T. Cox
Females
E. Cox
M. Cox
A. Cox
.. 3760
..103871

11227
81572
3843

90362

35216
..145146
..121132
36160
71488
..113924
..144666
..145135
..145646
.109706
89717
..135954

22499
23305
25890
T.. 25690
23471
25693
27136
ST.. 72077
74590
74585
25433
T..101715
..107165
.109309
110532
..113520
Τ..143170
..142757
ΗΜ..120681
..145172
..145687
ΗΜ..145690
..145693
..146386

..110596
..141187

... 21577

26852
26853
26847
153
Scratched List-Con.
Leicester-Con.
EARL SHILTON
W. Smart
A. Lynes
..146435
24802
H. Newbury
Females
A. Chapple
C. Derbyshire
..116033
H. Coley
M. Cookson
122748
..118248
F. Dixie
27281
G. Tams
..118252
..141999
W. Snow
..118349
SOUTH WIGSTON
R. Harrison
129178
J. W. Green
G. Boothaway
25557
N. Hogg
E. Spicer
..120902
120999
J. C. Hall
25745
E. King
..121077
S. Mewis
26980
Andrews
120153
R. Sharpe
..113661
L. Manship
..121078
77665
H. Illston
..122847
R. Gisbourne
..124498
Females
L. Billingham
..126091
E. Dunn
..115866
F. Whitehouse
..127700
Mrs. Cooke
..115867
C. Lamb
134222
K. Bolsolver
D. Briers
.128994
.135090
D. Matthews
Wood
..128997
..137114
Mrs. Whitehead
H. Knight
126099
..147723
G. Ellard
..146457
E. Noon
..126087
M. Baxter
..129136
Leicester No. 2.
A. Hurst
..136113
E. Wood
.130695
G. Cornfield, jun.
29921
M. Toone
.131945
G. Kilby
..115932
C. Richardson
Τ..134128
T. Heathcote
..135173
.113672
H. Sawbridge
G. E. Beck
.134227
TF.. 75426
York
.136194
J. H. Benson
96278
A. Mason
..138847
J. Smith
..115984
Pantling
..136233
J. Smith
Τ..130610
A. Pettitt
..138843
W. Hall
..131786
V. Warren
..137163
T. Starbuck
..132846
M. Liggins
138379
H. Harding
..137126
K. Cornelious
..139863
G. Chapman
..140640
M. Sheffield
..138859
R. Bailey
..140465
Stanage
Τ..140160
A. Elliott
142818
M. Brown
..142408
F. Whelband
ΗΜ.. 143236
L. Dalby
.140494
J. Herbert
..147086
A. Price
143303
Leicester Women's.
P. Benford
..143797
E. Groves
Τ..144243
M. Mugglestone
32559
L. Smith
D. Sutton
32560
..143821
L. Smith
..144792
L. Angraves
32782
L. Fagon
.143850
A. Leader
33888
L. Clarke
33035
I. Whitney
..146488
Jervis
..146497
L. Simons
33172
D. Angraves
67760
London Metro.
L. Matthews
90601
Fermor
ST..101835
E. Croxtall
92675
G. Childs
ΗΜ..116208
M. Pollard
93850
D. Rappitt
46292
R. Johnson
98368
J. Neal
..113953
A. Smith
99887
T. Nichols
Τ..105329
W. Rollings
ST..126153
N. Wolstenholme
99925
E. Martin
..103262
E. Player
ST..127855
D. Jacobs
Τ.. 144295
E. Dennis
.105013
J. Girling
.113984
M. Merrall
105020
L. Norris
141651
A. Horner
.105069
S. Goodchild
..141272
G. Reid
.105150
H. Panther
..141654
E. Shenstone
..105152
S. Hawkins
ΗΜ..135229
D. Cooke
.107277
A. E. Flude
107570
London South.
E. Cox
Cobley
.109604
M. Blunt
119632
J. Wright
39463
E. Roberts
..113817
J. Felix
..100618
M. Taylor
..120683
F. Miles
..137948
Leicester Women's--
Con.
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

154
Scratched List-Con.
Northampton No. 2-
Con.
Northampton No. 2
Con.

Mansfield.
1
T. Overton
..105552
W. Shute
51937
L. Chown
98833
V. Westley
51946
G. Lilley
98833
Maybole.
B. Oliver
52523
C. Starmer
..100766
J. McPherson
40274
F. B. Lowe
52772
H. Rawlings
..102777
R. Broom
..116380
B. Allen
71600
L. Turvey
..103604
F. Ball
72214
V. Farmer
Female
H. Wadhams
76331
M. Tilley
..108208
105905
S.. 40510
S. Hasker
88714
A. Scott
..135492
M. Taylor
G. Sawyer
78378
M. Anderson
..136627
Northampton.
K. Malin
80255
R. Pantling
..140585
A. Stevenson
47270
R. Kirk
91800
L. Moore
..141723
A. Battison
47949
F. Wilkins
.102710
M. Blunt
..108315
C. Cox
48149
H. Clarke
.102717
L. Stevens
111116
J. Pell
49357
W. Clarke
..103530
E. Kightley
..121705
L. Boulton
22937
G. Dumayne
..109946
B. Mattock
..116867
A. W. Clark
49827
A. England
..118976
L. Lay
..119132
E. Pell
50217
H. Hawkes
..132225
C. Burt
..119148
C. Davis
ST.. 50283
A. Tilson
HM..138106
M. Bazeley
..121879
W. J. Mills
50328
H. Clifton
HM..138966
M. Rogers
..119227
A. S. Lloyd
50426
A. Carter
ΗΜ..142959
E. Osborne
..119254
W. A. Warner
50561
T. Ette
S.: 51136
A. Freeman
..119424
A. Bell
71592
J. Payne
S.. 56225
..121840
F. Robins
-125158
W. Flavell
ST.. 80189
C. Kendall
Τ.. 52149
E. Dawson
..126680
J. Farmer
ST.. 81174
W. Mason
Τ.. 78403
M. Andrews
..135516
P. Essom
91746
T. Stafford
ST..119050
M. James
..141727
E. C. Doran
ST.. 94953
L. Abrahams
.141728
F. Eagle
TF.. 98680
Females
D. Austin
.141744
T. Jeffery
ST..101391
W. Houghton
52941
F. Dickens
.142151
C. A. Ricks
R. Reynolds
..101977
M. Hodges
54017
R. Boyce
.142592
TF..101978
M. Frost
54758
L. Smart
F. Gibson
W. Whitehall
.142615
..114434
L. Mott
55082
E. Sear
G. L. Stafford
C. Todd
• 143405
..114472
L. Dunkley
55251
G. Baker
ST..116716
• 143440
W. Warner
56227
R. Hasker
..118924
145433
E. Jones
56246
T. Sargent
ST..118937
A. Chapman
..146618
Maycock
56786
W. J. Flavell
ST..121575
M. Eyles
..147009
K. Dickens
56797
F. Nash
M. Malle
..123307
S.. 55852
G. Gayton
68746
T. W. Hodges
..126583
K. Pinfold
ΗΜ..135523
K. Sharpe
A. Fensome
ST..128139
57571
C. Bell
HM..140263
V. Dawes
C. Joy
..129656
57635
A. Holliday
..135436
F. Long
64981
R. Tipler
HM..140621
I. Wills
A. Beach
ΗΜ..141053
H. Gilbert
..138054
65967
M. Norton
I. Foster
HM..112556
E. F. Jarman
HM..139681
68036
M. Frost
P. Smith
ΗΜ..119440
A. Beatty
..140970
68768
E. Muddiman
M. Culverhouse HM..128494
J. Judd
..140977
71115
W. Barnes
ST..141363
A. Wingrove
G. Tarry
ΗΜ..145974
71639
F. Felce
E. Fall
ΗΜ..145963.
H. York
..142530
71650
E. Lea
..142543
E. Jelley
T. G. Hewitt
HM..142563
A. Labrum
71659
G. Johnson
Τ..119472
M. Faulkner
Τ..119486
G. Harding
HM..142567
M. Lillyman
75051
-
C. F. Trusler
F. Munns
75146
McAughty
T..141771
M. Gladwell
T..142182
.142931
C. W. Kendall
144862
H. Towers
75740
G. Inwood
..145406
M. Youil
76404
M. Cooley
ST..129694
J. York
..145865
E. Warren
76409
H. C. Jones
HM..147218
L. Packer
78618
Norwich.
J. Perrett
ST..145903
F. Kirby
78645
J. Hardingham
Τ.. 44329
W. Coles
..145905
G. Mallard
78819
R. Wyatt
4-4337
P. Mould
..146557
D. Essam
80322
H. Gostling
..118550
W. Dunkley
.146571
F. Billett
80452
J. Nicholls
..136366
H. Gordon
..147248
R. Watts
83159
T. Earl
.147250
E. Finedon
84070
S. Seeley
136373
A. Kightley
.147259
K. Tong
87798
J. Austin
ΗΜ..137523
C. Hunton
..140200
D. Percival
87826
F. Cann
..140205
Northampton No. 2.
M. Knight
89883
E. Allibone
89910
A. Andrews
..142197
H. W. Law
W. Walding
F. Drinkwater
51276
J. Harris
L. Rawthorn
94063
Τ..144397
51465
F. Couzens
E. Bamford
..145309
94074
5539
LL. Bland
96820
A. Burrell
96887
H. Clarke
ΗΜ..146016
HM.145310
W. Bell
T..146018


---


---
M. Turner
M. Gregson
1,38684
E. Rawlinson
O. Johnson
J. Lawrence
W. Woolston
TF.. 64749
W. Thorpe
R. Houghton (dead).. 8093
W. Denton (dead) TF..104012
A. Mead (dead) нм..106650
W. E Smart (dead).. 7546
W. Shaw
G. Grainger
156
Left by Book Debts or Clearance-Con.
Higham & Rushden-
A. Pearson
A. Wright
R. Pinnock
T. R. Norris
C. Green
F. Whiteman
Con.
..134870
s.. 7980
ΗΜ..102232
TF..106616
TF..111468
TF.. 93305
Kendal-Con.
F. Payne
W. Clarke
Leicester No. 2.
Leicester-Con.
..127482
A. T. Gibbs (dead)
..144630
A. Dawkins (dead)
89470
..137670
24173
Female
Kettering.
A. E. Archer (dead)
7266
26966
99461
..123941
I.. Winterton
117884
A. Carvell
93729
90376
N. H. Beaill
124427
13910
A. Hall (dead)
133995
S. Chamberlain
14129
E. Billson (dead)
28493
..103976
29075
A. Tarry
E. Worley
..107020
Leicester Women's,
F. Robinson
Τ..106960
C. Noble
Females
F. Summerley (dead)
13407
89662
A. Ransworth
9731
London Metro.
77502
Kettering No. 2.
H. Wood (dead)
W. Horn
T.. 38736
I. Hazeldine
88107
E. Boddington
146948
A. Harris
..124211
K. Abbott
.146957
A. Smith
..107031
Manchester.
80701
E. Pinnock
9465
H. Loake
A. Beswick
E. M. Tompkins
10046
G. Gibson
66241
.. 129324
T. Craven
40040
J. Blakely
E. Houghton
75902
Females
..144854
H. Lake
99424
Mrs. King
9964
A. Goode
15491
Females
A. brown
10795
D. Sharpe
83475
A. Curry
86116
E. George
74443
Northern
15685
M. Thornhill
A. Wilson
9364
J. Price
84445
..142919
D. S. Wilson
10037
Knight
..130383
Mansfield.
N. D. Freeman
71247
E. Davison
..145123
S. Allen
A. Craven
.143115
B. Middleton
.137015
..112205
E. Robins
9828
B. Roughton
..130381
R. Smedley
..145848
E. Roughton
79118
K. Smith
..130399
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
E. Loveday
87079
-Burton (dead) ST..110448
F. Coleman
88131
J. Dunn
HM..145299
E. Loveday
88132
BURTON LATIMER
A. Drage
99427
Females
Northampton.
A. Keech
95824
L. Stanley
95832
G. Whiting
96064
S. Edgeley
47709
Chambers
G. Goosey
14323
M. Catling
..102995
..109224
A. Houghton
W. Andrews (dead) s.. 46535
..127238
Kilmarnock.
F. Bland (dead)
E. Loveday
48837
95831
A. M. Underwood TF 117714
E. Beattie (dead)
15879
O. Hughes (dead)
67995
E. L. Neville (dead)
G. Rose (dead)
70022
S.. 45528
I. Harrison (dead)
65707
Female
G. Swann (dead)
46756
A. Wilson
Hinckley.
95316
Northampton No. 2.
J. Garner
..122456
Kingswood.
J. Corbett
H. Hager
62772
..131586
H. Purnell
W. Barnes (dead) TF.. 12028
92459
S. Mayes (dead) 52641
E. Hook
Females
R. Britton (dead)
84537
Norwich.
E. Pegg
S. Huckle
70716
J. Richards (dead)
68313
A. Blower
70717
G. Justin (dead) T.. 97997
16633
A. E. Amond
68589
A. Colman (dead)
66627
81632
Female
C. Edwards (dead)
81067
Kendal.
E. Churchill
J. Little
85764
Females
S. Bownass
W. Neighbour
..107083
..113414
Leicester.
B. Wilsea (dead)
..146078
..135874
J. Carr
F. Cullington (dead).. 79619
Females
J. Hubbard
22129
F. York
M. Noble
..127472
A. Bond (dead)
T. Plimmer (dead)
S.. 24615
Norwich No. 2.
24560
G. O. Stowers
90747
M. Johnson
16525
M. Šedgwick
16468
J. Taylor (dead)
F. Burton (dead) T.. 70154
19547
Female
Mrs. Thewlis
16520
90420
F. Greasley (dead)
J. Freestone (dead) T 94581
..125881
E. E. Everett
45457
W. Watts (dead) T.. 20842
18438
Nottingham.
H. G. Ilott
93918

---
Here is the text from the image:

157
Left by Book Debts or Clearance - Con.

Stafford.
W. Wood ..102072
W. Banger (dead) ..126769

Females
A. Malpass .. 87855
E. Hudson ..136732
C. Perry ..102075

Stone.
Female
N. Harvey (dead) ..122002

Street.
C. Coles ..147536
J. Burbidge .. 97056
G. Jeanes ..146811
F. Brown T..112626

Wellingborough.
J. Langley .. 61666
T. Youles (dead) .. 95438

Wolverhampton.
T. Thorley .. 61316
A. Hassall .. 61350

Wolverhampton---Con.
I. Emery .. 61657
J. Westwood TF.. 61670
S. Grainger TF..102847
T. Johnson (dead) 61691
F. Priestley (dead) s.. 61203

Females
M. Beech ..129906
E. Waldron ..129907
A. Bridgwood .. 77228
Mrs. Bennett .. 77244
M. Keeling ..108508

GOVERNMENT AND THE DOLE ALLOWANCE.
Unemployment Fund Exhausted. Labour Ministry's Plan.
The Government is faced with a dilemma arising out of the long-continued unemploy-
ment of so many workers.
Funds to meet the dole allowance are running short, and special provision will have
to be made if the present scale is to be continued.
Very serious difficulties are arising in connection with the Unemployment Insurance
Fund.
This fund, as is generally known, has not been capable of bearing the heavy burden
placed upon it by unemployment. Numerous people have already received far more
from the fund in benefits than they have paid in by way of contributions. The result is
that the fund has long been exhausted. Weekly contributions do not cover outgoings,
and a large debt has had to be incurred. Parliament some time ago sanctioned borrowing
powers to the extent of thirty million pounds. It is understood that sixteen millions
has already been borrowed and exhausted.
On inquiry at one of the Government Departments concerned it was ascertained
that this amount was taken from Post Office savings.

The Critical Date.
On several occasions Parliamentary sanction has been given, covering stipulated
periods, for the payment of benefits to those unemployed whose contributions to the Insur-
ance Fund were exhausted. The current period ends on June Ist. This does not mean
that everyone drawing benefits at present will continue to do so until that date. For these
pecial benefits are in turn spread over periods of weeks, and many individuals will find
their particular period lapse before June 1st, which is merely an arbitrary date on which
all and every special benefit must cease, unless provision be made to the contrary.

It is understood that the Ministry of Labour is in favour of a
further period of special benefits, which shall carry us into the
middle of October next.

For this purpose a Bill will have to be laid before Parliament. Further large borrow-
ings will be required to meet the continuing obligations. Probably another twelve or
fifteen millions will be needed, and by October 1st the borrowing powers of the fund will
be almost exhausted.

Present Cost.
It is true that unemployment is decreasing, but it can hardly be expected to disappear
altogether by October 1st.
Experience, in fact, shows that the reverse is the case, and that it increases during
the winter months. At present unemployment is costing nearly a quarter of a million
weekly in doles alone.- Reynolds' Newspaper, 11th February, 1923.


---
Here is the text from the image:

MONTHLY SUMMARY
Of Cash and Set-off Paid by each Branch, also Amounts to Credit or Arrears (if any) for the Month ending 27th Jan., 1923.

|             | Financial Members. |   |    |
| :---------- | :------------------ | :- | :-- |
| Males. | Females. | Proba-tionary Members. | TOTAL. | NAME OF BRANCH. | Date of Receiving Returns, Feb., 1923. | Cash Paid. | Sick and Funeral Set-off. | Trade Set-off. | Total Paid. | Total to Credit. | Total Arrears. |
|   |    |   | £s. d. |  |   | £s. d. | £s. d. | £s. d. | £s. d. | £s. d. | £s. d. |
| 108 | 2 | 6 | 116 | Aberdeen | 6 |  | 21 13 0 |  | 48 18 0 |
| 249 | 169 | 18 | 436 | Arbroath.. | 13 | 32 6 0 | 13 20 | 8 11 0 | 29 11 0 |  | 0 15 1 |
| 78 | 19 | 4 | 101 | Ayr | 15 |  | 13 8 0 | 3 4 0 | 180 | 33 6 6 | 0 5 0 |
| 10 |  |  | 10 | Barnsley | 13 |  | 4 4 0 | 25 7 0 | 26 18 4 | 021 |
| 156 | 42 | 22 | 220 | Belfast | 15 | 1 5 0 |  | 0 3 0 | 3 12 0 |  |
| 25 |  | 3 | 28 | Bishop Auckland | 15 |  | 3 18 0 | 23 0 4 | 73 5 6 | 33 13 6 | 14 11 2 |
| 513 | 32 | 15 | 560 | Bristol | 13 | 28 12 6 |  | 3 12 0 | 105 14 3 |  | 016 |
| 520 | 440 | 40 | 1000 | Bristol No. 2 | 15 | 25 11 10 | 27 14 0 | 16 19 0 | 18 10 0 |  | 010 |
| 99 | 58 | 13 | 170 | Bromsgrove | 12 | 16 0 0 | 33 9 0 | 46 13 5 | 896 | 037 |
| 60 |  | 1 | 61 | Burnley | 15 | 676 | 2 10 0 |  | 27 14 0 |  | 15 9 11 |
| 336 | 84 | 3 | 423 | Chesham | 14 |  |  | 220 | 412 0 |  | 22 12 |
| 33 | 5 | 1 | 39 | Chesterfield | 13 | 300 | 3 40 | 24 10 0 | 2 12 6 |  | 799 |
| 29 | 8 |  | 37 | Colchester | 13 |  | 1 12 0 |  | 21 9 10 |  | 00 10 |
| 116 |  |  | 166 | Cork | 15 | 800 | 2 12 6 | 7 9 10 | 47 3 8 |  | 30 19 3 |
| 264 | 147 | 21 | 432 | Daventry | 10 | 33 15 4 | 6 0 0 | 9 18 4 | 32 13 0 | 002 |
| 112 | 101 | 52 | 265 | Derby | 15 | 28 9 8 | 3 10 0 | 074 | 84 1 1 |  | 10 1 0 |
| 532 | 171 | 14 | 717 | Desborough | 1 | 39 12 8 | 3 16 0 | 18 6 5 | 30 4 0 | 006 |
| 88 | 27 | 70 | 185 | Dublin |  | No return received. |  |  |  |  |  |
| 160 | 24 | 7 | 191 | Dundee | 15 |  |  | 25 18 0 | 45 11 7 |  |  |
| 303 | 40 | 4 | 347 | Edinburgh | 13 | 29 3 7 | 460 | 11 15 0 | 0 12 0 |  |  |
| 12 | 16 |  | 28 | Eyam | 8 |  | 4 13 0 |  | 103 12 9 | 56 10 7 |  |
| 718 | 33 | 12 | 763 | Glasgow | 13 | 44 0 0 | 0 12 0 | 39 09 | 46 6 0 | 058 |  |
| 193 | 284 | 14 | 491 | Glasgow No. 2 | 13 | 24 0 0 | 20 12 0 | 4 13 0 | 25 10 11 | 028 |  |
| 21 |  |  | 21 | Halifax |  | No return received. | 17 13 0 |  |  |  |  |
| 142 | 49 | 19 | 210 | Heckmondwike | 14 | 22 11 11 |  |  | 870 15 1 | 033 |  |
|  |  | 8 | 8 | Hereford |  | 2 16 0 | 030 |  |  |
| 5035 | 2442 | 189 | 7666 | Higham & Rushden | 2 | 94 3 10 |  |  | 4 10 0 |  | 1 13 0 |
| 481 | 134 | 30 | 645 | Hinckley | 9 |  | 278 18 6 | 497 12 9 | 11 5 0 | 98 18 6 |  |
| 33 |  | 2 | 35 | Hull | 15 | 4 10 0 | 36 13 0 | 51 60 | 49 18 10 | 0 96 |  |
| 85 | 25 | 17 | 127 | Ipswich | 15 | 9 14 4 |  |  | 385 7 0 |  | 0 1 5 |
| 286 | 173 | 24 | 483 | Kendal.. | 13 | 23 17 4 | 1 10 | 098 | 216 3 9 |  | 030 |
| 2718 | 53 | 95 | 2866 | Kettering | 2 | 87 17 3 | 24 5 6 | 1 16 0 |  |  | 050 |
| 867 | 1424 | 50 | 2341 | Kettering No. 2 | 3 | 58 18 0 | 107 0 0 | 190 9 9 |  |  |



---


---
Here is the text from the image:

**Names of Branches, Secretaries' Addresses and Places of Meeting.**

| BRANCH. | SECRETARY'S ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER. | PLACE OF MEETING. |
|---|---|---|
| Aberdeen | J. Anderson, 38, Bedford Road | [Trades Council Buildings, 47, Belmont St. |
| Arbroath | J. P. Reid, 21, Lordburn, Arbroath | Shakespeare Hall, High Street, 7.30 p.m. |
| Ayr | A. McQuaker, 4, West Sanquhar Road, Ayr | Newton Council Rooms |
| Barnsley | William Bowler, 37, Taylor Row, Barnsley | Industry Inn, Baker Street |
| Belfast | G. White, 220, Cupar Street, Belfast | Typographical Hall, Frederick St. |
| " Sections | Jas. McCloskey, 3, Nassau St., Londonderry |  |
|  | Andw. Conway, 140, Queen Street, Ballymena |  |
|  | Jas. Kenning, Circular Road, Castlewellan |  |
|  | Joseph Best, 140, Park Road, Portadown |  |
|  | Joseph McAnespey, 33, Oldtown St., Cookstown |  |
| Bishop Auckland... | W. Crowther, 2, Seymour St., Bishop Auckland | Labour Room, Kingsley Chamber |
| Brighton | C. W. Giles, 53A, Richmond Buildings | Labour Club, Queen's Place |
| Bristol | J. Osborne, 172, Newfoundland Road, Bristol | Star Coffee House, Old Market St. |
| " Sections | Tom Durban, 89, Worcester Street, Brynmawr |  |
|  | R. Baker, 13, Sandford Street, Bath Road, Cheltenham |  |
| Bristol No. 2 | J. Manners, 19, Downend Road, Fishponds, Bristol | St. Clement's School |
|  " Section | Clevedon, Paulton, Street |  |
| Bromsgrove | A. Mole, 2, Rose Terrace, Brook Road, Bromsgrove | Oddfellows' Hall, High Street |
| Burnley | Jas. Taylor, 45, Hammerton Street, Burnley | Central Club, Bank Parade |
| Chesham | F. Goodger, 139, Bellingdon Rd., Chesham, Bucks |  |
| Chesterfield | G. Rodgers, 3, Whitehouses, Hasland Road | Crown Hotel, Lordsmill Street |
| Colchester | H. Proctor, 8, Lisle Road, Colchester |  |
| Cork | M. Cotter, 6, Crotomore Square, Cork | Trade Hall |
| Daventry | I. H. Johnson, J.P., West View, Warwick Road | Trades Hall |
| Derby | W. N. Blissett, 101, Leman Street, Derby | Unity Hall, Burton Road |
| Desborough | S. Barnes, J.P., 141, Union Street, Desborough |  |
| Dublin | H. Dale, 33, Cook Street, Dublin | Co-operative Hall |
| Dundee | Alex. Brown, 10, Pitkerro Road, Dundee |  |
| " Sections | W. Walker, Stirling Street, Blackford | Gilfillan Memorial |
| Edinburgh | Wm. Connon, 256, High Street, Perth | Temperance Hall, High Street |
| " Sections | Robert White, 28, Rodney Street, Edinburgh | Falkirk |
|  | W. F. Taylor, Wellsteps Cottage, Laurieston |  |
|  | J. Bonar, 56, Harcourt Road, Kirkcaldy |  |
|  | W. Ferguson, 128, Albany Street, Dunfermline |  |
|  | J. Stewart, 154, Charlotte Place, Bathgate |  |
|  | S. Nicholson, 52, Toulford Road, Cowdenbeath |  |
|  | E. Hall, 13A, Ludgate, Alloa |  |
|  | F. Kearsley, Holy Bank Learmouth Crescent, West Calder |  |
| Eyam | D. Harris, 49, Station Rows, Uphall, Phum-pherston |  |
| Glasgow | Alex. Ross, 12, Lemon Terrace, Leven |  |
|  | G. Hunter, 16, Dundas Street, Lochgelly |  |
|  | A. Dickson, Co-op. Society, Tranent |  |
|  | D. Feeney, 23, Eskside, Musselburgh |  |
| Glasgow No. 2 | W. Slater, Townhead, Eyam, Derbyshire | Brass Finishes' Hall, 36, Main |
| Halesworth | M. Gamble, 75, South Portland Street, Glasgow | [Street, St. Gorbals |
| Halifax | A. Kelman, 9, Grace Drive, Govan, Glasgow | Masonic Hall, Rutland Crescent |
| Heckmondwike | J. Parker, 29, Chediston Street, Halesworth | Suffolk |
| Hereford | S. A. Halliday, 21, West Mount Street, Pillon | Friendly and Trades Club, St. James Road |
| Higham & Rushden | A. Stott, J.P., 8, Melbourne Street, Union Road |  |
| " Sections | W. Langley, J.P., Trade Union Office, Higham Road, Rushden | Socialists' Room, Back Lane |
|  | W. H. Bishop, 42, Berrington Street, Hereford | Trade Union Club and Institute, Rushden |
|  | Higham Ferrers, Rushden, Irthlingborough, Finedon, Raunds, Ringstead, Stanwick, Irchester, Wollaston, and Bozeat |  |
| Hinckley | W. Warner, 59, Stockwell Head, Hinckley |  |
| Hull | C. W. Glover, 4, Park Avenue, Perry Street | Castle Tavern |
| Ipswich | F. Edwards, 192, Cemetery Road, Ipswich | Metropole, West Street |
| Kendal | J. B. Ellison, 31, Park Avenue, Kendal. | Labour Institute, Silent Street |
| Kettering Section | J. Prickett, Rayrigg Road, Bowness-on-Winder-mere | Working Men's Institute, Market |
| " Sections | C. Mayes, Trade Union Offices, Club Street, Kettering | Trade Union Offices, Club Street |
| Kettering No. 2 | J. Taylor, William Street, Burton Latimer |  |
| " Sections | J. Rowlett, 12, Gordon Street, Rothwell | Trade Union Offices, Club Street |
| Kilmarnock | C. C. Smith, Kettering Road, Walgrave |  |
|  | J. Taylor, William Street, Burton Latimer |  |
|  | J. E. Chapman, Trade Union Offices. |  |
|  | J. Rowlett, 12, Gordon Street, Rothwell |  |
|  | A. Flanagan, 24, Fleming Street, Riccarton | Temperance Halls |


---
Here is the text from the image:

Names of Branches, Secretaries' Addresses and Places of Meeting-(continued).

BRANCH.
Kingswood
Leeds
Leeds No. 2
Leicester

Leicester No. 2
"
Leicester Women's
Section
Lincoln
Liverpool
London Metro.
"
Sections
London South

Manchester

Mansfield
Maybole
Melton Mowbray...
Midsomer Norton
Newcastle-on-Tyne
Norwich
Norwich No. 2
Northampton
Northampton No. 2
Nottingham
Oldham
Plymouth
"
Reading
Redruth
Sheffield
Shepshed
Sileby
"
Southampton

Stafford
Stone
Street
Waterford
Wellingborough
"
Whitwick
Wolverhampton
Worcester
Section
Yarmouth (Great)
"
York
SECRETARY'S ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER.
A. Randall, J.P., 17, High St., Kingswood, Bristol
Section G. Brent, Bristol Road, Paulton, Somerset
Joseph Wescoe, 14, Upper Fountaine Street,
Leeds.
J. Speight, 68, Cobourg Street, Leeds...
G. Parbury, Boot and Shoe Trade Hall, Earl
Street, Leicester.
Sections H. W. Widdowson, "Glencoe," Church Lane,
Anstey
т. 333 and 439
A. Needham, 48, Mill Street, Barwell...
S. Bruin, Park Road, Blaby
E. Starmer, Countesthorpe Road, Cosby
D. Astley, 126, Wood Street, Earl Shilton
F. W. Burchnall, High Street, Enderby
W. Elliott, London Road, Oadby
H. W. Taylor, 57, Bull's Head Street, Wigston
Magna
J. Boulter, 3, Turn Street, Syston
A. Hill, M.P., J.P., Boot and Shoe Trade
Hall, Leicester
T. 1120
Sections T. Jackson, Hope Cottage, Cropstone Rd., Anstey
A. Needham, 48. Mill Street, Barwell
T. Selvidge, 108, Countesthorpe Road, South
Wigston
Miss A. Muir, Boot and Shoe Trade Hall,
Leicester.
Section F. W. Burchnall, High Street, Enderby
G. Brumpton, 71. Winn Street, Lincoln
George Bishop, 59, Tagus Street, Lodge Lane...
J. Woodward, 365, Hackney Road, Bethnal
Green, London, E. 2 Tel. Dalston 1842
F. Stanford, 13, Pageant Road, St. Albans
G. Standeven, 67, Scovell Road, Boro' Road,
London, S.E. 1
J. Mason, 15, Oakhill Street, Heath Street,
Cheetham Hill, Manchester
Wm. Bramley, 7, Furniss Row Nursery
Jas. McCulloch, 6, Society Street, Maybole
G. A. Wainer, 35, Norman St., Melton Mowbray
F. Gould, 6, Rackfernal Road, Midsomer Norton
W. H. Lodge, 16, Coquet Street, Newcastle
F. C. Jex, 51, St. George's Street, Norwich. T. 465
A. H. Folkard, J.P., 51, St. George's St., Norwich
W. Pitts, 107, Overstone Road
S. Thompson, J. P., 97, Charles Street. T. 634
F. Whiteman, 74, Waterway St. West, Nottingham
W. Bottomley, Bridge End, Delph, nr. Oldham
J. Gay, 5, Albert Road, Plymouth
Section J. H. Tithecott, 48, Lime Road, Bideford,
N. Devon
A. W. Panting, 14, Edghill Street, Reading
B. Knight, Montague, North Country, Redruth
T. B. Robinson, 242, Main Road, Darnall
E. Peberdy, Forest Street, Shepshed
F. Leader, 39, Swan Street, Sileby
Section S. E. Eason, Vine Cottages, Rothley ...
A. W. Murray, 70, Northam Bridge Road,
Bitterne Manor, Southampton
R. Dunn, 152, Marston Road, Stafford
Sections G. Shenton, Stoke-on-Trent
Richard Glover, 5, Edward Street, Stone, Staffs.
J. H. Hooper, J. P., 56, High St., Street, Somerset
W. Nicholson, 9, Castle Terrace, Waterford
W. Wyman, 28, Silver St., Wellingboro'. T. 206
Sections F. Curzon, Doddington Road, Earls Barton
F. Mynard, High Street, Olney, Northants.
F. Berrington, 78, Leicester Road, Whitwick
Alex. Smith, 187, North St., Wolverhampton
T. Worrall, 40, Dean Street, Birmingham
Section G. Rose, 45, Blakefield Road, Worcester
W. Nash, 9, Row 61, Hall Quay, Gt. Yarmouth
F. Cocker, Swallow Terrace, Nerwick Road,
East Dereham
J. Rafton, 20, Ratcliffe St. Burton Stone Lane
т. 23422

т. 2507

T. 265
PLACE OF MEETING.
T. 116. Moravian School Room,
[Kingswood
Trades Hall, Upper Fountaine St.
Trades Hall, Upper Fountaino St.
Boot and Shoe Trade Hall, St.
James Street

Boot and Shoe Trade Hall, St.
James Street

Boot and Shoe Trade Hall, St.
James Street

Socialist Club
[ment Street
I.L.P. Rooms, 264, Upper Parlia-
New Lansdowne Club, 195, Mare
Street, Hackney
Royal Oak Inn, Culvert Street
Abbey Institute, Romeland Hill,
St. George's Stores, Newington
Causeway, S.E. 1
Land o' Cakes, Great Ancoats St.

West Hill Drive Labour Club
Coffee House, Whitehall Street

High Street Council Schools
Globe Inn, Clayton Street
Labour Institute, St. Gregory's
Keir Hardie Memorial Hall [Alley
Trades Hall, 107, Overstone Road
Trades Hall, 107, Overstone Road
Labour Exchange, Stanford Street
Greaves Arms
Plymouth Chambers, Drake's Circus

Trade Union Club, Oxford Street
Old's Restaurant, Fore Street
Trade Hall, Charles Street
Britannia Hotel
Liberal Club, Sileby

Branch Office, Marston Road
Reform Club
Bridge Inn
Committee Room. Crispin Hall
Assembly Room, Silver Street
[Whitwiok
The Church Schools, Market Place,
White Rose, Powlett Steet.
Bridge Inn, Bridge St.. Worcester

No. 2 Committee Room, Co-op.
Buildings, Railway Street

---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

INSIST
upon your Footwear
bearing this Stamp:
UNION OF BOOT & SHOE
NATIONAL
TRADE
NO
UNION
LABOUR
Copyright.

Telephone No.:
4438 Museum, London.

Telegraphic Address:
"Natunishop, Holb., London."
NATIONAL UNION OF
BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES
(Registered under the Trade Union Acts, No. 432; Affiliated to the Trades Union
Congress, the General Federation of Trade Unions and the Labour Party).

Monthly Report for March, 1923.
Seat of Government and General Secretary's Office:
34, GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1.
WHERE ALL BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS MUST BE ADDRESSED.
PRICE ONE PENNY.


---
```text
These Reports are Printed for
the Use of Members only.
: :
SPECIAL NOTICES.

ALL RETURNS TO BE SENT IN TIME TO REACH THE
OFFICE BY THE 15th OF EACH MONTH, OTHERWISE A FINE
OF 2s. 6d. WILL BE ENFORCED.

It is particularly requested that Branch Secretaries should send
Cash WITH the Returns, and not send Stamps in Payment.

The following Goods can be had at the Office :-

Branch Contribution Books in various sizes.

Shops Clerks' Books, ruled and well bound.

Receipt Books.

Large and Small Envelopes, with General Secretary's Name and
Address printed on.

Contribution Cards, with Secretary's Name and Address printed
on front, and also without name. 1s. 10d. dozen up to 20 dozen,
18. 7d. dozen over 20 dozen.

Official Note Paper, with Printed Heading and Names and
Addresses of Secretaries.

Sick Certificate Books.

Books of Rules are supplied to Branches at 1d. each.

Return Sheets, Out-of-Work Benefit Sheets, Out-of-Work
Contribution Sheets, Out-of-Work Insurance Contribution Sheets,
Victimisation Sheets, Compensation Sheets, Travelling Sheets,
Dispute Sheets, Arbitration Forms, Funeral Forms, and Bail Notes
in Books are supplied Free.

All Claims to be sent in on the forms provided for that purpose.

ORGANISING BILLS will be supplied FREE to Branches upon
application to the General Secretary.
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

Boots, Shoes and Slippers
Insist upon your Footwear
bearing this this Stamp.
With the Union Stamp on are
supplied by the following firms :

Higham Ferrers Co-operative Society, Higham
Ferrers, Northants
The "Equity" Co-operative Society, Western
Road, Leicester
The "Self-Help" Co-operative Society, Dartford
Road, Leicester
The "Excelsior" Co-operative Society, Sileby,
near Leicester
The "Pioneer" Co-operative Society, Clare
Street, Northampton
The Union Co-operative Society, Regent Street,
Kettering
Northamptonshire Productive Co-operative
Society, Wollaston, Northants
Havelock Co-operative Society, Havelock Street,
Kettering
I. L. P. Co-operative Society, Abington Street,
Northampton
Glenfield Progress Co-operative Society, Glenfield,
Leicestershire
Messrs. Dronfield & Co., Chesterfield
Sperope Boot Manufacturing Co. Ltd., Barwell,
Leicestershire
Mr. T. S. Bunting, 37, Clare Street, Northampton
Anchor Boot Co-operative Society, Asfordby St.,
Leicester
Plymouth Mutual Co-operative Society Limited,
Treville Street, Plymouth
Mr. Norman McLeod, Strathmartine Boot
Factory, Dundee
Burrows Bros., Earl Street, Northampton
Bishop Auckland Industrial Co-operative Society,
New Gate Street, Bishop Auckland
Chesham Boot and Shoe Manufacturers Limited,
Higham Road, Chesham

Crompton Boot Manufacturers Ltd., “ I & U "
Works, Desborough
Walker & Gunn, Higham Ferrers, Northants
Jacques & Son, Rushden
Messrs. J. T. Marriott & Co., 74, St. Nicholas Square, Leicester
Manufacturers of
Stamp No
Men's & Youths' 1
All kinds 2
Women's & Girls' 3
Women's & Girls' 4
All kinds 5
Boys', Youths' & Men's 6
Boys', Youths' & Men's 7
Boys', Youths' & Men's 8
All kinds 9
Women's & Girls' 10
Men's & Boys' Strong
Nailed Work 11
Ladies', Girls' & Boys' 12
All kinds 13
All kinds of Children's 14
All kinds 15

17
18
Strong & Half Strong 21
Men's, Youths' & Boys'
Nailed and Bradded
Boots and Shoes 23
All kinds 24
25
26
27
A List of Retail Shops where Union Stamped Footwear can be obtained may be had
on application to Mr. E. L. POULTON. J.P., 34. Guilford Street, London W.C. 1.

PUSH THE UNION STAMPED GOODS.
March.
A


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

TRADE UNION STAMP FOR
BOOT & SHOE REPAIRERS.

The following Firms use the “ STAMP":-

BROCKLEY, Surrey Mr. F. Jeffery, 1, Merritt Road, Crofton
Park 16
CHESHAM Mr. J. Mead, 150, High Street 14
CHESTERFIELD J. W. Booth, Eyre Street, Hasland 7
DARTFORD Industrial Co-op. Society, 73, Kent Road 17
DUNDEE T. Malone, Mid Street 4
DUBLIN Arnold Lowe, 314, Upper Kevin Street 10
GRANTHAM F. Lewin, 6 and 7, Chapel Street 19
LEEDS J. Chapman, 5, Bulmer Street,
Meanwood Road 21
LEICESTER J. Smith, 30, Eldon Street 9
Ralph Wood, 47, Cottesmore Road 15
Messrs. J. T. Marriott & Co.,
74, St. Nicholas Square 20
Edward Gee, 51, Wolverton Road 22
LEIGH Co-operative Society Ltd., Leigh 13
MANCHESTER J. Mason, 15, Oakhill Street, Heath
Street, Cheetham Hill 1
Messrs. Roberts & Son, 98, Fairfield
Street, London Road 2
Manchester and Salford Equitable Co-op.
NORTHAMPTON Society, Downing Street 8
NOTTINGHAM T. W. Lewis, 72, Ethel Street 3
PLYMOUTH J. Seymour, 79, Woodborough Road 12
Messrs. Petitt & Co., 105, Tavistock Road 11

All Trade Unionists should have their Repairs done
by Repairers who use the TRADE UNION STAMP.

Full particulars from General Secretary :-
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 34, Guilford Street, LONDON, W.C. 1.


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

165
there is largely due to the fact that a certain number of manufacturers,
seeing a temporary advantage for themselves, by disregarding the pro-
visions of the Holiday Provision Scheme, have refused to pay, entirely
overlooking the graver consequences that may result from their action.
Individualism of this kind is essentially anti-social, and, in my opinion,
very injurious to the best interests of the country as well as our industry.
" All connected with the industry are deeply impressed with the
importance of developing export trade. We realise our population was
not self-supporting, and that without foreign trade the standard of living
was bound to decline. Much of the present trouble is due to the
working of the capitalist system, and it seemed the most
dangerous foe of the common people might well be the money
power wielded by great industrial and financial magnates."
We can only hope Mr. Bostock will be successful in bringing into line with our
National Agreements all boot and shoe manufacturers who may be transgressing
such agreements.
CLAIMS ON THE CENTRAL OFFICE FUNDS.
INSUFFICIENT EVIDENCE.
A number of claims have recently been made by Branches either on the
Monthly Return Sheets or by letter, for payment of monies to members in the
shape of Dispute Pay or Unemployment Benefit, which upon the information
supplied to the Central Office, the General Secretary has been bound in accord-
ance with rule to reply in the negative. When such reply has reached the
Branch Officers concerned, another letter has been sent to the General
Secretary with a considerable amount of additional information over and
above that contained in the first application, which has warranted the
General Secretary in replying in the affirmative. We cannot too strongly
impress upon all Officers of the Union that when any claim is sent to the
Central Office for information sought for, all the facts and information
at their disposal must be sent along-not merely from the point of
view of supplying the Central Office with the same-but because of the fact
that if payments are required from the Central Funds, it is in the interests of
the local officials and the members to see that such information is supplied
in the first instance, and thus prevent trouble and delay, which has happened
in several cases recently because of vagueness in the first letter sent.
VOTING.
Voting for the position of Insurance Manager to the National Health
Insurance Department must take place on the April meeting night and the
votes counted on the 12th prox. and posted so as to reach the Central Office
not later than the 15th inst., otherwise they will be disqualified.


---
Here is the text from the image:

166
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
MORE CASES SETTLED FOR UNION MEMBERS.
We are pleased to report that through the offices of our Solicitor, Mr.
Evan Barlow, a number of settlements have been made and reported during
the past month :-

T. P., of Leicester
E. A. R., of Leicester
J. B., of Leicester
W. T., of Leicester
J. R., of Leicester
J. T., of Leicester
W. L., of Leicester

£35 and 5 guineas costs.
£30 and 5 guineas costs.
£75 and 10 guineas costs.
£30 and 3 guineas costs.
£40 and 4 guineas costs.
£10 and 2 guineas costs.
£250 and 15 guineas costs.
It will thus be seen that several of our members in the Leicester branches
have been enabled to secure a reasonable sum for the incapacities caused by
accident whilst at their employ.
We would once again, however, call special attention to the fact that lump
sums are not obtainable by law, but only by agreement, the securing of which
we have been very successful in obtaining.
In addition to the sums named above, the members received Compensation
benefit in accordance with law during the period of their incapacity.

POLITICAL.
The political side of the Labour Movement is full of activity especially
as represented by the members in the House of Commons. To those members
who follow—and we hope all will within the near future—closely the political
situation, it must be apparent that the time of “tranquillity” which the
Prime Minister said the country needed is not allowed to take place so far as
it is within the power of the Parliamentary Labour Party to prevent it. At the
same time we cannot but express not only regret but profound disappointment
with the Government at the way in which they are handling matters, whether
it is Housing, Unemployment, or the complicated International situation;
all alike, are from the standpoint of the Labour Members unsatisfactory.
The Labour Party in the House are doing their best and fighting day by day
to secure the adoption of a more enlightened policy, but up to the present,
whilst the argument is with them, the weight of numbers is with the Govern-
ment, proving once more the necessity of increasing the number of Labour
representatives in the House. We are pleased to record the fact that since
our last report two Bye-Elections have been won by Labour, in constituencies
which were looked upon as “safe” Conservative strongholds. This should
encourage us to continue our propaganda, because it is evident it is beginning
to tell upon the electorate of the country, when, in such places as Mitcham
and Edge Hill, Liverpool, they have returned Labour Members to Parliament.


---
Here is the text from the image:

167
Another remarkable tribute to the growing power of the Labour Party has been shown during the past few days by the presentation to Mr. J. Ramsay Macdonald, M.P.. the Leader of the Party in the House of Commons, of a memorial wishing the Party success in its efforts to help the weak and the suffering. This memorial was signed by five hundred Clergymen. We cannot do better than repeat the words of Mr. MacDonald himself in replying to the deputation which waited upon him:-
"We will all cherish it, and it will mean not merely an act of grace done by the hand but an act of homage and friendship and of mutual character done from the hearts of old colleagues who are still young in spite of their years and only anxious to fight more valiantly than ever in the battle in which we are engaged."
Further references will be found on page - 20g
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
POSTAGE RATES.
We regret once more to have to refer to the fact that a considerable number of letters are constantly being received from the Branches insufficiently stamped. This means not only a double payment having to be met, but incurs considerable loss of time in delivery, because the Postal Officials have to deliver this corres- pondence during the time that the Central Office is officially opened, so that the postman can secure the postage due on the said letters. We therefore appeal once more to the Branch Officers to see that their correspondence is sufficiently stamped and thus save both time and expense.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.

TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped Footwear."


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

169
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
My opinion has been asked as to the right of any section of employers asking
for a percentage reduction in Piecework Statements, and have given my opinion that
such claim, although some think Clause 10, Section (c) allows this. That is absurd for the
anomalies do not mean general reduction, and many questions were put to avoid any
above reason. Further, no employer put up at the Conference any claim for a general
reduction, but cited cases where juveniles and those on minor operations drew more than
experienced and capable operatives on key operations, but we cited some minor, very minor
operations where the operative in this case had given up the highest position in one room
to go to another firm to do the most minor of all operations in that department, and results
interfere with an operative who bordered on the line of a genius.
to the firm and himself were phenomenal, and the employer denied that they wished to
We remember when the Leicester Men's branches asked for an increase the employers,
without the permission of the Chairman, withdrew from the Board. We could not be
quite so bad as that. But our side should demand the Joint Standing Committee's opinion
on the matter.
Again I repeat my oft-repeated question: Does the Statement produce 25 per cent.
above the minimum to all normal or average physical operatives? If not, then the
anomalous surplus or increase can be put to the underpaid operation. The only just way
to settle anomalous operations.
HOLIDAY FUND. The work for the past month has been very fierce, owing to the fact
that there are some firms who do not understand the National Agreement, as it should
be understood. I am sorry to say that the complaints appear to me to be rather against
the employers in almost every instance, and not against the operatives. Many firms
have had to be visited, in Leicester especially, where there is a very large number of very
small firms, to get them to pay their quota and to adopt the Holiday Fund, but it is pleasing
to report that almost without exception these employers, whether willingly or reluctantly,
have brought themselves into compliance. In two instances, especially, notices have had
to be handed in, although it is only fair to say, to show that we have tried to adopt a
conciliatory policy as far as possible, that we have almost without exception paid three,
four and five visits to these firms before definite action has been taken. Our generosity
appears to be taken as a sign of weakness; it would be as well for employers to remove
this from their minds, and thus enable us to continue the peaceful policy that has hitherto
governed the Industry.
LONDON METRO.—I have had occasion to visit the London Metro. Branch and to make
some enquiries as to one of our firms, Messrs. Weber & Phillips, in the East End of London,
who are credited with making work so much cheaper than many other firms. This firm
has been a source of annoyance to the Branch and the Union for many years. They are a
Federated firm, but this aspect of the case has not before been dealt with. We have
advised that the firm should be taken to the Board and expected to play their part in
accordance with the National Agreement. My colleagues inform me, the Organisers
especially, that the firm and its staff endeavour to stand outside the factory, with the
ultimate result that the operatives are intimidated from either talking to Trade Union
Officials or joining the Union. Our appeal to the Secretary of the Arbitration Board,
Mr. Craig,, has caused the matter to be placed upon the Agenda of the Arbitration Board,
who have advised that an investigation shall take place on the spot.
Whilst in this connection it would be well if our members would at least show some
sympathy with officials who go time after time to a factory and fail to arouse the interest
of the operatives who are the only people likely to benefit.
MOUNTSORREL.-It would be as well to say that during the past month I have made
no less than four visits to Mountsorrel Wholesale School Boot Co., who, it is said, are making
work much cheaper than anyone else in the district. There may be a reason for this,
and that is, so I am informed, by the Manager and Directors, both of whom I saw on the
two occasions I went to the factory, that they confine themselves to the making of one
boot only, consequently the operatives are more expert than they are at some other firms,
and whilst at the same time some employers make 20, 30 or 50 different classes of goods
and are never willing to give a price for the operative changing his lasts or boots, yet at
the same time they do not think that we ought to give the one-boot shop any advantage
over them. This is to a certain extent most reasonable. but at the same time, we cannot
prevent operatives from being more expert on an operation which they are doing con-
tinuously, than the operative who is having to change his work at least every hour. At
this latter firm I am sorry to say that the operatives are not all members of the Union.
and before we can drive home to them all that we would require on this firm, we must
find some means or other to get the operatives inside our organisation. It is pleasing to
report that the employer himself has promised me that he will put up in the factory the
resolution which forms part of the last National Agreement, recommending our Union.


---
Being appointed, as I reported in my last report, a member of the TRADE UNION
AND CO-OPERATIVE ADVISORY COMMITTEE, I have spent the best of two days on this work
on the Drafting Committee and again at the Conference on the 23rd ult., where we have
been again elected to form a Standing Advisory Committee between Distributive Co-
operative Societies and the Trade Unions. We hope that this work will be beneficial
to all concerned, and although the Conference refused to give direct representation at our
request to the General Council, they have made the chairman their chairman, and the
secretary their secretary, so that in a roundabout way the object is achieved. But I am
afraid the Co-operative Union will not accept this.
WIGSTON. - Our recent handing in of notices at Messrs. A. E. Crane & Co., of Wigston
Magna, has culminated in the firm ultimately agreeing to pay before the notice expired.
The same may be said of Messrs. J. Freeman & Sons, of Leicester, who also had notices
handed in, and was prepared to pay before those notices became due.

KETTERING. - Our next great trouble has been with the Northampton Leather Cor-
poration, of Kettering, where for reasons best known to the Manager or Directors them-
selves, they tried to claim that as an auxiliary trade they did not come within the four
corners of the National Agreement. Quite six months ago, with my Kettering colleagues,
we waited on the Directors and informed them that was an impossible position. We have
endeavoured to get into touch on three or four occasions and personal visits have been
made, but owing to illness and other causes no satisfactory progress had been made until
this week, when we became so tired of what I should call "manœuvreing" that we called
a meeting of the men, placed the matter before them, offered them advice for them to place
the matter in our hands, which they very readily did, and we had no other alternative
than to hand in notices. This is likely to bring about an early meeting between the
Directors, Manager and ourselves, and I am hoping that before the coming week is out,
that this little matter will be settled. The trouble is the firm are prepared to accept the
National Agreement, they are also, so they say, prepared to accept the Northamptonshire
Pressroom Statement, but as we tell them, if they will only agree to carry out that portion
of the Statement which calls on them to hand back to the operatives at the end of the week
his costing sheets, then all will be well. On the other hand our old friend, the Manager,
Mr. J. W. G. Smith, informs us that a dayworker ought to keep no record of his work.
This is contrary to the many years of experience that we have had, and piecework, pure
and simple, I hope, will never again be tolerated in our industry.

At the present time we have had much correspondence, and are endeavouring to set
up an Arbitration Board for Derby, Nottingham, and Mansfield. Whatever one may
think about Mansfield, the fact should be known the firm there deliberately left the town
of Leicester. From that point they have a right to pay to Leicester Statements.

NOTTS. and DERBY are certainly not less important towns than Leicester itself. We
therefore claim that Leicester Statements should apply. These employers are adverse
to that order of things, and we have no other alternative than to carry out our resolution,
set up a Board of Arbitration for the three towns, and endeavour to come to an amicable
arrangement. From an organising point of view, this ought to be well for the Union.
I am having meetings at Nottingham and Derby next week. We called one this week
at Mansfield, and although we waited a long time, only three individuals turned up. My
next visit will be to meet the operatives at the factory gates when they leave off. It is
useless our endeavouring to conciliate our members to do their business in private, if they
will not come to the meetings. It will therefore be my bounden duty to call upon them
when they leave off work and conduct our business in the strect, or take a sufficient number
of them with us to the nearest place.

At the time of writing the firm of Adams Bros., of Raunds, who have declined to pay
to Alderman Sheppard's Award for Stitching, in which the firm claim 7½ per cent. deduction,
a most unreasonable attitude. The Umpire has heard the case on two occasions, and it
has also been before the Joint Standing Committee. Despite this procedure, however,
the firm still refuses to pay, and we therefore intend to still further prosecute the case.
Such refusal to pay, however, tends to bring Arbitration into bad repute.

We are still pressing the Rushden Association for the back pay for the two holidays
due to the operatives for Faster and Whitsuntide of last year, and in my last letter received
from them they suggest that the Holiday Scheme did not become operative until this year.
This is due to their forgetfulness that February 6th, 1922 saw the Holiday Fund in the
Agreement of that date mandatory and not permissive.

Keep pushing the Daily Herald and patronise the boot shops which sell Stamped
goods.

7, MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
20th March, 1923.

Yours fraternally,

M. Richards
General President.


---
Here is the text from the image:

171
BRANCH REPORTS.

ARBROATH. - Trade continues to avoid three of our factories, but in
Carnoustie the remaining one seems to have a business magnetism which
attracts all kinds of customers, and it is common talk of their having secured
a large American order within recent weeks. For the sake of our members
we wish the other firms could meet with similar success. The Branch has now
got information of the appointment of the Secretary to the Local Employment
Committee. This is a belated recognition of our position as a trade in the
smaller towns of Forfarshire, and it has long been a complaint of ours that
railwaymen, textile workers, iron workers, &c., had representation, but ours,
which is the third industry in this district, had no voice in the work of the
Committee. It may seem to some that the most important period of these
Committees has passed, but such an impression is premature in view of the
very considerable alterations and modifications suggested by the Bill before
Parliament at present regarding the whole question of Unemployment Insur-
ance. Whether the functions of the Local Employment Committees may be
increased or lessened, we are glad nevertheless to have established a claim for
representation of our industry, and to have secured the consent of the Ministry
of Labour to it. One thing which we are keenly conscious of is, that owing
to the fact of all the employees of three factories being on short time and on
Labour Exchange benefit accordingly, it has provided a bond to unite the
members closer to the Union than ever, because they all recognise the value
of having an organisation behind them if their rights are challenged in any
way, or if inquiries have to be made to clear up difficulties. We note with
approval the way in which our Council are keeping the position of the Daily
Herald before the membership, because working folk must have a paper to put
the truth about Labour disputes before the public. Many of our members
may reasonably enough object to some of the things done and said, and written
in the name of Labour, but few could successfully argue against the various
sections of organised labour maintaining one national journal which will
publish true accounts of questions affecting the well-being of our kin. We
are of those who pray for a Scottish edition of the Herald. At present the
edition sent to Scotland is only equal to the evening papers of the previous
day, and readers have to buy other papers to get the late news. This is a
serious matter for people working short time, and as a consequence hundreds
go without the Herald in the meantime. When this difficulty is surmounted,
the Daily Herald will be bought eagerly in Scotland, and shoemakers, as always,
will be prominent in the ranks of progressive forces using this powerful press
weapon for the emancipation of children, women and men of Labour.

BARNSLEY.—We are sorry to say that two of our members have been
on the sick list, one from an accident, and the other from lumbago. One of
them has commenced working again, and we hope the other will do so before
long. Trade is very bad here, what with new introductions of ex-service
men, and many that have decent jobs who reckon to be good trade unionists
at meetings, &c., who buy soles cut out and heels too, and put them on them-
selves. The Barnsley Co-operative Stores have never in their history been so
short of work in the repairing department, as they have this last year,
and at the present time they are not getting three days a week.

BELFAST.-We regret to report that trade, both in the manufacturing
and repairing, continues to remain in a deplorable condition, and there are no
signs which would lend us any hope for an early improvement. We would
urge upon the members the necessity of not allowing their arrears to exceed
the eight weeks' limit. Union benefits can only be secured by strictly com-
plying with the rules.


---
Here is the text from the image:

172
BRISTOL No. 2.—The heavy trade still languishes for want of orders,
and Kingswood at the present time is not the place for operatives to find work.
Mr. W. R. Smith has been with us during the month. His presence has been
very encouraging and helpful to our members as well as to the officers. His
efforts are heavily handicapped by bad trade, but his earnestness in pointing
out to members and non-members, that their only hope lies in unity and
organisation has not been without effect. Kingswood is a big job to tackle,
and will take a long time to set it on a level with other centres of our industry
where modern methods of manufacture are prevalent.

CHESHAM.—Trade here is very bad and there is no sign of improvement.
Our Branch have nominated Mr. P. Bradley to contest one of the seats in the
Labour interest at the forthcoming U.D.C. Election, and we hope next month
to report another Labour gain.
CORK.—Trade still bad.

DUNDEE.—The long-continued stagnant condition of our trade makes
it a dismal and cheerless subject to write on. There is, however, an editorial
in one of our trade papers, which creates a feeling of hopefulness, and an earnest
desire for its consummation, i.e., " There are distinct indications that we are
in the first days of a stage that will burst into immensely greater industrial
activity." Let us pray that it may come soon, and lift many of us out of the
" Slough of Despond." Another of our old officials has been laid to rest,
in the person of James Larg. "Jimmy," as he was affectionately called, did
yeoman service on behalf of the Union away back in the early eighties. Strenu-
ous, irritating and uncongenial, was the task imposed upon a branch secretary
at that period, a position which our late friend held for four years, some thirty
years ago. Since then, much water has run under the bridge; boot manufac-
turing has been revolutionised; the method of handling disputes, the work
of branch secretaries then, is now dealt with in a collective sense by our Boards
of Arbitration. It is singularly strange that the passing away of our old
friend, "Jimmy," marks the third obituary notice of our late branch secretaries
within seven months that have been my painful duty to record, namely,
D. R. Sellars, D. R. Ferguson, and now James Larg. Men's years are numbered,
and our late friends are now completed. The pale messenger beckons silently.
Whatsoever thing man has on hand, important or unimportant, he must
suddenly quit it and go. He has reached the end of his furrow.

EDINBURGH.—Trade is still very quiet in new work but the repairing
has shown some slight sign of revival. Members at monthly meeting were
sorry to hear of the death of Mr. J. W. Murby; he was a very efficient Officer
of the Union. In fact the Secretary has been complimented on the prompt
way in which claims have been paid. This goes to prove that workers, given
the proper facilities, can manage their own business. We had before our
members at last branch meeting the resolution from Central Office re "Inter-
national Situation," which we are submitting to the proper quarters. Rent
control is still occupying a good deal of the working-class attention at present.
The Government proposals should help to awaken the citizens to how the
present rulers are prepared to legislate to defend class interest. Edinburgh
Branch are putting forward Mr. C. Bleaklev as a nominee to Local Labour Party
as a probable candidate for the next Municipal or Parish Council Election.
This means, if accepted, that the members will need to do all in their power to
try and have him returned.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.—Trade during the month has varied, some
few firms working overtime, others short time, and in two cases closed
temporarily.
HULL.—Trade here remains very quiet. The boom which was expected
to come with the advent of a strong Conservative Government has not yet


---


---
taking its toll, a toll that can only be paid by a sacrifice of human comfort
and happiness, many of our members earning as little as £1 per week, and
that continuously is enough to develop despondency. However, "hope
springs eternal in the human breast," and with a faith and optimism that has
forever characterised the pioneer, we go forward with the knowledge that
ultimately justice will triumph over oppression. Hats off to the Parliamentary
Labour Party for their splendid fight they are waging in the House.
PLYMOUTH.—There is no improvement in the repairing trade and while
few shops are working full the majority of our members are losing time. This
is not because boot repairing is a worn-out industry, for a casual glance at the
footwear of our adult population, and especially that of the children, will
convince one of the hundreds of boots and shoes requiring the skilful attention
of the repairer. Neither is it because prices are too high in general, for after
a tour of our town anyone may be struck with the diversity of prices charged
for repairs, in some cases slaughtered prices. These range from 6s. men's
soled and heeled, down to the rock bottom price of 3s. 6d. How this is done
at the price we do not pretend to know, but there it is, a fact patent for all.
But in spite of this our people are ill-shod, our children dangerously ill-fed
and ill-clothed, which will one day return in the form of a boomerang with
more tuberculosis, more sanatorium, and more rates and taxes. The truth is
the people cannot afford to pay for repairs even if they were done at cost.
SOUTHAMPTON.—Trade slack, but slightly improving.
STAFFORD.—We are pleased to report a marked improvement in trade
during the February month. By the death of Mr. J. W. Murby the Union has
lost a very valuable servant. To the widow and family we tender our deepest
sympathy in their sad bereavement.
STREET.—We cannot report any improvement in the state of trade,
the smaller firms finding it especially difficult to get orders. This has meant
further discharges among our members during the month, including, we regret
to say, the President of our Branch. The Turnshoe trade is exceptionally
slack and workers on this class of goods are having a very bad time.
GREAT YARMOUTH.—With reference to supporting the Daily Herald
we beg to make a suggestion to all branches that they should try and form a
paper club in the workshops and factories in which our members are employed.
If there was only one penny a week each collected on a shop by the Shop
President, that would in most cases help the Daily Herald as several could be
bought each day and passed round.

BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK BENEFIT.
£
s. d.
To December, 1922 598,886 9 3
2,872 12 4
2,399 13 0
January, 1923
February
..
£604,158 14 7
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
d.
s.
To December, 1922 270,614 8 4
January, 1923
February
4,768 13 9
..
3,992 5 9
£279,375 7 10

---
Here is the text from the image:

175
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
34. GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1.

NOMINATION PAPER
FOR
MANAGER TO NATIONAL HEALTH
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.

Name of Member. Branch to which Member belongs. Branches Nominating.

BAKER, Mr. J. London Metro. London Metro.
BLEAKLEY, Mr. C. Edinburgh... Ayr, Dundee, Edinburgh, Kilmar-nock, Maybole, Newcastle
CHESTER, Mr. G. Kettering Kettering Nos. 1 and 2
GOULD, Mr. F. Midsomer Norton Street
HARRIS, Mr. R. Leicester No. 2 Leicester No. 2
MARTIN, Mr. A. Leicester No. 2 Leicester Nos. 1 and 2
MAYER, Mr. C. Н. Leicester No. 2 Leicester No. 2
MAYES, Mr. R. D. Leicester No. 2 Higham and Rushden, Leicester Nos. 1 and 2, Leeds Nos. 1 and 2, London Metro., Northampton Nos. 1 and 2, Norwich Nos. 1 and 2, Stafford, Wellingborough, Wolverhampton
MCCARTHY, Mr. D. (Retired) Leicester Belfast
POOLE, Mr. L. P. (Retired)... Wellingborough Wellingborough
RANDALL, Mr. A. G. Kingswood Kingswood
REYNOLDS, Mr. C. Northampton Northampton
SMITH, Mr. W. R. (Retired)... Norwich No. 2 Derby, Hinckley, Leicester
STOTT, Mr. A. (Retired) Heckmondwike Heckmondwike
WADE. Mr. C. R. (Retired) Leicester No. 2 Leicester No. 2


---


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

177
Germany, and this country, are feeling the effects in a much more marked degree than
least to do with making the trouble suffer the most. The working classes to-day in France,
any section of the community. The politician, like the ex-Prime Minister, may try to
wriggle out of his responsibility by stating that his own action re Reparations was only
bluff, but the workers get the rea'ity because the final result is commercial disturbance,
bad trade, and extended unemployment. If this nonsense which is taking place in Europe
that some amount of sanity will be allowed to come in, or it does look as if the situation
would cease, then there would be a better chance for a trade revival. One can only hope
will drift from bad to worse.

In addition to the questions already referred to quite a number of others have been
before the House. A good discussion was introduced by Mr. Maxton, M.P. (one of the
Glasgow Labour group) on Old Age Pensions, more particularly as it referred to the removing
of the means disqualification. On this occasion the voting was good for the pensioner
and one can imagine that before long the Government will have to go into this matter'.
A remarkable result was achieved by Lady Astor re the Bill for prohibiting the sale
of intoxicants to young persons under the age of eighteen. This Bill was carried by an
overwhelming majority, only 50 odd members voting against it.
Dr. Salter, M.P. introduced a motion on the Living Wage question, This was received
sympathetically by a good House and also received a good vote. The indications are that
opportunity of discussing a range of questions which in the past have not been given a
if the Labour Members can be successful in the Ballots then the House will have the
very fair chance.
There is just one other thing I should like to mention because I feel it can be looked
introduce Protection by instalments. Publicly, the Prime Minister states that he has no
upon as a danger signal. I refer now to what I look upon as the insidious attempt to
does not believe in it, but feels that the country would not stand it, but when you come
to the rank and file of the Government, then you discover that the medicine is being put
Protection on the Statute Book, not because he
in homoeopathic doses. Already we have had gas mantles, foreign fruit and eggs and
granite offal introduced, and no doubt there are plenty of other things waiting to be brought
along, and then when enough of the medicine has been administered, the Prime Minister
will come on the scene as the specialist and try his hand.
Before I write again I sincerely trust that the clouds in the East will have disappeared,
the situation is already creating an uneasy atmosphere. The reports given on the Estimates
prove that the official mind is still visualising future wars. The Air Minister pleading for
increasing his estimate, tells the House that France has beaten us in the race, in other
words, just as they pleaded in the past for a Navy more than equal to other nations, so the
mad race has begun in Aeroplanes. Think of it, in this Year of Grace, after a War that
was to end War, the Government is estimating to spend next year £128,000,000 for War
purposes and only £16,000,000 for the Board of Education, and if you include Museums,
Art, Research and Universities, less than $20,000,000 is asked for.
House of Commons,
Westminster.
22nd March, 1923.
Yours fraternally,
A. HILL,
M.P. for West Leicester.
ENGLISH CITY OF HOUSEOWNERS.
Thrifty Leicester's Huge Savings.
By means of small deposits in old-established institutions, the workers of Leicester
added in the past year more than $3,000,000 to their savings.
For many years Leicester workers have been noted for owning their own houses,
which are freehold, and it is only the high cost which is holding up this movement. At
present more than 7,000 families want houses for themselves of the six-roomed type,
with private back gardens.

One institution in the city took £1,300,000 in deposits during the year, and it has
now over 25,000 accounts. Similar institutions have had a record year of savings, while
the Savings Bank has never handled so much money.
invested in War Saving Certificates through the operation of several hundred factory and
The Post Office savings banks have done equally well, and large sums have been
workshop saving societies started during the War. - Daily Chronicle, 3rd March, 1923.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

179
RESULTS OF VOTING FOR DELEGATES TO CONFERENCE, Continued.
Branch entitled to Vote-Leicester No. 2. Branch entitled to Vote-Kettering.
FOUR required. THREE required.
Two Clickers, One Pressman and One (Division by Agreement.)
County Delegate. (By Agreement).
Two required (Clickers). Leicester Two required. Kettering
No. 2
Baum, Mr. J. H. ... 69 *Campbell, Mr. G. ... 106
*Burdett, Mr. E. ... 124 *Southwell, Mr. W: ... 126
Harris, Mr. R. ... 49 Swindler, Mr. J. ... 34
Perkins, Mr. H. ... 80 Yeomans, Mr. W. J. ... 98
Martin, Mr. A. ... 65
*Mayer, Mr. W. ... 100
*Taylor, Mr. C. (Burton Latimer), unopposed

One required (Pressman). Branch entitled to Vote-
Wellingborough. THREE required.
Burke, Mr. F. ... 86 (Division by Agreement.)
*Jeffs, Mr. A. ... 115
Shingler, Mr. A. ... 48 Two required. Welling-
borough
Barwell. One required. Gale, Miss D. ... 41
*Barrows, Mr. J. (Leicester No. 2), unopposed. *Plowman, Mr. A ... 66
*Rabbitt, Mr. T.... ... 86
Branch entitled to Vote-Norwich.
FOUR required.
Three Males, One Female. (By Agreement.)
Three required (Males). Norwich *Tebbutt, Mr. E. (Wellingborough),
unopposed
Butcher, Mr. A.... ... 127
Chapman, Mr. B. ... 107
*England, Mr. W. ... 174 Branch entitled to Vote-Bristol No. 2.
*Traser, Mr. H. ... 166 ONE required.
Lawn, Mr. T. ... 135
*Neal, Mr. F. ... 162 *Curry, Mr. R. (Bristol No. 2), unopposed.
Watson, Mr. H.... ... 77
Branch entitled to Vote-Leicester
One required (Female). Women's.
THREE required.
Fox, Miss H. ... 74
*Hindes. Miss M.... ... 152 *Billings, Miss P., *Jeffreys, Miss L.,
Howard, Miss V. ... 52 *Sherwin, Miss E. (unopposed).
Trimby, Miss M. ... 41
Branches entitled to Vote-Bristol, Kendal.
ONE required.
One required. Kendal Bristol Totals

Rooke, Mr. J. T. (Kendal) ... 6 102 108
*West, Mr. F. (Bristol) ... 210 210
*Elected.
C


---
Here is the text from the image:

180
RESULT OF VOTING FOR DELEGATES TO CONFERENCE. - Continued
Branches entitled to Vote-Kettering No. 2. London Metro.
FIVE required.
Five required.
Kettering
No. 2
London
Metro.
Totals
Buse, Mr. A. (Kettering No. 2)
60
2
62
*Coltman, Mr. W. G.
133
8
141
73
7
80
Fox, Mr. A. J.
"
Hardy, Mr. G. (London Metro.)
4
50
54
3
41
44
Herbert, Mr. R.
70
5
75
3
47
50
Ingyon, Mr. G. (Kettering No. 2)
Lecomber, Mr. J. (London Metro.)
*Poulton, Mr. H.
12
68
80
"
55
55
Robins, Mr. C.
1
67
68
*Shaw, Mr. L.
"
161
13
174
44
44
*Taylor, Mr. J. E. (Kettering No. 2)
Ziggles, Mr. H. (London Metro.)
*Rawson, Mrs. A. (Kettering No. 2), unopposed.
Branches entitled to Vote-Norwich No. 2, Kingswood.
THREE required.
Three required.
Norwich
No. 2.
Kingswood
Totals
Amond, Mr. G. (Norwich No. 2)
Britton, Mr. F. (Kingswood)
*Cohen, Mr. H. (Norwich No. 2)
*Jones, Mr. G. H. (Kingswood)
*Pain, Mr. W. E.
Richer, Mr. A. (Norwich No. 2)
Roberts, Mr. A.
Segon, Mr. A.
Silvester, Mr. H. (Stafford)
*Walsh, Mr. J. (Leeds)
Three required.
*Elected.
Branches entitled to Vote-Stafford, Leeds.
THREE required.
*Housby, Mr. E. (Stafford), *Peat, Mr. A. (Leeds), unopposed.
75
20
95
7
281
288
97
19
116
3
296
299
4
305
309
63
15
78
69
25
94
95
7
102
Stafford
Leeds
177
3
180
2
274
276
Totals


---
Here is the text from the image:

181
RESULT OF VOTING FOR DELEGATES TO CONFERENCE-Continued.
Branches entitled to Vote-Aberdeen, Arbroath, Ayr, Dundee, Edinburgh,
Glasgow No. 2, Kilmarnock, Maybole.
TWO required.
Two required.
Aberdeen
Arbroath
Dundee
Brown, Mr. A. (Dundee)
White, Mr. R. (Edinburgh)
Flanagan, Mr. A. (Kilmarnock)
Noble, Mr. R. (Glasgow No. 2.
8
44
Edinburgh
Glasgow
No. 2
Kilmarnock
Totals
95
4
52
6
6
3
32
7
11
9
16
217
2
10
25
281
256
157
319
22
18
20
35
211
14
13
286
88
8
14 345
8
12
353
No results from Ayr or Maybole.
Branches entitled to Vote-Chesterfield, Eyam, Hull, Halifax, Nottingham,
Sheffield, Shepshed, Whitwick, York, Bromsgrove, Barnsley, Bishop Auck-
land, Lincoln, Yarmouth.
ONE required.
One required.
*Mansfield, Mr. T. (Hull)
Smith, Mr. J. W. (Shepshed)
No results received from Eyam, Halifax, Bishop Auckland, Lincoln, Yarmouth, Barnsley
Nottingham and Sheffield.
22 29
2
11 11 30 103
58 12
1
2 75
Branches entitled to Vote-Belfast, Burnley, Cork, Liverpool, Oldham,
Waterford, Manchester.
ONE required.
One required.
Cotter, Mr. M. (Cork)
Hargreaves, Mr. H. (Liverpool)
Mason, Mr. J. (Manchester)
White, Mr. G. (Belfast)
Belfast
Burnley
Cork
Liverpool
Manchester
126
3
126
8
154
206
52
121
117
4
*Elected
Totals


---
Here is the text from the image:

182
RESULTS OF VOTING FOR DELEGATES TO CONFERENCE. -Continued
Branches entitled to Vote-Hinckley, Desborough, Wolverhampton.
TWO required.
Two required.

*Jolley, Mr. J. (Wolverhampton)
*Parker, Mr. F. (Hinckley)
Whymant, Mr. W. (Desboro') ...

Hinckley
Desboro'
Wolver-
hampton
Totals

2
30
252
257
339
9
137
485
18
201
29
248
Branches entitled to Vote---Daventry, Stone, Chesham.
ONE required.
One required.

Arnull, Mr. D. C. (Daventry)
Goodger, Mr. F. (Chesham)
*Holland, Mr. J. (Stone)

Daventry
Stone
Chesham
Totals
...
334
...
334
...
299
299
...
359
359
Branches entitled to Vote-Leeds No. 2, Mansfield, Derby.
ONE required.

*Blissett, Mr. W. N. (Derby), unopposed.
Branches entitled to Vote - Ipswich, Colchester, Sileby, Heckmondwike
Newcastle.-ONE required.
One required.

Edwards, Mr. F. C. (Ipswich)
Pattison, Mr. J. (Newcastle)...
*Stott, Mr. A. (Heckmondwike)

Ipswich
Colchester
Heckmond-
wike
Newcastle
Totals
...
103
7
21
112
...
128
129
...
178
178
Branches entitled to Vote-Plymouth, Midsomer Norton, Redruth, Worcester,
Reading, London South.
ONE required.
One required.

Gould, Mr. F. (Midsomer Norton)
*Standeven, Mr. G. (London South)

Midsomer
Norton
London
South
Totals
...
53
53
...
117
117
No returns received from Plymouth, Redruth, Worcester and Reading.
*Elected.


---


---
That statement is a statement which is very likely to mislead, particularly other portions
of the International Labour Office, who, we know, are not so well aware of the methods
by which we conduct business in this country as we are ourselves. You know quite well
that from time to time at these particular Conferences the workers look pathetically to
this country to take the lead and give that support to those matters which will enable
them later to use our example as a lever to get better conditions than those unfortunately
urged is that apart from the reluctance reluctance which I do not pretend to understand
obtaining. One of the strong reasons that you and your colleagues have from time to time
is the fact that certain trades in this country stand in the way. There is the position,
-which the Government has to make laws in keeping with the obligations entered into,
and there are regulations which make what we desire almost impossible. In fact, I do not
think it would be an unfair use of language to say it has been said that it is impossible.
On the contrary, I and my colleagues hold that, so far from it being impossible, even the
regulations of the Convention now-and there are plenty of special exemptions-are
wide enough in their scope, and there is all needed elasticity. That is what was mostly
urged in connection with this matter to meet those varying conditions which obtain in
this country. I would specially call your attention to the Articles I am not going to
quote them-I know you will have them handy-Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 of the Convention.
In these Articles specially we submit that there is plenty of scope and plenty of room to
meet the varying industrial conditions obtaining here and yet confirm the Convention
itself. We also heard, as you remember, on more than one occasion of the railwaymen
as being one of the great cases. I hold here a statement made to your Convention on
behalf of the firemen of Mr. Bromley's union. It is as follows :-
The men concerned do not ask for Sunday duty or overtime and would be quite
satisfied with six days' duty and an eight-hour day; if the companies desire or the
exigencies of traffic demand that they shall work Sundays, or overtime on any day,
the men demand that they shall be paid for such Sunday duty or overtime in addition
to their guaranteed six days of eight hours each; anything less than this will simply
return them to the old bad conditions above referred to.
I have been talking to Mr. Thomas, whom I am certain represents an overwhelming
majority of the railwaymen, who are quite prepared to admit that it will take time to try
to get over the technical difficulties. It would be absurd for me to pretend that I under-
stand the technical difficulties alleged to stand in the way. Equally, however, do I submit
to you that the railwaymen say that there are no difficulties urged that from their stand-
point cannot be overcome and yet confirm the Washington Convention. Moreover, it
was not a very pleasant thing at the meeting last week to hear what we did. I am now
going to quote from the report of the directors of the governing body upon the ratification
of the Conventions since the annual meeting in November. This is what is said in regard
to Poland. After stating what they think of the ratification of a number of the Conventions,
they go on to say :-
They consider, however, that it would be inopportune to submit the Eight-
Hours' Convention at the moment, for, although the Eight Hours' Law is strictly
enforced throughout Poland, there is a reluctance on the part of the Diet to contract
any international engagement as long as larger industrial countries have not done so.
It is a serious thing in respect to a country like Poland, struggling as she is to fulfil her
obligations, that such a statement as that should be in the directors' report, and thus be
given to the whole world. You may say that it does not specifically refer to this country.
All I can say is-and I am glad that Major Boyd-Carpenter and Mr. Wolfe are here, because
they will be able to bear out what I say-whether they agree is an entirely different matter.
THE MINISTER OF LABOUR: Mr. Sokal said he did not apply it to
but he evaded the question, though he agreed that it was not America. Then he was
MR. POULTON: I pressed the director, who is the proper authority, to answer me,
requested by Mr. Butler to say to whom he referred, but he said he preferred not to say.
These are the exact words of Mr. Butler:
"I pressed Mr. Sokal, the Polish representative,
and he said he preferred not to tell who it was." Apparently the reference had been put
into the report in the way it had been, deliberately and in this veiled way, so as not to
offend the susceptibilities of the British Government. To me, as representing the workers,
it was humiliating in the extreme that the British Government. To me, as representing the workers,
is holding up this because other industrial countries, larger than herself, will not carry
it out.
THE MINISTER OF LABOUR: Will not ratify it?
MR. POULTON: Yes. Another and additional reason why the Government should
reconsider the position they have taken up in connection with this matter is shown by
what I am about to quote from Industrial and Labour Information, issued by the
International Labour Office. This number is dated 15th December. On pages 31 and 32
there is a statement dealing with the debate on the Ministry of Labour Budget on 24th
Nove
on th
a
t
Postp
point
posit
of th
the f
whic
know
wage
with
Prim
I ha
It re
this
to h
Con
Bar
doc
can
Hou
and
req
as 1
for
inte
issu
SO
wer
the
adr
COL
law
48
arr
Co
pro
up
Mr
WO
ra
ce
C
as
W
F
W
th
CO
h
t

---


---
I submit by the length of time we have taken to submit our case it shows the importance
we place upon the particular resolutions. On behalf of the deputation I thank you for
the patient hearing you have given us.
THE MINISTER OF LABOUR: Do not please misunderstand me. Do not assume
that I do not attach importance to these resolutions, because I do. It is quite obvious
that you and the party with you, representing the interests of the workmen, put
forward any Minister of Labour is bound to consider and consider with the greatest possible
care. I cannot, I really cannot, as you know, say more in relation to the Act I have to
administer to what I have said except this if I had really any doubt as to what is the
interpretation of the Convention in relation to the eight hours from the English point of
view, and as to what is compatible with certain perfectly accepted and established practices
in this country, as is directly alleged against me, there would be no difficulty in taking
legal opinion in regard to them. I am perfectly clear it is not possible to square trade
customs with the Convention as it stands therefore, I cannot see how any other attitude
can be taken up. If England is to ratify the Convention a certain amount of elasticity
is inevitable. So long as you accept the English method, and not the French method of
interpretation" règlement" is the word they use-you cannot take it further.
MR. WILLIAMS: As to the word
the American. However, we thank you for your reception of us.
average," is that not possibly a translation from
The deputation then withdrew.
JOHN WHEATLEY, M.P., ON THE RUHR DEPUTATION.
Dealing with the situation of the Ruhr, Wheatley began by deprecating the suggestion
that the people in our country should neglect their own social conditions and concentrate
their whole thought on the condition of Central Europe. THE CONDITION OF THE
GLASGOW WORKING CLASS WAS A MUCH GREATER TRAGEDY THAN THE
CONDITION OF PEOPLES IN CENTRAL EUROPE. There was a tendency to
magnify foreign affairs, and to attribute unemployment at home and the poverty associated
with it mainly to political disturbances and the poverty of Europe. The tendency to
deflect attention to the far ends of the earth that should be given to domestic affairs had
induced himself along with Maxton, Kirkwood, and Stephen, to go to the Ruhr and get
first-hand information. They had gone to the Ruhr, as friends, with sympathy for their
German comrades and with frank and open minds and determined to tell what they saw,
whether it is against the policy of the Government or of the British Labour Party.
They had not found houses tumbling down about the people as had happened during
the past few weeks in Bridgeton; they found the standard of housing immensely superior
to Glasgow's, and nothing of the slums which they knew here. In the midst of all the
present difficulties they had seen working-class houses being erected-houses which would
compare favourably in external appearance with middle-class houses here. The people
were well-dressed; the children seemed well-dressed and comfortable. They had found
no apparent shortage of goods. He believed it might be true that the standard and
quality of food was lower than ours, but there were no signs of the extreme poverty and
starvation that they had heard so much of. Moreover, there was no unemployment,
and the criticism that the apparent betterness was due to the fact that the German workers
worked harder than we did was absurd. The miners in the Ruhr Valley worked seven
hours from bank to bank-an hour less than our miners did.
We at home were being misled as to the facts of the situation. IF THE EAST
END OF GLASGOW WERE ONLY TRANSPORTED TO THE CENTRE OF EUROPE
IT WOULD BECOME THE MECCA OF POLITICIANS AND PHILANTHROPISTS
WHO WERE BLIND TO EVERY MISERY AT HOME. He had every sympathy
with the workers in every country who were oppressed by Capitalism, but no class of
workers in Germany could compare in poverty to the people he represented in West-
minster.
Mr. Wheatley went on to say that Capitalism had no constructive policy for dealing
with the situation, and described the proposal already outlined in the Press, which he
and his colleagues had suggested for internationalising the Ruhr. The only right they
had to suggest it lay in the facts of the situation. Germany was in debt and admitted her
debt, and they held that the debt should not be paid by lowering the standard of life of the German
workers but by confiscating the wealth of German millionaires. The application of some
such collectivist or Socialist principle seemed the only way out of a difficulty created by
competitive Capitalism. - Forward, 3rd March, 1923.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

189
demanded an extension of the former provisions of the Act for a further 10 years; that
all rents be reduced to pre-war level; and that unemployed people be safeguarded against
eviction, while it also contained a clause calling for resistance to any attempted retro.
spective legislation which would make tenants liable for illegal increases made some time
ago. This point led to rather unnecessary candour on the part of those opposing the
resolution, but the overwhelming vote of delegates supported the new proposal. The
decision being for a resolution from Glasgow Trades Council in the following words:-
rest of the agenda was passed over in more or less mechanical fashion, the most important
"That this Council calls upon the National Executive of the Labour Party to grant local
autonomy to the Scottish Council of the Party, and the allocation of a fixed proportion
of the funds received from the Scottish Sections to the Scottish Council." This provided
an opportunity of judging the feeling among the Scottish workers, and the demand is
entirely in favour of the above course.

During the afternoon a deputation from the Organised Unemployment Committees
of Glasgow was admitted, and strong speeches were made in favour of fighting the rents
battle (which had already been settled) and demanding the removal from Relief Work
of the limiting condition that only 75 per cent. of the prevailing district rates is paid for
such work. This unexpected interlude shortened the time still more for the regular
business. The later stages of the Conference suffered constant disturbance by departing
delegates, and little interest was taken in the proceedings.

I was greatly disappointed with the whole Conference. First, I only knew of the
date on the Tuesday before the meeting, which was too short notice. Then the agenda
never reached our branches either in the preliminary or in the permanent form, and only
two or three bodies had seemed to think it worth while sending in resolutions. Again,
with 3,000 members we had only one delegate, while Trades Councils all had two, and other
bodies had four and five. Then the voting for the official positions was another eye-
opener. All those nominations apparently have to be in at a much earlier date, but so
far as our members are concerned I have been unable to find any who knew about those
arrangements. I would suggest in future the Scottish branches should be kept in touch
with the business of this Scottish Advisory Council in so far as being acquainted with time
for resolutions for agenda, copies of preliminary agenda to be forwarded, and also given a
chance of nominating for Executive positions. If a larger delegation is possible then we
should send at least another delegate. But it would be a great advantage if our branches
were given a chance to follow the preparation of the agenda in the way I have suggested,
and I am sure the Scottish Secretary, Mr. Ben Shaw, would be only too glad to send us
all the papers and in time for each step taken in its compilation. Although the agenda
was lengthy on this occasion it nearly all came from Glasgow Trades Council and the
Executive. I am sure other bodies would like a chance. If autonomy is granted to the
Scottish Labour Party, a great step forward will follow. At present a certain air of
unreality exists while it is known that all decisions in Scotland come before the National
Party for review. Financially the Party in Scotland is sadly handicapped, having only
a very small sum of money to work on. Apart from the Conference altogether, the Party,
under Mr. Shaw's guidance, is doing magnificent work. In the political, municipal,
parochial, educational, and county spheres of work its efforts are brilliantly applicable
to the issues of each, and with money in hand the machinery of Labour activities in Scot-
land could rapidly be made second to none. Even with all the difficulties to overcome,
the Executive Council in their annual report showed a record of accomplishment which
made one feel proud of those who had been in office during recent times.
JAMES P. REID.

SCOTTISH C.W.S. BOOT TRADE.

The slump in the trade of the Scottish Co-operative Wholesale Society Ltd. has not
been arrested, and the sales for the past half-year were 15 per cent. lower than in the
corresponding period a year ago. They were £8,507,477. There was £104,437 available
as profit, and the society members are receiving a dividend of 2d. in the £. In the sales
the boot and shoe department contributed £368,905, as compared with £464,363 in the
last half of 1921, a decrease of £95,457, or 20 per cent. The productions of the boot factory
were valued at £191,621, as compared with £200,546, a fall of £8,924, or 4 per cent. The
comparison, however, is slightly disadvantageous, as the last 26 weeks of 1922 are set
against the last 27 of 1921. For the complete year the total productions were £363,043,
a decrease of 13 per cent.; and the year's sales in the boot department were £772,200,
a decline of 19 per cent. The last half-year's expenses were £15,955 for distributive
wages and £56,140 for productive wages.—Shoe and Leather News, 1st March, 1923.


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

201
77 per cent. to-day, so that the agricultural labourers' wages are 25 per cent. less than
they were in pre-war days. In the Black Country to-day the miner, after doing six days'
work, receives the sum of £2 3S. od. There are thousands of labourers in the Black Country
receiving 31S. for a full week's work, and thousands of women workers, not covered by
Trade Boards, who are receiving 17s. per week. In the Midlands in 1912 we fought for
23s. To-day 31s. is being paid in many industries while the cost of living is 77 per cent.
more than in pre-war days. There is a certain degree of well being which it should be
the manifest object of all Statesmen to secure, and as the tendency of our wage system
has always been to reduce the wages of the worker to the lowest level of life, this House
should make it impossible for any employer to employ any man or any woman at less than
a full living wage."

MR. A. HENDERSON, in supporting, said: " Some of the old members will remember
that in February, 1919, the late Government set up what was possibly the most important
Conference on industry ever held in this country. I have here a Resolution that was
unanimously adopted by trades union and workmen's representatives, and by nearly 500
representatives of employers. It says: 'This Conference, being of the opinion that any
preventable dislocation of industry is always to be deplored, and in the present critical
period of reconstruction may be disastrous to the interests of the nation, and thinking
that every effort should be made to remove legitimate grievances and to promote harmony
and goodwill, resolves to appoint a Joint Committee, consisting of equal numbers of
employers and workers, men and women, together with a chairman appointed by the
Government, to consider and report to a further meeting of this Conference, on the causes
of present unrest and the steps necessary to safeguard and promote the best interests of
employers, workpeople and the State, and especially to consider (1) Questions relating to
hours, wages and general conditions of employment; (2) Unemployment and its prevention;
and (3) The best method of promoting co-operation between capital and labour.' That
committee appointed its joint committee. I happened to be chairman of the workmen's
side of the committee. We sat always day by day for some weeks, and then we reported.
I have often said that, in my judgment, that joint report, with its unanimous recommenda-
tions, unanimously accepted when presented to the great Conference of nearly 1,000
representatives, held in the Central Hall, Westminster, was the most remarkable document
that has ever been produced by such a body in this or any other country. I will now quote
the ex-Prime Minister, and may I say that the ex-Prime Minister, when the Report was
brought to his notice, accepted same on behalf of the Government."

The motion was lost by 189 to 176.
-Extract from Parliamentary Debates, 7th March, 1923, Vol. 161, No. 17, p. 627.

GREAT WAR (FINANCE AND LOSSES).
MR. JOHNSTON asked the Prime Minister if he will furnish a return stating the total
nümber of men enrolled in the British forces during the War in the United Kingdom,
the Dominions, the Colonies, and India; how many of these men were killed and wounded;
what was the total cost of the British Empire participation in the War; how much of
such cost was raised by taxation, direct and indirect, and how much was borrowed abroad;
how much money was lent to France, to Italy, and to our other Allies; the value and
tonnage of our mercantile marine lost during the War; how many lives were lost at sea
through enemy action; the cost to date of war pensions, and an estimate of our future
pension liabilities; the cost to Britain of the mandates she is exercising or has exercised
over former enemy countries; any other expenditure of life or treasure incurred as a result
of our participation in the War; and will he state the value credited for German shipping
and colonies assigned to the British Empire in the name of Reparations ?

MR. BALDWIN: I am afraid that the compilation of a complete return on the lines
of the question would involve prolonged labour and considerable expense as it would be
necessary to obtain elaborate information from the Dominions and India. I give below
such figures as are available. As regards most of the questions, it will be seen that the
information given relates to the United Kingdom and not to the whole Empire.

1. British Empire Casualties.
Men Enrolled.
Killed.
Wounded.
United Kingdom
6,211,427
743,702
1,693,262
Dominions and Colonies
1,605,527
140,923
357,785
India
1,679,416
61,398
70,859
Total
9,496.370
946,023
2,121,906

---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

```
204
ORGANISER'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
During the month I have been organising in LONDON, SYSTON and COSBY
as a rule is light-hearted and of independent mind, and one finds it hard to understand
craft union and getting the protection of it. There are some factories in London where
London is an eternal problem so far as our trade is concerned. The average Londoner
At one of these shops we recently got 6d. a dozen advance for a section of the men who
the conditions in quantities and wages are a discredit to the owners and the workers
belonged to the Union, and just as we could have pressed for the general position at this
The Committee of the London Metro. are alive
to the state of things and have taken an active part recently with me in trying to make
the workers and the employers better men and citizens. A bad employer is in the nature
of things a bad citizen and a chronic non-unionist is a plague. As a contrast to those
appeals, Mr. Mason and I have been to shops where men and
youths readily joined and acted on our advice in details of working. We made an effort
to organise a big meeting for females in the Hackney district. Mr. Buckle came from
The meeting was not so well attended as we
expected, but the interest shown was good. At Syston we made little progress, but at
moderate improvement in trade I believe that the whole of those outside can be brought
Cosby, in spite of the bad times the workers have had, we made members, and with a
in at Cosby.
D. MCCARTHY,
why this type of man should show fear of foreman and bosses in regard to joining his
firm being dealt with, the men failed us.
who seemed deaf to our
the House of Commons and spoke for us.
LEICESTER BOARD OF CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION.
in the Chair. Messrs. A. Wilkes, W. H. Tomlinson, W. A. Thompson, G. W. Hunt, J. A.
A Meeting of the Board was held on 20th March, 1923. Present: Mr. G. Parbury
Bell-Richards, and Miss E. Sherwin, representing the Operatives, and Mr. A. E. W.
Messrs. T. F. Richards, T. Adnitt, M. A. Parker, T. H. Vallance, G. Smith, Mrs. M. J.
Sabin, H. J. Mobbs, H. Hollingworth, and T. W. Smith, representing the Manufacturers.
Chamberlin, Secretary.
The Award of the Umpire upon questions concerning piecework prices for Wood
Heels was received and ordered to be recorded in the Minutes.

UMPIRE'S AWARD.
I, the undersigned, the Umpire to whom the Arbitrators to the Board referred the
above questions for settlement or determination under Rule 7 of the Board, having heard
the Arbitrators and their witnesses and duly considered the evidence placed before me in
relation to the matters in dispute, decide and award as follows :-
I.
2.
That the price for Rough and Fine Scouring Mock Wurt Wood Heels by one man
on same machine (as samples 18 S.L. 6 and 18 Wurt 5) shall be 9s. 71d. per gross
pairs of women's work.
That the prices for Padding and Seat Wheeling Mock Wurt Wood Heels (as
samples 18 S.L. 6 and 18 Wurt 5) shall be the prices fixed by the Finishing State-
ment for such operations on Leather Wurtemburg Heels.
The above prices are fixed for Heels equal in quality and shape to the sample heels
18 S.L. 6 and 18 Wurt 5 submitted to and initialled by me.
3. That the price for Randing Wood Heels on Smith or similar machine shall be
2s. per gross pairs of women's work.
AND I further determine that the prices fixed by this Award shall come into operation
and be paid from and including the working week commencing on the 22nd, 23rd or 24th
March, 1923.
Dated this 7th day of March, 1923.
were approved and confirmed by the Board.
(Signed) W. A. NORTH, Umpire.
Supplementary Piecework Prices fixed by the Clicking and Lasting Joint Committees
It was resolved that in future where employees are working under protest written
notification to this effect shall be sent by the Union Officials to the Secretary of the Manu-
facturers' Association and to the Employers concerned.
The Claim of the Operatives for an extra to the Pullers-Over for Beckwith or similar
Puffs, upon which the Lasting Joint Committee reported their inability to agree, was
referred to the Arbitrators for adjudication.
up holes in heels and channels was referred back to the Committee for reconsideration.
on the Committee as to the interpretation of the Finishing Statement in relation to filling
A report from the Finishing Joint Committee concerning differences which had arisen
```


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

205
"NOT FIT TO DIE IN"
Story of Houses in Sheffield.
Startling facts came out at Sheffield to-day, when an inquiry was held by the Ministry of Health with reference to the City Council's application to effect an improvement scheme in connection with houses in the neighbourhood of Oborne Street.
Dr. Wynne, medical officer of health, said there were too many houses on the site and too many people living in them. The houses were so dilapidated that repairing and reconstruction would not make them fit for habitation. The average height of the living rooms was 7ft. 6in. The sanitary arrangements were unsatisfactory, and the living accommodation was indecent.
In answer to Mr. Lambert (for the owner), who commented on the small number of deaths in the houses, Dr. Wynne said: ""The mere fact of people not dying on property does not affect me. The houses are not fit to live in, and they are not fit to die in. When people get sick they are removed to an institution to die.""
Mr. Albert Green, sanitary inspector, said the sanitary arrangements were the worst he had ever met. There was only one water tap for the 22 houses.
For the owner, Mr. Lambert said more than 600 had been spent in repairing the property. The tenants could not afford the rents of Corporation houses. Westminster Gazette, 2nd March, 1923.
LONDON HOUSING REVELATIONS.
HOME WITHOUT A ROOF.
"Only the Sky Over Sick Child's Head," Says Inspector.
Houses at Battersea in which some of the rooms were without ceilings and where the occupants had no protection from the rain were described during an ejectment application at the South-Western Police Court yesterday.
An inspector of the N.S.P.C.C. said in one of the houses was a sick child.
"The sky alone is above the people living here," he added.
As the occupants were unable to find accommodation elsewhere the magistrate suspended the ejectment orders. - Daily Chronicle, 17th March, 1923.
LANDING AS "BEDROOM" FOR SIX.
Stepping Over Sleepers on the Way to Bedrooms.
A landing in a Willesden house, with four doors and a staircase leading off it, is the only home of an ex-soldier, his wife and four children.
This was revealed on Saturday when the man was summoned at the local police court for overcrowding.
The other four sets of tenants, it was said, had to approach their rooms at night by stepping over the recumbent forms of the ex-soldier's family.
An order for abatement was made. - Daily Chronicle, 19th March, 1923.
683,000 PEOPLE LIVING TWO IN A ROOM.
London Census Disclosures.
414,447 More Families Than Dwellings.
Urgent Need For Rapid Building. Fewer Children.
London, "that great province of houses," is the subject of sensational revelations in the new volume of the 1921 Census statistics issued to-day.
It is true that the figures were taken two years ago, but there is no reason to suppose that they have been seriously affected by the lapse of months.
The book is confined to the County of London, and its most important aspect is the housing question.
A New Term.
We begin by noting that to avoid the ambiguity of the old terms "house" or "tenement" a new official term has been introduced, viz., "structurally separate dwelling,"


---
which means any room or set of rooms having separate access either to a street or to a.
common landing or staircase accessible to visitors.
Now, the effect of this definition may be to minimise the seriousness of overcrowded-
ing, because every room in a tenement house in which the front door is left open to
visitors is counted as a "structurally separate dwelling."
It is pointed out that the enumerators found it difficult to distinguish between buildings
originally crected so as to form separate flats or "maisonettes," which were so popular
before the war and those which have been quite roughly converted since the war.

A Partition and a Door.
In some of these cases the only thing the landlord has done is to convert a two-
storeyed house into two flats by putting a wooden cover and a door at the top of the
staircase, and a new water supply upstairs.
The L.C.C. regulations require the use of fire-proof partitions in the conversion
of large houses into flats, but in these smaller house-divisions those regulations appear
For a triffing expenditure, therefore, the landlord is able to collect about three times
to have been set at nought.
the pre-war rent of the house.

Startling Figures.
With these explanations we come to the figures of the Blue Book. The number of
"structurally separate dwellings" occupied, which in 1911 was 678,000, came to 706.450,
while the number of empties fell from 47,000 to 18,000.
There were 345,000 more private families than there were dwellings in 1911.
In 1921 this excess had risen to 414,447-
But here again it is important to remember that these figures really understate the
amount of overcrowding, because the existing " structurally separate dwellings" in which
these families are housed may in many cases only mean one room or a two-roomed flat.

THREE FAMILIES: ONE HOUSE.
Thirty Per Cent. of the Total.
Here is an interesting table which shows the three sections into which the London
tenants are divided :-
Families in occupation of a separate dwelling
Families living two in a dwelling
Families three to a dwelling
38 per cent.
32
30
100

Now of these "structurally separate dwellings" which we have been considering:
18 per cent. contained three rooms or fewer, 27 per cent. contained four to five rooms,
42 per cent. contained six to eight rooms, and 12 per cent. contained nine rooms or more..
The rooms counted exclude bath-rooms, box-rooms, and so on.
It is noted that the average size of the family has dropped 9 per cent. since 1911,
this being due to the heavily reduced birth-rate and an increased death-rate.
Although this has had the effect of giving a larger proportion of the population the
housing advantages gained by small families, the result has been that the amount of accom-
modation left in the housing pool for the large families has been actually diminished.

WORST DISTRICTS.
We find that 529,000 families occupy fewer than three rooms per family; that 294,000
other families occupy four to five rooms per family; that 126,000 families occupy six to
eight rooms per family, and that 40,000 others occupy nine or more rooms per family.
Out of a total population of 4,484,000, there were 683,000, or about a-seventh,
who were living in dwellings which gave more than two persons per room.
Housing pressure appears to be greatest in St. Pancras, where there are 2.3 families
to each dwelling, and only 17.6 per cent. of the families are in undivided occupation of
separate dwellings.
The biggest families are found in Stepney, Poplar, Bethnal Green, Greenwich, and
Bermondsey; the smallest in Holborn, the City, Westminster, and Marylebone.

Shoreditch Most Crowded.
Shoreditch is the most overcrowded borough, with an average of 65 of a room per
person, and this is followed by Finsbury.
of the dwellings), Westminster (48 per cent.), and Marylebone (44 per cent). - The Star
Flats and tenements predominate in Holborn (where they constitute 61 per cent.
20th March, 1923.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

207
LEICESTER FAMILY FOUR IN A BED.
Obtain Possession Order for Larger House.

That four of the occupants of the house had had to sleep in one bed and the husband
on the hearthrug downstairs, was stated in a possession case at Leicester County Court
before Judge Dobb this morning, in which Henry Marriott, 20, Denman Street, sued
Wm. Alfred Timms, 53. Chester Street, for possession. Mr. R. T. G. Wright appeared
for Marriott, and Mr. Basil Edwards for Timms.

Mrs. Dilly said her father, Mr. Marriott, was at present a patient in the North Evington
Infirmary, and could come out if suitable accommodation was found for him. He owned
four houses, one of these being 53, Chester Street, which had the advantage of a large
bedroom, which could be partitioned, thus making an additional room, and improving
upon the sleeping conditions they experienced before plaintiff went into the Infirmary.
Defendant would find 20, Denman Street ample for the needs of his smaller household.

Defendant replied that his wife did washing, and their removal to Denman Street,
where there was no copper, would make this work impossible.

His Honour said it was desirable that Mr. Marriott should have possession, and
advised that the parties should try to come to a settlement.

The case was put back for a couple of hours, when Mr. Wright informed his Honour
that possession had been agreed upon in 14 days, providing a contribution was made for
a portable copper.

His Honour accordingly made an order on these terms. - Leicester Mercury,
20th March, 1923.

EXPLOSION SEQUEL.
Successful Claim Against Boot Manufacturers. Value of a Daughter.

A sequel to a fatal accident at Wilbarston, was heard at Market Harborough County
Court before his Honour Judge Dobb, yesterday, when Joseph James Panter Skelham,
bootmaker, of Wilbarston, claimed from B. Toone and Co., boot manufacturers of Des-
borough, for compensation, under the Workmen's Compensation Act, for the loss of a
daughter who was in the employ of the respondents. Mr. C. S. Bigg appeared for the
applicant and Mr. Sanderson, barrister, was for the respondents.

Mr. Bigg said applicant's daughter was employed at Messrs. Toone, the branch at
Wilbarston. She was lighting a stove in the factory when it exploded and she was fatally
burned. It was claimed that applicant and his family were partially dependent upon
this girl. Her wages averaged 17s. Id., but at the time she died she was earning 23s.
a week, and it was reasonable to suppose she would shortly have been earning £2 a week.
She had been taught boot closing, and in her spare time in the evening and on Saturday
afternoons she assisted applicant in his business. He had felt considerably the lack
of her services as he could not do closing himself, and he had to employ somebody to close
his uppers or have them closed before they were sent home.

Mr. and Mrs. Skelham gave evidence bearing out this statement, and other evidence
was given as to the cost of closing uppers.

Mr. Sanderson submitted that the work the girl did for her father did not constitute
her earnings however useful she may have been. Whatever she did in the house ought
not to be considered at all in connection with this claim with regard to her wages. She
was ill for two long periods. After deducting the contributions she had to make for insur
ance, the cost of her illnesses, and her own spending money, he suggested that the family
could not have been in any way dependent upon her earnings.

His Honour said he was perfectly satisfied with the evidence of the applicant and his
witnesses as to the extent of their dependence upon this girl. It had been submitted
that he should not take into consideration the services she rendered to her father in his
business. He thought, however, that point was disposed of by a case decided in the
House of Lords which had been quoted, and he must take into consideration not only
the actual earnings from her employers, but also the services she rendered to her father.
He thought the work she did for her father well earned her keep and the spending money
she received, and the father and mother therefore benefited to the full extent of the wages
which she obtained outside. He was entitled, too, to assume that there was a reasonable
probability that if deceased had lived she would have been contributing more substantially
to the household than she was doing just before her death.

He gave judgment that the applicant was entitled to recover the sum of 150.-
Leicester Mail, 13th March. 1923.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

211
FACTORY PERILS.
Consumption and the Boot Industry. Interesting Lecture at Kettering.
Although not nearly so large as might have been expected, the company assembling
at the Kettering Corn Market Hall on Tuesday evening to hear Professor Collis lecture
on "Health and Tuberculosis in Industry" was representative and influential.
Mr. Owen Parker, M.P. (ex-President of the National Federation of Shoe Manufac-
turers) occupied the chair, and was supported by Mr. T. F. Richards (General President
of the National Union of Shoe Operatives), and others.

The Chairman said that the vision of those of them who happened to be engaged
in industry had widened considerably during the last few years. He could not conceive
of any industry being justified in its existence and in its development, that did not regard
with seriousness its obligations to all the human factors engaged in it.

Scourge of the Industry.

Professor Collis said tuberculosis had been the scourge of the boot and shoe industry
for long past. The more they came to study it the more did it become borne in upon
them that tuberculosis and health did not agree. "The better the health of the com-
munity," said the Professor, "the more certain is it that tuberculosis recedes." During
the period from the middle of last century the deaths resulting from tuberculosis had
dropped, in the case of men, by more than 50 per cent.; and in the case of women by
about 65 per cent. He felt perfectly confident that by 1950 it would become as rare as
smallpox was now.

Industry as it should be.

The object of industry, he said, was to provide the means of living healthily and the
means for healthy activity; the human body had to be used and exercised in all its functions
to maintain its health. "If you don't do a good day's work," was the Professor's next
dictum, " you can't have a good night's sleep; and if you don't have a good night's sleep,
you can't be a healthy person." One of the defects of modern industrial work was that
it was likely to lose its interest, owing to sub-division; and in few industries was that
tendency more apparent than in the manufacturing of boots and shoes.

In building a factory's machinery, he said, the endeavour should be to make it as easy
as possible for people to work rhythmically. The question of knowing how to work had
something to do with the problem of health. Turning again to tuberculosis, the lecturer
told his audience there was no royal road to clearing that disease out of the boot and shoe
industry. The trouble there was not due, as in some other trades, to dust; for chest
and lung troubles were less in evidence there than elsewhere.

Touching upon the important matter of ventilation, Mr. Collis said the latest figures
published related to 1910-12, and much good work had been done since then. When the
next reports were issued he confidently expected to find a great improvement. In those
old days ventilation and other conditions were not satisfactory.

Comparing general mortality figures in the shce trade with those in other industries,
the lecturer pointed out that between 1890 and 1910 the former only decreased by 23
per cent., as against the latter's 32 per cent. "It is our industrial life," the Professor
declared, "which is holding back the rapid extinction of tuberculosis."

Its prevalence in certain industries he attributed in great measure to the workpeople
engaged therein being so close together. Dust should never be brushed up dry. Phthisis
figures for the period 1890-1910 showed a fall in the shce industry of 25 per cent., and 36
per cent, in others. Dealing with sanatorium treatment, the Professor said it seemed a
pity that when a man was leaving one of those institutions-the disease having become
quiescent-there was no sort of "half-way" occupation available before he resumed his
strenuous work in the factory.

Curable Complaint.

Speaking in a more heartening strain the Professor said: "There is no more curable
disease in the world than consumption, if you only treat it properly; but we will never
do that so long as we take people straight back from the sanatoria to full-time work in the
factory." Industry had got to tackle that problem itself it could not be done out of
State funds. - The Northamptonshire Evening Telegraph, 7th March, 1923.

NO TIME TO WORK.

In America men spend so much time in being efficient that they have no time left in
which to do the work itself. - Mr. Sinclair Lewis, the American novelist.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

(PENSIONS).
213
the names of ex-Cabinet Ministers and ex-Lord High Chancellors now in receipt of pensions
or Officer of the Crown; the total amount of salary received for such services the period
received up to date ?

Period for which Pension
receivable (to 8th March, 1923).
From 24th August, 1892, to 4th
July, 1895, and from roth
October, 1903, to date.-22 years,
34 months.
From 26th November, 1900.-22
years, 3 months.
Total Pension
received to
5th January, 1923.
Remarks.
f
s. d.
44,206 9 3
£2,000 per annum.
24.927
2 I
From 11th June, 1912.-10 years,
9 months.
From 27th May, 1915.-7 years,
9 months.
:
146,369 4 6
+38,049 9
Ο
From Ith December, 1916.-6
years, 3 months.
$30,353 5 3
From 25th October, 1922.-4
months.
1991 16 11
£1,200 per annum.
£300 per annum deducted
while serving as Member of
the House of Commons,.
1911-1916.
Half pension only (i.e., £2,500.
per annum), drawn from 4th
December, 1918, to 5th July,.
1921, inclusive.
per annum as Speaker of House of Lords.
to salary for eight months as Chancellor of Duchy of Lancaster.
-Extract from Parliamentary Debates, 8th March, 1923. Vol. 161, No. 18, p. 758.
COST OF LIVING.
and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
کا
January
1915 1916
1917
1918 1919
1920
1921
1922 1923.
bf
th
March
February
10-15
35
65
85-90 120
125
92 165
78
15
35
65-70
90
120
130
151
88
77
D.
April
15-20
35-40
70
90
115
130
141
86
76
82
K
May
15-20
35-40
70-75
90-95
110
132
133
June
20
40-45
105 95-100 75
141
128
81
80
d
July
25
45
75-80
100
105
150
119
ne
h
August
25
45-50
80
100-105 105-110
152
119
84
81
122
October
September
25
45-50
80
110
115
155
161
120
79
25
50
H
December
November
80-85 ΙΙΟ
30
50-55
75-80 115-120
30-35
60
85
35
65
85
120
1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922).
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement,.
Agreement, and present date.
115
120
164
IIO
78
120-125 125
103 176
80
169 99
80
125

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

214
CO-PARTNERSHIP WORKSHOPS.
Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Ltd.
We beg to submit the Sixtieth Half-Yearly Report and Balance Sheet. The Sales
for the half-year amount to £23,402 15s. 2d., a decrease of £1,333 16s. 9d. compared with
the corresponding period of last year. The total Sales for the year amount to £49,344
16s. 9d, a decrease of £2,407 19s. 8d. compared with the previous year. After providing
for Interest on Share and Loan Capital to the amount of £988 9s. 11d. and depreciating
Fixed Stock, Buildings, &c., £1,026 18s. 5d., we regret to report an adverse balance of
£1,123 14S. 8d. Deducting the balance profit of £80 5s. 2d. brought forward from last
half-year there remains a Net Deficit of £1,043 9s. 6d. to be carried forward.
The Committee regret very much to have to record this serious loss on the half-year's
trading, which is largely due to the decreased turnover, severe competition and other causes
arising from the general condition of trade in the country. Members are assured that a
thorough investigation of the productive and administrative costs of the various depart-
ments and branches is being made, and we are hopeful that by economising in every possible
direction better results will be forthcoming.
BOX DEPARTMENT.--The Sales amount to £5,347, a decrease of £1,131 compared with
the corresponding half-year. This decrease is due to a great extent to the serious depression
in the Boot Trade for which this department caters.
LONDON BRANCH.--Trade has been very good, especially during the latter months
of the period under review.
KETTERING BRANCH.-Trade very slack during the first portion of the half-year,
but a great improvement was shown in the last three months.
Chesham Boot.
The sales for the last half-year were £14,203, and the profit £420. As a loss had been
incurred in the first half of the year this profit was used to cancel it.
Northants Productive.
The sales for the second half of 1922 were £15,018, but owing to the slackening of trade
a loss of £232 is incurred. Interest on Shares was paid out of Reserves and this debt
cancelled also in the same way.
Higham Ferrers.
The sales for the second half of 1922 were £14,824, and the profit was £350. This
was used to pay Interest on Shares £238, and the remaining £121 was added to the Interest
Guarantee Fund.
Sileby "Excelsior."
The sales were £28,126 for the past half-year and the profit £1,923, of which £232
went to Shareholders in Interest and Dividends. Customers received (266, about 2s. in
the £ on purchases, and the workers £620, also about 2s. in the £. According to rule, £89
was allocated to Education Funds, £178 to the Provident Fund and the same amount to
Reserve.
Union Boot Society.
The sales for the latter half of 1922 were £11,689. The profit was £168, of which
£147 went to Shareholders as interest. The granting of certain donations and subscrip-
tions made a final deficit of £79.
Glenfield.
The sales for the past half-year were £12,851, and the profit was £1,048. Interest and
dividend on Shares took £244. Customers received £250, being dividend on purchases
at 4d. in the £ and workers £250, being Is. in the £ on wages. Then ₤25 was added to both
the Education and Provident Funds.

SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE, - Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 24th
February, 1923, 50,996 ; Increase on a month ago, 0.3 per cent.; Increase on a year ago,
4.4 per cent. Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 24th February, 1923,
(116,881; Increase on a month ago, 1.8 per cent.; Increase on a year ago, 2.9 per cent.-
Labour Gazette, March, 1923.


---
215
OUR OVERSEAS TRADE.
Exports and Imports of Boots and Shoes Increasing.
We give below an abstract of the Board of Trade Returns for February, so far as the
shoe and leather trades are concerned.
Exports of Boots and Shoes.
Month ended 28th February.
Quantities.
Value.
1921.
Doz.
Pairs.
1922.
Doz.
Pairs.
1923.
Doz.
Pairs.
1921
£
1922.
£
1923.
£
Of Leather
To Sweden
1,254
55
122
8,830
482
495
Germany..
125
6
Netherlands
6,197
3.907
1,572
24,834
16,682
7,285
Belgium..
1,460
1,306
1,124
7,581
7,490
4,040
France
688
1,443
1,404
8,057
11,885
9,558
Italy
40
156
7
942
355
49
*Egypt
2,628
11,314
Argentine Republic
327
37
682
1,357
387
2,776
,,*Egypt (including
Anglo-Egyptian
Sudan)..
669
1,950
4,862
10,732
British South Africa
6,102
7,324
9,821
44.559
51,581
67,101
,,*Anglo-Egyptian Sudan
38
204
British East Indies
1,435
643
2,148
13,286
4,563
8,554
Australia..
181
1,288
8,740
2,185
2,401
14,263
New Zealand
2,999
4,974
12,960
15,726
23,275
65,994
British West India
Islands (including
Bahamas) and
British Guiana
455
1,396
1,539
3,223
7,933
6,867
Other Countries
12,878
4,788
6,463
100,752
39,188
44,360
Total (of leather)
34,810
29,267
49,248
237,004
176,960
242,860
Of other materials (ex-
cept rubber)
16,406
9,894
11,151
43,947
20,946
19,556
Of rubber
11,674
6,658
10,450
23,654
13,142
19.794
Grand total
62,890
45.819
70,849
£304,605
£211,048
£282,210
* Egypt and Anglo-Egyptian Sudan are now shown separately.
For the two months ended 28th February, 1921, 1922, and 1923, the exports of British
boots and shoes of leather, rubber and other materials were valued at £690,542, £414,312,
and £599,514 respectively.
Imports and Re-exports of Boots and Shoes.
Month ended 28th February.
Quantities.
Value.
1921.
1922.
Doz.
Pairs.
1923.
Doz.
Pairs.
1921.
£
1922.
£
1923.
£
Doz.
Pairs.
Of leather
6,444
6,839
10,076
63,398
64,306
75.331
Of other materials (ex-
cept rubber)
4,309
10,363
12,029
13,460
23,739
20,713
Of rubber
9,193
15,463
15,894
17,471
36,126
23.659
Gross imports
19,946
32,665
37,999
94,329
124,171
119,703
Re-exports
296
979
722
2,373
6,169
4,947
Net imports
19,650
31,686
37,277
£91,956
£118,002
£114,756
For the two months ended 28th February, 1921, 1922, and 1923, our imports of boots
and shoes of leather, rubber and other materials were valued at £160,703, £233,788, and
£259,072 respectively. - The Shoe and Leather Record, 16th March, 1923.

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
216
Joined by Book Debts or Clearance.
Edinburgh.
Kettering No. 2-Con.
Ayr.
H. Archer
..132662
J. McCall
T.. 71818
W. R. Hope
..123986
A. B. Bosworth
..120374
Now becomes full member
Females
Belfast.
J. Sutherland
..139469
R. Grant
..128790
1952
J. Kennedy
Bishop Auckland.
Glasgow No. 2.
Now become full members
G. Barton
..101682
Kilmarnock.
Now pays to sick only
Females
W. Bancroft
48359
2119
L. Bradwell
Bristol.
N. Jamieson
A. Johnstone
..134847
D. Kennedy
15899
..117552
Kingswood.
W. Holliday
..120433
F. Linham
..126791
REINSTATED
H. Hilliard
871
J. Bailey
E. Minton
1059
F. Green
Bristol No. 2.
Heckmondwike.
Now pays to sick only
Higham and Rushden.
W. C. Meekins
REINSTATED
S. Brain
143141
6136
Leeds.
H. Liversedge
..138770
TF.. 9019
W. Hornby
..116109
HM..106553
W. Bates
..116110
G. Barrington
65419
G. Campion
77386
A. Robinson
..142321
P. A. Rawlins
83318
Leeds No. 2.
Female
E. Matthews
95507
Now become full members
R. Pettit
..128934
H. S. Neville
..101021
Now become full members
F. L. Sharp
..106514
CORRECTED NAMES
L. Newman
..141429
R. S. Flawn
..106541
W. S. Stone
.140652
F. V. Marshall
..117665
J. Hampshaw
36435
G. Allen
..146252
R. Hodson
..139791
H. M. Hampshaw .. 36582
L. Bates
104100
Females
C. J. Jones
104106
Leicester.
D. Gammon
..146259
V. Cook
106586
OADBY
M. French
..147576
H. Whiting
113015
H. White
28006
H. Foreman
.125524
E. Moore
CORRECTED NAMES
M. Fox
Mrs. Flook
28423
F. Smith
..125532
Females
F. Skelham
..145583
REINSTATED
..101515
J. Bedford
..115227
.131430
W. Parbury
C. Watkinson
..106724
20567
C. Chapman
L. Price
..146261
E. Sawford
..132563
H. Perry
20786
..141839
J. Murray
23526
Mrs. Foxhall
Bromsgrove.
Now becomes full member
Females
.. 95496
R. Maddison
R. Murray
27241
82458
T. Bagshaw
T.. 77614
E. Pratt
..106738
F. Wickstead
V. Maddison
..144726
..127266
E. Snart
18945
Female
D. Tilt
Hinckley.
EARL SHILTON
..145090
J. Hale
Burnley.
J. Foxon
11740
Female
11536
Now becomes full member
Kettering.
E. Bailey
91470
C. Scholes
..112789
G. Goosey
SOUTH WIGSTON
14323
Chesham.
Now becomes full member
A. Willis
Now become full members
Female
L. Waller
H. Dines
..104353
Mrs. Wiggins
..125952
..144568
L. Knight
Daventry.
Now becomes full member
Desborough.
L. Beadsworth
..113379
G. H. Turland
..111768
Leicester No. 2.
H. R. Banks
..100451
A. Toseland
..122130
A. Woollard
..106973
H. Hanson
85288
..139110
E. Smith
..131618
S. R. Bowles
..125998
H. Holmes
..104328
E. Shaw
..120486
..142310
J. Jackson
99764
REINSTATED
A. Clarke
Kettering No. 2.
E. Gilliver
TF..134025
72580
Female
E. Clarke
S. Simons
J. Abbott
Now become full members
C. Carr
ΠΜ..145215
65646
H. Britten
..128784
Now become full members
W. H. Parker
..104406
..104411
L. Scannell
T. Higginson
128008
..124425
..139513
E. Simpson
..131770
W. C. H. Lester
..132854


---
Here is the text from the image:

217
Joined by Book Debts or Clearance-Con.
Leicester Women's.
Northampton-Con.
N. Hubbard ..103109
R. Winmill ..139982
B. Stone T..103200
S. F. Harvey ..138951
Mrs. Green ..115876
A. Richards ..142570
R. Sinfield ..115896
A. G. Shipley ..140572
R. Devonport ..115924
Now pays to funeral only
L. Harding ..141202
R. Shaw .. 49425
A. Devonport .143227
E. Simons ..148333
Northampton No. 2.
H. Scott ..148334
A. Smith ..107030
A. Upton ..113669
T. Spowten .. 52231
L. Rodger .. 14652
I.. E. Bellamy 86773
Female
L. Bailev 25562
F. York ..127472
A. Clarke ..103197
REINSTATED
REINSTATED
F. Burdett ..134204
F. Steel .. 56411
Liverpool.
J. Lineham ..123378
W. Hobbs T..108098
REINSTATED
J. Haywood ST..108192
W. Noonan ST.. 89763
Females
London Metro.
M. Whitehouse .. 56352
G. Tilley ..100766
REINSTATED
M. Culverhouse ..136654
G. Burling ST.. 92799
E. Seville ..112545
J. Banks Τ..144840
K. Tredwell ..128198
N. Chown .. 98833
Female
Now becomes full member
Norwich.
C. Taylor ..132096
REINSTATED
Manchester.
D. Day ..128002
S. Allen .146672
REINSTATED
A. Abraham 147359
T. Craven .. 40040
S. Horstead .146067
A. Mercer ..137316
A. Reeve .144978
J. Blakley TF..144854
C. Shepherd 146063
C. Benn ..146039
Now become full members
J. Bales ..146065
M. Livesley ..127975
G. Lake 147357
E. Hair ..137951
Females
Mansfield.
V. Daynes .. 83850
E. Winter .. 84916
G. Smith ..105490
E. Humphreys 57414
Now become full members
Female
S. Hilton ..146657
M. Stapleton ..105513
Females
Northampton.
A. Parsons .124953
J. Griffin ..136602
R. Dent .128061
C. Lowe TF.. 99419
V. Wones ..136483
N. Able ..137565
REINSTATED
M. Finch ..138918
H. Austin ΗΜ..142122
A. Wright ..139660
G. Ilarding JHM..142567
W. Sexton ..140553
M. Metcalf ..140955
Now become full members
F. Culyer .140954
W. Bray ..138061
E. Laws ..140956
A. Wright ..118871
L. Norman .141701
J. S. Jarrett ..140237
L. Houghton ..141707
J. Cave ..135430
E. B. Richards .139347
Norwich No. 2.
G. Snedker ..140250
SCRATCHED IN ERROR
..140236
C. Larkman ..132140
Norwich No. 2-Con.
Now become full members
C. Dickerson ..123208
R. Cornwall ..134454
W. Arnup ..139671
W. Cooper 118586
A. W. Carey 134449
J. Cowls ..134451
W. J. Starling 140218
B. A. Holmes ..140558
F. E. Tyrrell ..140960
A. H. Barclay ..146753
Females
E. Beckett ..139678
E. Harris ..141813
R. Fox ..140561
W. Gooch ..140965
H. Debbage ..141343
M. Cobbin .142236
E. Rhodes ..143045
Nottingham.
Now become full members
W. Bonsall ..138511
Female
A. Rushworth 9731
Sileby.
REINSTATED
H. Sibson ..113641
Female
E. Taylor ..106126
Stafford.
A. Finlow 59837
J. Nicklin 59254
J. Challenger ..144545
Now become full members
H. Ashton : 97003
F. Beardsley ..149164
S. Perkins ..123519
Now pay to sick only
T. Adderley .. 58758
W. Sturland 58705
A. Mountford 59766

Stone.
Females
Now become full members
E. Salt ..140631
F. A. Crosby ..143508
H. Booth ..149770
D. Bailey ..138560
Street.
Now become full members
A. Vincent ..146211
Female
P. Collard ΗΜ.. 145070
Now pays to sick only
F. Ellis .. 60669
Worcester.
Female
G. Sawyer 78378


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

Leicester-Con.
G. Bailey ..149947
G. Newhy ..149948
W. B. Ladkin ..149949
A. Jones ..149950
A. Love ..149951
F. Neal T..149952
W. Jones ..149953
F. H. Linney ..149954
A. Anderson ..149955
G. T. Wood ..149956
A. Pratt T..149957
T. B. Astley ..149958
H. Heflord T..149959
H. McNulty ..149960
E. F. Harrison ..149961
A. Halford ..149962
F Brown ..149963
F. Marlow ..149964
- Hopewell HM..149965
G. Pitts ..149966
A. Marshall HM..149967
- Boves ..149968
G. Hill ..149969
W. Challoner ..149970
A. Healey ..149971
H. Brooks ..149972
H. F. Ball ..149973
E. Forrest ..149974
J. Lock T..149975
H. McReynolds ..149976
A. Anstce ..149977

ANSTEY
W. Briggs ..149978
J. Rawlings ..149979
M. Danvers ..149980

ENDERBY
F. Pollard HM..149981
R. Martin HM..149982

SYSTON
H. Potter ..149983

SOUTH WIGSTON
R. Cox ..149984

Female
G. Franks ..149985

BARWELL
A. Bennett ..149986

Females
G. Barlow ..149987
E. Grewcock ..149988
D. Patrick ..149989
E. Belcher ..149990
E. Finney ..149991

Leicester No. 2.
W. Howett HM..149992
A. Ladkin ..149993
J. Law ..149994
E. Coleman ..149995
L. Gisborne ..149996

219
New and Re-entered Members-Con.
Leicester No. 2-Con.
W. Poulteney ..149997
A. Clarke ..149998
R. Manning ..149999
F. Gurr ..150000
T. Wigglesworth ..150001
A. Hope ..150002
H. Muddimer ..150003
J. Trigg ..150004
J. Gibson ..150005
J. E. Potter HM..150006
H. Nutting HM..150007
H. Elson ..150008
W. Williams ..150009
W. Eaton HM..150010
O. McManus HM..150011
A. Hemmings ..150012
R. Moorcroft ..150013
F. Bedders ..150014
T. Downing ..150015
G. Illson ..150016
C. Ingram ..150017
C. B. Dyer ..150018
H. Seville ..150019
J. Tomlinson ..150020
W. R. Dutton TF..150021
W. Martin TF..150022
E. E. Wright HM..150023
I.. Reeves ..150024

ANSTEY No. 2
D. C. Thompson ..150025

BARWELL No. 2
R. Herbert ..150026
E. Snow ..150027
A. Higginson ..150028
J. Bailey ..150029

Leicester Women's.
K. Moulds ..150030
A. Appleby ..150031
E. Bentley ..150032
J. Daley ..150033
M. Stevenson ..150034
S. Stutley ..150035
C. Hutchinson ..150036
G. Easton ..150037
B. Fisher ..150038
G. Atkins ..150039
A. Morriss ..150040
N. Bowles ..150041
M. Gutteridge ..150042
L. Derbyshire ..150043
E. Leeson ..150044
L. Bull ..150045
F. Goodwin ..150046
E. Gee ..1500.47
A. Green T..150048
F. Lynch ..150049
L. Wilford ..150050
1. Layton ..150051
L. Greasley ..150052
A. Coleman ..150053
L. Shelton ..150054
F. Morley ..150055
R. Hannis ..150056
A. Corser ..150057

Leicester Women's-
Con.
- Sabin
F. E. Dexter T..150059
L. Saunders ..150060
A. Abbott ..150061
F. Lines ..150062
E. Laffar ..150063
1. Knott ..150064
E. Briggs ..150065
L. M. Petts ..150066
M. Mason ..150067
L. Reeve ..150068
L. Moore ..150069
G. Knight ..150070
Λ. Ε. Derby ..150071
- Thornton ..150072
C. Meigh ..150073
M. Hamınersley ..150074
G. Scotney ..150075
- Linthwaite T..150076
M. Holland ..150077
E. Lang ..150078
E. Upham ..150079
R. Tarry ..150080
V. Hinsley ..150081
V. Tavlor ..150082
E. Smith ..150083
R. Faulkner ..150084
L. Herbert ..150085
A. Farrar ..150086
N. White ..150087
J. Gutteridge ..150088
B. Noakes ..150089
E. Graves ..150090
- Jacques ..150091
G. Pretty ..150092
- Manton ..150093
E. Marlow ..150094
A. Jones ..150095
E. Staples ..150096
L. Harding ..150097
G. Langton ..150098
E. Wrighton ..150099
F. Collings ..150100
H. Neal ..150101

ENDERBY
L. Findley ..150102
F. E. Cárter ..150103
C. E. Carter ..150104
E. Moulds ..150105
M. Hextall ..150106
A. Biggs ΗΜ..150107
L. Darby ..150108

Liverpool.
A. Whitfield ..150109

London Metro.
F. Smith ST..150110
T. Hammond ..150111
J. Darke ST..150112
IW. Howes ..150113
V. Boolen T..150114
G. Spooner IIM..150115
- Shulberg ..150116
S. Woolf ST..150117


---
Here is the text from the image:

London Metro. Con.
220
New and Re-entered Members-Con.
Northampton-Con.
Northampton No. 2
Con.
P. Mann
..150118
J. J. Mallard
ST..150173
H. Toseland
..150174
D. Malpas HM..150236
E. Main
E. Hillyer
S. Turner
E. Goodchild
H. Michaelson
ST..150119
W. Wood
HM..150175
HM..150237
Copping
..150120
F. R. Leach
HM..150176
N. Jeffcoate
..150121
W. Seamark
..150177
A. Markie
HM..150238
HM..150239
ST..150122
P. Brown
HM..150178
A. Rovell
HM..150240
..150123
A. Townsend
..150179
G. Chapman
HM..150241
Female
F. Morehen
..150180
M. Hustwaite HM..150242
T. Jeffs
..150181
E. Bustin
HM..150243
M. Bennett
HM..150124
A. W. Shortland HM..150182
W. Bromhill
HM..150244
Manchester.
A. Warren
..150183
Norwich.
J. Dodd
..150125
J. H. Smith
..150184
W. Ealey
..150185
G. A. Yaxley
150245
Mansfield.
F. S. George
HM..150186
T. B. Francis
..150246.
H. Civil
..150187
T. Hudson
..150247
W. Kemp
..150126
H. Hartell
..150188
G. Fisher
.150248
T. N. Morton
..150127
T. Inwood
..150189
S. E. Smith
.150249
Females
W. Coles
..150190
A. Green
.150250
L. Thorpe
..150128
F. J. Cox
..150191
B. Whittaker
• 150251
C. W. Pulley
ΗΜ..150192
C. Brown
.150252
1. Beresford
..150129
F. Birch
..150193
G. Grimmer
.150253
Maybole.
C. J. Holmes
..150194
A. Jex
.150254
H. Wilson
.150255
W. Watson
..150130
Northampton No. 2.
W. Raby
.150256
R. Seeley
T..150257
Northampton.
J. Timms
..150195
H. Armes
.150258
W. Mills
ΗΜ..150131
J. White
..150196
E. Waters
.150259
H. Hardcastle
..150132
A. Westley
..150197
W. H. Smith
B. Whiting
H. Bradshaw
..150133
..150198
HM..150260
J. G. Grint
.150261
E. A. Heasman
..150134
E. Perrin
..150199
C. Winsdale
HM..150262
F. Jones
G. Chater
ΗΜ..150135
..150200
H. Buttifant
..150263
T. Billingham
..150136
W. Swan
..150201
A. Howard
S. Heel
.150137
H. Westley
.150264
..150202
A. Battison
..150138
B. Tilson
J. G. Holmes
..150265
ΗΜ..150203
W. Roe
ΗΜ..150139
V. Smith
W. Clarke
HM..150204
..150266
T. Alderman
..150140
H. Bird
H. Steward
ΗΜ..150205
..150267
H. Moore
..150141
J. Platt
HM..150206
H. Simpson
ΗΜ..150268
F. H. Jackson HM..150142
E. Mann
Τ..150207
F. Campling
HM..150269
J. J. Humphrey HM..150143
A. Hook
HM..150270
Females
W. Warren
T. Coe
..150144
.150271
A. Smith
..150145
M. Spick
Dawson
..150208
ΗΜ..150272
C. G. Green
..150146
A. Cox
G. Groom
ΗΜ..150273
..150209
B. Townsend
..150147
F. Buthee
..150210
G. Robinson
ΗΜ..150148
E. L. Richards
Females
150211
S. Rawlings
ΗΜ..150149
Mrs. Wykes
..150212
L. Earl
..150274
C. Roberts
ΗΜ..150150
F. Worth
A. V. Williams
..150151
E. Wright
..150213
E. Payne
ΗΜ..150275
..150214
M. Smith
HM..150276
L. Johnson
ΗΜ..150152
Mrs. Bazeley
G. P. Ward
ΗΜ..150153
Mrs. Thorley
..150215
F. Forster
ΗΜ..150277
J. W. Bradley
..150154
E. Chatfield
..150216
B. Buttle
ΗΜ..150278
G. Roper
..150155
G. Wilford
.150217
A. Hurren
HM..150279
J. S. Chapman
HM..150156
Mrs. Rowland
..150218
E. Weavers
ΗΜ..150280
C. Spick
..150157
M. Corcoran
.150219
E. Whiley
..150281
A. Watson
IIM..150158
M. Williams
150220
V. Catchpole
HM..150282
G. Dunkley
ST..150159
I. Smith
..150221
H. Harrison
..150283
L. Burdett
..150160
R. Farmer
.150222
I.. Quinton
..150284
S. Page
ΗΜ..150161
W. Lyon
HM..150162
E. Jeffery
..150223
D. Nicholls
HM..150285
R. Miller
M. Loveland
.150224
D. Wilson
HM..150286
..150163
E. W. James
M. Harlow
150225
V. Shreeve
..150287
HM..150164
F. Spencer
..150165
L. Dyer
.150226
G. Eastor
.150288
11. Ashby
N. Coles
ΗΜ..150227
M. Bailey
..150289
..150166
F. Edwards
ST..150167
J. Goffee
HM..150228
L. Smith
..150290
II. Woodward
ST..150168
II. Jones
P. A. Wilkins
..150169
G. Crossman
K. Cummings
ΗΜ..150229
K. Rook
HM..150230
..150291
A. Cross
..150170
A. Hammett
ΗΜ..150231
Norwich No. 2.
I. Cook
ΗΜ..150232
G. E. Ledger
..150171
HM..150172
D. Barrett
IIM..150233
H. Dawson
TF..150292
E. Jones
IM..150234
E. High
HM..150293
HM..150235
F. G. Smith
..150204
H. Daines
..150205


---
Here is the text from the image:

221
New and Re-entered Members-Con.

Norwich No. 2 Con.
B. Reynolds ..150296
C. F. Douglas HM..150297
J. Downes ..150298
S. Turner ..150299
W. K. Parker ..150,300
A. Graves ..150301

Females
M. Dennis HM.. 150302
D. Smith ..150303
E. Brandish IM..150304
E. Wild ..150305
A. Palmer ..150306
J. Engall ..150307
H. Hutson ..150308
R. Savage ..150309
E. Wood HM..150310
E. Page HM..150311

Nottingham.
W. Handley TF..150312

Sileby.
F. Byatt ..150313
J. Dakin ..150314
T. Preston ..150315
H. Perkins ..150316

Sileby-Con.
H. Whittington ..150317
C. Whittington ..150318
A. Yates ..150319

Stafford.
T. Moore ..150320
W. Moseley ..150321
E. Hawkins ..150322
C. Harper TF..150323
E. Tams 11M.. 150324

Females
K. Bailey ..150325
W. A. Adams ..150326
E. S. Nield ..150327
T. Lyon ..150328

Street.
J. A. Broughton ..150329
H. Brass ..150330
M. Barnes ..150331
A. Sharpe ..150332
H. Heal Τ..150333
F. Walters Τ..150334
W. Murley ΗΜ..150335
N. Heal HM..150336

Street-Con.
Females
Mrs. Flagg ..150337
A. Linham ..150338
S. Tuttiett ..150339
Mrs. Van Rynen ..150340
A. Badınan ..150341
G. Sharpe ..150342

Wellingborough.
Watts ..150343
D. Nichols ..150344
F. Roberts ..150345
C. H. Cox ..150346
C. H. Luck ..150347
J. Bailey ..150348
A. Clarke HM..150349
H. Clements ΗΜ..150350
W. J. Riddle HM..150351

Females
Mrs. Wright ..150352
E. Miles ..150353
E. Freeman ..150354
E. Pratt ..150355
J. M. Coleman ..150356
I. Warren HM..150357
D. Lovell HM..150358

Scratched List.

Arbroath.
A. Glen TF.. 73803
J. Fyfe TF.. 87983
H. Robertson 69886
D. Carrie ..123662
W. Jack ..123661
F. Irons HM..145842

Females
M. Irons 67099
L. Forbes 67103
M. Soutar 67106
E. Gordon 67112
N. Adams 72536
J. McGregor 72549
L. Campbell 67123
N. Waddell 67126
M. Hill 67129
M. Hamilton 67129
A. Gardiner 67139

Belfast.
J. Boyd ..126978
J. Kenny 94259

Burnley.
E. Turner ..140660
J. A. Murray 61011

Chesham.
H. E. Butler TF.. 79015
A. Wright TF..103806
E. Reading TF.. 90165
F. W. Lovett TF.. 94269

Chesham-Con.
A. Pratt TF..103813
T. Morby TF..155050
F. Wilkins TF..115059
J. Rance TF..138213
A. G. Bedford HM..146873
F. Blake TF..146889
W. Mead TF..146891
W. Bristow TF..148150

Females
B. Meadows 94278
E. Freeman ..144573
M. Beechey ..144574

Cork.
J. O'Sullivan ..125359
M. Riordan ..142277

Daventry.
E. Gray 84229

Derby.
L. Moorcroft 93211
F. Winfield 93219

Desborough.
J. Butlin ..125440

Eyam.
Females
Mrs. Whitworth 94355
L. Nettleship 94.362

Eyam-Con.
D. Barker 94371
L. Frith 94374
E. Hall 94381
E. Askham 97420
A. White 97427
D. Furness ..138646
M. A. Slater 138647
Mrs. Robinson ..138648
M. Barker 94382
E. Nettleship ..138652

Heckmondwike.
V. Thornton ..138668

Hull.
P. Main ..117808
A. Wilks HM..137648
T. Sutton TF..123917

Kingswood.
W. Bryant 65247
L. Gover 17786
H. Wiltshire ..104680
G. Iles Τ.. 139529

Leicester.
J. Pegg 19519
H. Sarson 20439
S. Dyson 21819
W. Rodgers 27203
H. Allen 70877
F. Greasley 75349
A. Leatherland ST.. 75992


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

Northampton-Con.
F. Butcher TF..118632
L. G. Payne ST..118675
B. Robinson ..118704
P. Lambert ..118866
H. Smith ST..118896
F. Billingham ..118906
G. Moore ..129629
E. Penn ..131132
F. Dunkley ..136589
G. H. Allen ..138954
T. Clifton ..140988
H. Williams ..140992
J. Shipley ..141350
W. Humphrey TF..141686
J. W. Letts ..142109
L. Hall ..142565
F. Seamark HM..144870
L. A. Loakes ..144881
A. Packer ..145414
G. Drage ..145863
G. Robinson ST..145913
F. Bullimore ..146569
G. Steel ..147247
E. Hardwick TF..148957
C. F. Marshall ..148981

Northampton No. 2.
O. Twist .. 51456
C. Harding .. 52523
C. Leach .. 52274
F. Bates .. 86696
E. Humphrey .. 57414
A. Colbourne ..118965
M. Anderson .. 84040
A. Bills .. 85124
M. Dannett ..141706
F. Talbot ..125079
H. Brav ..128159
S. Weston ..142953
C. York .144326
J. Shepherd ..144883
F. Petchell ..145416
J. Hutchings ..145926
G. Blane ..145936
G. Pike ..147911
S. Finch ..149575
H. Bradshaw HM:.119360
J. Barford HM..146589
A. Grimley HM..148496
W. Dobson T.. 56401
H. Flack T..105877

Females
A. Sharpe .. 53491
M. Denton .. 54178
M. Perkins .. 54398
B. Line .. 52354
L. Tompkins .. 55064
F. King .. 55412
F. Berrill .. 55188
A. Bryant .. 55439
E. Leeson .. 56323
E. Crouch .. 56038
V. Peirce .. 57281
K. Bates .. 65332
S. Smith .. 57692

223
Scratched List-Con.
Northampton No. 2-
Con.
A. Gamage .. 65362
F. Smith .. 70480
C. Townsend .. 71134
A. Renshaw .. 72459
M. Ives .. 75066
M. Tarry .. 75067
J. Westbury .. 78631
H. Johnson ..100335
F. Stutley .. 78788
B. Hill .. 80275
M. Harris .. 81426
V. Law .. 85174
M. Smith .. 98916
M. Scott .101432
M. Stanton .102016
M. Julian .103548
M. Partridge 80313
D. Halsey .108209
S. Warren .136651
L. Pallett .113938
M. Middleton .112494
M. Thompson .112497
M. Kent .116851
S. Winter .116857
M. Toseland .119100
F. Jeffs .119211
G. Willmott .119398
R. Coleman .119401
F. Jackson .121757
M. Durey .121851
F. Jackson .128216
E. Lattoway .128243
F. Lineards .129787
N. Kirby .131243
C. Barrett 134663
G. Taylor .141740
L. Reynolds .144345
L. Hardwick .144346
M. King .143937
R. Weston .143948
A. Hughes .145449
M. Parrott .147297
M. Clarke .146602
B. Simpson HM..119368
K. Harland HM..129793
D. Ainge HM..142995
D. Herbert HM..147331
W. Birt HM..149749
M. Henshaw T..145944
M. Mason T..148514

Norwich.
W. T. Thompson . 43961
B. Clarke ST.. 66646
W. Chapman .105636
E. Thompson .133043
A. Beeley .143012
H. M. Wilson .147956
R. Rushmer .147957
A. King HM..147973
H. Allman T..147980
W. Sissons .148000

Females
E. Bradford .. 72362
E. Barker .. 72975

Norwich Con.
E. Armes . 83857
E. Varley . 83931
N. Walker .105708
E. Hutchins .107917
J. Moates .129476
E. Allman .133176
M. Pyle .137559
D. Smith HM..140173
I. Waller HM..144457
S. Hayden HM..144462
M. Summers HM..144995
E. Westgate HM..145371
G. Emms .146124
R. Whayman .146682
M. Ives HM..148036
A. Cousins .148037
H. Mann .131036

Norwich No. 2.
F. G. White .. 66659
H. T. Cook ST..142511
S. R. Whall HM..146133
J. Carriage ..147459
H. H. Holman .. 44973

Females
A. E. Mann .. 74856
C. Holmes .. 74897
E. A. Ong .. 80003

Sileby.
G. Porter ..123570

Females
Mrs. Blockley ..138148
M. J. Thornton ..101472

Street.
E. Wallace .. 91910
A. Griffen ..119606

Females
Mrs. Quick ..146226
L. Masters .102110
L. Dymond .132322
D. Snooke ..146827
B. Barnes .108461
M. Perkins .. 97062
B. Maull ..147556

Wellingborough.
G. Jolley .. 85310

Females
G. Freer .. 62510
B. Perkins ..110137
M. Britten ..135642

OLNEY
F. Mynard . 68734
W. Barrick . 69600
F. Longland . 92167
E. Freeman .100293
J. Mynard .108739
T. Horn .108753
F. C. Longland ..119784


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

225
Left by Dook Debts or Clearanco-Con.

Kettering No. 2-Con.
Harris	..122523
Skinner	.. 91253
Merris	.. 97918
E. Beale	.. 93472
Winkless	.. 83471
G. Tilley	.. 14995
L. Threadgold	.. 15429
G. Hodges	.. 99590
Holmes	.. 83434
Titman	..111784
Tasker	.. 15387
E. Barratt	.. 14977
T. Parkinson	.. 14991
Jackson	ST.. 124034
L. Barton	ΗΜ..148724

BURTON LATIMER
Females
H. Grainger	.. 15734
K. Hawkes	..109222

Kilmarnock.
A. Armour (dead) s.. 15976

Kingswood.
H. Sampson	..145129
G. Turner	..133827
H. Poole	.. 87181
F. Hudd	.. 73926
F. Garland	Τ..100513
A. Bourton	Τ.. 90444
G. Webb (dead)	T.. 17274

Leeds.
W. Todd	.. 36204
J. Goodhall	.. 92740
F. Wild	..118425
C. Chadwick (dead).. 34666
W. Clayton (dead)	.. 35150
J. Lan (dead)	.. 34905
J. Tulson (dead)	.. 36028

Leicester.
E. Naw	..120486
C. Marke	HM..149328
Read (dead)	.. 20466
E. Kentley (dead) s.. 18459
II. Ward (dead)	.. 18258
H. Telor (dead) s.. 18659
J. Bowen (dead)	.. 18497
W. Goode (dead) T.. 69219

Leicester-Con.
Female
M. Spencer (dead)	.. 11904

SOUTH WIGSTON
Females
Mrs. Clarke	..103197
Mrs. Hubbard	..103199
Mrs. Stone	T..103200
Mrs. Green	..115876
R. Sinfield	..115896
R. Devonport	..115924
L. Harding	..141202
A. Devonport	..143227
E. Simons	..148333
Mrs. Scott	..148334
I.. Barley	.. 25562

Leicester No. 2.
W. H. White	.. 28006
E. A. Moore	.. 28423
F. Jelly	.. 21787
R. Pettitt	..128934
J. W. Murby (dead) 28557
H. Walker (dead)	.. 30470
A. W. Atkins (dead).. 29073

London Metro.
J. Gray	.. 38145
C. Dey	S.. 38089
G. Clarke	.. 37976
W. Buchan	T..110855

Manchester.
H. Northern	.. 40124
E. G. Jines	.. 98501

Mansfield.
D. Sanderson	..144308
A. Tilley	..148428
G. Tilley	..137968
M. Peters	..107746

Northampton.
W. Bancroft	.. 48359
E. Jones	..118946
D. Barron (dead)	.. 47831
H. Jeffery (dead)	.. 46010
H. Moore (dead)	S.. 45559
F. Richardson (dead) s 46904
T. Stanton (dead) TF 49156

Northampton No. 2.
G. Griffen	..136602
F. Rabbitt (dead)	.. 51255
S. Barford (dead)	..134602
H. Hanley (dead)	51211
Female
M. Lantsbury (dead) 71615

Norwich.
A. Brain	.. 73613
J. Purling	HM..133098
C. Norton	..142497

Norwich No. 2.
A. French	.. 44541

Nottingham.
Female
F. Logan	..135551

Plymouth.
J. Waterfield (dead) 58012

Sileby.
H. Loomes	.. 20856

Stafford.
H. B. Stokes	.. 58620
H. Hudson	..146792
H. Bird	.. 59117
T. Weaver	TF.. 93908
C. Godwin	TF.. 89933

Females
L. Foulkes	.. 85216
G. M. Slater	..110082
M. Spearman	..110083
B. Perry	..122090
T. Lander	..106052
Mrs. Arnott	..139038

Street.
M. Linham	..134659
W. Carter	.. 83168
C. Wilkins	ΗΜ..138570
A. Coles	ΗΜ.. 93033

Wellingborough.
H. Henson	.. 85288
A. Toseland	..122130
Female
R. Coles (dead)	.. 68966

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES IN GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND.

TOTAL UNEMPLOYMENT.
Estimated Number of Insured Workpeople: - Males, 97,300; Females, 53,080;
Total, 150,380. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 26th February,
1923:-Males, 10,317; Females, 2,006; Total, 12,323. Percentage Unemployed:- Males,
10.6; Females, 3.8; Total, 8.2. Decrease as compared with 22nd January, 1923:-
Males, 0.6; Females, 0.5; Total, 0.6. - The Labour Gazette, March, 1923.


---


---


---
Here is the text from the image, extracted using OCR:

Names of Branches, Secretaries' Addresses and Places of Meeting.
BRANCH.                                                SECRETARY'S ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER.                                                      PLACE OF MEETING,
Aberdeen                                                 J. Anderson, 38, Bedford Road                                                                   [Trades Council Buildings, 47, Belmont St.
Arbroath                                                 J. P. Reid, 21, Lordburn, Arbroath                                                              Shakespeare Hall, High Street,
                                                                                                                                                                                                7.30 p.m.
Ayr                                                        A. McQuaker, 4, West Sanquhar Road, Ayr                                                       Newton Council Rooms
Barnsley                                                   William Bowler, 37, Taylor Row, Barnsley                                                        Industry Inn, Baker Street
Belfast        Sections                                   Jas. McCloskey. 3, Nassau St., Londonderry...                                                    Typographical Hall, Frederick St.
"                                                               G. White, 220, Cupar Street, Belfast
                                                                  Andw. Conway, 140, Queen Street, Ballymena
                                                                  Jas. Kenning, Circular Road, Castlowellan
Bishop Auckland.                                           Joseph Best, 140, Park Road, Portadown                                                         Labour Room, Kingsley Chambers
Brighton                                                   Joseph McAnespey, 33, Oldtown St., Cookstown                                                  Labour Club, Queen's Place
Bristol                                                    W. Crowther, 2, Seymour St., Bishop Auckland                                                    Star Coffee House, Old Market St.
Sections                                                C. W. Giles, 534, Richmond Buildings
"                                                               C. Osborne, 172, Newfoundland Road, Bristol...
                                                                 Tom Durban, 89, Worcester Street, Brynmawr
                                                                 R. Baker, 13, Sandford Street, Bath Road,
                                                                 Cheltenham
Bristol No. 2                                             J. Manners, 19, Downend Road, Fishponds,                                                 St. Clement's School
                                                                  Bristol
Sections Clevedon, Paulton, Street
"
Bromsgrove                                                A. Mole, 2, Rose Terrace, Brook Road,                                                            Oddfellows' Hall, High Street
                                                                 Bromsgrove
Burnley                                                     Jas. Taylor, 45, Hammerton Street, Burnley                                                     Central Club, Bank Parade
Chesham                                                   F. Goodger, 139, Bellingdon Rd., Chesham, Bucks
Chesterfield                                               G. Rodgers, 3, Whitehouses, Hasland Road                                                        Crown Hotel, Lordsmill Street
Colchester                                                 H. Proctor, 8, Lisle Road, Colchester...                                                        Trade Hall
Cork                                                       M. Cotter, 6, Crotomore Square, Cork                                                            Trades Hall
Daventry                                                   I. H. Johnson, J.P., West View, Warwick Road                                                       Unity Hall, Burton Road
Derby                                                      W. N. Blissett, 101, Leman Street, Derby                                                          Co-operative Hall
Desborough                                                S. Barnes, J.P., 141, Union Street, Desborough
Dublin                                                     H. Dale, 33, Cook Street, Dublin                                                                  Gilfillan Memorial
Dundee                                                    Alex. Brown, 10, Pitkerro Road, Dundee
Sections                                                W. Walker, Stirling Street, Blackford
"                                                              Wm. Connon, 256, High Street, Perth
Edinburgh                                                 Robert White, 28, Rodney Street, Edinburgh...                                                     Temperance Hall, High Street
Sections W. F. Taylor, Wellsteps Cottage, Laurieston,                                                               Falkirk
"
                                                                 J. Hutchieson, 157, High Street, Kirkcaldy
                                                                 W. Ferguson, 128, Albany Street, Dunfermline
                                                                 J. Stewart, 154, Charlotte Place, Bathgate
                                                                 S. Nicholson, 52, Toulford Road, Cowdenbeath
                                                                 E. Hall, 13A, Ludgate, Alloa
                                                                 F. Kearsley, Holy Bank Learmouth Crescent,
                                                                 West Calder
Eyam                                                        D. Harris, 49, Station Rows, Uphall, Phum-pherston
Glasgow                                                  Alex. Ross, 12, Lemon Terrace, Leven
Glasgow No. 2                                             G. Hunter, 16, Dundas Street, Lochgelly                                                        [Street, St. Gorbals Brass Finishers' Hall, 36, Main
Halesworth                                                A. Dickson, Co-op. Society, Tranent                                                                Masonic Hall, Rutland Crescent
Halifax                                                    D. Feeney, 23, Eskside, Musselburgh                                                            Suffolk
                                                                  W. Slater, Townhead, Eyam, Derbyshire
Heckmondwike                                             M. Gamble, 75, South Portland Street, Glasgow                                                     Friendly and Trades Club, St.
Hereford                                                   A. Kelman, 9, Grace Drive, Govan, Glasgow                                                      James Road
Higham & Rushden                                        J. Parker, 29, Chediston Street, Halesworth,                                                    Socialists' Room, Back Lane
                                                                  S. A. Halliday, 21, West Mount Street, Pillon
                                                                 Lane, Halifax
                                                                 A. Stott, J.P., 8, Melbourne Street, Union Road                                        Trade Union Club and Institute,
                                                                 W. H. Bishop, 42, Berrington Street, Hereford                                                 Rushden
Sections                                                W. Langley, J.P., Trade Union Office, Higham
"                                                               Road, Rushden.                                                                                             т. 51
                                                                 Higham Ferrers, Rushden, Irthlingborough,
                                                                 Finedon, Raunds, Ringstead, Stanwick,
                                                                 Irchester, Wollaston, and Bozeat
Hinckley                                                  W. Warner, 59, Stockwell Head, Hinckley                                                         Castle Tavern
Hull                                                       C. W. Glover, 4, Park Avenue, Perry Street                                                        Metropole, West Street
Ipswich                                                   F. Edwards, 192, Cemetery Road, Ipswich                                                            Labour Institute, Silent Street
Kendal                                                     J. B. Ellison, 31, Park Avenue, Kendal.                                                         Working Men's Institute, Market
Section J. Prickett, Rayrigg Road, Bowness-on-Winder-
Kettering                                                                                                                                                                                                        [Place
                                                                 C. Mayes, Trade Union Offices, Club Street,                                                   Trade Union Offices, Club Street
                                                                 Kettering.                                                                                                т. 141
Sections                                                J. Taylor, William Street, Burton Latimer
"                                                               J. Rowlett, 12, Gordon Street, Rothwell
                                                                 C. C. Smith, Kettering Road, Walgrave
Kettering No. 2                                          J. E. Chapman, Trade Union Offices.                                                                   т. 374 Trade Union Offices, Club Street
Sections                                                J. Taylor, William Street, Burton Latimer
"                                                               J. Rowlett, 12, Gordon Street, Rothwell
Kilmarnock                                               A. Flanagan, 24, Fleming Street, Riccarton                                                       Temperance Halls


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF UNION OFFICERS.
Tel. No.: 4438 Museum, London. Tel. Address : " Natunishop, Holb., London."

GENERAL PRESIDENT.
T. F. RICHARDS, Business Address-34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
Private Address-7, Mecklenburg Street, London, W.C. 1. NO business communications to this Address.
GENERAL SECRETARY.
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 69, Freegrove Road, Holloway, London, N. 7.
ORGANISERS.
D. MCCARTHY, 23, Avenue Road Extension, Leicester.
W. R. SMITH, J.P., " Belle Vue," Old Catton, Norwich.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
District No. 1-T. ADNITT, 65, Marfitt Street, Leicester.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
" 2-C. BATES, 8, Denmark Road, Rushden.
"
"
" 3-A. W. LYNE, 21, Cranstoun Street, Northampton.
"
"
" 4-L. SMITH, 16, Northcote Street, Semilong, Northampton.
"
"
" 5-C. MAYES, 25, Pollard Street, Kettering.
"
"
" 6-Vacant.
"
"
" 7-W. WARNER, 59, Stockwell Head, Hinckley.
"
"
" 8-W. HINDES, J.P., 9, Tillett Road, North Walsham Road,
Norwich.
"
"
" 9-C. BLEAKLEY, 1, Drum Terrace, Edinburgh.
"
"
" 10-A. J. DOBBS, 6, Bramley Avenue, Bramley, Leeds.
"
"
" 11-ALEX. SMITH, 187, North Street, Wolverhampton.
"
"
" 12-J. MANNERS, 19, Downend Road, Fishponds, Bristol.
DISTRICT AGENTS.
District No.
1-M. A. PARKER, Leicester. 7-J. H. BAUM, Leicester No. 2.
2-E. BATCHELOR, Rushden. 8-F. C. JEX, Norwich..
3-E. LAW, Northampton No. 2. 9-G. WEIR, Edinburgh.
4-I. H. JOHNSON, J.P., Daventry. 10-G. ABBOTT, Leeds.
5-G. CHESTER, Kettering. 11-C. HARPER, Wolverhampton.
6-Miss E. SHERWIN, Leicester 12-J. T. OSBORNE, Bristol.
(Women's).
UNION TRUSTEES.
S. THOMPSON, J.P., 97, Charles Street, Northampton.
L. E. BRADLEY, J.P., "Flossleys," Barton Seagrave, Kettering.
GEO. PARBURY, 118, Harrison Road, Leicester.
Miss E. A. TIMMS, 6, Scott Street, Leicester.
H. H. WOOLLEY, J.P., 124, Narborough Road, Leicester.
PARLIAMENTARY AGENTS.
T. F. RICHARDS, 34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
J. BUCKLE, M.P., J.P., 13, Eighteenth Avenue, New Wortley, Leeds.
W. R. SMITH, J.P., "Belle Vue," Old Catton, Norwich.
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 69, Freegrove Road, Holloway, London, N.7.
L. SMITH, 16, Northcote Street, Semilong, Northampton.
AUDITOR.
J. B. B. ROBERTSON, F.R.C.A., 241, Uppingham Road, Leicester.
BANKERS.
CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LTD., London.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.-Approved No. 281.
Manager : J. W. MURBY, Business Address-34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
TEL.: 5168 MUSEUM.
Printed by Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Limited, 99, Church Gate, for
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

INSIST
upon your Footwear
bearing this Stamp:
OF BOOT & SHOE OPERA
UNION
UNION
TRADE
NATIONAL
NO
LABOUR
Copyright.
Telephone No.:
4438 Museum, London.
Telegraphic Address:
"Natunishop, Holb., London."
NATIONAL UNION OF
BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES
(Registered under the Trade Union Acts, No. 432; Affiliated to the Trades Union
Congress, the General Federation of Trade Unions and the Labour Party).
Monthly Report for April, 1923.
וים
Seat of Government and General Secretary's Office :
34, GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1.
WHERE ALL BUSINESS CommunicationS MUST BE ADDRESSED.
PRICE ONE PENNY.


---
```text
Printed for
These Reports are
the Use of Members only.
: :
SPECIAL NOTICES.
ALL RETURNS TO BE SENT IN TIME TO REACH THE
OFFICE BY THE 15th OF EACH MONTH, OTHERWISE A FINE
OF 2s. 6d. WILL BE ENFORCED.
It is particularly requested that Branch Secretaries should send
Cash WITH the Returns, and not send Stamps in Payment.
The following Goods can be had at the Office :-
Branch Contribution Books in various sizes.
Shops Clerks' Books, ruled and well bound.
Receipt Books.
Large and Small Envelopes, with General Secretary's Name and
Address printed on.
Contribution Cards, with Secretary's Name and Address printed
on front, and also without name. 1s. 10d. dozen up to 20 dozen,
1s. 7d. dozen over 20 dozen.
Official Note Paper, with Printed Heading and Names and
Addresses of Secretaries.
Sick Certificate Books.
Books of Rules are supplied to Branches at 1d. each.
Return Sheets, Out-of-Work Benefit Sheets, Out-of-Work
Contribution Sheets, Out-of-Work Insurance Contribution Sheets,
Victimisation Sheets, Compensation Sheets, Travelling Sheets,
Dispute Sheets, Arbitration Forms, Funeral Forms, and Bail Notes
in Books are supplied Free.
All Claims to be sent in on the forms provided for that purpose.
ORGANISING BILLS will be supplied FREE to Branches upon
application to the General Secretary.
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

Boots, Shoes and Slippers
Insist upon your Footwear
bearing this Stamp.
UNION
OF BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES.
NATIONAL UNION
TRADE
LABOUR
Copyright.
With the Union Stamp on are
supplied by the following firms :
Higham Ferrers Co-operative Society, Higham
Ferrers, Northants
The "Equity" Co-operative Society, Western
Road, Leicester
The "Self-Help" Co-operative Society, Dartford
Road, Leicester
The "Excelsior" Co-operative Society, Sileby,
near Leicester
The "Pioneer" Co-operative Society, Clare
Street, Northampton
The Union Co-operative Society, Regent Street,
Kettering
Northamptonshire Productive Co-operative
Society, Wollaston, Northants
Havelock Co-operative Society, Havelock Street,
Kettering
I. L. P. Co-operative Society, Abington Street,
Northampton
Glenfield Progress Co-operative Society, Glenfield,
Leicestershire
Insist upon your Footwear
bearing this Stamp.
UNION
NATIONAL UNION
TRADE
& SHOE OPERATIVES.
Copyright.
Manufacturers of
Stamp No
Men's & Youths'
.. 1
All kinds
.. 2
Women's & Girls'
.. 3
Women's & Girls'
4
All kinds
5
Boys', Youths' & Men's 6
Boys', Youths' & Men's 7
Boys', Youths' & Men's 8
All kinds
9
Women's & Girls'
10
Men's & Boys' Strong
Nailed Work
11
Ladies', Girls' & Boys' 12
All kinds
13
All kinds of Children's 14
All kinds
15
Boot
17
All kinds
18
All kinds..
Strong & Half Strong 21
Men's, Youths' & Boys'
Nailed
Boots and Shoes
23
24
25
26
Messrs. Dronfield & Co., Chesterfield
Sperope Boot Manufacturing Co. Ltd., Barwell,
Leicestershire
Mr. T. S. Bunting, 37, Clare Street, Northampton
Anchor Boot Co-operative Society, Asfordby St.,
Leicester
Plymouth Mutual Co-operative Society Limited,
Treville Street, Plymouth
Mr. Norman McLeod, Strathmartine
Factory, Dundee
Burrows Bros., Earl Street, Northampton
Bishop Auckland Industrial Co-operative Society,
New Gate Street, Bishop Auckland
Chesham Boot and Shoe Manufacturers Limited,
Higham Road, Chesham
Crompton Boot Manufacturers Ltd., “I & U "
Works, Desborough
All kinds
Walker & Gunn, Higham Ferrers, Northants
Jacques & Son, Rushden
Messrs. J. T. Marriott & Co., 74, St. Nicholas Square, Leicester
A List of Retall Shops where Union Stamped Footwear can be obtained may be had
on application to Mr. E. L. POULTON. J.P. 34, Guilford Street, London W.C. 1.
PUSH THE UNION STAMPED GOODS.
April.
A
27


---
TRADE UNION STAMP FOR
BOOT & SHOE REPAIRERS.

The following Firms use the "STAMP" :—

BROCKLEY, Surrey
CHESHAM
CHESTERFIELD
DARTFORD
DUNDEE
DUBLIN
GRANTHAM
LEEDS
LEICESTER
LEIGH
MANCHESTER
NORTHAMPTON
NOTTINGHAM
PLYMOUTH
Mr. F. Jeffery, 1, Merritt Road, Crofton
Park
Mr. J. Mead, 150, High Street
J. W. Booth, Eyre Street, Hasland
Industrial Co-op. Society, 73, Kent Road
T. Malone, Mid Street
Arnold Lowe, 314, Upper Kevin Street
F. Lewin, 6 and 7, Chapel Street
J. Chapman, 5, Bulmer Street,
Meanwood Road
J. Smith, 30, Eldon Street
Ralph Wood, 47, Cottesmore Road
Messrs. J. T. Marriott & Co.,
74, St. Nicholas Square
Edward Gee, 51, Wolverton Road
Co-operative Society Ltd., Leigh
J. Mason, 15, Oakhill Street, Heath
Street, Cheetham Hill
Messrs. Roberts & Son, 98, Fairfield
Street, London Road
Manchester and Salford Equitable Co-op.
Society, Downing Street
T. W. Lewis, 72, Ethel Street
J. Seymour, 79, Woodborough Road
Messrs. Petitt & Co., 105, Tavistock Road

Stamp No.
16
14
7
17
4
10
19
21
9
15
20
22
13
1
2
8
3
12
11

All Trade Unionists should have their Repairs done
by Repairers who use the TRADE UNION STAMP.

Full particulars from General Secretary :-
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 34, Guilford Street, LONDON, W.C. 1.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondent
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

RT ໂຊນ 4438 MUSEUM, LONDON
National Union 
Tel Address:NATUNISHOP, HOLB, LONDON
Boots Shoe Operative,
Affiliated to the Trados Union Congrom the Gracral Federation
Trade Unsess and Nabucal Labow Party
Approved under the State National Health Insurance Acte. Approval No. 281
SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
34.GUILFORD STREET
dent LONDON. W.CI.
General President
T.F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
E.L POULTON J.P.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London. W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE
23RD APRIL, 1923.
does not seem to improve to any extent in the sense of absorbing members in
the factories, judging by the amount of money being paid weekly from our
Unemployment Fund. This is a serious matter, not only from the standpoint
of the Union on account of the continued drain on the funds, but also to the
members themselves who are placed in the unfortunate position of having no
work to do, and we can only hope that we shall be able to report more favour-
ably in the near future.
Owing to a printers' dispute, the Gazette issued by the Ministry of Labour
has not yet come to hand. We regret, therefore, we are unable to print our
usual list of figures in connection with unemployment.

ORGANISING.
on account of the refusal of certain
attention to the District of Kingswood,
KINGSWOOD. - For a considerable time past we have been devoting special
Manufacturers to comply with the National Agreement. Our difficulties
have been increased by the fact that for a very long time past the operatives
in Kingswood have suffered from lack of employment; we shall, however,
continue to pay special attention to the district, and trust the members, whom
We know are going through a very trying experience, will stand loyally by the


---
Here is the text from the image:

232
do not hesitate to take full advantage of the improvements secured by the
Union and help to bring inside our ranks those who are still outside, but who
Union during the past years.
At Messrs. Allen & Prior a dispute has been in being for about 5 weeks.
40 operatives being concerned therein. On the 14th inst. through the efforts
of Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., the firm have agreed to adhere to the National
Agreement and the operatives resumed work on the 16th inst.
LONDON. - The London Branch Officials, along with Mr. T. F. Richards
shall be taken with the firm of Messrs. L. & J. Weber & Phillips Ltd., who,
and Mr. D. McCarthy, have for some time past been considering what action
rather than comply with the National Agreement, resigned their membership
with the Manufacturers' Federation. At our meeting held to-day we further
considered what action should be taken in connection with this firm.
Appended is copy of a report issued to the Press relative thereto :-
At a meeting of the Board of Conciliation and Arbitration for the
Boot and Shoe Trade of London, held on Tuesday, roth April, 1923, at
Basma House, 13a, Fore Street, E.C.2, present: Employers-Mr. George
Pocock in the chair, Messrs. G. H. Bannister, A. Goodman, L. Hyams, and
G. Barnes; Workmen-Mr. G. Standeven (vice-chairman). Messrs. H.
Herbert, A. Mason, J. Morton, C. Robins, and W. J. Woodward; the
following resolution was passed unanimously :-" That the Board regrets
that Messrs. L. & J. Weber & Phillips Ltd., have resigned their member-
ship of the Manufacturers' Association, instead of placing the Board in the
position of adjudicating upon the complaint of the National Union, of
their alleged breach of the Terms of Settlement, and it is reluctantly
compelled to assume that the complaint of the Union is not without
justification."
INDUSTRIAL AND POLITICAL.
The past month has seen a good deal of activity both industrially and
politically. Disputes have been threatened in connection with a number of
industries, whilst the one in connection with Agriculture has indeed a tragic
side when one remembers the inadequate sum of money offered to the men
in return for the labour given. We hope that with the backing of the other
Unions they may yet be successful in their efforts to resist the terms which
the employers wish to impose upon them. Should, however, circumstances
be too strong and the Agricultural Labourers have to bow to the circumstances
and resume employment upon the terms offered, it is not too much to say that
such a feeling of resentment will be engendered amongst the men that they
will take an early opportunity to throw off such conditions and not only demand,
but secure such conditions as will enable them to maintain a fair standard of
comfort in their homes.
POLITICALLY the Labour Party has been making things far from tranquil
during the month. They have shown constant vigilance, and it is indeed not

---
too much to say that the effect of the Labour Party in th House of Commons
has been to show up, in clear outline, the injustice the workers are the
victims of. We hope it will so enlighten public opinion upon many questions,
particularly the Land question, Housing, and Unemployment, thereby
making it impossible for the Government to ignore these great and vital
questions. We can only hope our colleagues in the House will be enabled,
by their persistency and the adoption of statesmanlike methods, to secure
by reason, if not, then wring from the Government, more ameliorative
methods to ease the present tense situation which must obtain in thousands
of homes daily.
THE BUDGET, 1923.
Once more the workers are doomed to disappointment owing to the
attitude of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in dealing with the question of
taxation on tea, sugar, cocoa and the breakfast table generally, or by his setting
aside money for social reform. As one daily paper set out on their front page
in large bold headlines, it is "A Mean Budget." The opportunity presented
itself for a determined Chancellor of the Exchequer, despite the heavy taxation
which obtains as a consequence of the War, of helping and assisting the nation
as a whole financially, but rather than that being done we find a number of
smaller proposals the majority of which will leave the workers untouched. We
would refer you to pages 251-253 for a detailed list of the proposals which the
Government suggest putting into operation during the next 12 months. We
can only hope the members will, after perusal of the same, be more and more
convinced of the absolute necessity of sending representatives to the House
of Commons who will see that the policy of the Labour Party is carried out,
and thus help to bring about a better state of affairs both industrially, politically
and financially.
We are glad to note that the leader of the Labour Party, Mr. J. R.
MacDonald, M.P., made the position quite clear that they, the Labour Party,
would propose a number of amendments to the Budget proposals on the lines
of the Labour Party programme. .
MANAGER TO NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.
The result of the Voting for the above-named position will be found on
page 244; no one having secured a clear majority, Mr. R. D. Mayes (Leicester
No. 2) and Mr. C. Bleakley (Edinburgh) will go to a second vote to be taken
at the May meeting night. The votes must be counted on the 12th prox. and
returns posted so as to reach the Central Office not later than the first post
on Tuesday, the 15th prox., otherwise they will be disqualified. It will
be observed that we have not recorded the vote polled for Mr. A. G. Randall.
Kingswood. because of Mr. Randall's desire for his name to be withdrawn
from the Ballot Paper. The letter which Mr. Randall states was sent to the
Central Office, intimating his desire to retire, did not, and has not even now,
arrived, and as a consequence his name appeared on the voting paper. When
this became known Mr. Randall, we understand, wrote to the Branches asking


---
Here is the text from the image:

234
them to delete his name, and as a consequence only a few votes were recorded
for him, which does not affect the position at all. It should, however, be
distinctly understood that any member nominated for Union Office wishing
to retire must acquaint the General Secretary of the fact so that he can give
instructions for the necessary action to be taken rather than nominees writing
to the Branches themselves.

A GREAT TRADE UNION EXPERIMENT.
The beginning of May will see a development of Labour journalism which
will mark an epoch in the Trade Union and Labour movement. The significance
of the forthcoming effort is very little realised by the Trade Unions, and not
at all, so far, by the general public. For the first time, a systematic attempt
will be made to utilise the Trade Union machinery of the country and to transfer
from Capitalist to Labour organisations the immense power, to say nothing
of the material resources, represented by the modern daily Press.

The Herald has made many appeals to the Trade Unions. It has never,
until now, been able to appeal on the ground that the paper is the property
of the Unions; run by them, they being responsible for it. For this has
recently become a fact. And it is a fact which changes the whole situation.
For Trade Union machinery can now be used in a way in which it would not
have been possible when the paper was not Trade Union property.

The Joint Committee appointed by the General Council of the Trades
Union Congress and the Executive Committee of the Labour Party, have been
considering how the new relationship of the Unions to the paper can be best
turned to account.

The possibilities of the thing have been stated by various writers. There
are, at a moderate computation, five million workers organised in Trade Unions.
If each accepted it as a bit of loyalty owed to his Union to “take our own
daily first," that would mean a potential newspaper circulation of several
millions, sufficient, that is, to make half a dozen large newspapers financial,
successes virtually the day that they started. What is so terrifically costly
about the establishment of a newspaper is not the machinery. It is the gaining
of circulation—running at a loss, that is, during the usually long period when
there is not sufficient circulation for the paper to pay. If Trade Unionists
took their own papers, the really big circulations of the country would be
those of the Labour dailies. Think for a moment what the gain of power and
influence would be if half a dozen of the largest dailies in the country were
Labour-owned and Labour-controlled !

Well, it is this preliminary “act of loyalty” which the Trade Unions
and the Labour Party have now undertaken to organise, in a systematic way.

THE ENLARGED “DAILY HERALD.”
The first step, of course, is to bring into being a paper which, as an organ
of news and entertainment, will compare with existing daily newspapers.
This, to be quite frank, the Daily Herald has not been in the past. It had not


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
236
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that " Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only " Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
A. W. LYNE.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
WATCH PARLIAMENT. “RABBIT HUTCH" BILL TO-DAY.
Parliament is to give its time to-day and to-morrow to a discussoin of one of the
nation's most crying needs-the provision of new houses in order that people may have
room to live.
The form which this discussion will be obliged to take, is a debate on the Govern-
ment's "Rabbit Hutch" Bill !
We criticised this Bill very unfavourably, when it first appeared; and further reflection
has not sweetened our feelings about it. We agree with the opinion expressed in the
current number of The Builder-a technical organ not chargeable with party bias-" it
will be rightly considered that any Government that can contemplate such a measure
is a public danger."
The Bill fixes a minimum and a maximum size for the new houses. The maximum
size rules out a parlour, unanimous as is the desire of working people to have one; it can
at most include three small bedrooms. The minimum size will barely allow for two,
that the inhabitants can " swing a cat in."
Has it not long since been agreed on all hands, that three bedrooms is essential for
the decent housing of a mixed family?
It is a shabby, undemocratic Bill. It flouts alike the science of Public Health and
the decent feeling of common people. No self-respecting Cabinet could adopt it.
The question is not one of parties or of persons. It is a great human question, in
which the electorate are directly and vitally interested.
Public opinion can win. Nothing else can. It will be a poor showing for our
democracy if the electors sit down tamely under such a contemptuous challenge to their
direct interests, both public and private. - Daily Chronicle, 23rd April, 1923.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
237
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
RAUNDS.—I am in a position to report that Adams Bros., Raunds, have accepted,
after a further letter to Alderman Sheppard, his original finding, and Mr. John Adams
told me in London on the 12th inst., that they were paying out that night. Although
our Branch on my advice had paid out, arrangements had been made for the men to hand
Arbitration to those who have little confidence, and even some of those who proffer con-
fidence. This matter has been on about twelve weeks and we must now so perfect the
their amounts over to the Officials. This has been a long job, too long to encourage
machinery that such troubles may not occur again, and that when it is a question of men
working under protest the same shall be dealt with within twelve days.
I am still pressing the Employers for the Back Pay for the Rushden and Welling-
borough employees.
ROSSENDALE VALLEY UNION.—Delegates to the Southport Trades Congress will
remember that the Delegate from the Rossendale Slipper Union, taking advantage of a
debate, charged our Union with blacklegging. An attempt was made by one of our
delegates to defend the Union, but such a large assembly refused to be drawn into a con-
Council to take the matter up and a hearing was granted last week by the Disputes Com-
troversy, as many have told me since. But the charge remains, and we asked the General
mittee. We put up the following case:-
The Secretary of the Society having wired us in July that the dispute was satisfactorily
settled we hold it the acme of meanness to have sprung a complaint on an assembly two
months afterwards. During such time they could and should have complained, had they
thought we were guilty, but the facts are that a certain firm sent work to Northampton,
Uppers only, and we were at once, both myself and Mr. Len Smith, advised to stop this
blacklegging. I saw the lady who had taken the work out, and found that the people
were working daywork on a minimum of nine girls, only two belonged to our Union.
My colleagues in Northampton, four out of the six, at one time or another made themselves
acquainted with the particulars and came to the conclusion that the work was sent for the
purpose of getting it done better, Rossendale Valley work being poor in quality, low in
grade. The fact that the Union calls itself a Slipper Union indicates that we, as a Union,
have never feared their competition and ability, and as a result are satisfied that it would
be next to impossible for Northampton to blackleg a town who are accustomed to make
all leather uppers at all times. One gentleman, who was their greatest asset, told a Govern-
ment Official in our hearing that they did not pretend to be Shoemakers in the general
sense as they were capable of making shoes out of envelopes. An opponent had since
written saying he was prepared to either prove the charge or withdraw it. Council
thought the matter should be pressed to the General Council of the Trades Union Congress,
and with Mr. Lyne, we put the case before the Committee, and although the absurd pro-
position was put up that these women get 70s. against our women's 40s., we produced the
wages for Northampton and Rossendale Valley as published by the Board of Trade Gazette,
and showed that the town that claimed our rates was from 25 per cent. to 50 per cent.
less than them for the last fourteen months, and had actually received less wages per
head, per week. They said that maybe short time would make a difference; we say that
as their stuff is all cheap—none cheaper—there is a greater public demand for such, than
for our better and costlier stuff. The Committee did not fail to hint that his method of
approach was not good, neither was his treatment at Southport, and we have now had the
findings of the Committee, who after putting our case and the Rossendale charges, register
the result as follows:-
"Looking to the fact that the dispute was settled at least four months before the
matter was raised at the Southport Congress, and that no definite details could be given
of any cases arising since the settlement in May, your Committee did not consider it
necessary to record any decision; but recommended that in the event of any further
cases arising between the two organisations, they should agree to deal with them promptly
and in a friendly spirit." I have sent to the Secretary, Mr. C. W. Bowerman, M.P., a
letter asking him to postpone reporting to the General Council, if possible, until after the
21st, that is, until after the Council of the Union has considered the Committee's lack of
of Mr. Taylor, the Secretary of the Rossendale Slipper Union, for his unfounded charge
at Southport and that the Committee was not sufficiently interested to register an opinion.
That such action being contrary to the Rules and Standing Orders of Congress and was
discourteous and undeserved to another Union. In any case, putting aside the merits
there is any truth in the jibe, “Is Labour fit to govern?"
of our complaint it was in itself a most flagrant thing to do, and makes one wonder whether
This is the second time with this same Committee of these gentlemen that we have
drawn a blank. The last occasion was when we charged the N.U.D. & A.W., the old
B


---
238
Co-operative Employees' Union, with taking into their Union four of our members who
are Repairers working at the Leicester Co-operative Society against the finding of Congress,
1912, we being one of the complaining Societies. Rather than cease poaching, they left
Congress but returned after joining up with another Union under a new name, and last
I saw the men and the Committee at
Leicester several times, with the result that they were told to retain their membership
with our Union, the craft Union being proffered by the Committee.
The same gentlemen who heard this case heard the Rossendale one, with the result
that they ask us to get a working arrangement with the Society which is not for Shoe-
makers or Repairers and have a working arrangement. This we tried to do years ago
and we cannot look upon them as an organisation who ought to attempt to cater for them
who has recently joined the Federation, respecting the interpretation of one of the Clauses
At the LEICESTER ARBITRATION BOARD we had a very novel claim by an Employer
of the New Agreement, and although one points out that in all Agreements there are
that Clause 13 simply means only the Boards within. There is no sentiment behind it
two phases to be considered, the letter and the spirit, they, the Employers, think
This proves that my own contention is that words and plenty of them are not needed in
our Documents if you are expecting to help even those who have attended National
they have an absolute free hand
Under 16. This is not all. THE NORTHANTS COUNTY BOARD has tabled an all-round
Resolution which would affect every man in one of the Departments aimed at, and here
year they took into the Union these four men.
They and others have encouraged the system of payment by results and they have now
taken up the hidden purpose of proclaiming that by their method the Minimum shall
become the Maximum. As the matter is going to the Standing Joint Committee we
shall see what we shall see.
The NORTHANTS LEATHER CORPORATION has at last accepted the National Agreement
and the Northants Pressmen's Statement minus the original spirit, which says each
Operative shall have his stock sheets worked out (as far as Labour is concerned) and
shown to the Cutter before being sent to the Office. We saw four Directors and the
Manager, and they pleaded Daywork was different to Piecework or Quantity Statement,
although we drew their attention to Clause 2, they question its application and assume
Day labour means "go as you please, we will see you earn your money," or ultimately
the Manager said a notice should be put up telling all who wanted to see the sheets could
do so. We argued against this, and think the position unsatisfactory and contrary to
the original spirit, but when you are faced with three gentlemen who have taken part
in the last four National Agreements they are bound to influence the judgment of any
Manager, especially so when they put up the claim that neither the National Agreement
nor the Northants County Statement applied to them because Day labour, pure and
simple, exempted them. Here we have food for the next Conference.
I have paid several visits to MOUNTSORREL School Boot Co. and Messrs. Parker and
Barlow's, but we are not making as much headway as we could wish. Our strength will
always be and is at any time with the Operatives, and at present in all quarters we find
less robustness than we should like to see.
carried out in conformity with the Statements and Conditions in each District, and we
The conditions of employment at all firms
feel sure that once the Operatives can see that the interests of all depend upon the loyalty
of all, they will not hesitate to become members of their respective Unions.
SILEBY has again been visited, there being one firm there, viz., Swan and Preston's,
where the Holiday Fund is not being recognised. We understand this firm's attitude to
be that they will not pay because the Operatives will not. This we do not pretend to
understand because, unfortunately, both our Organisers have in the past tried to organise
this firm but have failed, and perhaps we may meet with a similar experience. But we
have already visited and talked to the men outside the factory, but have no intention
of approaching the firm until the Operatives give us a chance to speak for and represent
them. I am informed that some of these men were in great need last Christmas and that
the Holiday Pay would have been a real boon to them, yet they hesitate to join the only
Organisation that can remove this fear and doubt at Holiday times.
We paid a visit to another firm where the Manager is friendly, but owing to bad trade
One wonders
the men there feel the present time is hardly ripe for joining up with us.
how big are the sacrifices made by our members who keep paying so regularly with such
small incomes, although even these can give a very good reason why they prefer to make
a sacrifice that comes back to them with interest.
Arbitration Board, and we were lucky in getting a schoolroom close to the factory. A
MANSFIELD has again been visited for the purpose of appointing two members to the
fair number attended, the result being that Mr. Bush and myself were appointed, and we
they are given for some definite purpose, of which the Operatives and ourselves are fully
learnt that the firm was giving bonuses which we told them we disapprove of, and unless
aware, and we have advised that such a policy be discontinued in the light of the setting


---
Here is the extracted text:
239
Mr. Blissett, and having written to the firms employing these members they have given
At DERBY a very good meeting was held, and after explaining the object we had in
view they appointed the President and the Secretary of the Branch, Mr. Herbert and
consent to permit them to have time off in Derby. The Secretary works for Clemson's
and the President for the C.W.S.
NOTTINGHAM was next visited and Mr. Goodwin, the President, was appointed, and a
he is sure to be a very useful member, and in a position to devote whatever time the work
Mr. Goodwin has had a fair amount of Trade Union experience at the C.W.S., Leicester
calls for. We expect to be holding the first meeting in a few days' time, Nottingham
being suggested for the first meeting. We hope by this to strengthen the position of
Maden & Ireland's in Derby.
The GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS has had under its consideration a
representatives on the General Council, whose Societies were affiliated to the Federation,
Resolution carried at Dumfries calling on them to endeavour to have the opinion of those
has been done, but owing to various circumstances all invited did not attend, but those
to know from them how we could bring about closer unity between the two bodies. This
who did exhibited a very friendly feeling and the Resolution has been forwarded to the
Union movement, it leads one to believe that there ought to be a united fund, instead of
After the way in which Congress at Southport dealt with this aspect of the Trade
so many small ones, for the benefit of the whole movement.
General Council for their comments.
A further Conference has been held to set up a system of Arbitration Boards to deal
doubted whether the Co-operative movement would fall in with the suggestion that there
with Co-operative disputes, and we warned the Committee and the Conference that we
present Committee, and the Co-operative Union has declared against the scheme. Our
should be a body outside the General Council to deal with these disputes in place of the
Union made it clear that the productive factories were to be exempt.
TRADE BOARD ADVISORY COMMITTEE. - The meetings of this are always held in
the General Council Room at Eccleston Square. We had a host of Amendments that we
Hant passing to strengthen the Trade Boards' work. We have drafted a Bill amending
the present Act and are also endeavouring to strengthen the existing ones.
I raised the question of the Ministry of Labour reducing the allowance to men from
the bench, who do Trade Board work, from 20s. per day to 145. per day, and explained
that the same could not have our consent until it had been placed before our Executive.
The Committee ultimately felt that the General Council would be the better body to take
this matter up, and that the Trade Boards could express their opinion and pass them
on to the Ministry of Labour, whom I had asked whether Cabinet Ministers had had a similar
reduction.
Another Committee was set up to enquire into the question of Outworkers' Insurance.
All those of us who have outside workers are put upon the Committee. Members believe
that we shall obtain better control than we now have.
The Daily Herald is the best paper for Parliamentary and all Labour news. Wear
Stamped boots and shoes and support yourselves.
7. MECKLENBURGH SQUARE,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
15th April, 1923.
Yours fraternally,
Withers
General President.
A WARNING TO BRANCH OFFICIALS.
A person, going in the name of Mr. Fred Inwood (at one
time President of Northampton No. 1 Branch of Boot and Shoe
to warn Officials and Members of the fact. The original Mr. F.
Union), is travelling the country asking assistance, and we wish
Inwood has been dead about five years.
Yours faithfully,
W. PITTS, Secretary, Northampton No. 1 Branch.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
At the meeting of the Council on 26th March it was agreed to that I should spend
the month from that date organising in Leicestershire and London. The Easter holidays
were longer than usual owing to slackness of trade, and little could be done in the way of
organising during this period. I don't know how many members may be gained to the
Cosby Section as a result of our efforts, but 16 were added to them before Easter. The
gains in propaganda work counts for something else as well as increasing membership.
Members are reminded of their obligations in regards to working to agreements, and seeing
that they are faithfully observed.

With the President of the London Metropolitan Branch I visited ten factories-some
of them twice trying to win the defaulters over to the Union. Besides this work we
saw employers over special grievances of members and held shops meetings at night to
deal with complaints. At one meeting we held the President and Secretary of the Branch
were present, and the subject was the changing from piecework to weekly wages. The
members were given instructions to take the piecework rates strictly as their basis of
reckoning, and they pledged themselves to do so. There is an awful fear over our members
going through. I wish that
in claiming their rights on account of the bad times we are
some of the rich Anti-Socialists who speak of the tyranny that will be imposed on the
workers if Socialism comes had to work and live on their wages in a boot factory for one
year.
D. MCCARTHY.

The past month has not been one of great activity in Kingswood, as what with the
state of trade, which is bad, and the holidays intervening, the opportunities for any move-
ment have been greatly restricted. But we have kept things on the move as far as possible.
There is one matter about which satisfaction can be expressed, that is, we have got through
the first skirmish in a satisfactory manner. After being out for about five weeks the
workpeople have resumed work at Allen & Prior's on terms which can be said to be com-
pletely satisfactory. There was a certain amount of regret felt that we should have had
trouble at this firm, which in the past had always conformed to our conditions, and one
hopes now that matters are adjusted, we shall find everything working smoothly in
future.

There has also been a slight improvement in regard to the Holiday Scheme. The
Federation have tackled the question with the result that it has been agreed to put same
into operation for April, May and June, during which time we are expected to bring into
line every non-Federated firm.

While I suppose we are compelled to welcome this as a slight advance, yet it must be
obvious to all concerned that the months named, are almost the worst so far as trade is
concerned in this district, and that it is idle to think we can do all we would wish under
such conditions. But while this is so, I think I am but stating a fact when I say, that so
far as the Union is concerned there will be no looking back on this question. Whatever
the effort needed, whatever the cost may be, we shall face it and we shall win. All we ask
of our friends on the other side, who have equal responsibility with ourselves in this question,
that they will give all the active support possible, to the efforts we are making.

One thing is certain at the moment, we have convinced some of the Employers here
we are in earnest, and this has had its effect in a way satisfactory to us.

I may perhaps add, when at home during the Easter Holidays, my advice and assist-
ance were sought in connection with the Agricultural Labourers' dispute in Norfolk. This
I gladly gave, as I am certain these men have the good wishes and support of every member
of our Union. They are making a splendid 'fight, the determination shown by both men
and women being of the highest order.

It would be a splendid thing for the whole movement if these people, the lowest and
worst paid, were to be the ones to successfully resist the attack made upon the wages of

16th April, 1923.

WALTER R. SMITH.


---
```text
241
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. It becomes tiresome to state month after month that
trade is bad, but in the interest of truth an accurate report is of more con-
sequence than an attempt to put a rosy complexion on the industrial situation
obtaining in this locality. If any member of the Union is finding their
bank book growing into uncomfortably large dimensions then this district
can be recommended as affording most suitable conditions for reducing it again
to proportions which remove the need for burglar-proof safes or other protective
devices of similar purpose. A swollen balance soon wilts and withers when
subjected to a spell of the leisurely life of the shoeworker on the East Coast of
Scotland. It can hardly be wondered at that good trade here- if ever it is to
happen-suggests terrors scarcely less real than those confronting the operatives
as things are. Given a change for the better the difficulty of knowing how to
apportion the weekly income without incurring the wrath of landlord, grocer,
tailor, milkman, &c., &c., all of whom will no doubt think they should come
first in the reckoning is one of those problems which will produce more grey
hairs than any other experience yet encountered. We have often cause to
regret the legacy of the past, but in this instance the legacy will be a hydra-
headed monster of the most forbidding appearance, and its name D.E.Β.Τ.,
will make D.O.R.A. shrink into insignificance. Emigration is still active
here and more and more members are finding it possible to avail themselves
of this "open-door"-let us hope to fortune--and the pity of it is the young
and the gay and the best are those who find it easiest to go. God speed to
them, and may their hopes receive a rich reward. Those who are left must
face the future with the best heart possible, and somehow a compensation
may materialise which will soften the blows of fate. The ordinary work of the
branch proceeds as best it can under such depressing conditions, but luckily
no disputes or other troubles arise to add to other worries. All the Union
conditions are faithfully observed by all our manufacturers, or if some small
irregularity crops up, the best spirit is always shown in having it discussed
and corrected. Long may we remain as free from trade troubles, and
long may manufacturers of the better sort do as Mr. H. J. Bostock did the
cther day when he administered that well-merited rebuke to the "bolshevist
bosses" of Kingswood. Our members were pleased with the way our
Council gave prominence in their last month's Address to such a remarkable
utterance, and if such leadership continues we feel sure the Boot and Shoe
Manufacturers' Federation will some day or other be making unconditional
grants of funds to the National Union in order to provide greater strength
to us in the work of making our industry the freest from selfisli and inhuman
exploitation.
BARNSLEY. - Trade still keeps very bad here, men on short time.
We are pleased to say that we have a clean sick list once more, and hope
to remain so.
BELFAST.-Trade continues to remain very bad.
CHESHAM. - Trade here is very bad, in fact men who have spent their
whole lives in the trade cannot remember anything approaching the slack
time we are now experiencing. Our local manufacturers are complaining
about the unfair and cutting competition they have to meet from the Kings-
wood Area, and we are watching the Council's efforts to bring some of these
manufacturers into line. We regret to report Mr. P. Bradley, our nominee,
was unsuccessful at the poll in our local U.D.C. election, but we have the
consolation of a Labour gain of two seats upon that body.
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
242
CHESTERFIELD.-We have to report trade bad. The only firm here
that manufactures new work has closed down, leaving our members, who
drew all the Union benefit last year, in a bad position.
EDINBURGH.-Trade still very quiet, The industrial field is again to
all appearances going to have some fighting about hours and wages. The
Farm Workers are
Building Trades are
being attacked. The Jute Workers of Dundee are on the
street. Of course the employers don't like cutting the workers' wages, it is all
for the benefit of a trade revival. The Miners are experiencing a boom at present
mining districts. Everywhere one hears the same cry. How can the miners
during the month has been paying a visit to Branch's Sections which are all
but the wages are not on a level even with the cost of living. Our Secretary
pay for boot repairing when there is not enough to even feed a family anything
like on a decent scale. Also Continuation Classes are being held in several
places learning Miners and Fishermen the art of boot repairing. This also
helps to keep our members on short time. Can nothing be done to get this put
a stop to by local Education Authorities. The Edinburgh trade unions have
been able to get a clause inserted which states "That only pupils who are
following the trade in which they wish to join at classes will be allowed to
enrol as pupils." Last month's Report contained information about the
Housing question which should make every member ask themselves what should
be done regarding the housing of the workers. Even the Daily Mail admits
the Government have failed miserably in this matter. Sometimes one is asked
the question, what has the Labour Party done? The Labour Press have
tried to show that on every occasion the Labour Members have been out-
voted on the Special Committee which has been set up to deal with the Rents
Restriction Act.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.---Trade during the month has been worse
than during February. Irthlingborough seems to have fared better than the
rest of the district, one large firm being on overtime, and most of the factories
there reopening on Thursday in Easter week. We regret to state that Mr.
Geo. Clarke (Stanwick) and Mr. Arthur J. Parker (Rushden), both of whom
were delegates to the First Annual Conference in London, have passed away
this Easter. Mr. Clarke was of great assistance at Stanwick and will be missed
very much. He was a prominent Wesleyan Methodist and very useful worker
in all good causes. He was only about 35 years of age. Mr. Parker was for
some years on the Branch Executive and an earnest trade unionist. He was
taken ill about the time of the 1921 Conference and had to return home before
Conference finished and has not recovered since. We tender to the relatives
of both our members sincere sympathy.
LEICESTER No. 1.-We are pleased to report that we have had the
assistance of one of our Union Organisers, Mr. D. McCarthy, during the month.
His efforts have been very successful, particularly in the Cosby district. Trade
was slightly better than last month, and considerably better than twelve
months ago. We trust the improvement will be upheld.
LIVERPOOL.--Boot repairing has shown marked signs of improvement
during the past month, but the general outlook for the future is far from being
rosy. Evidently employers of labour are taking advantage of economic
conditions and unemployment to press for big cuts in wages out of all propor-
tion to the reduction in the cost of living (including rent) and in our opinion
the workers are quite justified when they get below what is reasonable and fair
in resisting the same to the best of their ability.
MAYBOLE - We are sorry to report trade very slack, most of our members
only getting half time, and are unable to pay their contributions as we and
they would like.


---
Here is the extracted text:
243
NOTTINGHAM.—Trade still very quiet. We had a special meeting
early in the month and the General President attended for the purpose of
explaining the desire of Council to set up a District Board for Derby, Mansfield
and Nottingham. After a general discussion and a number of questions bad
been answered, it was agreed to fall in with Council's view, and our President,
Mr. A. Goodwin, was elected for this town.
PLYMOUTH.—Trade is still quiet and although there is very little
prospect of immediate improvement, there are signs that the slump has reached
zero, and with the coming of Spring the trade barometer will begin to rise
gradually to a more comfortable and congenial level. We do not anticipate
any more discharges through slackness of trade, or any further extension of
short time, neither do we desire or anticipate many more of our members
appearing under the doleful heading of "Members Scratched," but will look
forward with confidence to a list of recruits and veterans appearing under the
heading "New and Re-entered." The last two years has been a real testing
time, but we are pleased to report that the spirit of comradeship has never
been better displayed or the value of our Union membership so indisputably
demonstrated. This has meant food for the present and hope for the future.
SHEPSHED.—Trade is getting worse. One of the three firms here has
closed down for a period, the factories being full of stock.
SOUTHAMPTON.—Trade has a tendency to improvement. It is very
slight up to the present, but yet sufficient to make us a little more hopeful.

NOTICE TO BRANCH SECRETARIES.

WAR AGAINST WAR.

Will all Branch Secretaries who have not remitted cash nor
returned the postcards, kindly do so AT ONCE to enable the
Account to be closed.
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.

THE WORKERS AND WAR.

"Working folk do not make war—they have never done that—and I wish sometimes
that working folk would declare that they would take no part in warfare on any account
whatever," said Mr. Ben Turner, M.P., in the House of Commons on 21st March. It is
a hopeful sign for future world peace that working folk in this country and throughout
the world are declaring that they will never again take part in warfare on any account
whatever.
The No More War Movement in this country, which is the British section of the War
Resisters' International, is composed of men and women who have pledged themselves
never to take part in war, whatever the ostensible object may be. Members of the Move-
ment are also pledged to " strive for the removal of all causes of war, and to work for the
establishment of a new social order based on co-operation for the common good." The
Chairman of the Movement is George Lansbury, M.P.
All interested in this vital question should write to the Secretary, No More War
Movement, 304, High Holborn, London, W.C. I.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
244
RESULT OF VOTING FOR MANAGER TO NATIONAL HEALTH
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.
Names of Branches.
BAKER,
Mr. J.
BLEAKLEY,
Mr. C.
CHESTER,
Mr. G.
GOULD,
Mr. F.
HARRIS,
Mr. R.
MARTIN,
Mr. A.
MAYER,
Mr. C. H.
MAYES,
Mr. R. D.
REYNOLDS,
Mr. C.
Aberdeen
2
30
267
Arbroath...
Ayr
46
16
4
Belfast
Bristol
3
Bristol No. 2
11
Chesham
Chesterfield
2
3
25
Daventry...
2
79
Desborough
1
73
Dundee
1
223
1
138
Edinburgh
116
1
Glasgow
Glasgow No. 2
66
1
15
Heckmondwike
1
16
1
2
11
104
7
Higham & Rushden
50
Hinckley
2
13
Kendal
Kettering...
1
430
1
3
1
Kettering No. 2...
174
1
Kilmarnock
240
1
1
7
7
Kingswood
1
4
1
41
3
2
17
115
4
Leeds
3
2
2
12
65
Leeds No. 2
1
11
Leicester
29
28
13
12
142
145
61
88
12
Leicester No. 2
1
1
2
2
32
66
61
109
1
Liverpool...
4
London Metro.
39
5
24
1
London South
5
59
1
Manchester
27
Mansfield...
28
1
2
2
8
3
Maybole
149
13
Midsomer Norton
2
Newcastle-on-Tyne
35
150
Norwich
Norwich No. 2
2
Northampton
2
2
10
100
3
Nottingham
Northampton No. 2
2
4
32
2
1
3
49
1
1
16
12
Plymouth
2
3
1
4
9
13
Stafford
1
11
Stone
1
1
1
9
Street
6
73
Wellingborough.
20
42
266
75
Whitwick
1
1
14
1
Wolverhampton
2
77
11
1
16
5
2
Totals
1
92 1551 796 420 202 249 239 1597 88
Lincoln, Reading, Redruth, Sheffield, Shepshed, Sileby, Worcester, Yarmouth, York.
No results were received from the following Branches: -Barnsley, Bishop Auckland,
Bromsgrove, Burnley Colchester, Cork, Derby, Halifax Hull, Ipswich, Leicester Women's,
There not being a clear majority a second vote MUST be taken at the
MAY meeting night.

---
Here is the extracted text:
Army
Navy
Air Force
Civil Services
252
SUPPLY SERVICES.
£
52,000,000
58,000,000
12,011,000
251,670,000
Customs and Excise, and Inland Revenue Departments 11,591,000
Post Office Services
Total Supply Services
50,874,000
436,146,000
816,616,000
1,884,000
Total Expenditure
Surplus
Total Expenditure
Expenditure chargeable against Capital
818,500,000
8,630,500
Beer rebate resulting in a reduction of Id. a pint. The Customs rebate amounts
to fi per bulk barrel, independent of gravity, but the rebate is not to operate
to reduce the existing duty on any beer below 245. 3d. a barrel. The Excise
rebate is also fi per bulk barrel, the minimum duty to be 24s. per barrel.
Duty on sweetened table waters reduced from 4d. to 2d. a gallon.
4d. a gallon duty on cider and perry to be repealed.
Income-tax reduced from 5s. to 4s. 6d. (Threepence for the smaller assessments
and 6d. for the larger.)
Corporation Profits Tax reduced from Is. to 6d.
POSTAL REDUCTIONS.
Inland letters, not exceeding 2 ozs., Id.: every additional oz. d.
Foreign letters 24d. for first oz. and Id. each succeeding oz.
Imperial letters from Ind. to Id. per oz. above the first oz.
Inland printed paper rated. for 2 ozs.; for every additional 2 ozs. up to 2 lbs., d.
Heavier letters and parcels reduced 3d. each packet.
Annual rental of telephones reduced by Ios. a year.
Local telephone calls reduced from 3d. to 2d.
The postal reductions come into operation on 14th May and telephone reductions
Ist July.
The Chancellor also announced his intention of including in the Finance Act a pro-
posal to set up a Select Committee to consider the practicability of a Betting Tax.
THE BREAKFAST TABLE.--Tea duty was reduced by 4d. a pound last year, and in
the circumstances no further relief was called for. Sugar was a seller's market to-day.
and consumer unlikely to be the gainer by a reduction for more than a very short time.
MR. J. RAMSAY MACDONALD, rising to reply, said :--" The Labour Party takes the
view that debt reduction is the best highway to tax reduction. If you try a scheme of
tax reduction which is not based, under present circumstances, on a substantial pro-
gramme of debt reduction, the only way such a Budget can balance is to draw on the
human capital of the State by reducing education, housing, public health. Then, whilst
apparently reducing taxation you are only taking from the human capital."
The policy now was "save money and build small houses." The Labour Party's
policy was that they should not save that sort of money, but should spend money in
getting right conditions.
"Trade can best be stimulated only by the stimulation of consumption on the part
of the great masses of the people. The problem is not to supply only capital to trade,
but to supply an outlet for its products."
The duty on sugar had been multiplied eleven times during the war, from d. to
id. per pound.
people who were struggling every week to make ends meet.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```
254

LABOUR
MARCHING ON!

“Daily Herald”
Edited by HAMILTON FYFE.

No Millionaires behind the Daily Herald.
No Peers. No Baronets.
It is owned by its readers: the property and the organ
of Labour-the Coming Power.

A real Co-operative enterprise.

All the News that is news can be briefly told. The
Herald is the right Newspaper for the busy man.
It gives you news and ideas: not stunts and wood
pulp for your Penny.

Notes for Home and Children: free comment on public
affairs.

PLEDGE YOURSELF TO
TAKE THE LABOUR DAILY FIRST.

THE DAILY HERALD
ORDER IT FROM YOUR NEWSAGENT TO-DAY.
```

---
LABOUR MOVES REJECTION OF HOUSING BILL.
Mr. Chamberlain's Views on Parlours. Indignant M.P.'s.
Mr. Neville Chamberlain, the Minister of Health, rose amid Ministerial cheers, to move
the second reading of the Government's Housing Bill.
"Great masses of our people," he said, "are unable to find separate dwellings. They
are herded together without privacy, without comfort, without almost the ordinary
decencies of life.
"The effect of this overcrowding are far-reaching and constitute a perpetual danger
to the physical and moral health of the community."
These conditions, he went on, are responsible for much unrest and social discontent
although he was bound to say that one must be filled with admiration for the patience
with which, for the most part, these evils were borne. (Hear, hear.)
Every consideration of humanity must impel them to the conclusion that there was
no question more urgent, none that cried more loudly for immediate attention, than this
of housing.
The important thing, he said, was that they should begin their work upon lines which
were capable of growth and development, and as far as possible try to avoid artificial
devices which could not go on indefinitely.
"Only a Beginning."
He asked the House, therefore, to regard this Bill, not as a solution of the housing
problem, but as a beginning of a solution; not as an end in itself, but as a starting apparatus
which would put the engine in motion.
The arrears in house building which had accumulated during a period of 13 years
could not possibly be wiped out in the short period covered by the Bill.
They must not merely reinstate the small builder, but restore or replace the machinery
by which alone he was able to carry on his operations. Private enterprise was beginning
once more. During the last six months upwards of 12,000 of such houses had been com-
pleted, and another 16,000 were in course of erection.
It was perfectly true, added Mr. Chamberlain, that most of those houses were of a
superior class-(Labour cries of "Oh!")-suitable for middle classes.
The present process, he admitted, was bound to be a slow and gradual one, and there
still remained a considerable margin which for some years to come it would be impossible
for private enterprise to cover.
Coming to the provisions of the Bill, Mr. Chamberlain said he had been criticised
for giving too much and for giving too little; but the local authorities whom he consulted
were satisfied, and, as they said, it was up to them to see it carried through.
He was afraid, proceeded the Minister of Health, that he himself was responsible for
the confusion that had arisen by the introduction of the word "parlour" house, because he
spoke of a subsidy house as a "non-parlour house."
It appeared to have been thought that he had some prejudice against the parlour,
as such, that he desired to deprive children of a room for studying, and sweethearts of a
room to court in-(laughter)-and generally to lower the standard of working-class accom-
modation. He very much doubted whether the activities of sweethearts would be hindered
through the absence of a parlour.
There was considerable interruption at this point, Mr. David Kirkwood and some
other Labour members expressing their indignation at the tone of Mr. Chamberlain's
remarks.
The member for Dumbarton interrupted several times, and was shouted down. The
Speaker also intervened.
When the Minister lightly remarked that a room 1oft. 6in. by 9ft. 3in. was "big
enough for courting," Mr. Kirkwood sprang to his feet and, amid considerable noise from
the other side of the House, exclaimed: "What does he mean? What kind of language
is that?"
Mr. Chamberlain said hon. members would have ample opportunity of expressing
their views later. He gathered from their observations that the space allowed was insuffi-
cient to permit the inclusion of parlours in the houses contemplated. (Labour cheers.)
That was not so, because houses were being built to-day which came within the
limits which did provide parlours.
Passing on to the subsidy provisions of the Bill, Mr. Chamberlain said he was convinced
that under them they would get a number of houses built in the course of the next few
years.
The powers it was proposed to give local authorities to facilitate building without
State assistance were explained in detail, as well as the other clauses of the Bill.


---
Appalling Conditions.
Mr. Wheatley (Lab., Shettleston), in moving the Labour amendment, said the Minister
did not understand the gravity and extent of the housing problem, and had no sympathy
with the people (Ministerialists: Oh, oh!) - whose needs he was endeavouring to provide
for.
The problem was really a financial one, and was intertwined with the problem of
wealth and poverty.
There was in Glasgow a waiting list of 20,000 families who had never known what it
was to have a home of their own, but led a sort of vagrant life in furnished lodgings. Slums,
though condemned, could not be cleared, because there were no other homes for the people.
The standard of housing in Glasgow was abominably low. Sixty per cent. of the
families lived in two-apartment dwellings, and three families had to share the sanitary
accommodation. In Lanarkshire it was even worse.
"I was one of eleven," he continued, "who lived for years in a single-apartment
dwelling in Lanarkshire, and I could shock even hon. members opposite by a narrative
of what life under those conditions meant."
Surely the time had come not merely for a beginning of a solution (Mr. Chamberlain's
description of his Bill), but for a solution itself.
How the Shortage Arose.
The housing shortage did not originate with the war. There had been a scarcity
since 1910, and it was due to the operations of rings and combines in the building trade.
Between 1910 and 1913 the cost of building rose 60 per cent.
He considered that the price of land was not the main factor, though he would like to
see the abolition of private property in land, because it enabled private persons to prevent
the satisfaction of the people's needs.
Rings and combines were the inevitable result of the competitive system: they were
the combination of the survivors in the struggle, and would not be destroyed under
Capitalism. How could they expect a monopolist in, say, chemicals, to destroy a com-
bination in cement?
The remedy to which the country would be driven, even at the cost of shedding a
Conservative Government, would be the manufacturing and merchanting of building
materials by the State.
You will have to produce homes for heroes by the same methods as you produced
shells for heroes."
Passing on to the financial aspect of the Bill, Mr. Wheatley expressed the opinion
that 5 per cent. would have to be paid on the capital for housing. That would mean a
burden of £25 a year on the smallest type of the houses to be provided.
Not Enough Labour.
There was not enough skilled labour in the country to build the houses that were
needed. That was because the operations of the rings, having restricted building, many
skilled men had emigrated.
The right remedy would be to assure the youths who were ready to enter the trade
that there would be plenty of work for them in providing the houses that were needed.
Yet this Bill was to operate merely for two years.
There was no need to stimulate the local authorities in this matter. He only wished
the Government was as enthusiastic for housing as were even the Conservative members
of the local authorities throughout the country.
Drawing towards the close of a speech which was as forcible as it was comprehensive,
Mr. Wheatley argued that it would be necessary to charge the tenants of the houses that
would result from this Rill £10 a year to cover rent and rates- "and yet," he exclaimed,
"you have reduced many of the working classes to an income of not more than £100
a year!"
He objected to the Minister's proposals on slum-clearing. The owner of slums should
not be better treated than the vendor of bad meat. He should be compelled to clear
them at his own cost.
"The houses," he declared with warmth, "will be miserably small. The Minister
must have shocked even his own supporters when he talked of rooms roft. 6in. by 9ft. 3in.
These houses will never be homes; they will be slums. He has proceeded on the assump
tion that the working classes have no friends and do not want a place to entertain them.
The Minister was laying down a standard for 50 years to come, and asking Parliamen-
tary acceptance for the permanency of class distinctions.
"Why should you object to the preaching of class war? What do you do in all your
legislation?" (Labour cheers and Tory protests.)
"All these proposals emanate from people who believe in their souls that this country
is a spent force, and that all you require is a temporary measure to house people till they
can be shipped overseas; but fortunately for Britain, and for the human race, the control
of this country and the British Empire is passing rapidly out of the hands of those who
can bring in a measure like this."
(Loud Labour cheers.)
---

---
"I do not think the Government has ever been convinced of the terrible circumstances
under which the mass of our population is living," said Mr. Rhys Davies (Lab., West-
houghton).
What the Census Revealed.
The London County Council had conducted a census in London, which showed that
2.433,136 persons had less than one room each to live in.
On the very night that the census was taken, it was found there were 18,969 empty
houses in London, with 101,554 vacant rooms.
The Minister of Health ought to have inserted a clause in the Bill to deal with the
atrocious system that allowed the landlord to hold houses vacant, free of rates, in the vast
majority of cases.
Sir Alfred Mond (N.L., Swansea, W.) approved of the general lines of the Bill, but
regretted Mr. Chamberlain had not produced a bolder scheme.
Sir Kingsley Wood (U., Woolwich, W.), while considering that this was an excellent
Bill in many respects, made the stock allegation, that the men engaged on building work
had in many cases curtailed output. Where only 300 bricks a day were laid instead of
000, it meant, declared the speaker, attempting to prove by mere assertion, that the
workers who had to occupy these houses had to pay no less than is. 6d. a week increased
rent.
"It is not mere sympathy the Labour Party wants," declared Mr. Kirkwood (Lab.,
Dumbarton). "We want houses, not rabbit hutches."
While medical authorities were fearing that pestilence would arise because of inadequate
housing accommodation, the Minister of Health had had the brazen audacity to propose
in cold blood the type of house proposed under the scheme.
"If this," Mr. Kirkwood went on, in loud, scornful tones, "had been a zoo of wild
men who had never been near civilisation they would know just as much about the lives
and ideals of the people whose houses are being discussed.
"These things are as foreign to the gentleman who made those statements as if he
had come from Borneo!" (Loud laughter.)
The Minister of Health had said that these houses were for " a certain class:"
"That's my class, sir, and I am as good as he is, mentally or physically. I make
that challenge to the entire class that he represents. We are not going to take this lying
down any longer from the Government of this country. The day is past.
"We stand on an equal footing with all the right honourables and gallant gentlemen
that ever filled the House of Commons, and they will have to remember and not talk in
that flippant manner, because it's not going to be tolerated."
In Clydebank and Dumbarton they were not content with £6 for 20 years; they
wanted ₤12 for 60 years.
They were not asking for sympathy or brotherly love. Could there be " brotherly
love" between the man who could not get shelter for his children and the men who had
two or three hundred apartments in a house?
The Minister of Health was the man of the moment who was supposed to be going
to lead this Government out of the wilderness of Sinai and into the plains of Palestine.
It was all Dead Sea fruit'
He asked Mr. Chamberlain to go over the Bill again to see if it were possible to grapple
with this problem in the way Mr. Lloyd George grappled with the munitions problem in
the early days of the war, having always in mind that fundamental principle that every
father and mother in the country should have a home. Otherwise, it was the end of the
road, and of the Tory Government and any other Government that stood betwixt the
people and better houses.
Mr. Macpherson (N.L., Ross and Cromarty) said the Bill would receive no support
from Liberal Scottish members unless there was a reconsideration of the subsidy and a
guarantee that every house to be built in Scotland should have a larger space for parlour
houses.
Exceptional Praise.
A speech that brought exceptional applause from all parts of the House came from
Mr. J. Stewart (Lab., St. Rollox.)
"We should scrap this bad house for a better house," he declared, proceeding to
show how bad housing had affected the development of the people in Glasgow.
"Watch the places where the people are who work only when an employer will engage
them. Watch the height of the boys on the corner-a little over five feet, something in
keeping with the stature of myself and of the same physique. Watch the women-flat-
chested, without any development.
"Then come to Saucichall Street or Buchanan Street, well-to-do places, and you
will see an entirely different type of woman- well-developed, because they are living
under decent conditions, giving them an opportunity to develop.
"That is the price you are paying." - Daily Herald, 25th April, 1923.


---
"FEARFUL TAX TO PUT UPON THE PEOPLE."
Sugar Deputation to the Financial Secretary.
Mr. Lander's Telling Speech.
An unanswerable case for reduction of the sugar tax was put to the Financial Secretary
to the Treasury last week by a deputation of co-operative representatives, who stated
the claims of the consumers.
The deputation waited upon the Financial Secretary to the Treasury (Major A.
Boyd-Carpenter, M.P.) at the House of Commons, on Wednesday, 21st March, 1923, at
4.30 p.m.
Mr. A. V. Alexander submitted that from actual co-operative experience and from
their actual trading returns, the people who are most urgently in need of relief in regard
to taxation to-day are the working-classes, whose standard of life has been so depressed
on account of enormous wage reductions and unemployment.
The burden of a tax like that upon sugar (25s. 8d. per cwt. as compared with Is. Iod.
before the war) was surely out of all proportion to the position of the wage-earners and
their purchasing power.
Mr. Lander said they had great hopes last year, and had been informed that this
was one of the taxes which would receive consideration and be reduced. He gave figures
which showed, with a consumption of sugar amounting to three million cwts., and the
consumption in the factories of another quarter-of-a-million, they had paid tax amounting
to £3,511,993. It meant that the present tax upon sugar added about 80 per cent. to the
value of the imported article. It was an extraordinarily high figure for any one com-
modity to bear. It put up the value to the consumer. It enabled the refiner to take not
only a profit on the imported article, but a profit on the tax - to the disadvantage of the
consumer. It became in that way doubly onerous. It made a tax on the raw material
and a tax on the merchant. He wished to emphasise the point that it bore the heaviest
on the working classes of the country, and they were the people who could least stand the
heavy burden that was put upon them.
Further, it would be interesting to note that prior to the war, 1913, including the
tax, which was then Is. Iod., the standard price for granulated sugar was running
in the neighbourhood of 15s. 9d. per cwt. for the whole of the year. To-day, the
quotation for the same sugar, with a 25s. 8d. tax upon it, is 61s. wholesale. That
is 400 per cent. over 1913.
People realised that sugar is an essential food. The fact had been proved by the
consumption. One would have thought that people would not have bought it at its present
price, but sensible people buy those things which are essential and necessary. He showed
that in 1914 the consumption of foreign sugar per head of the population was 96 lbs. per
annum. It fell during 1916 and the following war years. (He would add that the co-
operative movement were entitled to consideration for helping the Government during
that difficult time in handling sugar). In 1922 the consumption had come back to 91 lbs.
-only 5 lbs. difference! It was a fearful tax to put upon the people, which represented
17s. 6d. per head of the whole of the entire population of the United Kingdom. That
was what the sugar tax meant to-day.
With Reference to Industry.
Everyone was anxious to get over the present time of unemployment. What was
happening in the industrial world so far as sugar was concerned? It entered largely
into the production of many articles which are necessary. For the purposes of illustration,
he would mention jam. Jam was a good food. They had national authority for that,
because the Government during the war were tremendously anxious that the people
should do two things-eat more bread and eat more jam. What was the position of jam
to-day? Everyone knew of the losses which had been taking place. The Co-operative
Wholesale Society had four factories at the present time, and had increased their factories
at the request of the Government during the war. The price of jam was affected very
seriously by the price of sugar, the largest constituent in the making of jam. At the
present time the jam factories were either closed down or on short time, and carrying
large stocks. That would affect the agricultural problem. The fruit question and the
agricultural question would be affected if the price of sugar was so high that neither jam
manufacturers nor the housewives could afford to make jam. The consequence of this
is that we have people going to the Labour Exchanges and on the streets looking for
work.


---
259
Major Boyd-Carpenter's Reply.
Major Boyd-Carpenter, in replying, admitted all that had been said with regard
to the value of sugar as a food. There was this, however, to be said, that among all the
competing interests who are pleading for a reduction of taxation, there is still the necessity
of carrying on the finance of the country. To take d. off sugar would mean a
loss of six millions revenue or more; to take 1d. off would mean twelve-
and-a-half millions; and to abolish it altogether would mean a loss of
over thirty-five millions, and he did not think that even the most
generous-minded Chancellor could contemplate that figure with equa-
nimity, I can assure you that the Chancellor is anxious to get a collective opinion from
all interests concerned, and in his final judgment, he will give weight, not to particular
interests or political considerations, but he will consider, first, what is feasible; second,
what is right; and third, what gives most adequate relief with the limited amount of
surplus at his disposal, if there is any. - Co-operative News, 31st March, 1923.
MR. POULTON AND THE EIGHT-HOUR DAY.
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J. P., who has just returned from Geneva, where he has attended
the Quarterly Meeting of the International Labour Office in connection with the League
of Nations, has again been prominent in his efforts on behalf of the workers generally.
At the outset, Mr. Poulton raised the question of the British Government not carrying
out the Agreement made at the Washington Convention relative to the eight-hour day
and moved a resolution thereon. The matter was discussed for a session and a half, and
ultimately Mr. Poulton withdrew his resolution when one of his French colleagues, M.
Jouhaux, suggested that a Special Commission be appointed, consisting of nine delegates,
three from the Governments represented at the International Labour Office, three from
the Employers' side, and three from the Workers' side, and Mr. Poulton was elected as
one of the Workers' Representatives. This Committee will discuss and make suggestions
to meet the objections which have been found to obtain in the carrying
out of the eight-hour clause.
The Annual Conference usually held in Geneva in October will be of short duration
this year on account of the financial situation of the Office. In addition to the Directors'
Report, items will be dealt with in reference to the Inspection of Factories and "Safety
First " in factories at the October meeting, and a larger Convention will be held in May,
1024. It was decided that, at the meeting to be held later on in this year, the question
of night work in Bakeries and Anthrax should also be dealt with.
LISTENINGS IN.
During 1922 the C.W.S. estimate the amount of duty paid to the Government, directly
and indirectly, and included in the price of sugar, jams, sweets, canned fruits, tea, coffee,
tobacco, and dried fruits as £7,685,326, or 41.94 of the value of the trade, or 8s. 5d. in the £.
*
8s. 5d. in the £
is the rate of tax paid by the people on their food. In 1922 the C.W.S. paid
£7,685,326
in taxation on such everyday necessaries as sugar, sweets, jam, tea,
coffee, cocoa, tobacco, and dried fruits. The value of these articles sold
by the C.W.S. was £18,324,022, so that out of every £1 spent 8s. 5d.
goes in taxation.
*
*
Co-operators pay even more income tax than other people. They pay the ordinary
dues as they are liable, and, in addition, they pay at the highest scale on the land and
property they hold collectively, even though their individual incomes are below the limit.
*
*
As for dividend on purchases, donations to hospitals, education grants, and so on-
well, that is not income and that is the point which the amateur tax-gatherers don't
or won't see.
*
The poor man buys insurance by weekly payments. The rich man saves money by
paying his cheque quarterly. Why not tax him on this extra "income"? We can.
imagine what the F.R.I. would say about it.
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
260
AN INSANITARY VILLAGE IN LEICESTERSHIRE.
One of the most insanitary of the big villages in Leicestershire, viz., Earl Shilton,
has neither a sewerage nor a sewage disposal system, nor has it any creditable system of
sanitation. The consequences are that preventable diseases have been endemic in it for
the last quarter of a century. Yet neither the Hinckley Rural District Council, in whose
area it lies, nor the Leicestershire County Council, both of which bodies are somewhat
diffident in sanitary administration, appear to recognise that the responsibility for the
high death-rate which prevails lies on their shoulders. According to the Leicester Mercury,
the Rural Council is frequently "tinkering " with the drainage of the place, and quite
recently were indulging in an " improvement scheme " which revealed the fact that house
drains in many cases had been laid into the public road and not connected to the main
drain, and that sewage springs periodically burst out. The sewage of the village is dis-
charged on to a field without any systematic treatment, and not only pollutes the stream
The Hinckley Rural District Council should act as other Sanitary Authorities do, and
obtain the advice of sewerage engineers to help them to deal with the existing insanitary
condition, failing which the Ministry of Health will, we are confident, feel it their duty
to intervene.-Municipal Engineering and Sanitary Record.
[The above is strong evidence for the justification of the Council in taking the action
they have done, for a long time past, in connection with the Earl Shilton district, and its
bad and inadequate insanitary arrangements, with its consequent effects upon the health
of the people. We can only hope this one more testimony, coming from such a source,
will have the effect of inducing the Authorities to take proper steps to deal with this
important question in an adequate manner.-E.L.P., G.S.]

INDUSTRIES OF BELGIUM.
Boot and Glove Industries.
In the boot industry, after complete stagnation during the early part of 1922, the
situation showed gradual improvement, and although, in the latter part of the year,
business was slow and only orders for immediate delivery were given, the position on the
whole may be described as satisfactory.
In this market the home industry has to meet strong foreign competition. The total
value of the import trade was 15.1 million francs, the principal sources of supply being
France (164 tons), Germany (120 tons), the United Kingdom (112 tons), United States
(21 tons), Switzerland (15 tons) and Austria (12 tons). The export trade was valued at
only 2.8 million francs, the principal markets being France, the Netherlands, the United
Kingdom, Norway and the Congo.
In contradistinction to the boot industry, the glove industry has an important export
trade, and goods were exported to a value of 9.3 million francs, as compared with imports
valued at 2.2 million francs. The bulk of the exports were absorbed by the United King-
dom and the United States, whose shares amounted to 6.3 and 2.7 million francs respectively.
France, the Netherlands and Italy also took small consignments. The import trade was
principally in French hands, the trade with Germany and the United Kingdom being
comparatively small. - The Financier, 17th April, 1923.

BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK BENEFIT.
£
s.
d.
To December, 1922 598,886 9 3
January, 1923 2,872 12 4
February 2,399 13 0
March 3,050 12 2
£607,209 6 9
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
s.
d.
To December, 1922 270,614 8 4
January, 1923 4,768 15 9
February 3,992 5 9
March 3,621 8 9
£282,996 16 7


---
Here is the extracted text:
263
Joined by Book Debts or Clearance.
Bristol No. 2.
T..136900
F. Weaver
Now becomes full member
W. Banks
..112738
Bromsgrove.
New become full members
W. Banner
Female
..141089
..128543
4. Mole
Desborough.
Females
E. M. Andrews
..130432
REINSTATED
M. Horsley
..70622
Glasgow No. 2
New become full members
H. Flannagan
Females
..138660
M. Sinnott
A. Walker
.141099
..143575
Y Wilson
..144079
Heckmondwike.
New pays to sick only
L. Thornton
6154
Higham and Rushden.
R. Pinnock
..7980
E. K. Burt
8242
W. E. Berwick
..106515
A. Slack
HM. .144086
New pay to trade and funeral
F. Abbott
..123835
E. Partridge
..123837
Now pay to sick only
A. Ruti
S. Fensome
..8846
..8835
Now become full members
W. Bettles
G. Chaplin
C. A. Gomm
T. Willmott
A. Bugby
R. Britten
S. Bailey
W. Wooding
E. Smith
..128600
..97502
..115267
..139797
..106681
..104030
..111416
..138676
..141458
Females
I. Meekins
G. Meekins
D. M. Flanders
E. E. Joice
..111571
..127263
..138693
..140388
Kettering.
E. W. Hughes
J. Goode
Kettering No. 2.
..122520
HM. ..139514
J. R. Coles
H. Wildman
A. Mutton
C. Freeman
A. Sturgess
G. Bonham
H. Writing
T. Jacobs
G. Wells
T. Masters
F. Chapman
R. Tipter
J. G. Laughton HM. .149902
..7515
..14095
..142710
..51903
..138717
..10739
..71927
..125708
..73907
..12514
..131617
Females
M. Burrett
E. M. Murdin
L. Mobbs
E. Althorpe
G. Smith
Kilmarnock.
REINSTATED
..106994
..97758
..109159
..109182
..94456
J. Mullen
..134945
Now pays to sick only
J. Smith
..15965
Now become full members
Females
J. Picken
M. Clearie
..140787
..140790
Kingswood.
REINSTATED
A. L. Burgess
..17631
Now become full members
V. Smart
A. Watts
W. Padfield
..146362
..132737
..142722
Leicester.
H. Dunmore
REINSTATED
..91497
E. Grundy
E. Newcombe
W. Atkins
F. Preston
W. Kilworth
E. Hurst
B. Cooling
M. E. Briggs
H. Morton
A. Eaton
H. Toone
J. Medhurst
H. Wells
F. Herbert
BLABY
J. W. Green
..20457
..21317
T.. 68338
..23572
..27242
..70139
..72021
..23947
..85828
..110532
..132768
..138786
..135007
..139165
..25557
Leicester No. 2.
S. Wilkinson
A. Taylor
F. Ward
A. Ranger
G. Neal
G. Keogh
T. Morgan
W. H. Herbert
Now become full members
J. Turland
F. Rose
L. A. Bevans
C. E. Salisbury
E. Barker
G. Mawbey
J. Smith
G. Watkins
..141174
..27975
..147281
..56405
..144560
T.. 92635
..125997
HM. ..141526
..122706
..127048
..134402
..137783
..14071
..140474
..141527
..144238
Leicester Women's.
E. Jacques
..149381
London Metro.
Now become full members
F. Feakin
Female
C. Taylor
..141287
..132096
London South.
W. Freeman
Maybole.
..38281
Now becomes full member
Female
J. Smith
..126343
Northampton.
J. Hall
REINSTATED
..144334
T. G. Hewitt
T. Earl
G. Inwood
W. Holder
E. T. Swindall
L. Boulton
T. James
T. Watts
HM. .142563
..147250
..145406
..50492
ST.. 78299
..22937
TF.. 73695
ST.. 96644
Now pays to sick only
A. Stanton
..46342
Now become full members
R. W. Fletcher
F. Flowers
F. Smart
A. Stratford
F. Pinson
R. Chambers
J. March
C. Rawlins
E. Oxborough
F. Talbot
E. H. Burnapp
..135458
..121632
..146558
..140979
..140989
..140976
..140984
..146564
..114486
..140991
..141352


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
264
Joined by Book Debts or Clearance-Con.
Northampton-Con.
A. Plummer  ..140982
R. Kent  ..135464
H. Adams  ..100124
R. Waters  ..141359
S. Lines  ..136566
Northampton No. 2.
REINSTATED
W. Clark  ..103530
E. Sketchley  IIM..141371
C. Kendal  T.. 52149
A. Rich  T.. 56770
Females
K. Holland  ..129793
K. Sharpe  ..57471
M. Jones  ..78879
F. Stutley  ..78788
L. Guare  ..81428
L. Smart  ..102016
H. Rawlings  ..103604
H. K. Smith  IIM..143445
Now become full members
E. Goode  ..138090
L. Knight  ..138093
E. Farmer  ..141004
W. Hill  ..141001
M. Sketchley  ..140577
H. Aldous  ..131232
Females
W. Fitzhugh  ..119411
A. Butt  ..141038
D. Burgess  ..135531
E. Harris  ..138982
R. Cox  ..149644
D. Bright  ..119433
M. Plackett  ..121936
J. Rabbitt  ..140265
Norwich No. 2-Con.
K. Voss ..141050
A. Hammett  ..150232
E. Hill  ..141059
E. Goffee  ..141396
C. Freeman ..141751
M. Butcher ..141389
E. Wrighting ..141391
A. Civil  ..141052
P. Edwards  ..128271
Norwich.
S. Seeley  HM..136373
C. Hunton  ..140200
A. King  HM..147973
A. Aldridge  T.. 148553
Females
F. Woods  ..43415
H. Slaughter  ..128065
M. Bunkell  ..142203
B. Fitt  ..146712
Now become full members
J. Winter  ..135305
S. Seeley  ..136373
J. Lincoln  ..141318
Females
S. Bloomfield  ..137554
A. Walker  ..141705
I. Boag  ..143024
M. Chapman  ..144477
Norwich No. 2.
S. Howman  ..43272
W. Brown  ..132106
SCRATCHED IN ERROR
G. H. Brown  HM..146144
Now become full members
C. Barker  ..133228
R. Lambert  ..140556
R. Tacon  ..130489
B. Thompson  ..142230
Female
G. Pegg  ..149155
Nottingham.
Now becomes full member
W. Smallwood  ..148076
NAME CHANGED BY MARRIAGE
Mrs. Hackett  ..134360
Stafford.
Now become full members
G. Barker  ..142254
G. Tunnicliffe  ..97045
Now pay to sick only
G. Slater  ..58634
J. Wilson  ..58730
Street.
C. Coles  ..147536
Now become full members
W. Russell  ..108455
S. Bullocke  ..117019
Wellingborough.
W. J. Mallows  ..64454
E. Gilbey  ..130037
REINSTATED
J. T. Bridgeman  ..125262
Aberdeen.
W. Dick  ..150359
Belfast.
Females
H. Canning  ..150360
E. Canning  ..150361
Bristol.
J. Beament  ..150362
Bristol No. 2.
W. Rees  ..150363
G. Fudge  HM..150364
Females
Mrs. Smart  ..150365
E. Denning  ..150366
A. Lewis  ..150367
E. Burford  ..150368
New and Re-entered Members.
Bristol No. 2-Con.
F. Honer  HM..150369
D. Garland  HM..150370
H. Bush  HM..150371
V. Foxhall  HM..150372
Bromsgrove.
E. A. Cox  ..150373
L. Langston  HM..150374
D. Kimberley  HM..150375
Females
E. Sivell  ..150376
Mrs. Wilson  ..150377
Chesham.
J. Puddephatt  ..150378
Female
N. Birch  ..150379
Daventry.
A. Scarsbrook  ..150380
Females
E. Mills  ..150381
C. Kenning  ..150382
Desborough.
A. Coe  ..150383
L. Coe  HM..150384
Females
N. Johnson  ..150385
E. Bosworth  ..150386
M. L. Panter  ..150387
Edinburgh.
W. Smith  T..150388
H. Allan  HM..150389
Female
Mrs. Taylor  ..150390


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
```text
265
New and Re-entered Members-Con.
Glasgow
A. Dunnell
1. McNaughton
1. Murphy
Female
M. McGilvary
Glasgow No. 2.
Females
1. Roberts
1. Simpson
Heckmondwike.
1. Young
Females
J. Green
E. Brook
Higham and Rushden.
L. Crawley
R. Robinson
T. Harbour
R. Smith
H. Myers
T. Green (2)
T. Cuthbert
1. Groom
G. Brown
H. Keech
E. R. Pratt
W. H. Hartwell
Females
1. Cuthbert
W. Archer
E. A. Powell
1. Hustwaite
1. Lawrence
M. Dayton
D. Streathers
B. Underwood
1. Coleman
M. A. Short
E. Mantle
M. Harris
N. W. Davies
E. Houghton
Hinckley.
H. Robinson
A. Hollingworth
A. Jones
Ipswich.
5. Burton
ΗΜ..150426
..150427
..150428
W. Nears
W. Williams
Female
M. Farrence
Kendal.
Females
L. Wilkinson
Mrs. Thompson
HM..150391
..150392
..150393
..150394
HM..150395
HM..150396
..150397
..150398
..150399
..150400
..150401
..150402
..150403
..150404
..150405
TF..150406
TF..150407
TF..150408
HM..150409
HM..150410
HM..150411
..150412
..150413
..150414
..150415
..150416
..150417
..150418
..150419
..150420
..150421
..150422
..150423
..150424
..150425
ΗΜ..150429
HM..150430
..150431
ΗΜ..150432
..150433
..150434
Kendal-Con.
D. Harrison HM..150435
N. Brennand HM..150436
M. Elvey HM..150437
A. Clement HM..150438
E. Hutchinson HM..150439
J. Ward HM..150440
M. Caton HM..150441
Kettering.
J. E. Clarke HM..150442
A. Coles HM..150443
C. Smith HM..150444
H. Drage
J. Stanley
Kettering No. 2.
C. E. Martin
Females
J. L. Goodfellow
C. Whiting
ROTHWELL
H. Haywood
E. Sanders
R. Chapman
J. Key
Females
G. Cox
D. Chapman
Kilmarnock.
J. Jess
W. Johnstone
R. Blyth
Kingswood.
J. Freke
G. Weeks
W. F. Syms
H. Joy
A. Lear
L. Croom
W. Golding
W. Hodge (2)
S. Taylor
W. Britton
M. Bateman
C. Plenty
W. Burchill
W. G. Sheppard
W. Sheppard
A. Burchill
S. Davis
G. Palmer
A. Collins
Leeds.
S. Toft
H. Shrader
R. Rosenberg
J. Wasp
W. Whitehead
B. Briggs
A. Oxen
W. Watson
..150445
..150446
HM..150447
..150448
..150449
HM..150450
HM..150451
HM..150452
HM..150453
..150454
..150455
..150456
..150457
TF..150458
..150459
..150460
..150461
..150462
..150463
..150464
..150465
..150466
..150467
..150468
..150469
..150470
..150471
..150472
T..150473
T..150474
T..150475
T..150476
T..150477
HM..150478
..150479
T..150480
T..150481
..150482
..150483
..150484
..150485
Leeds-Con.
J. Horncastle
H. Kellett
A. Hollins
P. E. Hackett
W. Lister
W. Fraser
Females
L. Robinson
L. Wheatley
Mrs. Franklin
H. Brunt
Leeds No. 2.
J. Hoolan
E. Rushworth
A. E. Ellingham
W. W. Downing
Leicester.
A. Newitt
C. Green
S. Brown
E. Bowers
I. Martin
A. Potter
A. T. Pryor
T. Wells
O. Freer
C. White
D. Barratt
G. Hickenbottom
J. Harrison
C. Warner
G. Cousins
F. Peel
G. Clayton
S. Hughes
T. Griffen
T. H. Holford
H. Deacon
C. E. Hill
S. Lane
F. W. Adams
G. W. Garner
T. Gosling
A. E. Green
C. Humphrey
J. Craythorne
W. C. Aldwinkle
R. Ward
A. Munton
W. Smith
S. Smith
E. Whitehead
ANSTEY
L. A. Smart
C. Toon
J. Ballard
Female
M. Fossey
BLABY
A. J. Lee
F. Moss
G. W. Hawkins
..150486
..150487
..150488
..150489
..150490
..150491
..150492
..150493
..150494
..150495
..150496
..150497
..150498
ST..150499
..150500
..150501
..150502
..150503
..150504
..150505
..150506
..150507
..150508
..150509
..150510
..150511
..150512
..150513
..150514
..150515
..150516
..150517
..150518
..150519
..150520
..150521
..150522
..150523
..150524
..150525
..150526
..150527
..150528
..150529
..150530
..150531
..150532
..150533
..150534
..150535
..150536
..150537
ΗΜ..150538
..150539
..150540
..150541
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
```text
Leicester-Con.
Females
G. Edison
Mrs. Holland
Mrs. Joyce
E. Smith
BARWELL
A. Wright
T. Biggs
EARL SHILTON
W. Down
H. Knight
M. Pinnigar
T. Pearson
G. Holland
E. Coley
ENDERBY
A. W. Biggs
Leicester No. 2.
W. Illson
W. Hubbard
A. L. Withers
A. E. Wilmott
W. E. Rudkin
A. Eaton
G. W. P. Jacques
J. Farrar
G. W. Whyley
D. Smart
E. Andrews
E. Roberts
F. L. Flude
G. Woodcock
F. L. Redfern
A. Taylor
A. Howkins
T. Rogers
L. Cox
E. Percival
W. E. Naylor
S. Allen
G. Brown
W. Cox
F. Goode
A. J. Hardy
II. Green
W. A. Heath
E. Ackroyd
F. S. Jarvis
A. E. Ingram
Leicester Women's.
M. Snow
B. Bishop
A. Shepherd
E. Bland
G. Cramp
F. Ayres
D. Hunting
L. Baxter
..150542
..150543
..150544
..150545
Female
..150546
COSBY
..150547
..150548
..150549
HM..150550
..150551
..150552
..150553
..150554
..150555
..150556
..150557
..150558
TF..150559
..150560
..150561
..150562
..150563
TF..150564
HM..150565
..150566
HM..150567
TF..150568
..150569
..150570
..150571
..150572
..150573
..150574
..150575
..150576
..150577
..150578
HM..150579
..150580
TF..150581
..150582
HM..150583
..150584
..150585
..150586
..150587
..150588
..150589
..150590
..150591
..150592
Hobbs
Fudge
A. Jefford
E. Favour
H. Smith
F. Richards
C. Carter
E. Savage
Green
Eagle
E. Rogers
B. Pearce
M. Worth
J. Warren
L. Wells
E. Voyce
A. Green
G. Harvey
G. Hobson
Coleman
M. Ewen
F. Reid
A. Brown
R. Vicker
H. Heap
E. Grewcock
Armston
E. Dolman
N. Gee
G. Neal
D. Tritcherler
C. Snell
Chesterton
D. Williamson
M. Whitmore
L. Lakin
F. Faulkes
M. Facer
S. Burkett
W. Cufflin
N. Iliffe
F. Whitley
D. Cooper
A. Calow
A. Spring
A. Swinfield
M. Reast
Scrimshire
G. Iliffe
London Metro.
A. Woolston
G. Harvey
T. Colby
W. Webb
J. Jobber
W. Horne
H. Howard
S. Mordecai
H. Brown
C. George
W. Marshall
London South.
M. Walker
R. Deveral
..150594
Τ..150595
..150596
..150597
..150598
..150599
..150600
..150601
..150602
..150603
..150604
..150605
..150606
..150607
..150608
..150609
..150610
..150611
..150612
..150613
..150614
..150615
..150616
..150617
..150618
..150619
..150620
..150621
..150622
..150623
..150624
..150625
..150626
..150627
..150628
..150629
..150630
HM..150631
..150632
..150633
..150634
..150635
..150636
..150637
..150638
..150639
..150640
..150641
..150642
..150643
T..150644
HM..150645
..150646
..150647
..150648
..150649
..150650
ST..150651
..150652
..150653
..150654
..150655
Manchester.
W. Rogers
HM..150656
Mansfield.
A. Manion
..150657
Maybole.
J. Smith
A. Gibson
W. Gibson
..150658
..150659
..150660
Females
J. M'Ewan
M. Houston
HM..150662
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
G. Dobson
J. N. Coates
B. Law
..150661
..150663
HM..150664
..150665
Northampton.
A. Hall
J. Wilkins
W. Starmer
W. Whitney
F. Butlin
A. W. Langton
H. Windram
S. Page
T. Williams
W. England
H. Harrison
H. Dunmore
A. Ward
S. Kellett
D. Shaw
F. Bland
G. Thompson
C. W. Kingston
J. W. Holt
S. Morris
F. J. Goff
H. W. England
A. E. Burnapp
T. S. Diment
A. Sadd
G. Savage
R. Billingham
F. R. Malle
T. S. Britten
W. F. Green
E. Chillingworth
F. C. Hodgson
A. Amos
Northampton No. 2.
M. Bradbury
B. Brooks
G. Jackson
A. Whittemore
F. O. Robinson
P. Bull
E. Saunders
A. Hutt
F. W. Haynes
G. Craddock
B. Andrews
HM..150666
HM..150667
HM..150668
HM..150669
HM..150670
HM..150671
..150672
..150673
HM..150674
HM..150675
..150676
HM..150677
..150678
HM..150679
HM..150680
HM..150681
HM..150682
HM..150683
..150684
..150685
HM..150686
..150687
HM..150688
ST..150689
..150690
ST..150691
HM..150692
HM..150693
HM..150694
..150695
HM..150696
..150697
..150698
..150699
..150700
..150701
..150702
..150703
..150704
HM..150705
HM..150706
HM..150707
HM..150708
T..150709
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
267
New and Re-entered Members -Con.
Northampton No. 2-
Con.
Females
A. Savage ..150710
B. Holtan ..150711
F. Faulkner ..150712
Mrs. Haskers ..150713
D. Felce ..150714
J. Jackson ..150716
Mrs. Coe ..150717
Mrs. Fortune ..150718
N. Garner ..150719
Mrs. Muddiman ..150720
Mrs. Holton ..150721
N. Gamble ..150722
Mrs. Sharman ..150723
E. Wilson ..150724
Mrs. Howes ..150725
J. Wills
A. Wheeldon HM..150726
N. Green HM..150727
M. Hope IIM..150728
F. Whitehead HM..150729
G. Havard HM..150730
D. Scarlet HM..150731
I. Sumpter HM..150732
G. Kitchener HM..150733
I. Beart HM..150734
J. Elkington HM..150735
I. Panter HM..150736
J. Taylor HM..150737
O. Allitt HM..150738
E. Denton HM..150739
L. Richards HM..150740
E. Harris HM..150741
A. Gibbs HM..150742
D. Haddon HM..150743
J. Love HM..150744
G. Kettle HM..150745
Mrs. Thorley T..150746

Norwich
J. Hindes ..150747
G. Bull ..150748
H. Brown T..150749
J. Springall T..150750
I. Brown ..150751
W. Lemmon HM..150752
D. Hancock HM..150753
J. Watts T..150754
E. Woodcock HM..150755
E. J. Ray ..150756
W. A. Lincoln HM..150757
J. Hardy HM..150758
W. Barber HM..150759
H. Moore HM..150760
T. Bullard HM..150761
S. Burrows ..150762
H. Sayer HM..150763
S. Sendall ..150764
E. Larke ..150765

Norwich-Con
G. Smith HM..150766
A. Coman ..150767
T. Warnes HM..150768
S. Hammond HM..150769
B. Whitton HM..150770
W. Groom T..150771
A. Smith ..150772

Females
W. Yallop HM..150773
E. Hathaway ..150774
L. Lynn ..150775
D. Minns HM..150776
E. Leggett HM..150777
E. L. Smith HM..150778
H. Parker ..150779
L. Smith HM..150780
D. Worthington HM..150781
M. Harwood ..150782
A. Allman ..150783
E. Nichols ..150784
S. Brown ..150785
G. Borthwick HM..150786
E. M. Matthews HM..150787
I. Edwards HM..150788
E. Randall ..150789
E. Tong HM..150790
E. Gotts HM..150791
A. Tillett HM..150792

Norwich No. 2.
G. A. Legood ..150793
A. Colby HM..150794
S. Cubitt ..150795
F. Campling ..150796
H. Banham HM..150797
C. Cropley ..150798
H. Newman TF..150799
W. Staff HM..150800
L. A. Flowerdew HM..150801
C. Taylor HM..150802
A. Widdows HM..150803
H. Wilson HM..150804

Females
L. M. Bygrave ..150805
E. Pointer HM..150806

Stafford.
S. Downing ..150807
S. Tinkler ..150808
L. Jones ..150809
W. Mitchell ..150810
J. Whittaker ..150811
J. Owen ..150812
P. Dix ..150813
A. Mills TF..150814
W. Cottingham HM..150815

Female
Mrs. Clewlow ..150816

Stone.
V. Bradshaw ..150817

Street.
D. Bobbett ..150818
F. Laver ..150819
A. Westlake ..150820
H. Wych ..150821
S. Cox ..150822
C. Robins HM..150823
W. Fowen HM..150824
A. Brass HM..150825

Females
L. Nicholson ..150827
I. Lisk ..150828
E. Payne ..150829
Mrs. Wood ..150830
D. Dowling ..150831
G. Payne ..150832
Q. Pearce ..150833
G. Vowles ..150834
S. Vincent ..150835
L. Bartlett ..150836
Mrs. Lampert ..150837
R. Smith ..150838
M. King ..150839
L. Gooding HM..150840

Wellingborough.
G. Weaver - ..150841
E. Ager ..150842
T. Pettitt HM..150843
C. Chennell HM..150844
C. A. Baucutt HM..150845

Females
A. O'Callagan ..150846
K. Charles ..150847
E. Matthews ..150848
A. Barron ..150849
G. Freeman ..150850
B. B. Mann HM..150851
M. E. Keep HM..150852
I. Berrill HM..150853
D. Bellamy ST..150854

Worcester.
G. Meredith ..150855
F. Adams HM..150856

Females
M. Griffith ..150857
E. Walker ..150858
E. Pingriff ..150859
V. Atkins ..150860
H. Griffiths ..150861


---
Here is the extracted text:
268
Scratched List.
Leicester.
Aberdeen.
L. Anderson  .. 83217
G. Paterson  .. 81

Belfast.
M. O'Hare  ..1956
T. Connolly ..106393
T. Donoghue ..90236

Bishop Auckland.
L. Williams .. 73818
J. Farrow ..122283
A. Stockdale ..122284

Bromsgrove.
F. Dyer ..108909

Female
Mrs. Rea ..95543

Chesham.
F. Dean ..95552
W. Woodstock TF..102912
W. King TF..115045
P. W. Rance ..127311
F. Matthews ..127015
A. Narraway ..128548
G. Austin ..128555
H. Coker TF..144564
A. Mead TF..144565

Females
A. Bristow ..85460
D. Lacey ..94283
R. Morris ..99306

Colchester.
F. Hurrell ..120048
E. Noy ..120056

Derby.
F. Bellfield ..3818
W. Farnsworth ..89092
A. Smith ..135731

Females
A. Clowes ..112851
A. Davy ..140332

Heckmondwike.
W. Thewlis S.. 6177

Ipswich.
H. Sharman ..85658
F. Cocker ..130093

Kingswood.
A. H. Banfield ..113459
F. D. Williams ..17402
W. Davis ..66269
F. Dicks ..73527
I. Britton T..103098
G. Winkworth T.. 17611
J. G. Bateman T..107103

Female
C. Britton ..109262
Leicester.
D. Holford T.. 21130
J. Johnston ..21174
G. Wardle T.. 22375
T. Preston ..23025
J. W. Pettifer ..23550
H. Towers ..26493
W. Moore ST.. 27092
W. Langley ..48854
F. McTighe ..85827
H. Marsh ..89457
A. Peel ..104851
P. Fiddement ..120529
A. E. Andrewes ..125905
J. Roberts ..125925
S. Townsend T..138791
J. Jacques T..141511
T. Potter T..144707
E. R. Fortesque IIM 146414

ANSTEY
W. Pollard T..104857
E. Blake ..23898

Females
E. Fitchett ..27264
Mrs. Corrall ..144201

BARWELL
J. Lord ..72103
S. Freer ..89514
E. Botterill ..101152
E. Walton ..143212
F. A. Goode ..24361

Females
S. Place ..24430
H. Holder ..24453
C. Bates ..26339
L. Wright ..94681
E. Brown ..100555
L. Bonsir ..102389
H. Lucas ..104887
A. Moore ..120571

EARL SHILTON
W. Perkins ..70902
L. Perkins ..71386
A. Whiteman ..104917
A. Bown ..115834
T. Elliott ..139189
A. Nettleton T.. 75414

Leicester No. 2.
S. Hunt ..28075
A. W. Holden ..31377
J. T. C. Gissing ..125983
H. Howe ..113730
W. Pinckhard ..128911
G. Beaver ..138819
F. Chater HM..139580
F. Sheffield ..142816
E. Barnes HM..145199
H. Marvin TF..143772
J. W. Barber ..147092
E. Waring ..147101
J. E. Renning ..148823
W. S. Earl
C. Leeson IIM 147103
Leicester Women's.
E. Fudger ..32728
A. Garner ..33070
M. Hassell ..33266
N. Horsley ..80736
C. Hayes ..33854
L. Wheatley ..33975
F. Sturgess ..34034
F. Barsby ..34088
A. Wheatley ..34015
E. Dixon ..66489
I. Israel ..67769
M. Bent ..68504
E. Warner ..72892
A. Browns ..74054
A. Smith ..80953
E. Brandon ..99966
A. Tite ..101224
E. Brownsward ..101766
A. Parkes ..109427
A. Cooper ..107388
N. Spacey ..107338
D. Brandon ..109625
E. Ward ..109642
G. Spooner T..109660
E. Barrs T..109679
Loydell ..111965
F. Ellis ..113792
Carter ..116050
D. Newbury ..116066
A. Pearson ..116073
O. Freer ..118247
G. Marlow ..120932
Jones ..120980
E. Naylor ..124492
J. Elliott ..134130
E. Townsend ..138349
C. Bradley ..137233
C. Edwards ..137237
F. Shipman ..137844
M. Butler ..139908
G. Bennett HM..140489
F. Masters T..142038
L. Hall T..143777
E. Richardson ..142454
G. Bellas ..143314
M. Searle ..143331
M. Clarke ..143795
N. Touson ..144788
B. Needham ..144244
H. Worrad ..144812
F. Lines ..146482
C. Price ..145245
F. Thornton ..145256
D. Flude ..146491
L. Marvin ..146496
E. Willows ..147769
F. Hanham ..148849
Bray ..148872

London Metro.
S. Gawthorne ..37524
I. Green ..68566
A. Ellis ..37036
A. Cohen ..98433
R. Hale ..96463
J. Israel ..87594


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
London Metro.-Con
J. Skeats
1. Cohen
J. Coombes
1. Hart
F. Johnson
W. Field
D. Grace
E. Hall
J. Cooper
S. Smith
J. Marsh
W. Garner
1. Cohen
Females
R. Edmunds
R. Forester
Mrs. Sams
L. Moore
M. Bennett
F. Cannon
A. Cox
London South.
F. Wells

Manchester.
G. Jackson
Maybole.
S. Lawrie
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. W. Wilson
J. Johnson
J. W. Coates
E. C. Attwell
W. Hogg

Northampton.
J. Rock
L. Wright
G. A. Yeomans
I. Bandy
J. Wood
J. Marriott
F. Mackness
Martin
P. C. Murby
I. C. Tuck
T. B. Ringrose
J. Morris
C. Mead
W. Maris
A. Birt
G. Richards
G. Whymant
T. Munns
I. Meacham
C. Gardner
B. Dooley
C. Stevens
A. Wills
F. Waterfield
C. Cooke
F. Smith
W. Culley
..105327
Τ.. 72911
..37786
..137928
..142905
..137897
..142913
..142914
..138397
57661
..143350
..139264
..137270
..137301
..138416
..124811
..114106
..141659
..137306
HM.. 142097
..140198
..40105
..101334
..142489
..140196
T..142107
41332
..116417
..48526
..48809
..49044
..49105
TF.. 49396
..49984
..50498
TF.. 69556
77030
77078
ST.. 78276
TF.. 80056
..80091
TF.. 80206
TF.. 80219
ST.. 81144
TF.. 81171
..82101
TF.. 56931
TF.. 84020
ST.. 100099
..105820
ST..111016
..116638
TF..118645
Northampton-Con.
A. Hill
J. Brown
F. J. Colgrave
T. Rollins
W. Driver
W. Oxborough
W. Ward
W. Brown
A. Cockle
W. Eastment
R. G. Wright
J. W. York
C. Gordon
R. Goodman
G. A. Wright
A. Kent
R. Stenson
H. Mitchell
L. Markie
A. G. Mann
J. Joynes
A. Beech
Northampton No. 2.
C. Hill
H. Randall
A. Smith
W. Green
W. Clifton
A. Humphrey
A. Basan
H. Dickens
H. Nightingale
E. Jones
W. Botterill
E. Haynes
M. Burditt
J. Smith
M. O'Dell
W. Vernon
W. Ives
C. Bedford
J. Fairey
Females
A. Murby
L. Davis
M. Ellis
K. Bliss
L. Pugh
Whitehouse
N. Clue
A. Newman
E. Ward
V. King
D. Shipley
E. Stone
F. Hatt
A. Faulkner
H. Pearson
L. Rodhouse
E. Collins
R. Hawgood
M. Earl
F. Wallace
C. West
E. Ward
V. Albright
ST..118878
..118780
..118927
..121548
..121617
..116779
..123338
ST..129586
TF..134490
..135442
..136556
HM..138062
HM..140229
HM..140232
..140559
HM..144317
..145878
..147253
..147254
..147868
52336
52347
52365
52611
56873
57185
65947
32204
..119122
..142954
..147999
52127
HM..142961
HM..143928
HM..145938
T.. 52456
T.. 66894
T.. 62815
ST..105880
..53309
..53401
..53523
..53705
..54590
..54614
..54662
..55180
..56143
..56291
..56039
..56708
..56760
..57315
..57379
65373
66943
69616
70479
80273
78437
78777
Northampton No. 2-Con.
A. Garratt
W. Ward
C. Faulkner
M. McNamara
M. Enfield
T. Canham
S. Middleton
C. Cook
L. Bills
L. Bird
R. Croft
L. Smith
H. Licquorish
L. Coles
F. Green
D. Ellis
V. Slinn
W. Neville
L. Smart
Mrs. Crick
E. Day
F. Draper
N. Draper
E. Garrett
E. Guillam
C. Cooper
L. Budden
Mrs. Coles
K. Beck
F. Seamark
E. Soloman
Mrs. Payne
Mrs. Gibbens
W. Ward
E. Chater
E. Edis
M. Hadley
R. Swallow
K. Ellis
K. Masters
E. Lane
A .Sheppard
O. Adams
M. Jones
F. Baker
K. Hillson
M. Slinn
A. Felton
M. Jeffcoate
M. Little
Norwich.
J. Barnard
E. White
H. Clare
S. Caston
A. Swatman
H. Baker
A. Armes
Allen
W. Brown
B. Mills
J. Chilvers
Females
C. Fish
N. Neave
..78804
..80281
..80325
..149604
..85136
.. 85159
..138192
..92961
..91857
..95114
..102023
..110049
..137384
..139386
..114594
..119367
..119286
..121863
..121946
..125117
..125118
..126662
..129718
..132262
..132260
..134559
..137406
..141738
..142590
..142596
..142978
..142979
..142980
..143416
..143955
..147294
..149019
S.. 54749
HM..139721
HM..141048
HM..142639
HM..142997
HM..144373
HM..147328
T..119468
T..144941
..79519
..105604
HM..107778
..138015
..144399
T..144417
..145327
HM..146058
T..147410
..148562
..149073
..43569
..76998


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
London Metro. - Con
J. Skeats ..105327
T. Cohen .. 72911
J. Coombes .. 37786
J. Hart ..137928
F. Johnson ..142905
W. Field ..137897
D. Grace ..142913
E. Hall ..142914
J. Cooper ..138397
S. Smith .. 57661
J. Marsh ..143350
W. Gamer ..139264
J. Cohen ..137270
Females
R. Edmunds ..137301
R. Forester ..138416
Mrs. Sams ..124811
L. Moore ..114106
M. Bennett ..141659
F. Cannon ..137306
A. Cox HM..142097

London South.
F. Wells ..140198

Manchester.
G. Jackson ..40105

Maybole.
S. Lawrie ..101334

Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. W. Wilson ..142489
J. Johnson ..140196
J. W. Coates T..142107
E. C. Attwell .. 41332
W. Hogg ..116417

Northampton.
J. Rock ..48526
L. Wright ..48809
G. A. Yeomans ..49044
J. Bandy ..49105
J. Wood TF.. 49396
J. Marriott ..49984
F. Mackness ..50498
C. Martin TF.. 69556
P. C. Murby .. 77030
I. C. Tuck ..77078
T. B. Ringrose ST.. 78276
J. Morris TF.. 80056
C. Mead ..80091
T. Maris TF.. 80206
A. Birt TF.. 80219
T. Richards TF.. 81144
G. Whymant ST.. 81154
T. Munns TF.. 81171
J. Meacham .. 82101
C. Gardner TF.. 56931
B. Dooley TF.. 84020
C. Stevens ST..100099
A. Wills ..105820
F. Waterfield ST..111016
C. Cooke ..116638
F. Smith ..116646
W. Culley TF..118645

Scratched List-Con.
Northampton-Con.
A. Hill ..118780
J. Brown ST..118878
F. J. Colgrave
T. Rollins
W. Driver ..118927
W. Oxborough ..121548
W. Brown ..121617
W. Eastment
R. G. Wright TF..134490
J. W. York ..135442
C. Gordon
R. Goodman
G. A. Wright
A. Kent
R. Stenson
H. Mitchell
L. Markie
A. G. Mann
J. Joynes
A. Beech

Northampton No. 2.
C. Hill
H. Randall
A. Smith
W. Green
W. Clifton
A. Humphrey
A. Basan
H. Dickens
H. Nightingale
E. Jones
W. Botterill
E. Haynes
M. Burditt
J. Smith
N. Whitehouse
M. O'Dell
W. Vernon
W. Ives
C. Bedford
J. Fairey
Females
A. Murby
L. Davis
M. Ellis
K. Bliss
L. Pugh
- Whitehouse
N. Clue
A. Newman
E. Ward
V. King
D. Shipley
E. Stone
F. Hatt
A. Faulkner
H. Pearson
L. Rodhouse
E. Collins
R. Hawgood
M. Earl
F. Wallace
C. West
E. Ward
V. Albright

Northampton No. 2.-Con.
A. Garratt
W. Ward
C. Faulkner
M. McNamara
M. Enfield
T. Canham
S. Middleton
C. Cook
L. Bills
L. Bird
R. Croft
L. Smith
H. Licquorish
L. Coles
F. Green
D. Ellis
V. Slinn
W. Neville
L. Smart
Mrs. Crick
E. Day
F. Draper
N. Draper
E. Garrett
E. Guillam
C. Cooper
L. Budden
Mrs. Coles
K. Beck
F. Seamark
E. Soloman
Mrs. Payne
Mrs. Gibbens
W. Ward
E. Chater
E. Edis
M. Hadley
R. Swallow
K. Ellis
K. Masters
E. Lane
A .Sheppard
O. Adams
M. Jones
F. Baker
K. Hillson
M. Slinn
A. Felton
M. Jeffcoate
M. Little

Norwich.
J. Barnard
E. White
H. Clare
S. Caston
A. Swatman
H. Baker
A. Armes
- Allen
W. Brown
B. Mills
J. Chilvers

Females
C. Fish
N. Neave
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
270
Scratched List-Con.
Norwich No. 2- Con.
Wellingborough-Con.
I. Cox
Norwich-Con.
Females
E. Votier
..123238
E. Robinson
62743
E. Mann
..120460
E. Larking
..133242
E. Trowell
83191
G. Whayman
..135327
A. Simpson
83198
G. Symonds
..135338
Shepshed.
L. Munton
88957
E. Brown
..136464
Female
M. Munns
..97189
H. Firth
HM..145011
Mrs. Bott
95387
E. Richardson
..106221
G. Bacon
..145015
E. Lickerish
..111196
E. Carman
..146694
Wellingborough.
Mrs. Wallis
..114920
L. Fisher
:.146702
F. Labrum
87030
T. Rushmer
..148598
F. Robinson
97119
F. Partridge
62094
A. Hunt
HM..149126
G. Allen
63266
Mrs. Biggs
99113
A. Payne
89163
Norwich No. 2.
S. Brealey
78774
Worcester.
W. A. Winter
44533
W. Knighton
TF..129944
Females
E. A. Carey
HM..140958
N. Noble
62423
Mrs. Wigley
..143067
W. Smith
HM..145029
N. Scarlett
..103642
D. Russen
HM..147469
Left by Book Debts or Clearance.
Bristol No. 2-Con.
Higham & Rushden-
Con.
Aberdeen.
E. Gilbey
..130037
K. Lloyd
89002
M. Wilcox
..148138
J. Crutchley
TF.. 75888
R. Watt
92171
V. Carpenter
..119949
G. Allen
TF.. 97504
J. Edmunds
95519
T. Belcher
TF..113125
Arbroath.
M. Hollister
..122250
W. Patenall
TF..113113
R. Ritchie
..149206
J. Rogers
TF..112978
J. Dalziel, jun.
..136854
Cork.
C. Drage
HM.. 17099
W. Beattie
150
H. Desmond
..131489
F. Draper (dead) TF.. 97536
F. Japp
301
O. George (dead) 8538
N. Clark
.133601
Desborough.
G. Green (dead) 6667
N. Japp
80572
A. Ingram
66098
J. B. Houghton (dead) 117678
I. Johnson
..130132
Females
Females
L. Mitchell
67189
A. Betts
10049
A. Mitchell
HM..103716
Edinburgh.
Mrs. Wills
95889
A. M'Millan
.112716
W. Jamieson
T.. 141096
V. M. Childs
..101609
C. Sheriffs
.149207
A. Richards
11240
A. Murray
..123665
Glasgow.
F. Davis
90644
M. Samson
..131418
J. Mitchell
..108971
K. Baldwin
9962
Mrs. Hood
..149805
A. McEwan (dead)
5025
H. Clayton
9457
M. Campbell
90096
V. Copson
9614
J. Whitton
67131
Glasgow No. 2.
E. Travail
64786
A. Barclay
..138191
J. Kirkwood
..138222
S. A. Gilbert
ST..127248
M. Gordon
..146852
R. Sutherland
5798
M. R. Knight (dead)
9400
J. Spence
Τ.. 67322
W. Partridge (dead) 138692
Ayr.
J. Murphy
Τ.. 146288
Hinckley.
W. Scott
..125323
Females
J. Fyfe
..145013
W. Muir (dead)
538
Mrs. Wylie
..117524
P. Huckle
89198
Female
N. Miller
..117531
G. Chamberlain (dead) 11620
M. Taylor
97222
C. McKie
..143098
M. Paton
95735
Kendal.
Bristol.
Females
F. Foster (dead)
896
Heckmondwike.
J. Butler
..138712
Bristol No. 2.
T. Senior
6113
D. Mattocks
..137667
W. Winstone
1684
A. Wilson
16497
C. Taylor
..148680
Higham and Rushden.
N. Brown
..127478
J. Smart
Τ.. 75412
W. Mallows
64454
Kettering.
W. E. Line
14729
V. A. Goodfellow
10007
Females
A. T. Tate
64309
J. R. Coles
7515
M. Nelines
.111249
J. Desborough
64430
C. Meakins
13732
E. Gammon
..108876
S. Dickerson
..130233
H. Wildman
14095
L. Brain
65475
J. Groves
..125590
A. Mutton
..142710
E. Arnold
95520
A. Harrison
80620
A. Sturgess
..138717
W. James
TF.. 64449
G. Bonham
10739
H. Writing
71027


---
Here are the extracted texts from the image:
```text
Kettering - Con.
H. Jacobs
G. Wells
T. Masters
F. Chapman
J. G. Laughton HM.149901
J. Plant (dead)
J. W. Smart (dead)
J. Marriott (dead)
J. Wills (dead)

Females
M. Burrett
L. Mobbs
E. M. Murdin
E. Althorpe
G. Smith

Kettering No. 2.
E. W. Spence
E. W. Hughes
R. Kilsby
H. Richards
G. H. Woolstone
J. Goode
H. Stanger

ROTHWELL
T. Eagle

Females
E. Patrick
E. Willis

Kilmarnock.
Females
M. Wallace
M. Ferguson

Kingswood.
G. Summerhill
E. Shearn (2)
G. T. Britton

Leeds.
J. Nowell

Females
Mrs. King
E. Catley
E. Riley

Leeds No. 2.
J. Bannister
J. Laird, sen. (dead)

Leicester.
H. Fall
S. Wilkinson
H. Mayes
T. Gilbert (dead)
S. Sculthorpe (dead)
J.B. Kemp (dead)
C.Debrex (dead)
J. Neal (dead)
J. Butterworth (dead)
T. Fisher (dead)
J. Hughes (dead)
A. J. Griffin (dead)

Leicester - Con.
Females
E. Archer (dead)
H. Boulter (dead)
SOUTH WIGSTON
E. Cooke

Leicester No. 2.
H. Dunmore
W. R. Williamson
W. Price (dead)
C. C. Bailey (dead)

Leicester Women's.
A. E. Lewis

Liverpool.
W. E. Giles

London Metro.
A. Marsh
J. Fergusson (dead)

London South.
A. Roy

Manchester.
A. Myers

Mansfield.
A. A. Kirk

Females
A. Hallam
E. M. Shooter
M. A. Poxson

Northampton.
F. Murby
T. Dalton (dead)
J. King (dead)
A. E. Roberts (dead)
N. Tarry (dead)
A. York (dead)

Northampton No. 2.
J. Hall
K. Tipler
C. Freeman
A. Ringer
A. Ward
E. Inwood (dead)

Females
E. Osborne
M. Biggs (dead)
M. Packer (dead)

Norwich.
S. Howman
W. Brown
S. Ewing (dead)
A. Butcher (dead)
E. Clarke (dead)

Norwich No. 2.
Female
D. Smith

Nottingham.
M. Lowe (dead)

Sheffield.
J. Tudor
N. Augar (dead)

Stafford.
V. Burne

Females
Mrs. Tilstone
M. Edge
D. Yates

Stone.
J. Plummer

Street.
H. Marsh
J. Andrews
S. Godfrey
J. Pitts
J. Tucker
A. Badman
C. Badman
S. Wallace
N. Burrows
F. Chivers
C. Carter (dead)
G. Richards (dead)

Females
E. Broughton
D. Curtis
F. Fussell
D. Underwood
A. Broughton
E. Mullins
L. Sweet
J. Rogers
Mrs. Dyer
D. Nicholson

Wellingborough.
H. Neal
A. Tapscott
C. W. Bonham (dead)

Female
M. Adams (dead)

Wolverhampton.
F. Skidmore
W. Burton
G. W. Grimes
C. Barratt
S. D. Round
J. Harrison
C. Morriss
G. James

Females
F. Turton
E. Head
S. Bowdley
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
POLITICAL DEPARTMENT.
Summary showing No. of Members with Amounts due from Branches and Trade Funds for Quarter ending 31st March, 1923.
Full
Members.
Half
Members.
Total.
Name of Branch.
Amounts due from-
Branch.
Central Office.
TOTAL.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
101
209
103
Aberdeen
Arbroath
0
65
214
25
20
95
Ayr
0 19 1
I 19 7
0 15 11
13
3
I 9
I 15
5
3
3
6
6
0 13
0
4
6
4
7
75
495
80
53
Barnsley
Belfast
Bishop Auckland
Bristol
Bristol No. 2..
Bromsgrove
Burnley
Chesham
Chesterfield
Colchester
Cork
Daventry
Derby
Desborough
Dundee
Edinburgh
Eyam
Glasgow
Glasgow No. 2
Halifax
Heckmondwike
Higham and Rushden
Hinckley
Hull
Ipswich
Kendal
Kettering
Kettering No. 2
Kilmarnock
I
0 6
10
I
0 7
4
0 7
0
4
12
16
0
7
4
0
I
0
0
5
3
5
2
6
I
4
10
6
6
2
8
5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5
4
3
I
I
8
16
18
2
18
4
7
7
8
16
0
0
9
0
0
I
0
3
10
8
11
16
I
8
10
55555555555
I 13
9
5
9
5 5
6
8
5
4
6
I
1
1
1
3
2
1
0
I
0
I
I
0
3
6
10
I
2
2
2
9
3

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
```text
1151
969
333
8584
4300
8
57
2307
165
134
63
185
51
158
2720
1041
4986
2058
49
7
76
9
19
39
58
230
930
193
701
17
1400
14
362
137
16
25
98
292
27
1220
150
2914
6
225
9
67
141
72
4
15
1680
623
611
3759
17
6
8
8
27
51
47
359
127
481
900
12
186
136
1249
1261
360
9804
4450
2914
63
2532
174
201
204
257
55
173
4400
1664
5597
5817
66
7
82
9
27
40
109
277
1289
320
1182
17
2300
26
548
273
17
25
Kingswood
Leeds
Leeds No. 2
Leicester
Leicester No. 2
Leicester Women's
Lincoln
Liverpool
London Metro.
London South
Manchester
Mansfield
Maybole
Midsomer Norton
Newcastle-on-Tyne
Norwich
Norwich No. 2
Northampton
Northampton No. 2
Nottingham
Oldham
Plymouth
Reading
Redruth
Sheffield
Shepshed
Sileby
Stafford
Stone
Waterford
Wellingborough
Whitwick
Wolverhampton
Worcester
Yarmouth
York
3 15 0
39 8
1 1 8
28 14 8
13 13 5
4 11 1
0 0 6
039
7 11 3
0 10 7
0 10 6
0 8 4
0 13 10
034
0 10 4
11 2 6
4 4 6
16 10 9
12 6 1
037
05
04 11
007
0 I 5
026
0 5 3
0 15 10
39 4
0 16 1
2 18 10
0 I 3
0 I 8
0 12 10
0 I 1
0 I 7
11 5 0
10 9 0
3 5 0
86 3 10
41 0 3
13 13 3
0 1 6
0 11 3
22 13 7
1 11 9
1 11 4
150
216
0911
1 11 0
33 7 6
12 13 6
36 18 3
0 I 0
0 14 9
0 19 8
0 7 4
0 15 7
10 8 0
0 I 3
8 16 6
0 I 3
17 6 10
039
1515
I 18 5
048
15 0 0
13 18 8
4 6 8
114 18 6
54 13 8
18 4 4
0 2 0
0 15 0
30 4 10
2 2 4
2 I 10
1 13 4
2 15 4
0 13 3
2 I 4
44 10 0
16 18 0
66 2 10
49 4 4
0 14 4
0 I 8
0 19 8
0 2 3
0 5 8
0 9 10
10 10
13 17 4
3 3 4
TOTALS
£179 3 0
£537 5 7
£716 8 7
46983
20671
67654
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
MONTHLY SUMMARY
Of Cash and Set-off Paid by each Branch, also Amounts to Credit or Arrears (if any) for the Month ending 30th March, 1923.
Financial Members.
Proba-
tionary
TOTAL,
Males. Females. Members.
NAME OF BRANCH.
Date of
Receiving
Returns,
April, 1923.
Cash
Paid.
Sick and
Funeral
Set-off.
Trade
Set-off.
Total
Paid.
Total to
Credit.
Total
Arrears.
Set-off.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
106
1
6
113
Aberdeen
7
14 16 0
237
145
24
406
Arbroath..
11
30 4 9
4 10 0
21 0 0
55 14 9
75
18
4
97
Ayr
13
15 0 0
12 9 0
27 9 0
10
10
Barnsley
14
2 0 0
0 3 9
2 3 9
152
44
20
216
Belfast
14
4 16 0
21 5 11
26 1 11
22
2
24
Bishop Auckland
14
519
33
15
567
Bristol
14
16 11 1
39 7 8
36 3 8
92 2 5
525
449
40
1014
Bristol No. 2
14
17 7 5
39 17 0
76 8 10
133 13 3
101
59
10
170
Bromsgrove
14
16 10 0
7 0 0
23 10 0
58
3
61
Burnley
14
1 4 0
9 2 9
10 6 9
315
78
1
394
Chesham
11
22 3 0
22 3 0
32
5
1
38
Chesterfield
14
3 0 0
3 0 0
114
49
163
Cork
14
10 0 0
7 18 0
2 18 11
20 16 11
265
153
12
430
Daventry
14
35 9 0
6 4 6
41 13 6
109
97
52
258
Derby
14
14 18 4
5 12 0
2 8 2
22 18 6
530
176
14
720
Desborough
14
38 4 9
58 15 0
10 12 6
107 12 3
88
27
70
185
Dublin
No return received.
..
159
24
5
188
Dundee
14
20 2 0
19 8 3
39 10 3
302
41
6
349
Edinburgh
13
39 10 6
11 19 0
3 17 0
55 6 6
12
4
16
Eyam
11
700
37
12
749
Glasgow
12
144 14 5
144 14 5
189
282
18
489
Glasgow No. 2
12
15 0 6
77 17 0
92 17 6
21
21
Halifax
14
2 15 6
0 3 9
2 19 3
141
51
16
208
Heckmondwike
14
21 10 3
8 15 0
0 3 9
30 9 0
7
7
Hereford
14
0 14 2
0 14 2
2441
5035
204
7680
Higham & Rushden
7
419 8 0
676 6 4
1095 14 4
480
130
25
635
Hinckley
14
31 10 0
36 6 6
67 16 6
30
30
Hull
14
5 0 0
5 0 0
88
25
12
125
Ipswich
14
15 0 0
1 2 4
16 2 4
284
181
16
481
Kendal
13
45 14 9
16 5 0
2 14 0
64 13 9
2603
44
105
2842
Kettering
10
297 10 0
180 4 0
477 14 0
476
1416
70
2362
Kettering No. 2
11
10 3 6
205 1 0
57 11 6
272 16 0
0 0 5
0 0 5
15 15 9
0 0 9
0 4 10
13 16 8
4 12 7
9 2 8
30 18 11
16 3 9
31 0 6
52 16 4
37 5 6
0 14 2
16 17 3
70 2 7
0 0 9
0 1 5
2 13 6

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
```text
245
1214
1019
329
8408
4162
137
85
375
10
920
338
3027
1100
8
61
2186
169
134
81
197
62
162
2815
1009
5305
2343
70
218
7
78
134
75
6
4
1517
624
4135
16
87
7
19
38
60
200
1
987
217
792
17
1612
4
8
1
48
35
50
348
148
410
882
398
193
143
147
17
24
12
85
50
24
650
338
4127
10
71
1200
5
20
37
25
3
9
416
225
280
530
2
93
7
1
40
48
35
188
47
106
130
20
6
6
394
1384
1444
363
9978
4500
3604
181
232
252
297
71
175
4748
1858
5585
7008
88
Plymouth
Reading
Redruth
Sheffield
Shepshed
Sileby
Southampton
Stafford
Stone
Street
Waterford
Wellingborough
Whitwick
Wolverhampton
Worcester
Yarmouth
York
Kilmarnock
Kingswood
Leeds
Leeds No. 2
Leicester
Leicester No. 2
Leicester Women's
Lincoln
Liverpool
London Metro.
London South
Manchester
Mansfield
Maybole
Midsomer Norton
Newcastle-on-Tyne
Norwich
Norwich No. 2
Northampton
Northampton No. 2
Nottingham
Oldham
No return
No return
13
13
13
12
12
14
14
14
13
14
12
14
13
14
16
16
12
12
14
14
11
13
16
9
16
10
16
13
16
16
12
12
14
14
11
0
received.
No return
received.
No return
received.
No return
received.
received.
No return
received.
No return
received.
1
2
6
0
0
0
4
6
0
0
0
0
0
600
0
0
0
0
2
8
4
19
218
54
12
620
493
202
5
14
25
20
1
73
218
124
1
3
12
15
35
69
0
0
56
23
0
28
115
10
109
493
202
58
107
3
25
20
1
0
4
19
3
10
69
1
238
21
0
4
19
0
0
15
5
0
0
0
0
3
0
0
4
6
0
0
60
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
109
7
0
5
1
38
2
0
1
1
0
2
1
0
4
0
0
0
18
9
9
9
0
0
0
9
15
0
12
2
19
0
0
9
15
6
12
9
16
7
0
0
0
0
6
8
0
8
0
4
8
0
9
2
0
0
0
4
4
6
1
0
12
0
10
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
7
9
0
1
6
6
0
0
0
9
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
8
0
3
0
20
6
0
0
0
0
9
9
0
0
0
20
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
6
8
8
11
8
0
6
6
6
0
6
8
10
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
3
13
9
16
13
9
0
4
15
0
0
0
0
19
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
6
2
9
12
1
0
9
9
15
9
13
9
9
0
10
2
2
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
0
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
10
0
2
0
0
15
15
3
3
8
9
0
0
0
6
0
0
0
0
4
1
9
9
0
1
0
13
9
9
0
13
16
11
9
2
12
9
9
9
9
9
9
6
6
9
9
1
2
10
9
6
9
9
9
6
2
9
9
12
6
0
2
9
12
12
6
10
4
9
0
9
6
9
1
3
1
9
12
10
0
1
9
1
10
1
9
13
14
6
9
6
9
10
11
0
9
0
0
4
9
3
9
8
8
8
0
4
9
0
6
4
4
0
0
0
0
9
12
8
11
6
9
9
3
6
0
0
0
3
9
9
0
9
8
6
10
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
4
8
6
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
16
2
8
8
0
1
11
9
0
0
0
0
9
2
0
1
0
0
0
9
9
0
9
9
0
0
0
0
1
14
0
9
14
0
0
0
14
0
9
4
11
0
9
0
0
0
10
10
0
1
10
10
0
2
0
1
0
10
12
14
1
3
3
3
1
1
1
14
0
0
9
14
4
5
9
10
0
13
0
9
11
0
2
9
1
9
0
0
1
1
2
0
0
6
0
0
0
6
4
0
1
0
4
11
1
8
14
0
19
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
0
9
9
6
9
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
9
4
8
9
6
9
6
9
9
6
9
9
1
6
6
8
1
6
9
0
11
6
9
6
9
0
9
0
9
11
9
6
6
9
6
9
6
0
9
6
9
0
0
0
10
0
0
4
9
9
9
6
6
0
0
6
0
1
6
9
0
16
6
0
0
0
0
9
0
4
6
11
9
9
0
1
16
16
16
0
0
0
0
0
0
10
9
9
0
10
1
16
10
0
11
0
9
11
0
9
0
0
0
6
0
0
9
9
6
0
0
0
0
16
9
9
9
0
9
0
0
16
0
0
16
1
1
9
0
11
9
9
0
12
9
14
11
9
14
0
9
0
0
9
9
9
13
13
9
0
9
9
0
9
16
9
9
10
0
0
9
9
0
0
0
0
16
11
0
0
0
9
9
10
1
0
10
0
11
9
13
0
9
0
9
12
10
13
1
11
0
0
11
12
9
9
13
9
10
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
11
9
9
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
6
9
14
0
0
9
0
0
9
0
0
0
9
0
0
6
9
1
14
0
0
0
9
0
0
9
10
14
11
0
6
9
9
11
0
0
0
9
6
0
1
6
11
11
1
9
11
9
1
6
16
16
1
1
6
9
16
10
0
1
6
9
16
16
9
1
9
0
9
16
11
1
16
11
1
0
9
11
0
9
11
0
0
10
0
0
9
11
0
13
0
0
0
0
0
11
0
0
0
0
12
11
1
10
6
11
6
0
0
11
0
0
0
1
11
0
16
16
10
0
0
0
0
0
9
1
1
16
16
10
11
11
0
0
0
1
9
0
0
11
11
9
0
0
11
16
11
0
0
0
9
9
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
1
1
0
9
1
9
0
1
0
0
0
0
14
10
11
9
0
0
0
0
10
14
1
14
0
0
0
9
14
9
1
9
10
1
14
14
0
0
0
9
1
0
14
0
0
1
1
9
1
0
1
1
10
10
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
16
10
10
10
0
10
14
14
0
0
0
0
9
9
9
10
1
11
0
0
1
10
10
0
0
14
14
9
0
9
10
1
1
1
10
1
1
10
14
10
10
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
14
0
0
10
10
11
11
10
10
9
0
0
9
1
9
9
11
9
10
14
1
1
0
0
0
11
11
10
1
1
11
11
10
0
0
0
9
10
9
9
9
9
10
10
1
1
0
11
9
11
1
0
0
10
0
0
10
0
0
0
1
9
9
1
0
11
0
9
1
10
14
1
11
0
9
0
0
0
10
11
9
1
0
11
0
11
10
1
11
0
9
1
9
0
11
9
0
10
9
10
10
9
10
10
9
9
14
11
9
9
9
9
10
9
9
10
9
0
9
0
9
10
9
9
10
1
11
0
0
9
9
11
9
0
9
10
0
0
1
14
11
0
0
10
11
1
9
0
0
1
14
1
11
9
9
9
11
1
10
1
11
9
1
10
0
11
0
10
14
1
1
0
10
0
0
10
9
1
9
14
10
9
1
11
11
0
10
9
1
0
10
10
9
9
9
9
0
10
1
10
9
9
0
0
0
10
9
1
10
9
10
11
9
0
9
0
10
14
0
0
9
0
10
0
9
14
9
0
9
0
10
11
9
14
0
9
9
9
9
10
1
10
1
11
9
0
0
0
0
10
0
10
14
0
0
11
0
9
9
0
11
0
0
10
10
14
0
1
11
0
10
9
9
0
10
10
1
9
11
0
0
0
10
10
10
10
0
0
1
11
10
10
9
9
10
0
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
10
0
10
9
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
10
10
0
0
0
0
0
0
10
0
0
0
0
10
0
0
0
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


---
Here's the extracted text from the image, organized for readability:

**Names of Branches, Secretaries' Addresses and Places of Meeting**

**Branch**          | **Secretary's Address and Telephone Number**                      | **Place of Meeting**
-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------
Aberdeen         | J. Anderson, 38, Bedford Road                                 | Council Buildings, 47, Belmont St.
Arbroath        | J. P. Reid, 21, Lordburn, Arbroath                               | Shakespeare Hall, High Street, 7.30 p.m.
Ayr              | A. McQuaker, 4, West Sanquhar Road, Ayr                        | Newton Council Rooms
Barnsley         | William Bowler, 37, Taylor Row, Barnsley                       | Industry Inn, Baker Street
Belfast          | G. White, 220, Cupar Street, Belfast                           | Typographical Hall, Frederick St.
Sections         | Jas. McCloskey, 3, Nassau St., Londonderry                    |
                 | Andw. Conway, 140, Queen Street, Ballymena                    |
                 | Jas. Kenning, Circular Road, Castlewellan                     |
                 | Joseph Best, 140, Park Road, Portadown                         |
                 | Joseph McAnespey, 33, Oldtown St., Cookstown                  |
Bishop Auckland | W. Crowther, 2, Seymour St., Bishop Auckland                  | Labour Room, Kingsley Chambers
Brighton         | C. W. Giles, 53A, Richmond Buildings                          | Labour Club, Queen's Place
Bristol          | J. Osborne, 172, Newfoundland Road, Bristol                     | Star Coffee House, Old Market St.
Sections         | Tom Durban, 89, Worcester Street, Brynmawr                   |
                 | R. Baker, 13, Sandford Street, Bath Road, Cheltenham         |
Bristol No. 2    | J. Manners, 19, Downend Road, Fishponds, Bristol               | St. Clement's School
Sections         | Clevedon, Paulton, Street                                    |
                 |
Bromsgrove       | A. Mole, 2, Rose Terrace, Brook Road, Bromsgrove               | Oddfellows' Hall, High Street
Burnley          | Jas. Taylor, 45, Hammerton Street, Burnley                    | Central Club, Bank Parade
Chesham          | F. Goodger, 139, Bellingdon Rd., Chesham, Bucks              | Crown Hotel, Lordsmill Street
Chesterfield     | G. Rodgers, 3, Whitehouses, Hasland Road                      | Trade Hall
Colchester       | H. Proctor, 8, Lisle Road, Colchester                          | Trades Hall
Cork             | M. Cotter, 6, Crotomore Square, Cork                           | Unity Hall, Burton Road
Daventry         | I. H. Johnson, J.P., West View, Warwick Road                 | Co-operative Hall
Derby            | W. N. Blissett, 101, Leman Street, Derby                       | Gilfillan Memorial
Desborough       | S. Barnes, J.P., 141, Union Street, Desborough                  |
Dublin           | H. Dale, 33, Cook Street, Dublin                              |
Dundee           | Alex. Brown, 10, Pitkerro Road, Dundee                        |
Edinburgh        | Sections W. Walker, Stirling Street, Blackford                  | Temperance Hall, High Street
                 | Wm. Connon, 256, High Street, Perth                             |
                 | Robert White, 28. Rodney Street, Edinburgh                     |
Sections         | J. Scobbie. Spion Kop, East Bridge St., Falkirk                 |
                 | J. Hutchieson, 157, High Street, Kirkcaldy                   |
Glasgow           | W. Ferguson, 128, Albany Street, Dunfermline                 |
                 | J. Stewart, 154, Charlotte Place, Bathgate                     |
                 | S. Nicholson, 52, Toulford Road, Cowdenbeath                  |
                 | E. Hall, 13A, Ludgate, Alloa                                  |
                 | F. Kearsley, Holy Bank Learmouth Crescent, West Calder         |
Eyam             | R. Potter, Burnbank Cottage, Uphall,                            |
Glasgow No. 2    | Alex. Ross, 12, Lemon Terrace, Leven                        |
Halesworth       | G. Hunter, 16, Dundas Street, Lochgelly                      |
Halifax          | A. Dickson, Co-op. Society, Tranent                            |
Heckmondwike     | D. Feeney, 23, Eskside, Musselburgh                           |
Hereford         | W. Slater, Townhead, Eyam, Derbyshire                          |
Higham & Rushden | M. Gamble, 75, South Portland Street, Glasgow                  | [Street, St. Gorbals
Hinckley        | A. Kelman, 9, Grace Drive, Govan, Glasgow                     | Brass Finishers' Hall, 36, Main
Hull             | J. Parker, 29, Chediston Street, Halesworth,                 | Masonic Hall, Rutland Crescent
Ipswich          | S. A. Halliday, 21, West Mount Street, Pillon                 | Suffolk
Kendal           | A. Stott, J.P., 8, Melbourne Street, Union Road               | Friendly and Trades Club, St.
Kettering        | W. H. Bishop. 42, Berrington Street, Hereford                  | Socialists' Room, Back Lane
Sections         | W. Langley, J.P., Trade Union Office, Higham                | James Road
                 |
                 | Higham Ferrers, Rushden, Irthlingborough, T. 51                  | Trade Union Club and Institute,
                 | Finedon, Raunds, Ringstead, Stanwick, Irchester, Rushden       |
                 | Wollaston, and Bozeat                                       |
                 | W. Warner, 59, Stockwell Head, Hinckley                       |
                 | C. W. Glover, 4, Park Avenue, Perry Street                    | Castle Tavern
                 | F. Edwards, 192, Cemetery Road, Ipswich                      | Metropole, West Street
                 | J. B. Ellison, 31, Park Avenue, Kendal.                      | Labour Institute, Silent Street
Section          | J. Prickett, Rayrigg Road. Bowness-on-Winder-                  |
                 | C. Mayes, Trade Union Offices, Club Street,                    | Working Men's Institute, Market
Kettering No. 2  | J. Taylor, William Street, Burton Latimer                     | [Place
Sections         | J. Rowlett, 12, Gordon Street, Rothwell                       | Trade Union Offices, Club Street
                 | C. C. Smith. Kettering Road, Walgrave                        |
                 | J. E. Chapman, Trade Union Offices. T. 374                    |
Kilmarnock       | J. Taylor, William Street, Burton Latimer                     |
                 | J. Rowlett, 12. Gordon Street, Rothwell                      |
                 | A. Flanagan, 24, Fleming Street, Riccarton                    | Temperance Halls


---
Names of Branches, Secretaries' Addresses and Places of Meeting-(continued).
BRANCH.
Kingswood
Leeds'
"
Leeds No. 2
Leicester
Sections
Leicester No. 2
"
Leicester Women's
Section
Lincoln
Liverpool
London Metro.
"
Sections
London South
Manchester
Mansfield
Maybole
Meiton Mowbray...
Midsomer Norton
Newcastle-on-Tyne
Norwich
Norwich No. 2
Northampton
Northampton No. 2
Nottingham
Oldham
Plymouth
19
Reading
Redruth
Sheffield
Shepshed
Sileby
19
Sections
Southampton
Stafford
"
Stone
Street
Waterford
Wellingborough
19
Sections
Whitwick
Wolverhampton
19
Worcester
Yarmouth (Great)
Section
York
SECRETARY'S ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER.
A. Randall, J.P., 17, High St., Kingswood, Bristol
Joseph Wescoe, 14, Upper Fountaine Street,
G. Parbury, Boot and Shoe Trade Hall, Earl
Street, Leicester.
H. W. Widdowson, "Glencoe,
Anstey
A. Needham, 48, Mill Street, Barwell...
S. Bruin, Park Road Blaby
E. Starmer, Countesthorpe Road, Cosby
D. Astley, 126, Wood Street, Earl Shilton
F. W. Burchnall, High Street, Enderby
W. Elliott, London Road, Oadby
H. W. Taylor, 57, Bull's Head Street, Wigston
Magna
J. Boulter, 3, Turn Street, Syston
A. Hill, M.P., J.P.,
T. Jackson, Hope Cottage, Cropstone Rd., Anstey
T. Selvidge, 108, Countesthorpe Road, South
Wigston
Miss A. Muir, Boot and Shoe Trade Hall,
F. W. Burchnall, High Street, Enderby
G. Brumpton, 71, Winn Street, Lincoln
George Bishop, 89, Tagus Street, Lodge Lane
J. Woodward, 365, Hackney Road, Bethnal
F. Stanford, 13, Pageant Road, St. Albans
G. Standeven, 67, Scovell Road, Boro' Road,
J. Mason, 15, Oakhill Street, Heath Street,
Cheetham Hill, Manchester
Wm. Bramley, 7, Furniss Row Nursery
Jas. McCulloch, 6, Society Street, Maybole
G. A. Wainer, 35, Norman St., Melton Mowbray
F. Gould, 6, Rackfernal Road, Midsomer Norton
W. H. Lodge, 16, Coquet Street, Newcastle
F. C. Jex, 51, St. George's Street, Norwich.
A. H. Folkard, J.P., 51, St. George's St., Norwich
W. Pitts, 107, Overstone Road
S. Thompson, J. P., 97, Charles Street.
F. Whiteman, 74, Waterway St. West, Nottingham
W. Bottomley, Bridge End, Delph, nr. Oldham
J. Gay, 5, Albert Road, Plymouth
J. H. Tithecott, 48, Lime Road, Bideford;
A. W. Panting, 14, Edghill Street, Reading
B. Knight, Montague, North Country, Redruth
T. B. Robinson, 242, Main Road, Darnall
E. Peberdy, Forest Street. Shepshed
F. Leader, 39, Swan Street, Sileby
S. E. Eason, Vine Cottages, Rothley
A. W. Murray, 70, Northam Bridge Road,
R. Dunn, 152, Marston Road, Stafford
G. Shenton, Stoke-on-Trent
Richard Glover, 5, Edward Street, Stone, Staffs.
J. H. Hooper, J.P., 56, High St., Street, Somerset
W. Nicholson, 9, Castle Terrace, Waterford
W. Wyman, 28, Silver St., Wellingboro'.
F. Curzon, Doddington Road, Earls Barton
F. Mynard, High Street, Olney, Northants.
F. Berrington, 78, Leicester Road, Whitwick
Alex. Smith, 187, North St., Wolverhampton
T. Worrall, 40, Dean Street, Birmingham
G. Rose, 45, Blakefield Road, Worcester
W. Nash, 9, Row 61, Hall Quay, Gt. Yarmouth
J. Rafton, 20, Ratcliffe St. Burton Stone Lane


---
NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF UNION OFFICERS.
Tel. No.: 4438 Museum, London. Tel. Address: "Natunishop, Holb., London."
GENERAL PRESIDENT.
T. F. RICHARDS, Business Address-34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
Private Address-7, Mecklenburg Street, London, W.C. 1. No business communications to this Address.
GENERAL SECRETARY.
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 69, Freegrove Road, Holloway, London, N. 7.
ORGANISERS.
D. MCCARTHY, 23, Avenue Road Extension, Leicester.
W. R. SMITH, J.P., "Belle Vue," Old Catton, Norwich.
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
District No. 1-T. ADNITT, 65, Marfitt Street, Leicester.
2-C. BATES, 8, Denmark Road, Rushden.
3-A. W. LYNE, 21, Cranstoun Street, Northampton.
4-L. SMITH, 16, Northcote Street, Semilong, Northampton.
5-C. MAYES, 25, Pollard Street, Kettering.
6-Vacant.
7-W. WARNER, 59, Stockwell Head, Hinckley.
8-W. HINDES, J.P., 9, Tillett Road, North Walsham Road,
Norwich.
9-C. BLEAKLEY, 1, Drum Terrace, Edinburgh.
10-A. J. DOBBS, 6, Bramley Avenue, Bramley, Leeds.
11-ALEX. SMITH, 187, North Street, Wolverhampton.
12-J. MANNERS, 19, Downend Road, Fishponds, Bristol.
DISTRICT AGENTS.
District No.
1-M. A. PARKER, Leicester.
2-E. BATCHELOR, Rushden.
3-E. LAW, Northampton No. 2.
4-I. H. JOHNSON, J.P., Daventry.
5-G. CHESTER, Kettering.
6-Miss E. SHERWIN, Leicester
(Women's).
District No.
7-J. H. BAUM, Leicester No. 2.
8-F.C. JEX, Norwich.
9-G. WEIR, Edinburgh.
10-G. ABBOTT, Leeds.
11-C. HARPER, Wolverhampton.
12-J. T. OSBORNE, Bristol.
UNION TRUSTEES.
S. THOMPSON, J.P., 97, Charles Street, Northampton.
L. E. BRADLEY, J.P., "Flossleys," Barton Seagrave, Kettering.
GEO. PARBURY, 118, Harrison Road, Leicester.
Miss E. A. TIMMS, 6, Scott Street, Leicester.
H. H. WOOLLEY, J.P., 124, Narborough Road, Leicester.
PARLIAMENTARY AGENTS.
T. F. RICHARDS, 34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
J. BUCKLE, M.P., J.P., 13, Eighteenth Avenue, New Wortley, Leeds.
W. R. SMITH, J.P., "Belle Vue," Old Catton, Norwich.
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 69, Freegrove Road, Holloway, London, N.7.
L. SMITH, 16, Northcote Street, Semilong, Northampton.
AUDITOR.
J. B. B. ROBERTSON, F.R.C.A., 241, Uppingham Road, Leicester.
BANKERS.
CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LTD., London.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT. - Approved No. 281.
Manager:
TEL.: 5168 MUSEUM.
Printed by Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Limited, 99, Church Gate, for
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.


---
Here is the extracted text:
INSIST
upon your Footwear
bearing this Stamp :
UNION OF BOOT & SHOE
NATIONAL
UNION
Telephone No. :
4438 Museum, London.
Telegraphic Address:
Natunishop, Holb., London."
NATIONAL UNION OF
BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES
Copyright.
(Registered under the Trade Union Acts, No. 432; Affiliated to the Trades Union
Congress, the General Federation of Trade Unions and the Labour Party).
Monthly Report for May, 1923.
Seat of Government and General Secretary's Office :
34, GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1.
WHERE ALL BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS MUST BE ADDRESSED.
PRICE ONE PENNY.


---
Here is the extracted text:
Printed for
Those Reports are
tho Uce of Members only. : :

SPECIAL NOTICES.

ALL RETURNS TO BE SENT IN TIME TO REACH THE
OFFICE BY THE 15th OF EACH MONTH, OTHERWISE A FINE
OF 2s. 6d. WILL BE ENFORCED.
It is particularly requested that Branch Secretaries should send
Cash WITH the Returns, and not send Stamps in Payment.
The following Goods can be had at the Office :—
Branch Contribution Books in various sizes.
Shops Clerks' Books, ruled and well bound.
Receipt Books.
Large and Small Envelopes, with General Secretary's Name and
Address printed on.
Contribution Cards, with Secretary's Name and Address printed
on front, and also without name.
1s. 7d. dozen over 20 dozen.
1s. 10d. dozen up to 20 dozen,
Official Note Paper, with Printed Heading and Names and
Addresses of Secretaries.
Sick Certificate Books.
Books of Rules are supplied to Branches at 1d. each.
Return Sheets, Out-of-Work Benefit Sheets, Out-of-Work
Contribution Sheets, Out-of-Work Insurance Contribution Sheets,
Victimisation Sheets, Compensation Sheets, Travelling Sheets,
Dispute Sheets, Arbitration Forms, Funeral Forms, and Bail Notes
in Books are supplied Free.
All Claims to be sent in on the forms provided for that purpose.
ORGANISING BILLS will be supplied FREE to Branches upon
application to the General Secretary.

---
Boots, Shoes and Slippers
Insist upon your Footwear
bearing this Stamp.
IONAL UNION OF BOOT & SHOE
TRADE
NO
UNION
LAE JUR
Copynght.
OPERATIVES.
With the Union Stamp on are
supplied by the following firms:
Higham Ferrers Co-operative Society, Higham
Ferrers, Northants
" Equity"
Road. Leicester
The
The "
Co-operative Society, Western
Self-Help " Co-operative Society, Dartford
Road, Leicester
The "Excelsior"
The
near Leicester Co-operative Society, Sileby,
"Pioneer"
Co-operative Society, Clare
Street, Northampton
The Union Co-operative Society, Regent Street,
Kettering
Northamptonshire
Insist apon
his Stanip.
UNION
N OF BOOT & SHOE OFERATIVES
NATIONAL UNIO
No
AL JUR
Copyright.
Manufacturers of
Men's & Youths'
Stamp Ne.
1
All kinds
2
Women's & Girls'
3
Women's & Girls'
4
All kinds
5
Boys', Youths' & Men's 6
Boys', Youths' & Men's 7
Boys', Youths' & Men's 8
All kinds
9
Women's & Girls'
10
11
Productive Co-operative
Society, Wollaston, Northants
Havelock Co-operative Society, Havelock Street,
Kettering
I. L. P. Co-operative Society, Abington Street,
Northampton
Glenfield Progress Co-operative Society, Glenfield,
Leicestershire
Messrs. Dronfield & Co., Chesterfield
Sperope Boot Manufacturing Co. Ltd., Barwell,
Leicestershire
Mr. T. S. Bunting, 37, Clare Street, Northampton
Anchor Boot Co-operative Society, Asfordby St.,
Leicester
Plymouth Mutual Co-operative Society Limited,
Treville Street, Plymouth
Mr. Norman McLeod,
Factory, Dundee
Strathmartine Boot
Burrows Bros., Earl Street, Northampton
Bishop Auckland Industrial Co-operative Society,
New Gate Street, Bishop Auckland
Chesham Boot and Shoe Manufacturers Limited,
Higham Road, Chesham
Crompton Boot Manufacturers Ltd., "I & U"
Works, Desborough
Men's & Boys' Strong
Nailed Work
Ladies', Girls' & Boys' 12
All kinds
13
All kinds of Children's 14
All kinds..
15
All kinds
17
All kinds..
18
Strong & Half Strong 21
Men's, Youths' & Boys'
Nailed and Bradded
Boots and Shoes
23
All kinds
24
25
26
27
28
29
Walker & Gunn, Higham Ferrers, Northants
Jacques & Son, Rushden
Messrs. J. T. Marriott & Co., 74, St. Nicholas Square, Leicester
| Messrs. S. Trolley & Co., Finedon, Northants
Wm. Timpson Ltd., Kettering
All kinds..
A List of Retail Shops where Union Stamped Footwear can be obtained may be had
on application to Mr. E. L. POULTON. J.P., 34, Guilford Street, London W.C. 1.
PUSH THE UNION STAMPED GOODS.
A

---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

TRADE UNION STAMP FOR
BOOT & SHOE REPAIRERS.

The following Firms use the "STAMP" :—

Stamp No.

BROCKLEY, Surrey
Mr. F. Jeffery, 1, Merritt Road, Crofton Park
16

Mr. J. Mead, 150, High Street
14

CHESHAM
J. W. Booth, Eyre Street, Hasland
7

CHESTERFIELD
Industrial Co-op. Society, 73, Kent Road
17

DARTFORD
T. Malone, Mid Street
4

DUNDEE
Arnold Lowe, 31½, Upper Kevin Street
10
DUBLIN
F. Lewin, 6 and 7, Chapel Street
19

GRANTHAM
J. Chapman, 5, Bulmer Street, Meanwood Road
21

LEEDS
J. Smith, 30, Eldon Street
9

LEICESTER
Ralph Wood, 47, Cottesmore Road
15

Messrs. J. T. Marriott & Co., 74, St. Nicholas Square
20
Edward Gee, 51, Wolverton Road
22

LEIGH
Co-operative Society Ltd., Leigh
13

MANCHESTER
J. Mason, 15, Oakhill Street, Heath Street, Cheetham Hill
1
Messrs. Roberts & Son, 98, Fairfield Street, London Road
2

Manchester and Salford Equitable Co-op. Society, Downing Street
8

NORTHAMPTON
T. W. Lewis, 72, Ethel Street
3

NOTTINGHAM
J. Seymour, 79, Woodborough Road
12

PLYMOUTH
Messrs. Petitt & Co., 105, Tavistock Road
11

All Trade Unionists should have their Repairs done by Repairers who use the TRADE UNION STAMP.

Full particulars from General Secretary :-

E. L. POULTON, J.P., 34, Guilford Street, LONDON, W.C. 1.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members.
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
NAT TEL: 4438 MUSEUM, LONDON.
Tel Address: NATUNISHOP, HOLB., LONDON
National Union feof
& Shoe
Affiliated to the Trades Union Congrem, the General Federation of
Trade Unions and National Labour Party
Approved under the State National Health Insurance Acts. Approval No. 281
SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
34, GUILFORD STREET
LONDON. W.CI.
General President
T.F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
EL POULTON J.P.
COPYSH
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
28TH MAY, 1923.
TRADE
has slightly improved during the month. The figures recorded in the Gazette
issued by the Ministry of Labour are set out hereunder :-
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
Employement during April showed an improvment in most of the Midland centres,
but a decline in the Bristol and Kingswood district, and in the Leeds district. Taking one
district with another it showed little change as compared with March, and was still slack.
Short time was still prevalent, especially in the heavy boot trade.
Employment at Leicester continued fair, and was better than in April of last year.
At Northampton it showed an improvement, but was still slack. It was bad at Welling-
borough, and worse than in March. At Kettering it was poor, with much short time.
At Stafford it was very fair, some overtime being worked. At Norwich there was much
variation as between one firm and another; on the whole there was a slight improvement.
There was a decline in the Bristol and Kingswood district and in the Leeds district, where
employment in the heavy boot trade was very quiet. Employment continued fair in the
shoe and slipper trade of the Rossendale Valley.
at Glasgow, where it was described as fair.
In Scotland employment continued bad, except at Kilmarnock, and with some firms
The percentage of workpeople unemployed in the boot, shoe and slipper-making and
repairing trades, as indicated by the unemployment books lodged at Employment Ex-
changes was 8.5 on the 23rd April, as compared with 8.6 per cent, on the 26th March.
B


---
Number of Workpeople
Week
ended
28th April,
1923
Month ago
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a
Year ago
Per
cent.
Per
cent.
ENGLAND AND WALES-
2,162
-0.8
5.9
London
9,214
+ 1.0
+ 6.2
Leicester
2,369
+ 1.0
4.4
Leicester Country District
6,588
+ 2.6
1.5
Northampton
Northampton Country
District
7,746
+ 1.4
+ 5.8
Kettering
3,291
+ 1.9
+ 4.0
Stafford and District
2,575
+ 2.1
+ 6.4
Norwich and District
4,482
+ 0.7
3.8
Bristol, Kingswood and
District
1,700
- 8.8
+ 8.9
Leeds and District
1,903
- 2.7
+ 2.3
Lancashire (mainly
Rossendale Valley)
3,982
+ 1.3
+16.6
Birmingham and District
1,006
- 1.2
+ 2.2
Other parts of England and
Wales
1,418
- 0.8
+23.5
ENGLAND AND WALES
48,436
+ 0.7
+ 3.8
SCOTLAND
2,522
+ 2.8
- 0.2
GREAT BRITAIN
50,958
+ 0.8
+ 3.6
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a
Total Wages paid to all
Workpeople
Week
ended
28th April,
1923
Month ago
Year ago
Per
Per
cent.
f
cent.
5,163
+ 0.5
- 5.1
25,140
+ 1.0
+ 6.3
5,364
+ 2.8
- 7.3
16,459
+ 6.1
- 1.9
17,635
+ 2.2
+ 4.9
8,238
- 2.4
+ 4.6
6,414
+ 4.0
+ 7.0
9,169
+ 3.7
-12.8
3,334
- 9.1
+ 7.4
3,736
- 6.7
- 4.1
9,195
+ 0.1
+ 10.3
1,924
+ 9.5
- 3.9
2,667
- 2.3
+17.1
114,438
+ 1.4
+ 1.8
5,298
+ 3.1
+ 7.5
119,736
+ 1.5
+ 2.0
* Comparison of earnings is affected by reductions in rates of wages.
The exports of boots and shoes in April, 1923, amounted to 64,507 dozen pairs, or
14,520 dozen pairs less than in March, 1923, and 3,742 dozen pairs more than in April, 1922.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION CASES.
We have pleasure in reporting that for one of our members, J., of
Northampton, we have secured during the month the sum of £200 for the
loss of his Thumb.
A further case, in London, has been settled during the month, A.L., of
the London Metro. Branch, having secured through the efforts of the Union
Solicitor, Mr. Evan Barlow, £50 and £5 5s. towards the costs.
We would again remind members that lump sums are NOT OBTAINABLE
by law, but only by agreement. Despite the many statements made through
the Monthly Reports, members have still an erroneous idea upon this subject.
ARBITRATION.
A further step in connection with the formation of Boards of Conciliation
and Arbitration has been made. A Board governing the districts of Mansfield,
Derby and Nottingham was brought into being on the 24th ult. Mr. T. F.
Richards, General President of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
was elected to the chair. Mr. Harold Royce (Mansfield Shoe Co.) was elected
---

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
281
secretary. The rules governing the Board were agreed to and ordered to be
vice-chairman, and Mr. J. Harding (Messrs. Seymour & Harding) was appointed
printed.
A further meeting was held on the 8th inst., when rules were adopted.
We trust that as a result of this Board being constituted the members in the
district will reap considerable benefit.
Board of Conciliation and Arbitration for the Midland Counties Boot
Heel Manufacturers' Association, Leicester. I.R. 242/1923.
The following Award has been given by Mr. George Sedgwick, J.P., of
Leicester, during the month, and registered by the Ministry of Labour, on the
25th ult.:-
Award on the claim by the National Union of Boot and Shoe Opera-
tives against the Midland Counties Boot Heel Manufacturers' Association,
with regard to the operation of Sorting Lifts and Top-pieces as governed
by an Agreement signed 12th December, 1922.
Terms of Reference.
Claim by the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives that the
operation of Sorting Lifts and Top-pieces for quality or substance, or both,
is an operation governed by the Minimum Wage Rate of the Agreement
entered into between the National Federation of Boot and Shoe Manu-
facturers and the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, signed on
12th December, 1922.
A dispute having arisen in reference to the above question between
the parties aforesaid, the Minister of Labour appointed me (the under-
signed) as Arbitrator to determine the disputed matters.
Having heard the representatives of both sides, and having fully
considered the evidence and information placed before me, I do now
award as follows :-
That the operation of Sorting Lifts and Top-pieces for quality or
substance, or both, is an operation governed by the Minimum Wage Rate
of the Agreement entered into between the National Federation of Boot
and Shoe Manufacturers and the National Union of Boot and Shoe Opera-
tives, signed on the 12th day of December, 1922, and that all the workers
employed in such operation by the Midland Counties Boot Heel Manu-
facturers' Association, shall be paid the full Minimum Wage Rate, as
stated in the before mentioned Agreement, except such workers as may
become subject to the provisions as stated in paragraph 15 of the said
Agreement, dated December, 1922.
(Signed) GEORGE SEDGWICK,
Arbitrator,
22, West Avenue, Clarendon Park, Leicester.
Dated this 21st day of April, 1923.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
282
THE THIRTY-FIFTH CONFERENCE OF THE UNION
was held during Whit-week. We hope that as a result a still better under-
standing of the many and varied questions with which we are confronted
from time to time has been arrived at. Appended is a resumé of the vital
decisions reached :-
An additional Organiser to be appointed.
Benefit to be paid to "Suspended" members under certain defined
conditions.
Withdrawal from the General Federation of Trade Unions.
Conferences of the Union to be held biennially in future instead of
annually.
Persons between 40 and 50 years of age to join the Union for trade
purposes only.
Persons over 50 years of age to join on special terms.
Special Conference for the Jubilee of the Union next year.
NONE of the above matters will operate until after the Ist September,
1923.
An official report of the proceedings of the Conference will be issued during
the month, price one penny each, which we hope the members will read, as
important questions were dealt with at the Conference.
NATIONAL AGREEMENT (DECEMBER) 1922.
Now that the cost of living is down to 70 points, the alteration made
in the National Agreement (December) 1922 comes into cperation. We would,
however, call special attention to the fact that there will be ONLY ONE
minimum for male operatives, which is a factor for which we have been
striving for many years past and is a great point in our favour.
RESULT OF VOTING.
The detailed result of the Voting for the position of Manager to the National
Health Insurance Department will be found on page 293. The total votes
cast were:-
BLEAKLEY, MR. C. (Edinburgh)
MAYES, MR. R. D. (Leicester No. 2) (elected)
..
1,787
2,959*
We bespeak for Mr. R. D. Maves the loyal support of the officials and
members in the position to which he has been elected, and trust all will en-
deavour to do their part to make the machinery run as smoothly as possible,
and thereby still further increase the efficiency of the Department, and its
usefulness to the membership. This will help not only the new Manager,
but also ourselves and all concerned with the Department.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
284
in the Provinces, not later than such time as has been announced locally. The
minimum rate of postage for all packets sent at the Printed Paper Rate and
intended for despatch by the night mail, if posted after the specified time, is
one penny.
PARCEL RATE.
Not exceeding 2 lb.
Exceeding 2 lb. but not exceeding 5 lb.
دو
5 lb.
8 lb.
"
"
8 lb.
11 lb.
"
The rates for postcards and newspapers remain unaltered.
6d.
gd.
Is. od.
Is. 3d.
FOREIGN AND COLONIAL POST.
LETTER RATE.
For Foreign Countries (except United States of America, Egypt and
Tangier):
Not exceeding I oz.
For each additional oz. or fraction thereof
24d.
Id.
For British Possessions generally, H.M. Ships of War abroad, the United
States of America, Egypt and Tangier:
Not exceeding I oz.
For each additional oz. or fraction thereof
Id.
Id.
The hours of posting for Inland printed papers (see above) also apply to
Foreign and Colonial printed papers prepaid one halfpenny only.
We regret once more to have to refer to the fact that a considerable number
of letters are constantly received from the Branches INSUFFICIENTLY STAMPED.
This means not only a double payment having to be met, but incurs considerable
loss of time in delivery, because the Postal Officials have to deliver this corres-
pondence during the time that the Central Office is officially opened, so that
the postman can secure the postage due on the said letters. We therefore
appeal once more to the Branch Officers to see that their correspondence is
sufficiently stamped and thus save both time and expense.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEEΝΤΗ!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Brarrches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same.
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
Returns


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
285
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
A. W. LYNE.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
IS LEICESTER HEALTHY ?
Striking Statement by Councillor Wilford. "Insidious Canker."
"Health Work in the City" was the subject of an interesting address given by Councillor W. E. Wilford (chairman of the Health Committee of the City Council) to the members of the Leicester Trades Council last night.
For many years, said the councillor, the citizens of Leicester had been told that as far as the city was concerned, "all was well." The city had been boomed to the skies as the healthiest and cleanest place in the country, but those behind the scenes had enter- tained doubts, and of late those doubts had been justified and realised. Leicester may, on the surface, appear very pure and fine, but underneath there was a very insidious canker, which, if not stopped, would produce disease and death in their midst.
There were two great defects in the housing conditions in Leicester. The first was the sink and tap facilities. In the city there were thousands of homes where those facilities were not provided. The other defect was the bad lavatory accommodation.
Shocking Housing Conditions.
In some parts of the city the housing conditions were shocking. Healthy and moral lives were almost out of the question. The Health Committee were handicapped by the fact that since 1914 they could not condemn a single house as unfit for human habitation.
Tuberculosis was the greatest scourge of the present day, although cancer seems to be growing. The number of cases of tuberculosis, however, seemed to be increasing instead of diminishing. The greatest difficulty the committee had to contend with was being notified of the disease early enough to prevent it. Forty to fifty per cent. of the cases that were notified were advanced.
Councillor Wilford was heartily thanked for his address.— Leicester Mail, 2nd May, 1923.


---
```text
286
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
We are again confronted with a claim from some of the employers that they are
meeting with a great amount of competition from quarters they cannot name, and they
feel it to be the duty of the Union to remove these obstacles. If that was, and is, the
object of their joining the Employers' Federation, then they certainly were expecting more
than we are likely to satisfy them with. We, as a Union, are bound by the terms of settle-
ment, and up to the present pride ourselves that no section of the industry enjoys any
immunity from these terms. Any Employers' Association in the Federation can be
approached the firms in question. Any Employers' Association in the Federation can be
supplied with up-to-date information of our activities in any area in which they may be
interested, and we feel sure that they will have no reason to complain with our activities
and work for the benefit of the whole of the industry. With fifty permanently employed
officials we certainly cannot be called lackadaisical in our methods knowing, as we do, that
any unfair competition by any employer not federated is more detrimental to us with our
membership seventy-four times greater than is that of the Federation, and this in itself
would never have been what is is had we permitted the best of employers and firms in the
trade to have been undermined by unfair competitors, but even in a matter of this kind
we often fail to get the support of the grumbling manufacturers who complain in generalities
only. In this particular we cannot take them seriously. Were we to accept from our
members general complaints, unspecified, then we should always be harrassing some firm
or other without any tangible result. We can only accept complaints when specifically
stated as to who when, and where the firms are situated, and without this the employers
would save their time and ours not to trouble us with complaints.
In the above connection one of my colleagues and myself were asked to meet a number
of employers in a certain district, but they could not give us any tangible information,
only that the statement in one area was they thought not quite so good as theirs, and they
had to admit that their conditions were not so advantageous as the complained of district.
Oh, for the lack of logic, when some manufacturer is a better organiser than the grumbler;
in fact some of them would do well to make themselves acquainted with each individual
department, and by making the Production side a complete study.
Loyal members of the Federation would do well to assist the Union, who is no respector
of persons amongst the firms working to the Agreement, and we should like in the Welling-
borough district a better spirit to be shown than to withhold the dues owing to the opera-
tives for periods that some less loyal, now ex-members, of the Federation adopted.
There is certainly a difference between a man whose representatives will not consent
to sign an agreement, and the man who refuses to agree and is not bound because he is
unfederated and has not been represented, and who pays for the first time, as compared
with those who having paid suddenly, cease for a period in the hope that the gap will not
have to be paid for.
Our duty is clear. We must act justly to all men, and we pride ourselves that our Union
to the best of their ability do this, and we shall press our claim to the highest tribunal
in our industry.
The Joint Standing Committee of the Union and Federation, whose duty it is to inter-
pret the terms of settlement, have been called together for the purpose of interpretation,
and it seems very strange that in both the instances referred to them neither of these claims
have been made before. Although both clauses have been in existence unchanged since
1919, and in one case a Chairman's note gives the explanation which is not admitted by
the employers' side to be good evidence. Both the items under discussion were endorsed
by the 1920 Agreement, also by the 1922 Agreement, and was again endorsed on February
Ist, 1923.
This brings me to the view that in future we must act on the advice given me in 1911
by Lord Buckmaster, that no matter what may be the opinions of Conferences the only
sure way is to have our Agreements down in writing and made as plain as possible.
Further, we must see to it that we have a saving clause that either side not complain-
ing or asking for an interpretation of any clause within three months of the signing of such
document must stand by the letter of the Agreement until the same is again amended by
the National Conference.
LEICESTER. Several firms have been visited respecting the Holiday Scheme, and all
those visited and seen have made satisfactory arrangements to meet our demands. It
may be well to say these firms are very small and trade with them has not been of the best.
NORTHANTS LEATHER CORPORATION has again been visited and the position discussed.
We are of the opinion that the offer of the firm now is sufficient to meet our demands
and preserve the position intact.
```

---
287
MOUNTSORREL has again been visited. Men and women were met outside the gates
and refused to stop and listen to the Union's representatives on their duty they and our-
selves owe to the working-class movement. This cannot be permitted to go on, and
have already asked our Organiser, Mr. D. McCarthy, with myself, to hold some Sunday
meetings. We both know what it is to do a bit of work for the Socialist movement and
are prepared to do the same for Trade Unionism. This is our own call, our own choice.
consequently it should be done as an extra, and we intend taking Rothley, Mountsorrel,
Sileby and Syston. We believe that we shall be able to create a Trade Union feeling
in these villages that has not and which does not at present exist.
Council meetings were held on the 21st and 22nd.
Mansfield, Derby and Nottingham District Board of Arbitration held the first meeting
at the Chamber of Commerce, Nottingham, when the following officers were appointed
with unanimity: - Chairman, T. F. Richards; Vice-Chairman, Mr. Harold Royce; Secre-
tary, Manufacturers' Association, E. Harding. Business: - A copy of the suggested
rules were read over, carefully amended to suit the locality, and ordered to be printed.
The next meeting was called for the same time and place to be held on May 8th at Notting-
ham. This meeting was held, both sides being fully represented as on the previous occa-
sion. Chairman, T. F. Richards, London: Vice-Chairman, Mr. H. Royce Mansfield
and Mr. W. Royce, Mansfield, representing the manufacturers; and Messrs. W. Bush
Section, Mr. J. E. Harding; Nottingham with Mr. Brearsly, Derby, Mr. H. Clemson,
(Mansfield), G. F. Goodwin (Nottingham), and W. Blissett and H. Herberts (Derby),
representing the operatives.
The rules were then submitted, slightly altered and signed. The Chairman then sub-
mitted the Female Agreement for the perusal of the Board. Before the next meeting
each side to nominate two at least of their number to form the nucleus of a Committee
with power to call witnesses, to draw up Statements for the District, and to consider at the
next meeting what statement shall be taken as a basis for this purpose. We hope by this
Board's work to influence the district, such as Melbourne and perhaps other parts of Derby-
shire. We have already nominated our respective members for the Committee, and await
the employers doing the same.
The General Federation, continuing their instructions, have received an invitation
to meet the General Council of the Trades Union Congress on May 23rd at the House of
Commons, but as the House will not be sitting the meeting will take place at the Caxton
Hall on the same date, and owing to our Conference being held at this time it will not be
proper for me to attempt to attend such meeting.
STREET. - A visit to Clark's, of Street, has been paid by me owing to the lack of co-
hesion on one part of the factory, which ought to be making better time on a class of goods
very much in demand. This weakness was at once seen, and let us hope that the local
officers and ourselves will not have to complain of any lack of confidence, as our action is
solely for the men's welfare.
GLASGOW-With Mr. Buckle we visited the City and saw the Directors of the S.C.W.S.
and appealed to them to allow us to take the case of the operatives on piecework. relin-
quishing a 5 per cent. given voluntarily three years ago to which the operatives clung.
Although they have been credited with having the best statements in the kingdom, they
claimed that as the gift was due to their own spontaneity, we ought not to press them.
We saw the operatives in the mess room after leaving-off time. We explained the matter
fully to them and asked would they accept our advice? They asked a few questions
and then got up and walked out, totally ignoring two of their officers, who had travelled
300 miles to try and help them. Such is the reward from some members.
RUSHDEN. Complaints having been made concerning a firm in the area by or through
other members of our Union, caused an investigation to be made on two separate occasions,
one to find out whether the rumours were true by holding a meeting of the operatives
who had no complaint to make, but who found themselves in such a position that any
unnecessary complaint could easily make matters worse instead of better. The second
visit was to see the firm who supplied us, untrammelled, with all the information one
wished for in such a manner that we shall be able to give an accurate account of the position.
ADVISORY COMMITTEE of Trade Boards has held a meeting of those appointed to
advise the Boards on the question of the Registration of Outworkers, and the Committee
met at the Labour Ministry, Whitehall, and agreed that the first step was to get all out-
workers registered with power for all Boards to have access to the addresses of all out-
workers, and by this means prevent the sweating that takes place in all industries. For
this reason we want the power to be extended to any Trade Union that these lists of out-
workers should be supplied them on application.
The Daily Herald, I hope, is becoming the daily paper that all our members will
ultimately take, read and act thereon. Its real value to our movement, compared with
other papers, is 3d. per copy.


---
```text
289
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. - In Arbroath trade is remaining so bad that one firm has
discharged seventeen operatives, and it looks as though this factory may have
to "close down" either temporarily or, perhaps, altogether. The other factory
in this town is just managing to keep in touch with a small stream of experi-
mental orders which may, however, develop into a good-class trade as time
goes on. In Carnoustie, one factory is also reducing workers, but curiously
enough the remaining one of our group is still able to keep on full time. Indeed,
for months ahead the operatives here are sure of regular business, and they
congratulate themselves on such a beneficent stroke of prosperity. One thing
is the relaxation of the regulations of the Labour Exchanges. The old "Con-
tinuity Rule" produced anomalies such as no one could defend. The idea of
receiving benefit for six days in a fortnight if the worker got his working time
arranged four days one week and two days the following, but got nothing if
he worked three days each week, always suggested administrative sense gone
mad. The new "Three-in-Six Part Rule" removes this absurdity, and alto-
gether the short-time worker stands a chance of working to better advantage
and obtaining idle benefit for his lost days. There is one development in con-
nection with Labour Exchange Local Employment Committees which demands
close attention. In dealing with applicants for Idle Benefit, Rota Committees
are authorised to request "documentary evidence" that applicants are "gen-
uinely seeking" employment. This is leading to serious results, because it is
not always conceded that an assurance from an applicant's Union Secretary
is sufficient, and claimants are practically forced to go hither and thither
seeking a start whether at their own trade or industry or outside of it, in order
to get vouchers stating they had sought work. One can easily guess what this
may lead to, and accentuates the menace of the unemployed on the doubtful
security of the man in a job. With such an army of unemployed driven to
run round the various workshops every week or so, it needs no stretch of imagi-
nation to picture employers planning to use them to cut further the wages of
those inside or, at any rate, demanding a greater docility in view of this "knock-
ing at the door." All this makes one marvel at the obtuseness of those who
oppose the demand for affiliation to Trades Councils, Trade Congresses, and
Labour Party of the Organised Unemployed Committees. These Committees
are keeping the unemployed from being the most reactionary forces in modern
industrialism, and yet there are those who sneer at them as being "communistic"
or "bolshevist." Some of the leaders may be, but the work they do must
be done by somebody, or else the unemployed in the large cities would become
the recruiting ground for scabbery or, even worse, for Fascism. Better by far
to appreciate the Organised Unemployed Committees for good work done,
and be in a position to control and regulate and work with the men outside
the factory gates, so that those inside may not be endangered by competition
of an unscrupulous character. The times call for the closest co-operation and
unity amongst workers, idle and employed alike, as a safeguard against the
boss class.
BELFAST. Trade continues to remain very bad, and there are no signs
of an early improvement.
CHESHAM. -Trade here is still very bad.
CHESTERFIELD. - In sending our returns we have to state trade bad,
as most of our members have been out of work since Easter through the firm
of Dronfield & Co. closing down.
```

---
DESBOROUGH. - It is with deep regret we have to report the passing
away of one of our oldest members, viz.. Alfred Murkett. At one time he held
the position of President of the Branch, and for many years was active in Trade
Union work. To his sorrowing wife and children we tender our deep and
sincere sympathy.
EDINBURGH.-Trade still very quiet. Under the auspices of Trades
Council a special campaign is being waged to try and bring back defaulting
members into Unions, also to augment numbers in several Unions which have
been heavily hit since the slump in trade. At present this Committee are
approaching all workers under Town Council to become members of their various
craft unions. Sub-Committees, dealing with the educational side of Trade
Unionism, are arranging lists of speakers who will attend Branch meetings and
give lectures on various aspects of the Labour Movement. Edinburgh Branch,
taking advantage of this scheme, made arrangements for Mr. Doull, of E.T.U.,
to lecture on the Housing Problem, but unforseen circumstances intervening
agreed to fill the breach, taking as his subject Wages. Members gave a very
attentive hearing, and at the finish there was a good deal of discussion. In
the Winter months we hope to arrange several of these lectures to try and
bring out the members in larger numbers to Branch Meetings. Along with other
sections of the working class we joined in the May-Day Demonstration. When
will the workers demand the first of May as being made a statutory holiday
with full pay? The Daily Herald. We are pushing the Prize Scheme, and up
till the present a goodly number have started buying the paper, but thousands
more could do the same. Then Labour would have some chance of coming
into its own. Stalwarts must keep pegging away. Before this appears in
print the Annual Conference will be past. Now we sincerely hope that the
business done will all be for the good management of our Union. We are
sorry to report the death of one of our Dunfermline members. The Branch
extends its sympathy to widow and family.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - We are sorry to report that trade is worse
in our district this month, both Sickness and Unemployment again being heavy.
We have settled this month two compensation claims. One slight accident
for £25 and costs, and one in which four fingers of right hand were crushed, for
£300 and costs in addition to over £50 weekly payments, proving again the
advantages of the Union's help. Messrs. Adam Bros., of Raunds, have now
paid the Umpire's Award in the hand stitching of the Egyptian Army Boot,
amounting to £187 75. 7d. We wonder what chance the workmen would have
had if the Union had not been behind them in this case.
KINGSWOOD.-We are unable to report any improvement in trade,
and this depressed condition of the local industry reacts upon the moral of the
operatives. Full use has been made of the services of Mr. W. R. Smith, Organiser,
and the difficulties (quite peculiar to Kingswood) have given full scope
for his abilities. A revival of trade will present the opportunity so anxiously
hoped for and enable us to emphasise the observance of the National Agreement
in its entirety throughout the district.
LEICESTER.-We are pleased to report that sickness during April was
much lighter than during March. As regard the Out-of-Work Fund, this shows
a steady decline in payments for the month as compared with the previous
month, and a decrease of roughly £35 per week compared with the corresponding
month of last year. We can only report trade as fair, there being a number
of our members working short time still. We are also pleased to report that we
joining new members rapidly, and trust we shall continue to do so. We
are having a "Showcard Day" during June, when all members are requested
are

---
Here is the extracted text:
291
members to the officials. This was advertised on our May Meeting Bill, and
to show their card to the shop president. Members are asked to report non-
it has already borne fruit.
LIVERPOOL. - Locally there is nothing very startling to report this
According to a report in the Shoe Trades' Journal, May 4th, the Administrative
month, as we expect the repairing trade to improve with summer weather.
meet on May 3rd, and the full Board will meet on May 30th. It goes on to say
Committee of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board were summoned to
"Much interest attaches to these meetings of the Committee and the Board
which the employers representatives contend need revision apart from the
automatic sliding scale, under which certain reductions are made according to
in view of the critical stage to which the trade has arrived at in regard to wages,
the fall in the official cost of living figures. The Committee, in addition to
observance of the Trade Board regulations, will be called upon to discuss the
dealing with application for exemption from the rate and reports as to non-
proposal which is to be made to the full Board by the Federation representatives
for a 10 per cent. all-round reduction in time and piecework rates." We don't
know whether the Budget or the reduction in the price of beer is in any way
responsible for this move on the part of the Federation, or whether they are of
the opinion that the journeymen are doing too well and will be carrying their
heads higher than the employers and therefore require taming down a bit by
having less cash to swagger with, or whether it is due to the fact that large
employers of labour and combines, by installing a full plant of machinery and
centralising their work, are able to cut things so fine that the ordinary employer
fore conclude that wages are too high and must be brought down. Probably
in a small way of business finds it difficult to compete against them, and there-
they forget that in pre-war days, when wages were extremely low and long
hours was the invariable rule, some of the small employers were in a deplorable
condition. Do they want to go back to the pre-war state?
NORTHAMPTON. - Trade is a little better, and we are pleased to say the
men are making better time, but only a very few being set on. We had a
pleasing function on May 1st, having purchased a new Banner, the combined
property of the No. 1 and No. 2 Branches. Our General Secretary, Mr. E. L.
Poulton, J.P., came and unfurled the Emblem of Unity at the Town Hall and
made a happy and inspiring speech on the growth of membership of the two
Branches and the Union generally, and urged the members to make better
use than they had in the past of their political power in order not only to im-
prove present conditions, but to emancipate themselves collectively from the
industrial conditions we are compelled to live under to-day. Unfortunately
Mr. Poulton had a collapse whilst speaking, but we hope he is better by now.
NORWICH. Trade in Norwich has shown some slight improvement during
the month, the turnshoe section having the advantage of the change. Although
the corner of depression seems to have been turned, yet we still have a great
number of operatives unemployed, a number we are pleased to report that is
steadily getting smaller as the days go by. The great event of the month, so
far as the shoe trade is concerned in Norwich, was the visit of the General
Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., on the occasion of the unfurling of the new
Banner. A most enjoyable evening was spent, the outstanding item of the
programme being the splendid speech of the General Secretary. A speech of
force and weight, one could not help feeling the inspiration to help the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives to become even yet a greater force than has
at present been secured. When on a similar occasion, at Northampton, we
Leard of Mr. E. L. Poulton's sudden illness we felt concerned for his health,
and we voice the wishes of every Norwich operative in hoping for a speedy
return to robust and sound health again.


---
PLYMOUTH. - The new Trade Board Bill has appeared at last and,
although we are not yet in possession of a copy, a summary of its provisions
has been published in the press sufficient to give us an insight into the Govern-
ment's intentions. The Bill apparently contains all the objectionable features
of the Cave Report, and allows little or no opportunity for the extension of the
Trade Board system to industry, but we notice that it is claimed by the Govern-
ment in their memorandum to the Bill. "That it will give encouragement to
the voluntary development of satisfactory organisation by enabling represen-
tatives of employers and workers to come together and agree on rates of wages."
This is a rather important admission by the Government and should be ex-
ploited to the full, and if the Government is really sincere, why rule out from
the scope of the Bill all trades other than those deemed to be sweated? Why
not encourage and make provision for all workers and employees to enjoy the
benefits of this beneficent system of collective bargaining and have it optional
to the parties concerned to apply for and claim legal sanction for their agreed
minima? Three million workers already enjoy the legal protection of Trade
Boards; another million at least is asking for it, and yet a mere handful of
employers can stay the legitimate desires of the people.
SHEPSHED. - Trade does not improve much here, factories only working
half time.
SOUTHAMPTON. - Trade has a slight tendency to betterment.
STREET. - We are unable to report any general improvement in the state
of trade during the month. Our General President has paid a welcome visit
and given considerable assistance in the adjustment of a few local difficulties.
Situated as we are, far away from the great centres of our industry, it is always
a great encouragement both to officials and members to have a national officer
among us even for a brief period.

WHAT THE VICAR OF ECTON THINKS OF THE LABOUR PARTY.
Further colour was lent to the idea that Mr. W. R. Smith will be the prospective
Labour candidate for the Wellingborough Division by a remark made at a meeting by
Mr. F. T. Curzon, secretary of the Earls Barton Labour Party.
Having referred with regret to Mr. Smith's defeat at the last election, Mr. Curzon
added, "I might say that I hope in a few days to be able to announce that he will be
fighting in this division again.
he will, we shall have to do our duty as workers and trades unionists."
And if Mr. W. R. Smith stands again, as I hope
This statement was made at the social and dance of the Earls Barton Labour Party,
held in the Public Hall, at Earls Barton. The particular attraction arranged
for the occasion was a visit from the Rev. Canon A. W. Jephson, Rector of
Ecton, who, in a comprehensive address, stated why, although he was not a member of the
Labour Party, he looked to the Labour Party as the only one likely to solve the difficulties
with which the country is at present beset. "The Labour Party," he contended, "can
improve the condition of the people of this country materially, and can do it with justice
to all. But not by beating others down. I believe in justice to all-and we shall get it
through the Labour Party."

What She was Going to do.
He went on to speak of the failures of the Coalition Government, and deplored the
fact that the wages of the Agricultural Workers should be raised in January only to be
dropped in August. He told how, when the wages were put up to 42s., he spoke to a
labourer's wife and innocently inquired, "I suppose you are going to save money now,
are'nt you?" "No, I aint," the woman promptly replied, "I am going to feed the
children properly for the first time in their life."
After the applause had died down the Canon added. "I'm bound to say I felt ashamed
at having put the question."


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
293
RESULT OF VOTE
SECOND BALLOT
FOR
Manager to National Health
Insurance Department.
Name of Branch.
BLEAKLEY,
Mr. C.
MAYES,
Mr. R. D.
Name of Branch.
BLEAKLEY,
Mr. C.
MAYES,
Mr. R. D.
Aberdeen
35
Arbroath
273
1
Brought forward
1235
52
1349
Ayr
Leicester
27
Belfast
46
15
Bristol
128
Leicester No. 2
52
258
Bristol No. 2
3
Liverpool
10
197
137
Chesham
3
London Metro.
1
2
17
London South
23
122
Colchester
7
10
Manchester
3
28
Derby
23
Mansfield
21
24
Desborough
10
22
Maybole
21
73
168
Dundee
2
Midsomer Norton
5
Edinburgh
214
32
1
119
Glasgow
103
Newcastle-on-Tyne
150
Norwich
14.
121
Glasgow No. 2
76
Norwich No. 2
18
53
Heckmondwike
3
16
Northampton
6
18
Higham & Rushden
6
177
Northampton No. 2
42
20
Hinckley
9
71
Nottingham
2
14
Hull
21
Plymouth
9
Kendal
1
9
Stafford
3
161
Kettering
10
139
Stone
183
Kettering No. 2
4
32
Street
10 142
Kilmarnock
230
10
Wellingborough
26 67
Kingswood
28
184
Wolverhampton
3
121
Leeds
7
190
Yarmouth
12
Leeds No. 2
10
Carried forward
1235
1349
Totals
1787 *2959
*Elected.
No results were received from the following Branches:-Barnsley, Bishop Auckland,
Promsgrove, Burnley, Chesterfield, Cork, Daventry, Eyam, Halifax, Ipswich, Leicester
Women's, Lincoln, Reading, Redruth, Sheffield, Shepshed, Whitwick, Worcester, York.
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
The result of the second ballot for the managership of the National Health Insurance
Department of the above was: - C. Bleakley, 1,787; R. D. Mayes, 2,959.
Cven years. -Insurance Gazette, 26th May 1923.
Mr. Mayes, the new manager, has been chief clerk to the same department for upwards

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
294
DEATH OF MR. MARTIN LEADER.
Pioneer in Boot and Shoe Union.
The death of Mr. Martin Leader, which took place yesterday, at Melton Mowbray,
recalls the early days of the Leicester Branch of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union
practically financed for the first
existence.
Mr. G. Sedgwick, J. P. (secretary of the Leicester Branch until 1886) is one of the
few a Mercury representative he observed that at the time he knew Mr. Leader the latter was
branch secretary of what was then a branch of the Amalgamated Cordwainers' Union
"When the present Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union was formed here," Mr. Sedgwick
proceeded, "Mr. Leader, with others, was in the forefront of the pioneer work. He
continued as secretary of the newly-formed branch, and for many years indeed he was the
man who had to do with the settling of labour disputes between Leicester employees and
their employers. During that time he was remarkably successful; in fact, he was almost
the branch in himself."
Mr. Leader, whose age was 80, is to be buried at Belgrave Cemetery to-morrow.—
Leicester Mercury, 4th May, 1923.
BEWARE OF THE DOG.
Slipper Maker Sues Boot Manufacturer.
Under the Workmen's Compensation Act, Abraham Fineberg, slipper maker, 9, St.
Thomas Square, Hackney, E., sought compensation at the Shoreditch County Court,
on the 26th ult., against his late employer, Mr. Shinbaum, boot manufacturer, 5, Eleanor
Road, Hackney, E.
The applicant said that after being employed by the respondent for a day, he was
told that his work was not good enough, and was dismissed. When he was paid by the
respondent's daughter he asked for his tools, and she sent a young woman with him into
the factory to get them. Whilst there the respondent's dog attacked him and bit
his hand.
The defence was that as the applicant was paid his wages when dismissed on the
Friday he should then have taken his tools away with him. He had no right in the factory
the next day. It was alleged that it was not known he was on the premises on the Saturday
until he screamed when bitten by the dog. He gained access to the place by pulling a
bobbin on the back street door, which was the usual thing for the employees to do.
Judge Cluer held that the applicant should have taken his tools away when dismissed,
and that the injury on the following day was not caused, therefore, in the course of his
employment. Judgment was entered for the respondent, with costs. — Shoe and Leather
Record, 4th May, 1923.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1922 598,886 9 3
To December, 1922 270,614 8 4
January, 1923 2,872 12 4
January, 1923 4,768 13 9
February 2,399 13 0
February 3,992 5 9
March 3,050 12 2
March 3,621 8 9
April 3,902 6 2
April 4,427 12 3
£611,111 12 11
£287,424 8 10


---
Here is the extracted text:
295
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
REPORT of the Parliamentary Representatives of the
Union to the Thirty-Fifth Conference, 1923.
FELLOW DELEGATES,
HOUSE OF COMMONS,
WESTMINSTER, LONDON, S.W. 1.
9th May, 1923.
In presenting this report, it is with great pleasure and satisfaction
that we are able to record the fact that the Labour Party has gone many steps
towards reaching the position when its members in the House of Commons
to be proud of, when we remember that but so short a time back the Party
will be called upon to take up the reins of Government. Surely we have much
which was looked upon by some as being quite insignificant, has now to be
recognised as the official opposition of H.M. Government as we had 142 Labour
Members returned at the Polls last November. While taking satisfaction in
character of that Party, and when some of us seem inclined to become impatient
ment is in power, possessing all the qualifications associated with the traditional
at what is apparently little progress, it is well to remember that numbers
count, and that Division Lobbies tell the tale.
It is undoubtedly true that judged by the standards of real progress the
Government of to-day is profoundly lacking, but this should be a constant
challenge to the opposition to display constant and determined effort to mitigate,
as far as possible this lack by well directed and constructive criticism.
Parliament opened on 23rd November, 1922. The election of Speaker
having taken place, the first business the House had to consider was the passing
into law a Bill which has given to Ireland her freedom after long years of
coercion and force. We hope the foundation has been laid for Ireland to
ultimately become a happy and prosperous Nation.
The past few months has been a very strenuous time. The Party has put
up vigorous opposition, and has somewhat altered the atmosphere and outlook
upon many important questions appertaining to the well-being of the com-
munity. The Party has been responsible for raising the question of the
Occupation of the Ruhr and the dangers that may accrue, and they have
repeatedly suggested that some method should be employed with a view to
having the Reparation question settled on what could be regarded as a fair
basis, so that the reconstruction, economically and otherwise, could take
effect. The Government has simply taken up a non-interference attitude
upon the matter. So strong has the feeling become, that official deputations
have gone over to the area concerned with a view to investigating the matter
from time to time, in order to get a good grasp of the situation as regards
France and Germany.
UNEMPLOYMENT.
solve this pressing problem. True it is, arrangements have been made to
The Government have failed to bring forth any policy which will help to
provide certain monies for Relief Work, and a further extension of Uncovenanted
Benefit in connection with the Unenaployment Acts, but this has been done
C


---
starve.
296
leaving something like a million and a half of unemployed men and women to
very largely under duress, for it is inconceivable to think of any Government
But when we come to Policy, the only idea seems to be that of emigra-
tion. What could have been done if only half of the energy that was exerted
for the prosecution of the War had been exerted on behalf of the Unemploved
in the time of Peace, and if the suggestions of the various Labour organisations
had been acted upon, one feels that the situation would have been 'vastly
different ?
HOUSING.
There is going on in Committee an animated discussion of the Housing
Bill, the proposal to give State money only to "non-Parlour" Houses. The
houses may either be two-storeyed, with a minimum of 550 and a maximum of
780 superficial feet. These measurements will be calculated in accordance
with rules laid down by the Minister of Health.
The Plan A has a total available area of 754.66 square feet, Plan B 808.82
square feet, and Plan C. 836.00 square feet. These are official plans and are
well within the maximum allowed under the new scheme. It will be seen
from a study of these plans that every available inch has to be utilised. The
planning has to be very carefully thought out. The architectural problem
involved, demands greater cleverness in design, so as not to waste any space
on passages or corners. The essential measurements laid down by the Ministry
is: 180 feet should be allowed for the Living Room, 150 feet for the first
Bedroom, 150 feet for the second Bedroom, and a minimum of 65 feet for the
third Bedroom. In addition, room will have to be found for the Scullery and
usual offices. The Bath may either be placed in the Scullery or in a separate
compartment, or either on the first or ground floor. Undoubtedly there are
powerful arguments in favour of the Parlour House, notably that a Parlour
provides privacy for the younger generation-in case of sickness or death a
parlour is invaluable. Much is being made of the so-called disregard of the
Middle Classes. A study of the full text of the Government Bill shows that
their needs have been considered. The proposed amendment of the "Small
Dwellings Act" extends the limit on the market value of houses in respect
of which advances may be made from £800 to £1,200. It will also be of direct
assistance to the skilled artisan class that local authorities may guarantee
the repayment to a Building Society of any advances made to any of its members
to build or acquire houses. Money may also be advanced to persons or bodies
building houses.
A generous limit has been placed on the estimated value of such houses,
for the advance or guarantee can be given on such value up to £1,500: for
£1,200 under the Small Dwellings Acquisition Act, and £1,500 for houses
financed by Building Societies and other bodies.
EDUCATION.
Here again we have evidence of the fact that the Government are retro-
grade and reactionary. Wherever possible, economy has been applied regard-
less of consequences. The promise held out in the Fisher Act made impossible
of fulfilment, and the vision which was opened up by the possibilities contained
therein gradually receding, until a position almost of despair has taken the
place of hope. The cry for economy has been seized upon by certain public
bodies, no doubt glad of the opportunity to curtail expenditure until the
children of the workers are becoming the victims of the inefficiency brought
about by what we must regard as false economy which must inevitably result
in a lowering of the standard to which all progressive people would aspire.
After a war that was to end war, we are still confronted with the appalling
fact that for the year 1923-24 that whereas provision is made in the Estimates


---
297
for the spending of something like £126,000,000 on War Services, only some-
believing in the Educational Policy of the Labour Party we can never rest
thing like f41,000,000 is to be found for the Board of Education. As those
until these figures are reversed.
FINANCE.
As a consequence of the prosecution of the late war the country has to
constitute a burden for generations to come and lead to permanent high prices.
face huge financial liabilities, which if dealt with along the old lines, will
At the last General Election the Labour Party foreshadowed a Policy which
Levy, but whenever the question is properly dealt with, it will be in a way
sooner or later will hold the field. It may be that it will not be called a Capital
that will work out on the lines advocated by the Labour Party. This huge
indebtedness cannot be allowed to remain where it is, crushing out the life
of the community something will have to be done to lift the load, or we shall
sink lower and lower beneath its weight.
BUDGET.
Mr. Baldwin, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, introduced his first new
Budget on the 16th April, 1923, and it is a most remarkable fact that
whilst there was a surplus of £100,000,000 brought forward from the
previous year, still the reduction in taxation, as far as its effect on the vast
majority of the working class population is concerned, reductions are con-
spicuous by their absence. The employing and capitalistic classes were again
favoured with reduction on the Income Tax, Postal and Telephone Rates,
and without doubt the Budget stands out as one of the most capitalistic and
"favoured-class" pieces of legislation of modern times. The interest on the
National Debt alone absorbs over £300,000,000 per annum, and whilst this
vast amount of interest is payable it is not at all likely that reductions of
taxation on the essentials of life will be seen. The Party put up a strong fight
for the reduction of duty on Tea, Sugar, &c., but without avail. And so we
look in vain for the promise of that sort of legislation that will usher in the time
so glibly spoken of by the late Prime Minister; whether we look at home or
abroad the same disappointment is experienced.
In our preceding remarks we have dealt with what may be regarded as the
Home Policy; and now perhaps in a few words we may be allowed to bring
to your notice the failure of the Government in the field of Foreign Policy.
In this respect the experiences of the last few years seems to stand for nothing
so far as improvement goes. The same old jealousies, suspicions, and pre-
judices, seem to be operating. Men of responsibility are talking about the
next war as if it had already been decided that the same was inevitable. The
race for armaments is again starting, leaving one to infer that nations, who,
but a short time back were our Allies, now, if not our actual enemies, are having
to be watched and treated, if not as probable, yet as possible ones, or why the
frantic talk of the French superiority in Air Forces, or the huge expenditure
to be incurred in the Pacific which can only be justified by the fear of an Eastern
Power. Ah well while the great mass of the people seem to be satisfied,
which must be the explanation of the present Government's majority, we
suppose things will remain pretty much as they are, but some day surely the
eyes of the people will be opened and they will discover for themselves the
right path.
DEPORTATION.
There has also been the question of Deportation raised, the outcome of
which is that a deputation has been appointed to visit Ireland and the Free
State Government. The keen debates that have taken place from time to time


---
Here is the extracted text:
298
substantial unless forced by the untiring efforts of the opposition. There is
is a real live wire, is
an impression both inside and outside of Parliament.
CIVIL SERVICE.
Another question which has occupied the attention of the Party is that of
the Lytton Entrants to the Civil Service, on which question the Government
were defeated on roth April, on the Motion that a Committee of Enquiry be
set up to investigate the conditions obtaining in the service. The actual
grievance is that the overwhelming majority of the Lytton Entrants to the
Clerical Clerks are ex-Service Men, and started at the rate of £70, £80, or £85
per annum, in other words, although they are men of all ages, the majority
married and have families to support, and with anything up to seven years
temporary service, had to start at the same rate of pay appropriate to a boy of
18 years of age. The strong feeling of the House with regard to the disgraceful
conditions obtaining, and the Government taking up an attitude which was
regarded as an unreasonable one, and the unsatisfactory arguments of the
Minister for that Department when the Division was taken, the Government
were defeated, and after an adjournment of the House, the Government con-
ceded to the opinion of the House, and a representative Committee to investigate
and report on the conditions of employment was appointed.
PRIVATE MEMBERS' MOTIONS.
Private members have a system of balloting and those who head the list
are given a paper with a list of Motions to choose from. Those members who
are lucky enough to head the list fix on a particular Motion and are allowed
to move it in the House; for example, Mr. Snowden's Motion on "Failure of
Capitalistic System."
Motion made, and question proposed, "That, in view of the failure of the
capitalist system to adequately utilise and organise natural resources and
productive power, or to provide the necessary standard of life for vast numbers
of the population, and believing that the cause of this failure lies in the private
ownership and control of the means of production and distribution, this House
declares that legislative effort should be directed to the gradual supersession
of the capitalist system by an industrial and social order based on the public
ownership and democratic control of the instruments of production and dis-
tribution." Debate adjourned.
MOTHERS' PENSIONS.
That in the opinion of this House, pensions adequate for the proper
upbringing and maintenance of children should be paid to all widows with
children or mothers whose family breadwinner has become incapacitated,
such pensions to be provided by the State and administered by a committee
of the municipal or county council wholly unconnected with the Poor Law."
Rejected by: Ayes 184; Noes 248.
ACCIDENTS IN MINES.
That this House deplores the heavy loss of life and the large number of
non-fatal accidents in mines, and is of the opinion that legislation to improve
and strengthen the provisions of the Coal Mines Act, 1922, should be introduced
and carried into law without delay in order to secure the fullest protection
possible to those engaged in this dangerous industry." Agreed to without
Division.


---
```text
299
NATIONAL MINIMUM WAGE.
"That in view of the practically universal acceptance of the principle
that a living wage for all workers should be the first charge on industry, and
in view of the large measure of agreement with respect to the advisability of
fixing legal minimum time rates of wages reached at the National Industrial
Conference, this House urges the Government to proceed without delay with
the Bill introduced by the Government of the day in 1919, constituting a
Commission to inquire into and report upon legal minimum rates of wages."
Rejected by: Ayes 176; Noes 189.
POSITION OF PROFESSIONAL WORKERS.
"That in view of the worsening conditions of middle-class professional
workers, and of the advantages resulting from the recognition of the organiza-
tions of manual workers and the practice of collective bargaining, this House
is of the opinion that local authorities, banks, insurance and shipping com-
panies and other employers of professional and clerical workers should follow
the example of the Government in recognising the organisations of these
workers." Agreed to without Division.
OLD AGE PENSIONS.
"That in the opinion of this House, the recommendation of the Depart-
mental Committee on Old Age Pensions in favour of the repeal of the provisions
of the Old Age Pensions Act as to calculation of means should be adopted and
the Old Age Pensions Acts amended accordingly, thereby enabling applicants
for, and recipients of, the old age pension to derive the full benefit of their
thrift and personal provision for old age and receive assistance from friends,
employers and organisations without reduction of, or disqualification for, the
full pension." Rejected by: Ayes 208; Noes 230.
We deeply regret the fact that our two colleagues who were nominated
for Wellingborough and Wells Divisions respectively, were not successful in
securing election. We hope, however, that whenever a General Election comes
along, the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives will have its full quota
of representatives in the next Parliament.
Our concluding words are in the nature of a warning to you all, as Trade
Unionists. We may rely upon it that our position is to be challenged. We
question whether the Prime Minister will be able to restrain the rank and file
of his own Party in their aggressive opposition to Trade Unionism. Already
a motion has been carried to amend the Trade Union Act re the Political posi-
tion; also as recently as the first day of the month (Labour Day) a Bill was
introduced having for its object the repeal of the Trade Union Act, 1906. To
be in the House and to hear the frenzied applause which is given every time
anything is said against Trade Unionism it is quite easy to discover the spirit
of antagonism which prevails, and which has for its object the weakening of
our position. To be forewarned is to be forearmed, and it is hoped that when-
ever the attack comes we shall be found prepared and sufficiently strong enough
to maintain our hard-won position.
May we be allowed to say that we consider it to be a very great honour
to be allowed to represent our fellow workers and citizens in Parliament.
Conscious as we are of our own limitations, we sincerely hope that our presence
there will be of some, if little help, and service, in helping to make things better
for us all.
Fraternally yours,
JOHN BUCKLE.
ALFRED HILL.
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

300
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT.
MR. ROBERT YOUNG asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware that J. D.
Walmsley, Earlestown, Lancaster, was disallowed benefit from December 22nd, 1922,
referred to was an attempt to increase his income by sales of the Daily Herald; that his
income from this source ranged from 3s. 1d. to 13s. 6d. per week ; that in no case did he
to January 22nd, 1923, on the ground that he was not unemployed ; that the employment
earn the equivalent of 3s. 4d. per day; and whether, under these circumstances, he can
explain why benefit was disallowed?
MR. BETTERTON: The limit of 3s. 4d. a day referred to in the question applies only
to the earnings from a subsidiary occupation carried on by the applicant before he became
unemployed. In general, under Section 7 (2) (a) of the Unemployment
Insurance Act, 1920, any day on which any sum is earned cannot be
counted as a day of unemployment. The particular case referred to has been the
decision under the Act is final, and who has
confirmed the disallowance of benefit.-Parliamentary Debates, 27th, March, 1923.
HEALTH AND UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.
Cost of Administration.
MR. BUTTON asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer the relative costs of administra.
tion of national health and unemployment insurances per person insured?
MAJOR BOYD-CARPENTER: The total costs of administration (central and local) in
the two cases are at present :-
Per insured person.
s. d.
National Health Insurance .. 6 8
Unemployment Insurance .. 7 1
TRADE UNION ACT (1913) AMENDMENT BILL.
Government Decision.
MR. CLARRY asked the Prime Minister if, in view of the desire for political freedom
expressed by a section of trade unionists, the Governmet will facilitate the passage of
the Trade Union Act (1913) Amendment Bill?
THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER (Mr. Baldwin): The Government propose
shortly to adopt the course suggested by the Prime Minister at the General Election, and
invite representatives of trades unions to discuss the matter with them, in the hope that
some arrangement may be reached by which the position of members of trades unions
who desire to contribute to any political party may be assured.-Parliamentary Debates,
17th April, 1923, vol. 162, No. 39.
UNEMPLOYMENT STATISTICS.
MR. FOOT asked the Minister of Labour the number of unemployed persons drawing
unemployment benefit for the week ending 31st March, and the approximate amount
paid by way of unemployment benefit?
SIR M. BARLOW: The approximate number of persons to whom unemployment
benefit was paid during the week ended 31st March, 1923, was 940,000, and the amount
paid was £770,000.
National Building Guild, Ltd.
HOUSING.
SIR KINGSLEY WOOD asked the Minister of Health how many houses have been
built by the National Building Guild Ltd., of Manchester, now in liquidation; the average
price of such houses; and whether any part of their respective agreements with local
authorities remain unfulfilled?
MR. CHAMBERLAIN: The number of houses completed up to the 1st April by Building
Guilds under the State-Assisted Scheme is 1,900 and 301 remain unbuilt or unfinished.
As the final accounts in regard to these contracts have not yet been made up. I am unable
and the local authorities concerned have made special arrangements for the completion
to give the average cost per house. Some contracts were not completed by the guild,
of the houses.-Parliamentary Debates, 18th April, 1923, vol. 162, No. 40.


---
301
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS.
MR. McENTEE asked the Minister of Pensions how many women have been appointed
in each such women's case what was her rank and rate of pay prior to such transfer, what
to his Department in an established capacity by transfer from another Department, and
duties does she at present perform, and what is her present salary and rank ?
MAJOR TRYON: The total number of established women who have been appointed
from the recent special competition for women for higher posts in the Civil Service. I am
to the Ministry by transfer from other Departments is 49, of whom four were appointed
circulating the further particulars asked for in the Official Report.
Following are the particulars :-
Present Rank and Scale.
£350-£450
£300-£400
I
No.
Lady Superintendent, Pension
Staff Clerk
Issue Office
I
Senior Executive Officer
1
Staff Accounts Officer
2 Staff Officers, 1 £330-£420; I £330-£400
£230-£300
17 Clerical Officers
£80-£180
3 Chief Superintendents of
£230-£300
3
I
Typists
weekly 225.-36s.
I
12
22
Higher Clerical Officers
Controller of Typists
£200-£230
I
Rank and Scale prior to Transfer.
Supervisor
£170-£200
1st Class Woman Clerk
£150-£190
1 Principal Woman Clerk
£120-£150
I Assistant Inspector
£160-£200
I H.C. O.
£100-£300
I Employment Officer
£230-£300
3 1st Class Women Clerks
£170-£220
II 2nd Class Women Clerks
£120-£150
I Higher Grade Clerk
£65-£120
4 Clerical Officers
£110-£150
I Lower Grade Clerk
£80-£180
I Shorthand Typist
17 Clerical Officers
£60-£105
I Shorthand Typist
42s. weekly
I Chief Superintendent of . £150-£180
Typists
I Shorthand Typist
38s. weekly
I Typist
22s.-36s. weekly
In each case the officer is performing duties appropriate to the established rank held.—
Parliamentary Debates, 19th April, 1923, vol. 162, No. 41.
COST OF LIVING INDEX FIGURES.
MR. HANNON asked the President of the Board of Trade whether, seeing that the
present cost of living index figure is based upon statistics of family budgets collected
nearly 20 years ago, and that the index figure does not accurately represent the present-
day cost of living, he proposes to proceed to the collection of the statistics of family budgets
which will fairly represent the cost of living at the present time ?
The MINISTER OF LABOUR (Sir M. Barlow) : I have been asked to reply. The Ministry
of Labour cost of living index number is always carefully defined as indicating the average
increase in the cost of maintaining unchanged the pre-War standard of living of working
class families. For the purpose of such a calculation the use of pre-War budgets is strictly
correct. When working class conditions become more normal, it will, I think, be desirable
that a new index number shall be calculated designed to show the changes in the cost of
maintaining a normal post-War standard of living; but before this could be done a new
inquiry into working class expenditure would almost certainly be necessary. I propose
to take up the consideration of an inquiry of this kind as soon as conditions become more
normal. Parliamentary Debates, 24th April, 1923, vol. 163, No. 44.
GERMAN REPARATION PAYMENTS.
COL. SIR C. BURN asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer the amount received in the
last financial year from the German Government in respect of reparations; and what
amount of the cost of the Army on the Rhine has been met by Germany?
THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER (Mr. Baldwin): The net cash received by the
British Government in the financial year 1922-23, on account of reparation, on which the
Army of Occupation cost is a prior charge, was £8,203,000, made up as follows :-
Under the Reparation (Recovery) Act
Proceeds of sale of dyestuffs
Paper Marks received from German Government for use
of Army
Miscellaneous ::
£7,476,000
361,000
348,000
18,000
£8,203,000


---
Here is the extracted text:
.
303
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT (SINGLE MEN AND WOMEN).
MR. TURNER asked the Minister of Labour how many single men and single women
have been refused unemployment pay during the three months ending 31st March, 1923.
MR. BETTERTON: I regret I am unable to give the information asked for by the
hon. Member, as separate statistics of refusals of benefit to single men and singlo women
to obtain such statistics, temporarily, from 30th April onwards. - House of Commons,
are not available for the period in question. Arrangements have, however, been made
8th May, 1923.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BENEFIT.
One week, £694,000,
benefit, the amount paid being 694,000," said Sir Montague Barlow, Minister of Labour. -
"In the week ending 28th April, 1923, 920,000 persons received unemployment
House of Commons, 9th May, 1923.
UNEMPLOYMENT (WOMEN).
CAPTAIN WEDGWOOD BENN asked the Minister of Labour whether he can make any
further statement as to the intentions of the Government in reference to the alleviation
of the hardships of unemployed women ?
THE MINISTER OF LABOUR (Sir Montague Barlow): Unemployed women, in so far
as they are in an insured cccupation, are, of course, eligible for unemployment benefit.
In addition, certain training schemes have been provided with the assistance of the Govern-
ment. I regret that it is very difficult to find practicable means of assisting unemployed
women, but I would remind the hon. and gallant Member that there are still large numbers
of domestic vacancies unfilled which are available for unemployed women.
COST OF LIVING (RENT).
COLONEL NEWMAN asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware that for large
sections of the community any increase in rent is allowed for in the cost-of-living figure
on which their wages or salaries are based, thereby making the cost of living higher for
those other sections of the community whose assessments for Income Tax on their houses
is about to be increased with no compensating rise in salary or income; and is it his inten-
tion to remove rent from among the items on which the cost-of-living index is based?
SIR M. BARLOW: The official index figures are designed to indicate the average increase
in the cost of maintaining unchanged the pre-War standard of living of working-class
families, and the exclusion of so important an item as rent would seriously impair the
validity of the statistics for this purpose. I do not know whether the hon. Member realises
that as the percentage increase in rents is less than the general average for other items,
the effect of excluding rent would be to raise the final index figure. - Extracts from Parlia-
mentary Debates, Wednesday, 9th May, 1923, vol. 163, No. 55.
ARBITRATION BOARD FOR NOTTINGHAM DISTRICT.
The Board of Conciliation and Arbitration for the Boot and Shoe Trade governing
the Mansfield, Derby and Nottingham Districts, met for the first time at the Offices of the
Chamber of Commerce, Eldon Chambers, Wheeler Gate, Nottingham, on Tuesday, the
24th inst., when Mr. T. F. Richards, General President of the National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives, was electeichards, char Mr. Harold Royce (Mansfield Shoe Company)
was elected vice-chairman, and Mr. Jas. Harding (Messrs. Seymour & Harding, Notting-
ham), was appointed secretary.
presiding.
The rules governing the Board were agreed to, and ordered to be printed.
A meeting of the Board of Arbitration and Conciliation for the Nottingham, Derby
and Mansfield district was held on the 8th inst., at Nottingham, Mr. T. F. Richards
The rules governing the Board were considered seriatim and after a few alterations
of Committees to draft Piecework Statements each side of the Board to choose their
The Board then considered the question of female labour, and also the appointment
representatives and submit names to the Secretary.
The next meeting of the Board will be held on the 29th Mav at Nottingham.
were ordered to be printed.
i
1
!


---
SCOTTISH TRADE UNIONS CONGRESS.

DELEGATES' REPORT.
The Twenty-sixth Annual Meeting was held in Dundee on the 18th April, 1923, and
following days. The delegates numbered 174 and represented 240,000 members, which
was considerably better than the previous year. Congress received a civic welcome from
the Lord Provost and Magistrates, and while greeting the visitors to Dundee, Lord Provost
Spence in solemn mood urged them not to cry for the moon. Some delegates may have
thought even the moon would be a desirable place compared with old "Mother Earth"
at present, but no resolution appeared on the agenda calling for the performance of
astronomical feats. The Report of the Parliamentary Committee was a document well
worth perusal. From beginning to end it demonstrated how much alive the Committee
were to the interests of Trade Unionists, in their handling of all the problems arising in
the course of the year. The action taken in connection with the infamous Circular 51 of
the Education Department, which was meant as a deterrent to Education Authorities
feeding and clothing necessitous school children, was much appreciated, as was also their
persistent efforts to force the Divisional Controller for Scotland, Ministry of Labour, to
adopt better procedure to be observed by Rota Committees in their work of examining
applicants for Unemployment Benefits.

Rota Committees were adopting the objectionable practice of demanding documentary
evidence from applicants that they were genuinely seeking employment, and the Parlia-
mentary Committee had striven hard to get officialdom to issue instructions to the effect
that a certificate from his or her Union Secretary be regarded as sufficient proof of the
search for work.

While seeming to agree to this reasonable request, the number of qualifications and
reservations made it very unsatisfactory. Congress stood solidly by the Committee in
their efforts to reach a settlement free from ambiguity and also unfairness. The efforts
of the Committee to establish a sound relationship between Trade Unionists and Co-
operative bodies also met with hearty approval, and all the delegates realised, although
the task was difficult, it was nearly the most worth while accomplishing. It will indeed be
a happy day when both organisations reach an understanding which will obviate labour
troubles finally between the respective members. Other parts of the report are worthy
of comment, and only considerations of space forbid.

The agenda consisted of resolutions of the kind made familiar to those attending
conferences, and very little of an original nature emerged in the discussions.

Hours of Labour, Control in Industry, Control of Credit, Amendment to Shop Acts,
Self-Government for Scotland, Public Ownership and Control of Railways, Old Age Pen-
sions, Housing, Adult Suffrage, Industrial Disputes, Unemployment Insurance, Trades
Boards, Entertainment Tax, Fair Wage Clause, Blind Persons Act, Facist Movement,
and a series of proposals on Unemployment, were all discussed, and the standing resolutions
agreed to.

If any subject created more than usual interest, it was the question of Facism in
Scotland, but both the delegates and the Press were inclined to link the whole thing up
with light-hearted banter. Robert Smillie, to mention one name, treated it with proper
seriousness, and his speech was a wise combination of warning and advice based on a
thorough estimation of the forces that create Facisti propaganda. The fraternal visitors
helped to brighten the proceeding each day, and without exception all delivered interesting
and informative addresses.

Mr. Agnew, of the Co-operative Movement, and Messrs. Campbell, McShane, and
Kinnon, of the Organised Unemployed, held the attention of Congress during the first day
with rousing and effective speeches. Arising out of the latter speeches came the demand
for affiliation, and owing to the vigorous efforts of a majority of number delegates in favour
of accepting affiliation of the Unemployed Committees, the President lost control of the
proceedings for a time. After order was restored, it was found that standing orders
prevented such a course being followed however, and affiliation will come up again next
year.

Mr. Ben Shaw and a speaker on behalf of Co-operative Insurance spoke on the second
day, and without exaggeration this latter subject was a revelation to all in the hall. Here
is a financial weapon of the most powerful description, which confers extraordinary advan-
tages on its members, and yet is terribly neglected by those who should support it. But
on Friday came the greatest treat, oratorically, of the week. Mr. Saklatvala, M.P., was
present on behalf of the All-India Trades Union Congress, and his speech roused Congress
to such a pitch that the ovation on concluding was continued to the extent of being an
encore. Finely phrased, light and shade delightfully blended, packed full of facts and
figures, and all delivered with the easy assurance of the practised orator. But it was the
magnetism of the man which produced the effect. Delegates and gallery alike will long
remember the inward stirring of soul produced by the magical eloquence of this gifted


---
3-5
and while India and its peoples will remain an enigma to most Britishers there can be no
doubt but what Mr. Saklatvala will exercise a powerful influence in convincing the leaders
of labour in this country of the need for understanding between the common people of both
nations with a view to restoring India to its rightful position in the march of civilisation,
A deported member of the I.W.W., of America, also spoke, and evoked the strong
sympathy of Congress by his description of the blackguardly methods adopted by the
U.S. Government to suppress the class-conscious leaders in the workers' movement there.
Mr. C. M. Lambert won the confidence of the meeting for his plea to protest to the President
of the States against such barbarous treatment of trade union officials.
First place in our summary of impressions must be given to a drawback experienced
by the Boot and Shoe delegates. As our branches never see the notice calling for resolu-
tions to the agenda, no proposals are sent in by our Union. This allows others to be called
upon for all the speeches, and as a consequence delegates from our Union get no oppor-
tunity of proving their worth. Where this acts against the Union is in the appointment
of Executive Council members. On three occasions a Boot and Shoe nominee was put
to the vote of Congress, the last occasion being for an executive seat, and only a handful
of votes were secured. It can be stated positively certain conversations proved it-
that this was due to delegates being in ignorance of the Union and of its delegates. It is
certain that if we took a larger share in putting forward matter for the agenda, and sought
to show that our delegates were as trustworthy as any of the others, a position on the
executive could be won and held. The value of that position is apparent to those who are
acquainted with the important work performed during the year by the Congress Executive,
and it is not in an envious spirit this is written, but rather because the traditions of the
Boot and Shoe Union demand such ambitions among its representatives.
Throughout the proceedings it was heartening to see the way in which the young men
stood by the ideals of Labour. A few of the older ones still make the mistake of trying
by sound and fury to spread the belief that they are still terrible fellows to fight, but it is
only a matter of time when the new political school of trade unionists will win the day.
Congress has been lucky in the choice of secretary, Mr. Wm. Elger, who is incompar-
ably efficient. Still a young man, it is easy to predict for him a big career in the trade
union movement. Questions, explanations, references to past correspondence or events,
found him ready to supply in the most succinct form and with most admirable address
just what was required at the moment. Although only appointed last year his work and
conduct was that of a veteran in experience.
All the arrangements for the comfort and entertainment of delegates exceeded expecta-
tions, while the public meetings found huge audiences gathered in Dundee's famous Caird
Hall-which is surely second to none. While in Dundee your delegates got in touch
with the local branch of our Union, and a meeting was convened by the Secretary. Mr. Alex.
Brown. Age deals lightly with Alec, his spirit and joy in life still remaining as exuberant
as of yore. The Dundee members, in spite of trade vicissitudes, are keenly interested in
the affairs of the Union, and a very profitable evening was spent in their company.
If anything is needed to add the final touch of pleasure to a Congress week, it is
secured in the meeting with friends in our own Union and in having a heart to heart
talk with them.
JAMES I'. REID.
CHRIS. BLEAKLEY.
£5,000,000 AWARDS.
What Workmen's Compensation Costs Yearly.
"The cost to industry of compensation following accidents to the workers amounts
to a sum of about five million pounds yearly," said Lieutenant-Colonel J. A. A. Pickard,
general secretary of the British Industrial "Safety First" Association, on the 5th
May, 1923.
"Add to that the legal, medical, and other expenses, the indirect cost of lost time,
both of man and machine, and you get a sum, estimated at 50 per cent. higher, which
constitutes a very heavy charge on production.
"Prevention is better than cure," he continued, "and international experts have
agreed that some three-quarters of all industrial accidents could be prevented by the
exercise of greater personal care on the part of the worker and better organisation on the
part of the employer. In this country that is not yet sufficiently realised."


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
LABOUR WOMEN'S CONFERENCE AT YORK.
DELEGATES' REPORTS.
1OTH MAY, 1923.
York was visited by about 500 delegates to the National Conference of Labour Women
which commenced in the Festival Concert Room under the presidency of Mrs. Harrison
Bell, Chairman of the Standing Joint Committee of Industrial Women's Organisations.
The Conference discussed several important questions, including that of the dismissals
of Married Women Teachers, upon which there was some plain speaking, and also differences
of opinion.
An official welcome to the delegates was given in the afternoon by the Lord Mayor
(Alderman J. B. Inglis, J.P.), who was accompanied by the Lady Mayoress. The Lord
Mayor heartily welcomed the delegates, and said that it was his duty to do so although
he might not agree with them on many points. They had a lot of differences of opinions,
but some good always arose from such differences. It would be a bad job for the country
and for the City of York if they had not any difference of opinion, and he was proud and
pleased to say that he numbered many friends aomng the Labour Party in the city. Why
should they not have differences of opinion? Everyone had a right to their thoughts
in regard to political and social subjects and they ought to agree to differ. He did not see
why they should not be able to agree to differ. Another reason he was glad to be present
was because the power of women was much greater to-day than when he was a boy. The
women had so much power and influence for good or evil that they must all feel it was for
the good of the community that they should take up their part in connection with the
various spheres of life. Every woman was a centre of influence, and it was for them to
see that that influence was exerted for good. (Applause.)
PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS.
Trade Union Amendments Acts.
Mrs. Harrison Bell, in her presidential address, said since the last Conference at
Leamington Spa organisation had proceeded apace, 20,000 new members having been
added to the party. The women of the party were bringing a new influence to bear
and a new and clearer light was shining on old problems, so that plans could be made to
remedy them as soon as opportunity occurred.
The C.W.S. Strike.
The Standing Orders Committee recommended the following emergency resolution
in reference to the strike amongst C.W.S. employees: - " That this Conference regrets
the action of the C.W.S. in imposing reductions of wages and worse conditions of labour
without consultation with the Union concerned. It feels that the present strike is likėly
to bring discredit on the workers' movement and urges the C.W.S. to agree without further
delay to submit the whole of the questions at issue to the Joint Committee of Trade Union
ists and Co-operators for arbitration."
Miss Simmons (National Union of General Workers) moved the resolution, which was.
submitted in view of the fact that there is a meeting of the parties, and said they deprecated
reductions of wages without consultation of the unions. Mrs. Adamson (Lincoln) seconded,
and two co-operators spoke in support, hoping that it would be the means of a settlement
of the dispute. The resolution was carried.
The Two Shift System.
Miss Helen Firber (Bristol) moved a resolution protesting against the hardships
inflicted on women and girls by the two-shift system, and reminding the Government that
this measure was placed on the Statute Book in the face of widespread trade union opposi-
tion, and demanding that it should be repealed. The resolution was carried.
Elections on One Day.
A resolution that all Parliamentary and Local Government Elections should take
place on Saturday, and that all Municipal Elections should be held in May instead of
November, was carried.
Parliamentary Candidates.
Miss Harkness (Glasgow Trade and Labour Council) moved :--" That this Conference
urges the Labour Party to take every opportunity to secure full adult suffrage on the
basis of one person one vote at the age of 21 years."
Miss Harkness characterised it as an insult that a woman should not have the franchise
under 30 years of age. The Prime Minister was returned to Parliament because plural
votes were in operation by which some persons had two or three votes.


---
307
Miss Atkinson (Nottingham, Transport and General Workers) seconded, and con
sidered that many women under 30 had much more sense than people over 30. (Laughter
and applause.)
Mean Economies.
Proceeding, the President said that they viewed with apprehension the proposals for
economy which embraced the stint of milk and treatment for infants, cutting off supplies
for school meals, and increase of size of classes, and in instituting such mean economies
the children just before they reached the highest salaries scale provided by the Burnham
as to try and oust men and women head-teachers who had given 40 years to the service of
Committee so that their pensions might be less, promoting at the minimum rates to fill
the vacancies thus created with persons over 18 who had been certificated, and who may
not even have had six months' training. Could meanness go any further ? (Cries of
"No.")
The Conference met 30 minutes earlier on Wednesday than was originally contem-
plated.
Mrs. Turner (North Bucks) moved a resolution congratulating the Agricultural
Workers in Norfolk in their magnificent fight for better conditions for themselves and their
families. The resolution continued: "The Conference views with alarm the terms of
settlement, which it considers absolutely inadequate to procure a decent standard of living
for workers and will also prove an added menace to the town dweller. It therefore presses,
campaign in the countryside by the National Labour Party, and urges that the
in view of the vital importance of agricultural industry, for a vigorous propaganda
Parliamentary Party be asked to declare Labour's agricultural policy in the House of
Commons."
Miss Saward (Workers' Union), speaking as a daughter of an agricultural worker now
earning 27s., seconded, declaring that low agricultural wages threatened the conditions
of workers in every industry. Since 1918 farmers, landowners and the Government had
allowed three million acres to go out of cultivation, but had encouraged land-workers to
emigrate so that they should not remain to kick up a row. The resolution was carried
unanimously.

MRS. A. SMALLEY,
Leicester.
I attended the Conference of Labour Women held at the Festival Concert Rooms,
Museum Street, York, on the 7th, 8th, 9th of May. Mrs. Harrison Bell presided. There
were 518 delegates made up as follows: 320 from 210 Women's Sections of Labour Parties,
114 from 78 Trades and Labour Councils, 49 from Trade Unions, 35 from Fabian, Co-
operative, and other societies, the Trade Union numbers showing very clearly the little
interest shown towards the education and advancement of women trade unionists.
On Monday, 7th May, we were entertained at a reception by children from Germany.
Mr. Brown, Assistant-Secretary of the International Federation of Trade Unions, also
spoke to us on the coming Women's International at Cologne, in August. We have to
thank the National Executive of the English Labour Party for its help and financial
assistance, which makes it possible for English Women to take a great part at this Con-
ference. Many women in our Union who believe that the workers' grievances can only
be permanently solved by international agreements, and understandings, are hoping
that the Council of our Union will rise to the occasion when asked for a delegate to represent
us at this Congress.
Tuesday morning session was given to Labour Women's Organisations to discuss
and educate themselves in such matters as District Councils, and the Constitution of
Women's Sections generally in the Labour Party. I attended this as a visitor, and found
it very helpful from an educational standpoint. By ballot vote four women were elected
represent the Labour Party on the Standing Joint Committee of Women's Organisations.
On Tuesday afternoon the Lord Mayor of York opened the Conference and welcomed
the delegates to York, as did also the Chairman of the York Labour Party, and the President
of the Women's Section of the Labour Party.
Emergency resolutions were moved on the following questions: —Agricultural
Labourers (great was the discontent among the labourers' wives on the award accepted
of 25s.). The Irish Deportation. C.W.S. Dispute at Pelaw and Silvertown, also Trade
Boards. The Labour Party's Interim Report on Motherhood and Child Endowment
was passed after much discussion. Resolutions protesting against the discharge of married
teachers, or any other married women on the ground of marriage, was, after a long discussion,
mostly between industrial and labour delegates, carried by a large majority. The resolu-
tion on Unemployment among women. Education for Peace. The French Occupation
of the Ruhr. The Penal System. Women Police. Housing and Rents. Education
and Feeding of School Children, and the position of the Equality of Women in Industry.
All were discussed from a woman's point of view, and decisions arrived at.


---
308
Fellow members, and all who are truly interested in the spread of Labour principles
intelligent body, with the finest speakers and debaters I have ever heard, able to carry on
and power, this was no conference of prattlers or fidgety women, but a really interested
its own business in a way that was a credit to Labour. With every woman who attended
I came away feeling it was a privilege to be there, and that no intensive teaching in any
school in the world could have taught me so much in two short days.
E. A. TIMMS.
Leicester.
Report of the National Conference of Labour Women, held in the Festival Concert
Rooms, at York, on 8th and 9th May, 1923.
The Conference opened at 2.30 on the 8th, Mrs. Harrison Bell in the chair.
said he considered it a great honour to be asked to do so.
It would be a bad business for
The first business was a welcome to the delegates by the Lord Mayor of York, who
the country to-day was of great importance. Woman had so much influence and it was
the country if there were no differences of opinion, and he thought the power of women in
Mr. Hartley, Chairman of the
food to also welcomed the delegates. He, too, said a great deal to-day depended on the
women of the country. Whether the parliament of the country was good or bad depended
very largely on them. The Chairman of the Women's Section in York also joined in the
welcome and said the people in York would that day be realising the new spirit dawning
in the land. The Women's Section in York was making great progress having already
over 500 members.
The President of the Conference suitably replied.
Mrs. Harrison Bell, in her address, said how pleased she was to say that since the last
Conference in Leamington they had enrolled 20,000 new members. It had been a year
of anxiety in the Trade Unions, but although members had lapsed there were still many
more in the Unions than in 1914. In her opinion they were all there still and only waiting
for employment to be able again to pay into the Union.
Mrs. Adamson (Lincoln), said we ought to pay a tribute to those women candidates
who, though defeated, set up such a good fight at the last Parliamentary Election.
Adult Suffrage was then discussed. Miss Harkness (Glasgow) moved: "That this
Conference urges the Labour Party to take every opportunity to secure full Adult Suffrage
on the basis of one person one vote at the age of 21."
Miss Atkinson (Nottingham) seconded, and said in her opinion women under 30 had
much more sense than those over 30.
Mrs. Palmer and Mrs. Bell (Wimbledon), in supporting, said they thought the salvation
of the country lay in the younger women, who were quite as capable of reasonable opinions
as men of 21 years. Resolution carried.
A good discussion took place on the question of Married Women Teachers. A married
teacher delegate said she did not think the L.C.C. were against married women teachers
because they were married. The real reason was to discharge experienced teachers
drawing large salaries. She said there would be plenty of work for single teachers if we
could demand that classes in all schools should be only the size of those in secondary
schools. This resolution protesting against the action of the L.C.C. in discharging these
teachers was put to the Conference and carried.
The next discussion was on the two-shift system for girls. In moving the resolution
condemning the same, the delegate said it was detrimental to the health of these girls,
especially in the districts where housing conditions were bad, and girls were unable to get
their proper rest. This resolution was carried.
A resolution that all Parliamentary Elections be held on Saturday, and all Municipal
Elections in May instead of November was discussed. Swansea Women's Section said
they found it difficult in November to get the women out to vote. Weather was often
bad, and in their opinion May would be a much better month.
Mrs. Nicholls (Northampton Labour Party) supported the resolution dealing with
Saturday elections, and said in many cases the men, and especially railwaymen, were away
at work all the week, and therefore unable to record their vote at all. Resolution carried.
WEDNESDAY MORNING.
The first business of the Conference was an emergency resolution recommended by
Standing Orders Committee. Mrs. Turner (North Bucks) moved the resolution con-
gratulating the Norfolk Agricultural Workers on their magnificent fight for better conditions,
but viewed with alarm the terms of settlement, which were inadequate to provide a decent


---
```text
309
living and urged the Labour Party to organise a Propaganda Campaign along the country-
side. This was seconded by a daughter of an agricultural worker whose mother was
receiving 26s. a week to keep house on. After discussion the resolution was carried
unanimously.
A protest was made against the Irish deportations without trial. It was an outrage
on the persons concerned.
Miss Symonds presented a report on the work done last year for the education of
children. Particularly the education for peace and in Labour ideals, a delegate wished
for an appeal to be made to teachers to boycott all books with military teaching. We
wanted to see our young brought into the Labour Movement and trained to appreciate
the land they lived in and to demand their share in it. The education of the children
was very important to us.
The International situation was then discussed. A protest was made against the
Germans in the Ruhr working under French military rule. The League of Nations was
denounced as a fraud. What was really needed was a League of ALL Nations.
A report was read by Dr. Marion Phillips and accepted on Motherhood and Child
Endowment. The Conference was sure the committee were doing all they could to put
up a scheme regarding the same, worthy of the Party they represented.
An emergency resolution was moved by Miss Susan Lawrence, urging the Parliamentary
Labour Party to fight against the Government's measure regarding Trade Boards.
Miss Mary Quayle (Transport Workers) seconded, but it was opposed by Miss Carlin
(Dockers' Union) and Miss Manicum (Workers' Union), who both said in their opinion
Trade Boards made it very difficult to organise women workers. Two other delegates
protested against such views, and said although the Trade Boards were not perfect, they
were a great help to the workers and must be retained. Resolution was carried.
The Conference asked for the Abolition of Capital Punishment and also demanded a
force of Women Police in all large towns.
The next discussion was on Unemployment.
Mrs. Malone moved the resolution dealing with the foreign policy which called for the
re-opening of trade with Russia. Trade agreements this last two years had kept peace
with them. Barrow-in-Furness delegate said if trade agreements were broken there would
be more unemployment than at present. Other resolutions on unemployment asked
training with maintenance, and Dr. Marion Phillips recommended the Conference to ask
our Labour Representatives to press for an immediate grant from Government of £100,000.
The full support of the Conference was given to this appeal.
Other sections of the resolution asked for the unemployment insurance and relief to
be made more adequate, protesting against the gap in relief when girls who had anyone
else in the family working were unable to draw any relief at all. It was no fault of the
girl being out of work, and the Government should supply full maintenance.
Bolton Women's Section moved the Government be called upon at once to build
suitable houses for the workers with lower rents. Barrow seconded, saying the housing
conditions there were terrible, ex-Service men were in cellar dwellings and there were
many bad cases. They protested against the non-parlour dwellings; in these dwellings it
was difficult for a child in a large family to be able to study as much as he or she needed.
Mrs. Harkness (Glasgow) said their scheme of direct labour had saved that city some-
thing like £40,000, and we should demand that local authorities be given power to carry
on the work.
There were several other resolutions to discuss, but these, with the other business,
were referred to the Standing Joint Committee of Industrial Women's Organisations for
their consideration.
N. RICKETT,
Northampton No. 2.
NINE IN ONE ROOM.
The sanitary inspector at Higham Ferrers (Northamptonshire) reported that one
bedroom in a cottage was occupied by two brothers, ages 20 and 9, and seven sisters,
ages 19, 16, 15, 12, 7, 6 and 4. The only other bedroom was occupied by the parents and
a baby.
At the same meeting the Council had an old house to let, and the tenant of the cottage
referred to was one out of about 30 unsuccessful applicants. - Westminster Gazette, 9th
May, 1923.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYMENT.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.- Membership of Unions reporting at end of April, 1923,
74,385. Unemployed at end of April, 1923, 3,856; percentage, 5.2. Increase as com-
pared with a month ago. 0.2; increase as compared with a year ago, 0.1. - Labour Gazette
May, 1923.
```

---
311
3. Shortening of hours of work (hours of attendance in the factory) for women
and young persons to 11 per day (in silk factories to 12 per day).
4. Prohibition of night work of women and young persons in all cases where it is
still allowed-to take effect within three years from the date of promulgation of the
amending Act.
sanction of the competent authorities, 11 p.m. to 6 a.m.).
5. Night work to be defined as meaning the period to p.m. to 5 a.m. (or, by special
6. Deletion of the clauses in the Factory Act regarding the minimum age of em-
ployment of children and enactment of a separate Act prohibiting the employment
of children under 14 years of age, with certain exceptions.
The Draft Conventions, adopted at the Frist International Labour Conference, held
at Washington in 1919, concerning the night work of women and young persons and the
by this Act.
Japan has already ratified two decisions of the Conference, the first dealing with
unemployment and providing for the regular communication of information regarding
unemployment to the International Labour Office, the establishment of free public employ-
ance schemes, while the second provides for the abolition of private fee-charging agencies
ment exchanges and reciprocity of treatment for immigrants under unemployment insur-
for finding employment for seamen and the substitution of public employment offices.
Acts were also promulgated on the same day as the new Factory Act giving effect in
Japan to the Draft Conventions prohibiting the employment of children under 14 in sea-
going vessels and providing for the medical inspection of young persons employed at sea.
minimum age of admission of children to industrial employment are given effect in Japan
WOMEN'S ADVICE ON FACTORY INSPECTION.
Need at Next International Labour Conference.
meeting.
The importance of the presence of women at the Fifth Annual Session of the Inter-
national Labour Conference of the League of Nations, which will be held in Geneva next
October, is urged by the Director of the International Labour Office, M. Albert Thomas,
in a letter he has addressed to Governments in connection with the arrangements for this
This Conference will discuss general principles for the organisation of factory inspec-
tion, as it is felt that the time has now arrived for crystallising the results obtained by
experience in the chief industrial States possessing efficient services of factory inspection
and for indicating by what means the supervision exercised by such services may be
extended to countries which at present have less effective safeguards for the administration
of factory laws.
By the terms of the Peace Treaty each of the four delegates, which each of the 54
States members of the International Labour Organisation is entitled to send to the Con-
ference, may bring two advisers, the special stipulation being made that "when questions
specially affecting women are to be considered by the Conference, one at least of the
advisers should be a woman."
In drawing the attention of Governments to this portion of the Treaty the Director
also refers to the following clause among the principles " of special and urgent importance
which all industrial communities should endeavour to apply, so far as their special circum-
stances will permit":
"Each State should make provision for a system of inspection in which women
should take part, in order to ensure the enforcement of the laws and regulations for
the protection of the employed."
The first session of the Conference which met in Washington in 1919 recommended,
in view of the decisions reached regarding certain aspects of women's employment, "that
each States member of the International Labour Organisation which has not already
done so should establish as soon as possible, not only a system of efficient factory inspection,
but also in addition thereto a Government service especially charged with the duty of
safeguarding the health of the workers, which will keep in touch with the International
Labour Office." Notification has been received from Great Britain that this recommenda-
tion has already been applied in this country.
WORLD CARE OF THE DISABLED.
Meeting of Experts at Geneva.
A meeting of experts from all parts of the world on questions connected with disabled
ex-Service men will be held at the International Labour Office of the League of Nations
at Geneva, on Tuesday, July 31st, to discuss the question of finding employment for dis-
abled men.


---
"The national was thus kept in his country, which no longer opened its gates, by the formal obstacle of passport arrangements, which are still almost everywhere in force. Similarly, in countries of immigration measures have been taken almost everywhere to guard against a fear of invasion which has possibly been rather exaggerated. The Three Per Cent. Immigration Act in the United States sufficiently illustrates this tendency from any one country to three per cent. of the number of persons of that nationality resident in the United States in 1910; it restricts considerably the emigration of peoples who take a principal part in present-day emigration, such as Italians, Poles, Hungarians, and Jews.
# Restrictive legislation, however, does not explain the whole situation. The tendency noted is too general to be referred to a particular set of circumstances. Another factor, the economic factor, has been involved, but its effects are often very ill understood. Immigration depends on economic conditions in the countries towards which it is directed; at a time of depression a country of immigration will close its doors; it will cease to ask for immigrants and the stream of immigration will automatically dry up. Again, when a country of emigration is hard hit and the prosperity of its people suffers, individuals are unable to find the necessary money to pay their expenses. Poverty keeps a population stricken class; on the contrary, the possession of certain means is indispensable if emigration is to take place.
"Towards the end of 1920 and during 1921 countries both of emigration and of immigration suffered from a very severe economic crisis. In the countries of immigration unemployment and the fear of an excessive influx of immigrants caused restrictive measures to be hastily taken in the countries of emigration, at any rate in those where the exchange had fallen severely, the unforuntate population was unable to get together the money required for passage and settlement, payment for which is always calculated on a gold basis!"

SHOE UNION AND LABOUR NEW BANNERS.
Unfurling by Miss Bondfield and Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P.
A "Labour" May Day celebration meeting was held at the Northampton Town Hall on Tuesday evening. There was a fair attendance. Mr. Emmett Law (President of the Northampton No. 2 Branch of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union) occupied the chair, supported by Miss Bondfield, J.P. (Prospective Parliamentary "Labour" candidate), Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P. (General Secretary of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives), Mr. F. O. Roberts, J.P., M.P., Mr. W. R. Townley, J.P. (President, Northampton No. 1 Branch), Mr. W. Pitts (Secretary of No. 1 Branch), Mr. S. Thompson, J.P. (Secretary No. 2 Branch).

A number of children, trained by Miss I. Smith, gave charming old English folk dances.

Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P. (who was present to unfurl the handsome new banner of the No. 1 and 2 Branches of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union), in the course of his address, said in 1892 when their old banner was unfurled, the Northampton No. 1 Branch had a membership of 4,285. It had now 5,597 members, and those figures would have been higher but for the agreement between the two branches that all the women should be transferred to the No. 2 Branch. In 1892 the No. 2 and the old No. 3 Branches had just over 900 members. To-day they were in the proud position of being able to say that the No. 2 Branch had grown to 7,046 members. Thus they had in Northampton nearly 13,000 members of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union, and the Union had more influence than many people imagined. In 1892 the Union as a whole had just over 42,000 members, and at the present time they had over 75,000. (Applause.) They had ₤40,000 in their central fund in 1892, and at present together with the Branch funds they had ₤368,000, and they had established an out-of-work fund out of which they had paid their members nearly $200,000 during the period it had been in existence.
Mr. Poulton went on to say that the war they were engaged in was a war against unjust and inequitable conditions, and amid applause he unfurled the new banner.

On one side of the banner is a figure holding a flag inscribed "Emancipation of Labour," and inviting the workers to march towards the rising sun of the "Co-operative Commonwealth," and underneath the picture are the words "Workers of all lands, unitel you have a world to win, you have nothing to lose but your chains." The other side of the banner bears the words "Northampton Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, Northampton No. 1 and No. 2 Branches." In the centre is the figure of St. Crispin, the patron saint of shoemakers, and illustrations of various operations in the boot trade. At the bottom is inscribed "May the Trade be trodden underfoot by the Whole World."
Miss Bondfield unveiled the banner of the "Northampton Labour Party (Women's Section!" The motto on the banner is "What the Parents Sow the Children Reap." -
Northampton Chronicle, 2nd May, 1923."


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
314
34, Guilford Street,
LONDON, W. C. 1.
7, Tavistock Square,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
28th May, 1923,
Dear Sir,
COST OF LIVING.
We beg to draw your attention to Clause 8 of the December (1922)
National Agreement, wherein provision is made for a re-adjustment
in the wages of operatives when the index figure of the cost of living
falls to 70 full points. The figure as published in the May issue of
the "Ministry of Labour Gazette" shows that such a drop has taken
place.
The change will become effective on the first clear pay day in
June, that is to say, on JUNE 7th, 8th or 9th.
We would further point out the arrangement under B. of Clause 8,
whereby provision is made for MALE OPERATIVES EMPLOYED
IN HEEL BUILDING DEPARTMENTS OR IN THE STOCK OR
SHOE ROOMS, and would direct special attention to the wages detailed
under column 3 of that schedule, headed "after the Index Figure
falls to 70."
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary to Operatives' Union.
RUTH TOMLINSON,
Secretary to Boot Manufacturers' Federation.

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

315
EDUCATION AND THE BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
Address by Mr. A. C. Boyde.

"Educational Extension" formed the subject of a very interesting address by Mr.
A. C. Boyde, M.A., LL.B., Director of Education, at Harleston Road P.M. Schools on
Friday night.
Mr. Boyde said when he came to Northampton two and a half years ago Northampton
and the whole country was bubbling over with enthusiasm for education, but since then
there had been a serious slump in education, chiefly because of the financial state of the
country. The country had spent over £300,000,000 a year on what is at best a luxury-
he would not name it, but it costs a penny a pint less now than it did a month ago.
£20,000,000 is to be given back to those who drink this luxury, but at the same time the
expenditure on education is to be reduced by £3,000,000. Those who decided to do this
had not a proper view of the relative values of the things under consideration.
When spending money like business men the thing to consider was not how much
are we spending, but are we getting value for our money. If we are getting value for our
money the more we spend the better, and that should be our attitude towards education.
The purposes of education are to produce sound bodies, keen brains, and model men
and women. or, as it is put in the education text-books, to produce a physical, mental,
and moral man. If we attained to those ideals it will be very difficult to argue that we are
spending too much on them. The position we have to face to-day is much too serious
to allow of any check on education.

The Resources of Science.

He was quite satisfied all the resources of science have not been applied to the boot
and shoe industry as they could have been. The Education Committee started a senior
day course for youths of 18 and 19 years of age from the boot and shoe trade. Scholar-
ships of the value of £40 were given, £20 by the Education Committee, £10 by the manu-
facturers, and £10 by the Trade Unions. About ten youths went through the first year's
course, which ended last August. The second year's course should have begun in Septem-
ber, but not a single candidate presented himself from the whole boot and shoe trade.
On the leather side, on the other hand, the number of students joining the classes had been
very satisfactory.

A reason for the dearth of students from the boot and shoe trade was that by attending
the course they were losing a wage of about 36s. a week for one of about 16s., but the chief
reason was that there is no conviction in the industry that science is of use in boot and
shoe manufacture. Mr. Blakeman had estimated that no fewer than 300 young people
entered the boot and shoe trade in Northampton every year, yet, in spite of the fact that
their wages were paid, only 66 boys turned up for the time-off scheme, which catered for
boys and girls between the ages of 14 and 16.

Yet on the engineering side 74 attended under the scheme, and the engineering trade
in Northampton was not nearly so large as the boot and shoe trade. On the commercial
side 207 had taken advantage of the time-off scheme. The great need is for a competent
person to convey to the young people the conviction that it will profit them and their
trade if they will give up their time to the courses. - Daily Echo, Northampton, 5th May,
1923.

GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.

SPECIAL REPORT ON DUNDEE
On the High Rate of Expenditure on Disablement Benefit to Women
Members in Scotland.

A careful examination has now been made of all these claims. At the end of June
there were 123 women in Scotland receiving Disablement Benefit, and of these 110 are
attached to the Dundee Branch, and 13 to other Branches.
A careful examination of the medical evidence and visitors' reports does not indicate
the presence of any malingering ; in fact there is clear evidence that the majority of cases
may be termed chronic, and unlikely to ever resume work. Nearly one-half (60) of the
members are receiving monthly certificates from their doctors, and a further 12 are in
various institutions. Of the 123 cases mentioned, 72 of the members are over the age of
50, and the average age of all the members is 50. There are six members, not more than
23 years of age, who are suffering from Tuberculosis.
The average duration of incapacity of the 123 cases under consideration is 109 weeks
4 days.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
316
With regard to the use of Regional Medical Officers, we have always referred cases
where the visitor's report-or the nature of incapacity-has indicated the least possibility
of the member being capable of work. During the last 18 months, 27 of the 123 members
in question have been referred to the District Medical Officers, but, until the last few days,
last few reports received from the District Medical Officer, however, there have been
there was not a single case in which benefit could be justifiably suspended. Among the
three cases in which benefit has been suspended pending a further local report, which has
not at present come to hand. Of these three cases, one failed to attend for examination,
another is declared capable of light work, and the third is certified as not incapable
of work.
The bulk of our women members in Scotland are ordinarily engaged on heavier work
than the women members in England, and this has a direct bearing on the rate of expendi-
ture on both Sickness Benefit and Disablement Benefit. Furthermore, heavy work
causes incapacity much more frequently during pregnancy. Taking 100 consecutive
claims for Maternity Benefit, it was found that in England approximately £100 was ex-
pended on Sickness Benefit before the date of confinement, whereas in Scotland the amount
was £273.
The only prospect of any diminution in the average rate of expenditure is by way of
deaths and the age limit (there are 21 members over 65), or an increase in the younger
membership.
THE CONTROLLER,
Ministry of Health,
Insurance Department, Whitehall, S.W. 1.
21st September, 1922,
SIR, I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 12th inst., with reference
to the high average benefit expenditure. For the present I beg to enclose a copy of a
report which has been circulated to the Executive Board, and which will be discussed
on Tuesday next. In the meantime you will, I am sure, in these circumstances,
excuse me from giving any detailed reply to your letter until after the Board
has met.
I am, Sir,
Yours faithfully,
W. A. APPLETON.
Sickness Amongst Scottish Women.
I have called attention to the difference between the benefit cost per head of women
members in England and Scotland, the comparable figures for incapacities arising out of
or incidental to, pregnancy being £100 England, and £273 Scotland. Recent comparisons
show that the ratios are rising in Scotland, and that these tend more seriously to depreciate
the stability of the Benefit Account.
W. A. APPLETON.
SCOTTISH BOARD OF HEALTH.
Notes on Housing in Dundee.
1. The latest statistical information available regarding existing Housing Conditions
in Dundee is to be found in Vol. I., Part 3, of the Report of the Registrar-General for
Scotland, on the Census of 1921. The following paragraph is taken from that Report:-
Housing Conditions.
Occupied houses in Dundee numbered 42,256, and, as the population numbered
168,315, the average number of persons per house is 3.98. In 1911, in the area now
included within Dundee, occupied houses numbered 41,229, and the average number
of persons per house was 4.28. The 42,256 occupied houses contain 111,064 windowed
rooms, and the average number of persons to each 100 such rooms is found to be 152;
in 1911, in Dundee as then constituted, this average was 169, while in the area annexed
to the City during the inter-censal period it was 95, and within the area now included
within the City it was 161. Using this proportion as a test of the housing condition
of the population these figures show that crowding is less now than in 1911, either in
the City as then constituted, or in the area included within the City. The number
of persons per 100 windowed rooms in the portion of Dundee within the Dundee
Parish is 152, and within Mains and Strathmartine Parish, 131.
Of the occupied houses in Dundee, 6,650, or 15.7 per cent., are one-roomed
houses; 21,843, or 51.7 per cent., two-roomed houses: 7,538, or 17.8 per cent., three-
roomed houses; 2,502, or 5.9 per cent., four-roomed houses; 1,136, or 2.7 per cent.,
five-roomed houses; and 807, or 1.9 per cent., six-roomed houses. Of the population
enumerated in these houses 15,056, or 8.9 per cent., were enumerated in one-roomed
in three-roomed houses; 11,757, or 7.0 per cent., in four-roomed houses: 5,288, or
houses; 85,541, or 50.8 per cent., in two-roomed houses: 35,255, or 20.9 per cent.,
---

---
317
3.1 per cent., in five-roomed houses and 3.455, or 2.1 per cent., in six-roomed bouwe
Persons enumerated in houses of less than 25 rooms, and in households of less than 20
persons, numbered 164,336, and of them 96,282, or 58.6 per cent., were living not
not more than three per room; 18.453 or 11.3 per cent., more than three, but not
more than two per room; 41,485, or 25.2 per cent., were living more than two, but
more than four per room and 8.116, or 4.9 per cent., more than four per room. In
1911, within the City as then constituted, these four percentages were 51.8, 28.2,
13.9 and 6.1 respectively; and they are thus higher than those now found"
2. The following Table also taken from the Census
us Report-shows the numbers
tamilies of different sizes occupying one, two and three-roomed houses, and the number
of persons comprised in such families: -
Size of
Family
(No. of
Persons)
One-roomed Houses
No. of
Two-roomed Houses
No. of
No. of
Three-roomed Houses
Houses
Occupants
Houses
No. of
Occupants
No. of
Houses
2339
2339
1520
1
1983
3966
1520
No. of
Occupants
4411
2
1252
3756
8822
265
4649
3
622
2488
13947
929
265
.4000
16000
1399
1858
4
282
1410
2909
56
121
726
14545
1364
4197
1934
280
40
1185
11604
1140
5456
5700
80
7
10
670
8295
951
5360
623
5706
4431
326
416
2934
3328
9
157
219
1570
1971
10
I
II
49
145
539
1450
II
48
25
300
528
17
12
7
91
204
7
13
I
91
14
5
14
70
6650
15056
21843
85541
7538
Totals
35255
November,
1919, under Section I of the Housing, Town Planning, &c. (Scotland) Act, 1919, showed
that additional houses were required as follows:-
(a) To relieve overcrowding
(b) To replace houses then occupied which should be closed and de-
molished (not including houses under (c))..
(c) To re-house persons who would be dispossessed by Improvement
or Reconstruction Schemes under Parts I. and II., of the 1890 Act
(d) To meet the normal growth of population
(e) To meet demands consequent on the setting up of new industries
(f) Temporary Timber Houses
1000
600
2400
1000
ICOO
76
6076
4. The following houses have been, or are being, provided by the Local Authority
under Part III. of the 1890 Act:-
Permanent Houses :
Two apartment
Three apartment..
Four apartment
Size not fixed
Temporary Houses:
Two apartment
Three apartment..
Not Yet
Built.
Building. Begun.
Total.
140
8
148
542
12
160
714
4
4
20
20
72
4
762
12
72
4
188
962
Improvement of Insanitary Areas shows that the areas requiring to be dealt with embrace
5. The Schedule recently submitted by the Local Authority in connection with the
a total of 3,580 houses, of which 3,258 are occupied.
HOUSING BRANCH,
10th January, 1923.


---
"OURS IS A NICE 'OUSE, OURS IS"!
THERE YOU ARE ! A HOME
FOR YOU AT
LAST!
THAT'S NOT A HOME!
IT'S A RABBIT-
- HUTCH!
HOME, SWEET HOME
The so-called 'homes' which will
be provided under Mr. Neville
Chamberlain's Housing Bill were
aptly described the other day as
' rabbit-hutches.'
Reprinted by kind permission of " Reynolds's " Newspaper.
318

---
Here is the extracted text:
320

LISTENINGS IN.

Mr. T F. Richards, general president of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union, in-
dignantly repudiates the assertion in the London Daily Chronicle that girls in the Leicester
factories are addicted to the habit of snuff-taking, and that out of jewelled boxes. He
says it contains two gross libels-firstly, the beastly habit of snuff-taking; and, secondly,
the inordinate display of wealth by the workers. - Midland Mail. 28th April, 1923.
*
*
*
Mr. A. G. Randall, J.P., secretary of the Kingswood branch of the Operatives' Union,
was at the annual meeting of the Kingswood Urban Council elected chairman for the coming
year. Mr. Randall has for some years given a lot of time to the affairs of the district
generally, and a few years since was made a Justice of the Peace for Gloucestershire.
*
*
*
Alderman Sheppard was re-elected as one of the representatives of the governors on
the governing body of the Queen Victoria Convalescent Home.
*
*
*
Mr. George Chester, the new Chairman of Kettering Education Committee, is a well-
known leader of the "Labour" Party, and was Mr. A. E. Waterson's agent during the
General Election.
*
*
*
The total number of persons liable to super tax during the financial year which ended
31st March last were about 80,000, with an estimated total income of £470,000,000,
The number of persons with incomes above £5,000 a year in 1921-22 was 28,800.
with an estimated total income of £367,000,000. - Chancellor of the Exchequer in the House
of Commons, 3rd May, 1923.
*
*
*
A Norwich firm of boot and shoe manufacturers, Messrs. P. Haldinstein & Co., have
started a summer experiment of a five days' working week.
*
*
*
FRENCH CO-OPERATION RESTORED. Up to 1st January, 1923, 2,160 French co-
2,602 communes, and grouping 152,773 adherents. They received from the State advances
operative societies had been officially authorised in the devastated regions, covering
amounting to 2,253,395,417 francs in the year 1922.
*
*
*
If trade unionists alone spent for each of their families £1 per week in C.W.S. goods
it would mean a trade of over £180,000,000 a year instead of over £65,000,000.-W. T.
Charter, C.W.S. Director.
*
*
*
Just as they expected the workers in co-operative works to belong to their unions,
so they should demand that trade union members should belong to the local co-operative
societies.-W. J. Whybrew, at C.W.S. Quarterly Meeting.
*
*
*
A QUAINT RELIC.-The Derwent Valley Co-operative Society has recently celebrated
its diamond jubilee, during which some quaint minutes were recited, one of which perhaps
had unexpected effects: "That the committee receive 6d. for each attendance, but that
a fine of Is. per meeting be made for non-attendance."
*
*
*
THE OTHER PEOPLE'S PRESS. -The aggregate net daily sale of the London morning
newspapers is about 7,325,000, whereas the London Sunday newspapers have an aggregate
net sale of about 9,300,000. Three men-Lord Riddell, Lord Rothermere, and Sir Edward
Hulton-control between them an aggregate Sunday sale of 7,280,000. As there are more
readers than buyers it is probably a conservative estimate to put the number of the former
at 12,000,000. Thus the millions give the power and three men control it.
*
*
*
MANY MATINGS, FEW NESTS. --According to Mr. Neville Chamberlain, there were
in the period 1901-1920 5,716,418 marriages. But the total number of new houses was
only 1,198,000.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES IN GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND.

TOTAL UNEMPLOYMENT.

Estimated Number of Insured Workpeople:- Males, 97,300; Females, 53,080:
Total, 150,380. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 23rd April, 1923 :-
Males, 10,410; Females, 2,410; Total, 12,820. Percentage Unemployed:- Males, 10.7;
Females, 4.5; Total, 8.5. As compared with 26th March, 1923: - Males, decrease, 0.3;
Females, increase, o.1: Total, decrease, 0.1.-Labour Gazette, May, 1923.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
Coroner on 321
PANEL DOCTORS INDICTED.
"Penny-in-the-Slot" Treatment. "Scamped Work."
The experiment of trying to provide 15,000,000 people with medical attendance on contract
lines has had ten years' trial and has proved a failure.
This was one of the remarks made yesterday by Dr. Edwin Smith, the North-East
London coroner, at the resumed Shoreditch inquest on John Edward Cox (22). He died
in the local infirmary, and complaints were made by his father of the treatment his son
had received at the hands of Dr. Hemsted, his panel doctor.
At the outset the coroner said he thought there was no doubt there had been neglect
in this case.
Mr. Charles A. Davis, solicitor, on behalf of Dr. Hemsted, said he had a certificate
from a doctor at Brighton stating that Dr. Hemsted was unable to attend the inquiry as
he was confined to bed.
The coroner said he did not propose to adjourn the case again as there was no question
of criminal neglect. The letter the doctor had sent to the Court showed that he was
decidedly hazy about the case. He said that when Mr. Cox called at the surgery he was
suffering from bronchitis, and he told him to go to hospital as he himself was too ill to
attend him.
Although he gave him a prescription for infusion of rhubarb, or something of that
svt. as a matter of fact the patient was suffering from strangulated hernia and died four
days later.
Mr. Davis pointed out that the patient died four days after his visit to the surgery
and medical men had stated that anyone attacked with strangulated hernia died within
48 hours.
Inadequate Treatment.
The coroner said he did not, as one who had been a medical practitioner for 25 years,
agree to that: but there was another aspect of the case, for it represented a class all too
often met with, namely, that of panel patients receiving totally inadequate attention.
It was common knowledge that at a typical panel consultation the patient announced
what seemed to him to be his most prominent symptom, a cough, or a pain, and so forth,
and instantly got a prescription for something supposed to fit his condition.
There was no time for any but the most perfunctory investigation, for the waiting-
room was full of other patients to be seen, and the patient was hurried from the surgery,
almost before he had entered it.
The underlying cause of the symptoms must be missed in an immense number of cases
where recognition of the early stages of the trouble was all-important.
The human machine that was out of order did not lend itself to this lightning
diagnosis and penny-in-the-slot style of treatment.
It was also claimed that the system was a step forward to better things. That was
nonsense. The panel system was a retrograde step, not too strongly described as a disas-
trous blunder and a miserable failure.
It put a premium on scamped work and inefficiency, for it could not be denied that
on the whole the worst work was being done by the men drawing the largest incomes.
In the end a verdict of "Death from natural causes" was recorded by the coroner.—
Daily Herald, 12th May, 1923
WORTH REMEMBERING.
Success? If the thing is unjust, thou hast not succeeded.
*
*
*
Envy is littleness of soul.
*
*
*
Revenge is an inheritance of weak souls.
*
*
*
No really great man ever thought himself so.
*
*
*
Power will intoxicate the best hearts, as wine the strongest heads. No man is wise
enough, no man is good enough, to be entrusted with unlimited power.
*
*
*
An evil-speaker differs from an evil-doer in nothing but want of opportunity.
-Daily Chronicle, 24th February, 1923.


---
323
DOGS IN SILK CAGES: PEOPLE IN DENS.
Powder and Luxury for Pets. Puppies v. Men.
Great care was taken of the dogs yesterday at the annual show of the Ladies' Kennel
Association, at Richmond.
The claims of colour were not forgotten, and a bulldog with a green collar was housed
in a cage lined with green silk.
In the toy dog section silk of varying hues lined the cages, bordered with silk of another
shade harmonising with the colour scheme.
Dainty hair brushes, combs, hair-dressing powders, and thermos flasks with warm
water were laid out in front or beside the cages, and the proud owners of the favoured
animals were in constant attention upon their pets.
DREADFUL OVERCROWDING IN POOR AREAS.
A case was in Blackpool, were an ejectment order was granted against a tenant of one
room rent 6s. In it there lived and slept five persons.
In a possession case yesterday, at the Thames Court, it was stated that there were no
fewer than 24 occupants in a house of five small rooms, and that in one room there were
eight people. The magistrate (Mr. Disney) said it was one of the worst overcrowding
cases he had heard for a long time.
DIED, LOOKING FOR WORK.
Sixty-three years old, and out of work, William Henry Jackson, a Mexboro' insurance
worker, was yesterday found dead from exhaustion on a country road at Kirton Lindsay,
near Brigg, Lincolnshire. He had been tramping the country looking for work.
-Daily Herald, May 17th, 1923.
TRAGEDY OF THE OPEN ROAD.
Old Man's Body Found in a Hovel.
A gruesome discovery was made by a Hillmorton labourer, named John Alfred Cashmore,
on Sunday. He was walking past a hovel near the Watling Street Road when his attention
was attracted by what seemed to be a bundle of rags.
On investigating he found the dead body of a man, apparently 65 years of age. There
was nothing to show the cause of death, which, it is believed, occurred some days previously.
The man had evidently undergone considerable hardship, and the body was in a terribly
wasted condition.
A ticket found in one of his pockets bore the name of Joseph Williams. The body
was removed by the police to the Red Lion Inn, Hillmorton, to await an inquest. —Leicester
Mercury, May 15th, 1923.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914: All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923
January 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78
February 15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88 77
March 15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 86 76
April 15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 82 74
May 20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 81 70
June 25 45 75-80 100 105 150 119 80 -
July 25 45-50 80 100-105 105-110 152 119 84 -
August 25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 -
September 25 50 80-85 110 115 161 120 79 -
October 30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 110 78 -
November 30-35 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 80 -
December 35 65 85 120 125 169 99 80
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement,
1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922)
Agreement, and present date.


---
324
MOVE FOR WORKERS' BETTERMENT.
Labour's Appeal for Ratification of the International Labour Conventions.
The policy of the Government with regard to the draft conventions and recommenda-
tions adopted by the third and fourth sessions of the International Labour Conference,
held at Geneva in 1921 and 1922, was under discussion in the House to-day.
Some of the proposals are already law in this country.
As to the others, the Government is prepared to give effect to two conventions-one,
prohibiting, with certain exceptions, the employment of persons under 18 as trimmers or
stokers; and the other which makes compulsory the medical examination of children
and young persons employed on ships.
The Rejected Proposals.
The Government was strongly criticised during the debate for deciding to take no
action in regard to those which prohibit the employment in agriculture of children under
14 during school hours, the employment of white lead and sulphate of lead in internal
painting of buildings, and the employment of males under 18 and all females in industrial
painting work involving the use of these substances.
A recommendation to prohibit the employment of women as agricultural workers
during certain periods before and after childbirth was also rejected by the Government,
and this decision also was the subject of severe strictures.
The view of the Labour Party was that the Government should, as in honour bound,
ratify all the conventions and adopt all the recommendations.
To the Minister of Labour's resolution approving the Government's policy the Labour
Party tabled an amendment substituting for approval a declaration in favour of ratifying
the conventions and recommendations.
SIR M. BARLOW, the Minister of Labour, moving the resolution approving the Govern-
ment's policy, said the 1921 conference was concerned mainly with the question of agricul-
ture. It adopted seven draft conventions and eight recommendations and these were
laid on the table of the House in March, 1922.
After explaining these in detail, Sir Montague said the Government found itself in
some difficulty with regard to ratification, because on some points attention would have
to be directed with a view to amendment.
Ratification Urged.
MR. CLYNES (Lab., Platting), moving the Labour amendment, said he thought the
House should at least go to the length of supporting those decisions which their representa-
tives at the international gathering had not opposed.
"We cannot have the full results of this beneficent and promising work," said Mr.
Clynes, "if these great assemblies are not fully encouraged to work with the confidence
that their decisions will not be merely respected, but will be put into effect by the Govern-
ments and the peoples represented.
"Public money is frequently used for research work and other scientific purposes,
and the Labour Party says that some of it should be used for this helpful work of human
betterment, of which large masses of the population in all countries are greatly in need."
Mr. Clynes expressed special disappointment that they had not had unqualified
acceptance from the Minister of Labour of the maternity Convention.
He urged the Government to say definitely whether a Bill was to be introduced this
session to deal with the question of trimmers and stokers. If not they would have to wait
until the end of 1924, long before which time the Government itself might have come to
an end. (Laughter.)
Danger of Delay.
DR. MACNAMARA (N.L., Camberwell, N.W.) hoped the Labour members would set
their faces against ratification with reservations. There might be reservations until
there was nothing left.
As to the convention dealing with the age of children in agriculture, he pointed out
that the existing Scottish law provided certain exceptions which made it impossible for
us to ratify it as it stood.
He understood that the matter was to be referred to the International Labour organisa-
tion. So far so good, but he appealed to the Labour Minister not to leave the matter
there. Let him get an early reply so that they might know where they were.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
use of white lead in paint.
325
The same appeal, he said, applied to the use of white lead in paint.
LORD H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK (C., Nottingham, South) expressed disappointment
that the Government had refused to give legislative effect to the Convention regarding the
They were lagging behind the conscience of the world in this matter, he said.
Raising the Standard.
CAPTAIN BERKELEY (L., Nottingham, Central) spoke on the same lines. He expressed
should be allowed, if they were being allowed, to militate against the proper protection
the gravest concern that the conflicting interests of the white lead and white zinc trades
of the workers engaged in what was admittedly a most dangerous industry.
He praised the work of the International Labour Conference, and said it was a mistake
national post office. It was created for the purpose of lifting the whole standard of labour
on the part of the Government to regard this great organisation merely as a kind of inter-
throughout the world.
MR. MCENTEE (Lab., West Walthamstow) said he agreed with Dr. Macnamara that
this country had been in the van in regard to this sort of legislation. But that was a long
time ago. Nobody would argue that we were in the van now. We wete "in the cart,"
rather. (Laughter.)
He believed that financial influences interested in the manufacture of white lead had
induced the Government to go back on the approval given by its representatives at the
conference to the proposals against white lead, in the use of which thousands of men in
the painting industry every year sacrificed their lives or their health.
He could not imagine any member going into the division lobby in the interests of
dividends and sacrificing the lives of great numbers of workers.
Looking to Britain.
The Government's policy was strongly denounced by MR. ARTHUR GREENWOOD (Lab.,
Nelson and Colne), who said that other countries looked to Britain to lead the world in
Labour legislation; but even now the Washington Labour Conventions were largely a
dead letter because the British Government had refused to honour them, and it seemed to
him that that was what was going to happen to the Geneva Conventions.
Our record in international Labour legislation was dishonourable. Had we given
an undertaking of a military kind, members opposite would have said that we could not
break our word. The national word was equally pledged in these industrial matters.
He had never heard a more inadequate, miserable, paltry excuse than that given by
the Minister in regard to the employment of children in agriculture.
There was no reason for not ratifying the white lead convention, as there had been no
important scientific change since 1921, when the convention was drafted.
The weekly rest day was a question of great importance on the Continent, and as we
already had it in this country we ought not to refuse to do our part in helping the workers
of other countries to obtain it.
A Plea for Women.
MRS. WINTRINGHAM (L., Louth) regretted that the conventions that dealt with the
condition of agricultural workers-particularly with regard to women at the time of child
birth-were not ratified.
It was very necessary that a woman should have at this difficult period the advantage
of rest and fresh air, not only for her own sake, but particularly for the child who would
become a future citizen of this country.
"By not ratifying all these Conventions," said MR. HAYDAY (Lab., Nottingham,
West), "the Government has lost a golden opportunity."
He strongly denounced the refusal of the Government to adopt the recommendation
to extend to women engaged as agricultural wage earners protection similar to that pro-
vided by the Washington Maternity Convention.
By turning down the Weekly Rest Day Convention, they were keeping the backward
countries back and delaying the formation of world opinion.
There was no sound reason for not adopting the recommendation as to social insurance
in agriculture : but the Government's motto seemed to be, "Do anything so long as it
costs nothing."
Government View.
MR. BETTERTON, Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Labour, defended the
action of the Government in ratifying certain of the conventions and refusing to ratify
others.


---
326
Referring to the maternity recommendations, he said the Government was just as
anxious as hon. members opposite to do its best in the matter. The difference between
them was not one of principle, but of the method by which they should proceed.
national Labour legislation was proved by the length of time allowed to elapse before
MR. J. MAXTON (Lab., Bridgeton) said the Government's lack of enthusiasm for inter-
bringing the proposals to the House, by the shortness of the time provided for the debate,
As he listened to the Government speeches, each excuse seemed to be flimsier than
and by the haphazard and slipshod way of presenting the matter.
The amendment was defeated by 235 to 176, and the Government's resolution was
the last.
agreed to. - Daily Herald, 10th May, 1923.

INSIDIOUS ATTACK ON LABOUR.
Tories and Trade Union Levies.
The political organisation of the Labour and Trade Union movement is being made
the object of insidious attack.
The idea is to injure its financial resources. Money is essential to any political move-
ment, and the first object of Labour's opponents is to restrict the system of political levies
common to the Trade Unions.
The movement began in Conservative quarters in the last Parliament, and has now
been revived in this, but with interesting developments.

A Bill has been introduced in the House of Commons by Colonel Archer-Shee, a
Unionist, under which no political levy could be collected
by a Trade Union unless and until the member had first signified in writing on a prescribed
form his willingness to subscribe such a levy. This form must be filled up annually, other-
wise the levy cannot be collected.
A Subtle Point.
The subtle point of this change is this-that whereas now a Trade Union member is
called upon to pay the political levy-after a ballot has decided that it shall be made-
unless he signs a form releasing him from doing so, in future under this Bill every Trade
Unionist would be required to sign a form indicating his willingness to pay.
Leaders of the Labour movement calculate that, for a time at least, this provision
would very materially affect the political income of the movement.
The placing upon the individual Trade Unionist of the onus of signing once a year
a declaration of his readiness to pay a political levy would mean a loss of income, not
through lack of sympathy, but through forgetfulness, and would necessitate special
organisation to get the forms signed and collected.

Government's Proposal.
But the move goes farther than this. The Bill-which is, of course, a private member's
measure-is badly placed in the Parliamentary ballot for the right to introduce private
Bills, and the Government has been asked to give it special facilities.
The Government's reply is an indication that it will shortly invite Labour leaders
to discuss the political levy with them "in the hope that some arrangement may be reached
by which the position of members of Trade Unions who desire to contribute to any political
party may be assured."
The form of the reply has roused a suspicion in the minds of Labour representatives
that what the Government have in mind is a suggestion that a compromise might be
effected whereby the right should be given to Trade Unionists when asked to pay political
levies to stipulate which political party such levies shall be paid to.
opponents.
The effect of this would be that any Trade Union member could demand that his
political levy should be paid to the Conservative Party, and the organisation machinery
of the Labour movement would thus be used to provide funds for its political
Astute Move.
If Labour suspicions are well founded-and it is believed that they arc-it is a decidedly
astute and "cool" move.
Labour, it is declared, would never consent to any such proposal, and if the alternative
is that facilities will be given to the Bill referred to, then the Bill will be fought tooth and
nail.--From an exclusive article to Revnelis's, 29th April, 1923.


---
330
NEW ZEALAND FEDERATED BOOT MANUFACTURERS' INDUSTRIAL
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYERS (Auckland Branch).
BOOT TRADE. - First-class Machinists, light work ; wages, £3 or more, according to
ability. - NORTHERN BOOT LTD., Federal Street.
MR. T. F. RICHARDS,
AUCKLAND,
9th March, 1923.
President, National Union of Boot & Shoe Operatives.
DEAR SIR. - At a meeting of our Association held in December last, the matter of
scarcity of labour occupied the greater part of the session, and on the suggestion of Mr. W.
Gilbert, it was decided that it would be advisable to write, soliciting your assistance in
inducing suitable labour coming to New Zealand.
There are many advantages offering here to industrious operatives, male and female.
There is practically no unemployment in the Shoe industry, and as to machinists there is an
unsatisfiable demand; some of our members have been advertising continuously in the
Press, and offer £3 5s. per week and upwards to good hands.
Although we are working under an award in this Dominion, for both sexes, there are
really very few who are on the minimum, and then only on account of age or other dis-
ability. The minimum here is £4 6s. weekly for males. Females £2 5s., many of the
judges the conditions of work and living are of a much higher standard than the English
factories work five days only. I may say that according to the opinion of competent
standards, food being cheaper and as Mr. Gilbert may have told you food is purer and of a
higher quality than in your big cities.
With regard to the housing conditions, of course there is a shortage of houses, as is
generally the case all over the Empire, but there are literally many thousands of houses
going up and in Auckland particularly the suburbs are increasing in a wonderful
manner.
We can confidently say that this is the most favoured spot in the British Dominions.
I believe I am not overstating the situation when I say that a man has an infinitely better
chance of betterment here than the old country. I could instance many cases of men who
have started and are carrying on successful businesses here though only a few years in the
Dominion.
Although there have been many additions to our population by emigration, they all
find shelter and soon adapt themselves to the conditions here. There are more workmen
here owning their own homes than could possibly be in the Home Country, a far greater
proportion.
Now, if you could use your influence to induce some of the surplus labour to come
along to New Zealand, they would, I am sure find congenial employment, under climatic
conditions that are unsurpassed.
Benchmen and Machinists for preference; there are advertisements appearing con-
tinuously in the daily papers for hands of every type.
Mr. Gilbert is enthusiastic in advocating the enlistment of English workers, he having
had a good deal of experience as President of the Employees' Union, and is now a partner
in a flourishing business.
I wrote some time ago to you, but cannot understand why I have not received a reply
so have taken the precaution of registering this letter as I can only conjecture the first
has gone astray.
I am, Sir, yours faithfully.
W. J. RATTRAY,
Secretary, New Zealand Boot Manufacturers' Association, Auckland Branch.
Address letter: - W. J. RATTRAY, c/o Kelly & Rattray, 46, Belgium Street, Auckland,
New Zealand.
「The above is a copy of a letter I have received from New Zealand. Any member
desirous of going to New Zealand I would suggest first of all he should get into touch with
the Trade Union Officials there, and my idea of inserting this letter in the Monthly Report
is to give any intending emigrant to New Zealand useful information. - T. F. RICHARDS.
---

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**OUR OVERSEAS TRADE.**

Exports and Imports of Boots and Shoes still Increasing.

Exports of Boots and Shoes.

*Month ended 31st March.*

|               |        | **Quantities.** |        |   |   |   | **Value.** |        |
|---------------|--------|----------------|--------|---|---|---|-------------|--------|
|               |        | 1921.          |        |   |   |   | 1921.       | 1923.  |
|               |        | Doz.           |        |   |   |   | £           | £      |
|               |        | Pairs.         |        |   |   |   |             |        |
| **Of Leather** |        |                |        |   |   |   |             |        |
| To Sweden     |   ..   | 1              |        |   |   |   |   7,652     |   1,191|
| Germany       |   ..   | 10             |        |   |   |   |   610       |        |
| Netherlands   |   ..   | 3,838          | 5,712  |   |   |   |   35        |        |
| Belgium       |   ..   | 2,728          | 3,192  |   |   |   |  19,783     |   75   |
| France        |   ..   | 757            | 1,936  |   |   |   |   21,460    |   269  |
| Italy         |   ..   | 19             |        |   |   |   |   14,883    |  8,497 |
| *Egypt*       |   ..   |                |        |   |   |   |   14,623    |  2,049 |
| Argentine Republic  |   ..   | 34            | 105    |   |   |   |             |   30   |
| *Egypt* (including Anglo-Egyptian Sudan)     |        | 1,815 | 1,799  |   |   |   |   658     |  9,864 |
| British South Africa |        | 5,000        | 9,404  |   |   |   |  10,736     |  4,549 |
| British East Indies      |        | 809          | 79     |   |   |   |  62,772     |  51,856|
| *Anglo-Egyptian Sudan* |   |   | 943   |   |   |   |        |  563      |
| Australia     |        | 599          | 566   |   |   |   |   6,982    |  10,439 |
| New Zealand   |        | 2,205          | 4,271  |   |   |   |   2,614    |  10,462 |
| British West India    |        |   |  14,751   |   |   |   |             |  70,891 |
| Islands (including Bahamas) and British Guiana     |        | 247          | 2,701  |   |   |   |   11,361   |  9,843 |
| Other Countries   |   ..   | 13,388         | 7,203  |   |   |   | 55,271      |  69,661 |

Total (of leather) 32,890 37,914 52,177 224,200 221,788 257,992

Of other materials (ex-
cept rubber)
11,577 16,381 12,581 32,957 32,619 18,394
Of rubber  7,789 11,107 14,269 17,574 20,465 22,876

Grand Total 52,256 65,402 79,027 £274,731 £274,872 £299,262

* Egypt and Anglo-Egyptian Sudan are now shown separately.

For the three months ended 31st March, 1921, 1922, and 1923 the exports of British
boots and shoes of leather, rubber and other materials were valued at £965,273, £689,184,
and £898,776 respectively.

Imports and Re-exports of Boots and Shoes.

Month ended 31st March.

*Quantities.*

|        |  1921.   | 1922. | 1923. |     |         | **Value.** |    |    |
|--------|---------|-------|-------|-----|---------|------------|----|----|
|        | Doz.    | Doz.  | Doz.  |     |         | 1921.      |    | 1923.|
|        | Pairs.  | Pairs.| Pairs.|     |         |   £        | £  |   £ |
| **Of leather**| 12,843  | 8,623 | 14,068|     |         |  150,209  |93,786  |97,019 |
| **Of other materials (ex-cept rubber)** |  8,003  | 14,655  | 19,621 |     |         |  30,912  |20,786  |21,427|
| **Of rubber**  | 5,004  | 16,563  | 23,701 |     |         | 15,039    |33,319  | 36,388 |
| Gross imports  | 25,850  | 39,841  | 57,390 |     |         | 196,160    | 147,891  | 154,834|
| Re-exports     | 2,736   | 1,162   | 1,166  |     |         | 26,661    |6,975  | 5,200  |
| Net imports    | 23,114  | 38,679  | 56,224 |     |         | £169,499 | £140,916  | £149,634|

For the three months ended 31st March, 1921, 1922, and 1923 our imports of boots and
shoes of leather, rubber and other materials were valued at £356,863, £381,679 and
£413,906 respectively. Our re-exports were valued at £57,209, £18,981 and £20,095
respectively. -- *The Shoe and Leather Record.* 27th April, 1923.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
332
Joined by Book Debts or Clearance.
Higham & Rushden-
Con.
Kettering No. 2-Con.
A. W. Gayton
C. Wooding
56117
Females
A. Middleton
..137015.
64699
E. Thompson
94455
S. Routlidge
R. Watt
Females
E. Dearlove
99512
Arbroath.
G. Custance
..109173
72661
F. Wilson
89244
L. Eatley
95889
E. Bray
..101085
II. Boyd
SCRATCHED IN ERROR
Mrs. Wills
Now become full members
M. Lovell
97762
..106545
89243
136
H. Mayes
W. J. Nurrish
125506
D. Herschell
Bristol.
..106533
D. Dunkley
141928
W. C. Meekins
..106655
C. Moore
G. F. Baylis
Bristol No. 2.
A. Drage
120200
Registered as female in error
CORRECTED NAME
G. Tompkins
..139120
E. Hammond
..14187
Female
W. Allen
72630
H. Pinnock
..104103
Kilmarnock.
..135709
Mrs. Skuse
R. Dilley
..111413
Now becomes full member
S. C. Wright
..112955
Female
Bromsgrove.
..122394
R. Knight
W. C. Saddington
..1469.42
Now becomes full member
J. Morrison
..140792
..141844
G. Banner
Females
Kingswood.
Burnley.
G. S. Mills
..101040
REINSTATED
H. Wilson
1.35720
L. Jones
..13139
A. E. Monk
76825
Now becomes full member
Hinckley.
SCRATCHED BY ERROR
H. Whittaker
99292
H. Clarke
12014
E. Shearn
..143145
Chesham.
Now becomes full member
Ipswich.
Now become full members
H. Long
..144663
T. Newton
12206
F. Rackley
..146879
S. Joiner
..146880
Kendal.
Leicester.
Colchester.
Now pays to sick only
A. Myers
4828
V. Burns
..136683
F. Hurrell
..120048
A. Waite
..99611
E. Noy
..120056
REINSTATED
Daventry.
Kettering.
E. Ward
18771
J. B. Bland
..142556
H. Mundin
19922
C. F. Grainger
13928
T. Preston
T.. 23025
Now becomes full member
F. Blount
13176
H. Billington
..110528
S. Trott
T. Draper
HM..104404
..139101
W. Turvey
66243
ENDERBY
Edinburgh.
H. Roughton
..12383
E. Thomas
12666
E. Freer
.. 25248
F. Bates
J. Ogilvie
..102219
C. Carter
A. Green
HM..147711
A. McIntosh
Τ..110255
J. Coulson
..122474
..125715
Leicester No. 2.
Now becomes full member
A. Mitchill
..147972
Kettering No. 2.
A. Marsh
.. 37920
Glasgow No. 2.
F. T. Cockerill
51538
REINSTATED
Female
A. R. Quincey
..122495
C. W. Groome
..132663
J. Herbert
..147086
M. Pollock
P. Smith
..84389
P. A. Richards
83424
H. Buckby
14092
Now become full members
H. Driver
TF..127155
W. E. Hodson
13366
..115976
A. E. Potter
F. Tebbutt
TF..140371
12662
W. Dawkins
.134043
Higham and Rushden.
C. Woolstone
H. Willis
W. Wells
..139571
II. Neal
B. Lovell
100405
F. S. Burton
12564
A. Larrad
..138339
T. Ainge
J. Lawrence
TF.. 93305
H. Westley
..142405
C. H. Spence
A. Potter
7064
F. E. Mason
..147125
83423
J. Bryan
..148353
J. Sumpter
..13198
Leicester Women's.
J. W. Sanders
W J. R. Wilson HM..120344
T.. 91160
L. Clarke
33035
D. Smith
..150303
F. Ellis
535-3


---
```text
333
Joined by Book Debts or Clearance-Con.
Liverpool.
G. Hyland
TF..124867
London Metro.
Now become full members
F. Clarke
F. Blake
G. Foster
C. Read
Now pays to sick only
J. Solen
Now pay to sick only
R. Adams
Northampton No. 2-
Con.
49924
Females
Norwich-Con.
M. Liddament
H. Winch
E. Beckhouse
B. Allen
V. Blyth
..131442
..136393
..136462
..138454
..141328
141331
141700
I. Thorne
1. Payne
M. Bunkell
M. Ayton
V. Brett
L. Holmes
E. Watts
H. Britten
R. Quarterman
F. Osborne
E. Mutton
Norwich No. 2.
Now become full members
A. Colby
W. Staff
..150794
S. Middleton
..150800
..141803
141804
..143042
149145
..136489
G. Hoy
W. Pearce
G. Mann
R. Tacon
..141703
..116905
..123471
..123442
146072
..134554
Females
..141815
R. Bishop
E. Pointer
G. Crotch
G. Aldis
..149153
..150806
147506
Stafford.
C. Baker
Now become full member
A. Swift
Street.
Now become full members
G. Merriott
F. Tomkies
Wellingborough.
REINSTATED
H. Labrum
Now become full members
R. Bollard
A. C. Bailey
P. Bradshaw
S. Smart
F. Myrton
P. Marriott
T. Roberts
W. Summers
J. Smith
H. Faulkner
F. Loveder
C. Negus
J. Pointing
C. Jones
A. J. Lack
A. R. Pentelow
W. Ingram
W. Turnell
C. Cannell
H. Sheffield
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
334
Joined by Book Debts or Clearance — Con.
Wellingborough — Con.
S. Dennis ..99999
G. Adams ..117209
H. Fairey ..84147
L. Holder ..137475
F. Abbott ..144524
A. Panter ..94196
E. Moisey ..97114
C. Austin ..139751
E. Lattaway ..108558
W. B. Burgess ..110119
Wellingborough — Con.
A. Quartermain ..135633
J. Neal ..99057
A. Forskitt ..67087
Females
M. Summers ..108734
M. Watts ..133466
E. K. Underwood ..106270
N. Sanders ..133465
F. Northfield ..108669
Wellingborough — Con.
Now pay to sick only
C. Perkins ..84175
A. Matthews ..123623
E. Butcher ..85276
Female
A. Matthews ..62718
Now pays to trade and funeral
J. Coles ..128427
New and Re-entered Members.
Belfast.
Glasgow No. 2.
Female
R. Roberton ..150885
E. Anderson ..150862
Females
Bristol.
E. Dunn HM..150886
A. Millsom ..150863
M. Miller HM..150887
H. G. Green ..150864
J. Bryden HM..150888
C. England HM..150865
Heckmondwike.
Female
J. H. Lolthouse ..150889
E. Hibbs HM..150866
H. Smith ..150890
Bristol No. 2.
J. Whitley ..150891
W. Bennett ..150857
H. Allen HM..150892
W. Thompson ..150858
Females
E. Hunt ..150859
N. Hall ..150893
M. Swallow ..150894
Bromsgrove.
A. Cordingley ..150895
L. Troth HM..150870
Higham and Rushden.
Females
F. Foster HM..150896
G. Dyer ..150871
J. Betts HM..150897
E. Pemberton ..150872
L. Talbot HM..150898
L. Rea HM..150873
C. W. Barker HM..150899
J. J. West HM..150900
Chesham.
F. H. Rockingham HM150901
L. Tuffney ..150874
G. Boddington TF..150902
W. Boddington TF..150903
Chesterfield.
R. Lovell ..150904
E. Hall HM..150875
L. Travell ..150905
F. Clifton ..150906
Daventry.
R. Brown ..150907
P. Leach ..150876
R. Bailey ..150908
A. Major HM..150877
J. W. Smith ..150909
H. Goodman ..150910
Females
L. S. Desborough ..150911
F. Goode ..150878
E. M. Fennymore ..150879
Females
E. Overton ..150912
Desborough.
I.. Bandey ..150913
O. Davenport ..150880
M. Ellson ..150914
E. Brudenall ..150915
Glasgow.
E. Perkins ..150916
D. Fisher ..150917
G. Sutherland TF..150881
E. Tobin ..150918
J. Bodel ..150882
C. Sawford ..150919
J. Clark ..150883
A. Hearton ..150884
Hinckley.
W. Mason (2) TF..150920
J. Mason (3) ..150921
Hinckley — Con.
M. Higginson ..150922
Female
E. Paul ..150923
Mrs. Simmons ..150924
Kendal.
A. Noble ..150925
T. Hine ..150926
Kettering.
F. Smith ..150927
I. R. Brown ..150928
J. Chapman T..150929
W. W. Haddon HM..150930
J. Hodgett HM..150931
J. W. Smith HM..150932
Kettering No. 2.
Females
G. M. Gillham ..150933
– Mobbs ..150934
D. Goasey ..150935
A. Sumpter ..150936
– Sanders ..150937
ROTHWELL
T. Bates HM..150938
Females
– Oram ..150939
L. Cheney ..150940
G. Cattell ..150941
Kilmarnock.
J. McQuanie ..150942
J. Davidson ..150943
A. Johnstone ..150944
Female
M. Cunningham ..150945
Kingswood.
J. Brain ..150946
T. Roberts ..150947
C. Dymock ..150948
G. Harris ..150949


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
335
New and Re-entered Members-Con.
Kingswood-Con.
B. S. Whitchurch . .150950
A. Gage ...150951
G. Rogers 150952
E. Martin .150953
G. Sellick 150954
H. Pollinger 150955
W. Pollinger
T. Padfield TF..150957
..150956
Leicester-Con.
T. Toon . .151002
R. Harrison .151003
Mrs. Lydall ..151004
E. Slaytor ..151005
OADBY
Female
Mrs. Beech .151006
EARL SHILTON
W. Pegg .151007
Leicester No. 2.
A. Baines 151008
A. Hartshorn
F. Preston .151009
F. Shaw 151010
E. W. Berry 151011
W. Kesterton ..151012
W. Brooks 151013
A. Williamson
L. Eaton
S. T. Hill
H. B. Holmes
S. J. Wynne
H. Rest
A. H. James
F. A. Nicholson
H. J. Dean
W. A. Lee
A. Smith TF.151025
J. Wardle TF..151026
C. L. Smith .151027
J. A. Jarvis .151028
C. H. Collison 151029
ANSTEY No. 2
B. Brombley .151030
H. Jackson .151031
A. J. Willett .151032
BARWELL No. 2
G. R. Mansfield .151033
G. H. Richardson .151034
E. H. Bradbury .151035
S. J. Barwell .151036
Leicester Women's.
L. Edwards .151037
Wilson .151038
D. Wood 151039
L. Warren .151040
E. Shenton 151041
I. Powers .151042
A. Gee 151043
G. Crofts 151044
F. Williamson .151045
Smith .151046
M. Breward .151047
M. McReynolds 151048
B. Scotney ..151049
Leicester Women's-
Con.
D. Pallett .151050
E. Owen ..151051
M. Watkins .151052
M. Hutchinson ..151053
H. Harrison ..151054
A. Callis ..151055
A. Wilkins ..151056
G. Adams .151057
F. Stone .151058
A. Jordan .151059
M. Sole .151060
M. Simmons ..151061
N. Cramp ..151062
F. Bagnall ..151063
F. Cufflin .151064
F. Illston ..151065
Bamfield T..151067
M. Massey ..151068
- Green ..151069
L. Orringe ..151070
B. Wilby ..151071
W. Burdett .151072
E. Smart .151073
M. Sharman .151074
N. Cooper T..151075
L. Stevens .151076
E. Mugglestone T..151078
G. Caswell ..151079
A. Breward .151080
M. Springthorpe ..151081
L. Brewin ..151082
L. Clarke ..151083
E. Day .151084
D. Haydon ..151085
A. Blaney ..151086
G. Grant .151087
I. Lodge .151088
N. Wicks ..151089
M. Heath .151090
E. Minty ..151091
I. Parsons ..151092
D. Hinds ..151093
L. Cave .151094
E. Smith ..151095
F. Shaw .151096
R. Sharpe ..151097
A. Chiswell ..151098
M. Sansome ..151099
- Bruce ..151100
- Licquorish .151101
London Metro.
J. Spragg .151102
B. Lambert ST.151103
F. Hart .151104
I. Goodman T..151106
J. Fitzgerald ST..151107
J. Scott HM..151108
D. Dimmock .151109
F. Freeman .151111
S. Ellis .151112
H. Hall T..151113
G. McGee .

---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
336
New and Re-entered Members - Con.
London Metro. - Con.
F. Eccleshall	..151114
J. Appleton	..151115
J. Hayes	..151116
T. Bryant ST..151117
Manchester.
W. Fletcher	..151118
Females
M. Nightingale	..151119
F. Smith	..151120
Mansfield.
A. Sharp	..151121
Females
A. Wood	..151122
M. Bolland	..151123
J. Marvell	..151124
K. Roberts	..151125
W. Eggleshaw	..151126
F. Reynolds	..151127
E. Holmes	..151128
L. Hill	..151129
Northampton.
J. Walker	..151130
I. Shaw ST..151131
A. Norman	HM..151132
G. Hardwick	HM..151133
J. Weekly	HM..151134
F. Spokes	..151135
D. Lattaway	HM..151136
L. Jeffery	HM..151137
A. Westley	..151138
A. E. Rich	HM..151139
H. Bland	HM..151140
W. J. Summerlin	..151141
G. Bruley	HM..151142
F. Lee	..151143
P. Betts	..151144
L. J. Barber	HM..151145
F. Jackson	..151146
J. Whitestone	HM..151147
H. Steel	HM..151148
H. Moss	..151149
T. Wells	..151150
Northampton No. 2.
W. Pettit	..151151
C. Wright	..151152
H. Hart	..151153
A. H. Stubbings	..151154
J. L. Halsey	..151155
A. Stone	..151156
A. Hancock	..151157
F. G. Taylor	..151158
T. Brown	..151159
H. Allen	HM..151160
- Denton	HM..151161
W. Munday	HM..151162
Females
E. Cox	..151163
Mrs. Leaben	..151164
E. Reynolds	..151165
S. McNamara	..151166
Northampton No. 2-
Con.
Z. Birch	..151167
Mrs. Beal	..151168
Mrs. Cook	..151169
E. Packe	..151170
B. Pinkard	..151171
M. Neal	..151172
M. Gossage	..151173
Mrs. Pittam	..151174
C. Bonskill	..151175
L. Jackson	..151176
I. Baker	..151177
M. Lack	..151178
Mrs. Page	..151179
C. Percival	..151180
K. Jeffrey	..151181
V. Cook	..151182
A. Timms	..151183
D. Morrell	..151184
Mrs. Gayton	..151185
Mrs. Palmer	..151186
E. Humphries	..151187
E. Caiger	HM..151188
N. Smith	HM..151189
E. Preston	HM..151190
D. Dunmore	HM..151191
D. Bailey	HM..151192
A. Payne	HM..151193
F. Lawrence	HM..151194
N. Bates	HM..151195
T. King	HM..151196
O. Harris	HM..151197
A. Worrall	HM..151198
M. Bazeley	HM..151199
L. Greaves	HM..151200
K. Lee	HM..151201
G. Haddon	HM..151202
E. Nash	HM..151203
E. Hawes	HM..151204
C. Whitworth	HM..151205
K. Ette	HM..151206
D. Wright	HM..151207
E. Eyles	HM..151208
F. Pickering	HM..151209
K. Garland	T..151210
Norwich.
W. Hawkins	..151211
E. Rix	..151212
F. Asker	..151213
G. Early	..151214
J. Clarke	..151215
A. Howard	..151216
W. Kemp	..151217
A. West	HM..151218
A. Lemmon	HM..151219
W. J. Kent	..151220
G. W. Woods	..151221
H. Worley	..151222
F. Sharpe	..151223
B. Whittaker	T..151224
F. Hudson	..151225
W. Brett	..151226
J. Cooke	T..151227
F. Turrell	..151228
W. Smith	..151229
F. Lake	..151230
A. Marshall	HM..151231
Norwich - Con.
A. J. Hayden	..151232
H. Wrightup	..151233
Females
R. Matthews	..151234
M. Bean	HM..151235
R. Turner	HM..151236
B. Gooch	HM..151237
E. Durrant	HM..151238
M. Knights	..151239
E. Beckett	..151240
V. Michette	..151241
P. Banham	..151242
L. Coe	..151243
M. Warnes	..151244
E. Bacon	..151245
F. Stolworthy	HM..151246
V. Cletheroe	HM..151247
H. Rose	HM..151248
M. Blazeby	..151249
A. Jennings	..151250
E. Seeley	..151251
E. Murton	..151252
M. Duffield	..151253
A. Fountain	..151254
E. Jeary	..151255
F. Harper	..151256
E. Aldous	..151257
E. Gibson	..151258
G. Brighten	..151259
L. Swatman	..151260
M. Turrell	..151261
Mrs. Breeze	..151262
L. Austin	HM..151263
M. Catchpole	HM..151264
I. Deeker	..151265
D. Witham	..151266
L. Whitmore	HM..151267
V. Rix	..151268
A. Hannah	..151269
J. Culling	HM..151270
R. Pleasants	HM..151271
E. Hunton	HM..151272
M. Roche	HM..151273
I. Chapman	HM..151274
H. Strutt	HM..151275
M. Drewe	HM..151276
Mrs. Meachen	..151277
E. Clarke	..151278
C. Tuhrston	..151279
G. Minns	..151280
E. Wilde	HM..151281
Norwich No. 2.
W. Ellis	TF..151282
H. A. Cockaday	..151283
B. W. Cawdron	..151284
R. S. Slaughter	HM..151285
H. W. Metcalf	HM..151286
E. E. Miller	HM..151287
J. Brett	..151288
F. Howes	HM..151289
S. W. Lucas	HM..151290
E. W. Plunkett	HM..151291
Females
V. Coady	..151292
E. Sizeland	HM..151293


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
```text
337
New and Re-entered Members-Con.
Norwich No. 2-Con.
E. Crosskil
T. Hewitt
V. Pennell
1. H. Pearce
G. Richardson
..151294
HM..151295
HM..151296
HM..151297
..151298
Nottingham.
Female
V. Storey
..151299
Sileby.
C. Allen
1. Austin
W. Corby
R. Cratchley
E. C. Foulds
J. Preston
C. H. Sheppard
A. Wells
..151300
..151301
T..151302
HM..151304
..151305
..151306
..151307
..151308
Stafford.
J. Bailey
1. Yorke
T. Allen
J. Woollams
C. Pve
J. Woollams
..151309
..151310
TF..151311
ST..151312
ST..151313
ST..151314
Belfast.
H. Wightman
..135561
Bromsgrove.
Females
Mrs. Wallace
A. Scriven
..111288
..144056
Burnley.
J. Pilling
T. Metters
89063
..64109
Chesham.
W. How
C. Batchelor
J. Humphrey
G. F. Dwight
G. Nash
J. Humphrey
A. Morby
H. Barnes
V. Waller
1. Wood
E. Barnes
..2748
TF.. 2900
..86711
TF..90168
TF..93187
95580
..115049
ST..115051
..123705
..146267
TF..146894
Females
M. Arnold
W. Gann
E Thorn
N. Hill
..85444
..147228
..146900
HM..149229
Stone.
J. Goodall
R. Key
..151315
..151316
Street.
F. Stacey
R. Butler
A. Davis
..151317
..151318
HM..151319
Females
M. King
V. Gregory
E Wylde
Mrs Mills
..151320
..151321
..151322
..151323
Wellingborough.
F. Cleaver
H. Linnell
W. Hanger
A. Wooding
R. Weed
H. Orton (1)
H. Orton (2)
P. Waite
W. H. Johnson
..151324
..151325
..151326
..151327
..151328
..151329
..151330
..151331
HM..151332
Females
L. Allen
D. Page
A. Mynard
..151333
..151334
..151335
Scratched List.
Desborough.
H. Summerly
..111350
Heckmondwike.
D. Wilson
..138667
Hull.
D. Milner
T. Blossom
..117818
..123913
Kendal.
R. Armer
W. Slater
J. Halliwell
..16316
..97956
..131659
Kingswood.
W. Jefferies
J. T. Parfrey
W. J. Sheppard
G. Smart
G. Cowley
..17104
..17101
..16941
..17781
..143142
Leeds.
T. Kirk
U. M. Hunt
W. Longbottom
W. Parker
I. Best
A. Hall
M. Easingwood
..36244
..36183
..141146
..146998
..81014
..137056
..121125
Wellingborough-Con.
J. Thompson
A. Ashby
..151336
..151337
EARLS BARTON
H. Wells
S. Harper
J. Harper
S. Stuart
H. Wells
J. Ingram
..151338
..151339
..151340
..151341
TF..151342
ST..151343
Females
D Blackwell
M. Taylor
..151344
..151345
Wolverhampton.
Females
B. Dowler
F. Fellows
A. Willetts
E. Lucas
L. Owen
C. Pickering
E. Bowdler
B. Curtewis
D. Weston
M. Swatman
M. Halford
M. Shelton
..151346
..151347
..151348
..151349
..151350
..151351
..151352
..151353
..151354
HM..151355
HM..151356
HM..151357
Leeds-Con.
B. Fatkin
B. Walker
W. Bates
A. Hargreaves
J. W. Carrall
S. Dwight
A. Prince
..87543
..110796
..116110
..35723
..147625
..66556
..149305
Female
Mrs. Burke
..76184
Leicester.
J. Gayton
A. Lockton
H. Clarke
L. Langton
E. Hurst
E. Robinson
F. Linthwaite
R. Riddington
H. Bailey
E. Townsend
W. Powell
T. H. Tyler
C. Bunting
A. Fletcher
T. G. Baker
W. Ossinton
H. Cartwright
A. Palmer
..18101
S..18946
..20091
..21432
..22038
..22223
T..72004
..69263
..99710
T..102362
T..102370
..107163
..8681
..127510
T..135985
..137079
..141175
..144176
```

---
Leicester-Con.
H. Rudkin
T. B. Astley
T.. 144184
..149958
Leicester Women's-
Con.
R. Taylor
C. Dixon
E. Briggs
B. Campion
B. Webster
G. Grant
N. Marlow
C. Hewick
M. Bonner
E. Burdett
M. Langton
E. Harvey
L. Adcock
- Draycott
J. Tompkins
E. Suffolk
M. Darby
M. Brown
E. Parker
Terry
L. Taylor
E. Thurman
O. Clarke
A. Chesterton
G. Eastwood
L. Leader
Voce
C. Lander
D. Lewis
R. Howes
L. Elton
L. Morgan
C. Thorpe
N. Francis
H. Dalby
F. Taylor
- Harris
E. Seaton
M. Morgan
H. Middleton
L. Marvin
E. Lynn
J. Scrooby
F. Loveday
L. Thompson
M. Staples
- Linthwaite
L. Willis
E. Curtis
96350
..96397
T.. 101245
107432
.107561
.109526
.118359
.120793
..122760
.121074
.134214
.134209
.129119
.136111
.136168
.130807
..134116
.134149
.138369
T.. 140856
.138851
.139208
.137879
..139869
..140885
..140882
..141566
.141620
.142419
..142034
..141633
.142052
..142067
..142430
..143309
..144241
.143807
.143820
.143825
..144282
.146496
..146519
.147173
..147787
..149483
T.. 150076
London Metro. - Con.
F. Hunt
T. Read
H. Millson
J. Abrahams
G. Bysuth
R. Lucas
J. Thurgood
J. Guyatt
S. Solange
W. Seredinsky
- Butterworth
H. Goldstein
E. Williams
W. Webber
ST.. 144832
IIM..143353
IIM..143872
..140917
..140532
..138402
..137871
ST..145815
T.. 147184
ST.147197
T..148887
T..147200
..144838
Maybole.
T. Milligan
J. Loftus
49547
66607
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
E. McVey
..136346
Northampton.
A. Harris
B. Cox
J. Richards
W. Walker
L. W. Fenn
W. Smith
H. Mallard
S. W. Scott
E. Faulkner
G. Miller
E. Clayson
S. Marks
J. Gallimore
C. Knight
A. Kellett
G. Stanton
A. Green
F. R. Miller
G. Walden
A. E. Berridge
G. Healey
W. Wallis
H. Faulkner
W. Rogers
A. Passmore
G. Sherry
A. Cross
H. Toseland
46265
47459
TF.. 49313
49494
49772
ST.. 66824
67987
81205
ST.. 81266
..52587
TF.. 83998
86194
89856
91772
.128098
.101962
..116619
.121562
..123354
..141676
..142108
HM..149556
TF..147235
..148976
ST..148977
TF..148978
..150171
..150174
Northampton No. 2.
W. Haynes
A. Knight
H. Harrison
F. Hefford
F. Stoughton
F. Humphrey
J. Crick
S. Butler
H. Chapman
H. Knight
J. Bradbury
M. Tyler
E. Mann
G. Isham
56400
56333
56735
66898
75003
125082
80226
..118999
..128257
HM..149596
Τ.. 52026
Τ.. 146595
Τ..150207
ST..103540
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
339
Northampton No. 2-
Con.
Females
E. Busby  .. 53449
E. Hanley .. 53738
R. Gooch  .. 54266
I. Smith  .. 55229
H. Atkins  .. 55264
D. Basar .. 55555
F. Woods .. 55437
A. Pettit  .. 56239
A. Rowlands .. 67014
J. Winter  .. 70510
A. McNamara .. 70511
M. Scott .. 71665
N. Finn .. 71677
S. Sibley .. 74270
E. Green .. 75933
N. Walding .. 75101
D. Braines .. 76402
F. Bailey  .. 78469
A. Payne .. 80472
M. Westley .. 82176
E. Letts .. 85153
J. Avris .. 89877
M. Woods .. 98841
M. Stutley .. 101418
M. Webster .. 105974
A. Panther .. 108322
O. Carter .. 140591
F. Constable .. 108317
0. Griffen .. 112550
R. Felce .. 114747
M. Pratt .. 116846
A. Vicary .. 121733
M. Cousner .. 119431
M. Jones .. 121828
L. Gardner .. 123438
W. Green .. 126666
A. Crossman .. 128148
G. Ette .. 128217
G. Smith .. 128226
M. Keech .. 129801
A. Garratt .. 129805
E. Cook .. 142156
C. Baker .. 144344
J. Butlin .. 143935
N. Sproston .. 147912
K. Talbot .. 147316
M. Houghton .. 147920
A. Abbott .. 147921
E. Morris .. 149004
A. Brown .. 149621
E. Warren .. 118593
A. Merrill .. 131254
D. Norman .. 149635
F. Gibson .. 142993
L. Willmer .. 142998
H. Barker

Scratched List-Con.
Northampton No. 2-
Con.
M. Webb
M. Knighton .. T.. 83088
.. T.. 110063

Norwich.
E. Nobbing
A. Burrell .. 41862
E. G. Alden  .. 42707
T. Morris  .. 44334
R. Billings .. 88609
R. Cartwright .. 133038
A. Halliday .. 135324
T. Paston .. 148004
.. T..149682

Females
M. Atkinson
L. Moore Copeman .. 43458
H. Calver .. 72367
H. Stamp .. 74776
L. Goose .. 79837
L. D. Vincent .. 83905
R. Mitchell .. 105704
R. Clarke .. 107802
H. Remlington .. 107810
L. Cartwright .. T.. 107855
M. Owen .. 112349
N. Lemmon .. 112355
A. Duffield .. 129446
N. Seaman .. 133166
E. Booty .. 144479
E. Smith .. 145374
N. Duffield .. 146090
C. Engall .. HM..148579

Norwich No. 2.
E. J. Read .. 45001
W. Iverson .. ST.. 71557
O. Goldsmith (2) .. 101376
W. J. Catchpole .. 148609

Females
Mrs. Marrison .. 72384
E. Woods .. 78121
L. Cannell .. 79970
Mrs. Blogg .. 80000
G. Sneath .. 79990
L. M. Swash .. 84982
E. R. Brighton .. 94006
A. Grady .. 121454
G. M. Davey .. 131087
L. Muskett .. 134446
H. Hale .. 135403
R. Paul .. HM..143495
A. Robotham .. TF..146182
H. Lawrence .. 147496
S. Felgate .. 147509
E. M. Pointer .. 121462

Reading.
H. H. Hibberd .. 135559

Redruth.
J. Harvey .. 128318

Sileby.
J. Baker .. T.. 94619
E. Taylor .. 68422
J. Wills .. T.. 129869
C. C. Lee .. 148082

Street.
H. Nichols .. 106062
E. Mason .. T.. 146210

Females
Mrs. Allen .. TF.. 93059
Mrs. Lisk .. T.. 93037

Wellingborough.
E. Hollis .. 62058
F. Neville .. 62363
W. Sharpe .. 99091
F. Atthews .. 106159
E. Hobbs .. 106138
A. Faulkner .. 114894
H. Morbey .. 123600
C. Kightley .. 68969
C. Denton .. 61971
T. Simmons .. 7363
W. P. Vorley .. HM..106152
H. Cope .. HM..126861

Females
E. Willis .. 82284
M. Shawley .. 64134
A. Cheney .. 86455
E. Lambert .. 92159
E. Norman .. 106255
A. Avery .. 108597
I. Moore .. 110135
N. Walker .. 128476
Mrs. Ward .. 124083
R. Wyldes .. 122142

EARLS BARTON
F. Luck .. 10583
G. Wright .. 47006

Females
D. Hager .. 63295
E. Tebbutt .. 63704
E. Watts .. 69883
I. Bedford .. 85365
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
34°
Left by Book Debts or Clearance.
Glasgow-Con.
Arbroath.
W. McColl
..1406,6
Higham & Rushden_
Con.
D. Milne
S..
221
A. Baird
..140356
E. Jeffkins
87042
A. Stiven
S..
216
II. Kelly
5319
J. Underwood
..139126
A. Millar
158
Mrs. Tum
ST.. 76679
G. Galloway
174
Glasgow No. 2.
D. Moore
176
Hinckley.
F. Cooper
68139
JD. Wardley
5418
W. Herbert
W. Traill
73804
J. Brown
5686
W. Harrison
11818
J. Booth
170
R. 'True
5804
H. Beeby
HM..142123
G. Ritchie
67097
J. Cram
..130164
J. Dunn
272
Kendal.
D. Williamson
341
Females
Female
M. Gordon
5831
S. Stewart
67116
A. Pringle
95733
Females
Ayr.
M. Burgoyne
111387
M. Townley
..16406
D. McClymont (dead)
506
J. Steel
..117573
E. Carradice
76809
S. Patrick
..117587
Female
Kettering.
Higham and Rushden.
J. Fulton (2)
..108817
C. H. Spence
Bristol.
S. Horne
TF..
7437
C. Woolstone
83423
R. Stanley
HM.. 95751
H. Driver
..12564
A. Good
T..
1194
W. Burgess (I)
76642
P. H. Richards
13366
A. Hutchings
T.. 143551
L. Alderman
7408
H. Buckby
83424
W. H. Rendall (dead)
1097
J. W Meadows
6924
H. Westley
14092
G. Gray (dead)
..117327
J. Tate
6706
A. R. Quincey
122495
J. Morris
7994
J. W. Sanders
13198
Females
W. G. Hardwick
95775
P. Smith
84389
N. O'Connell
86506
B. Bayes
..109008
W. E. Hodson
12662
E. Chiddy
..146654
W. O. Taylor
..115310
F. Tebbutt
100405
R. E. Sadler
..139484
B. Lovell
123942
Bristol No. 2.
A. Lack
10985
C. W. Groome
..132663
W. Lines
1606
W. Hall
86916
C. Waters
..14293
T. Cooper
86931
B. Tingle (dead)
85682
Females
W. Hall
8751
A. Conquest
131623
M. Fry
99008
L. Atkins
.130234
J. Sumpter
T.. 91160
G. Hopton
..119960
J. Craddock
90276
W. J. R. Wilson HM..120344
M. Jefferies (dead)
103741
S. Abbott
92343
J. Bryan
HM..109152
H. Only
94413
Females
Chesham.
H. Poyner
64761
D. Underwood
86954
G. Custance
..109173
J. Reynolds
TF..146892
G. Clark (dead)
69089
E. Lovell
89243
T. M. Coles (dead)
11394
E. Bray
97762
Daventry.
A. J. Parker (dead)
6915
S. Routledge
..99512
J. Baseley (dead) ST.. 93192
W. Willmott (dead)
8493
E. Dearlove
89244
A. Sears (dead)
6767
F. Wilson
..101085
Desborough.
J. Saxby (dead)
64392
E. Thompson
..94455
G. Parker (dead) TF.. 73284
A. Murkett
4021
J. Ablett (dead) TF..113092
Kettering No. 2.
J. Howard
82340
Females
G. Calvert
1.4850
Females
L. Cox
10492
P. Golledge
..64155
K. Page
65649
M. Crouch
10790
W. Turvey
66243
A. Coe
70625
R. Bryant
..127284
L. E. Towell
..115510
M. Horsley
70622
Mrs. Roberts
123880
F Draper
HM..101404
I. Craddock
9609
D. Sutherland
9212
Edinburgh.
G. M. Taylor
Female
4262
F. Bass
D. Dainty
90407
R. Jones (dead)
T.. 89104
E. L. Harbour
9254
Eyam.
N. Minney
9388
BURTON LATIMER
11213
Female
G. M. A. Holmes
75905
W. Eady
..125830
I. Letts
M. Dawson
G. M. Neal
87013
Females
0. Burt
89178
Glasgow.
H. Dickens
95855
M. Whittock
..135924
R. Murray
..104210
Mrs. Knighton
M. Eady
..135925
H. Boyd
66604
E. M. Taylor
..106793
J. McGregor
..145603
Kilmarnock.
E. Seamark
..146926
Mrs. Higby
..135813
S. Scott
52040
10191
J. Hood (dead)
..140742


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
340
Left by Book Debts or Clearance.
Arbroath.
D. Milne
221
S..
216
A. Stiven
S..
158
A. Millar
G. Galloway
174
D. Moore
176
68139
F. Cooper
W. Traill
7380.1
170
J. Booth
G. Ritchie
67097
J. Dunn
272
D. Williamson
341
Female
S. Stewart
67116
Ayr.
D. McClymont (dead)
506
Female
J. Fulton (2)
..108817
Bristol.
T..
1194
A. Good
..143551
A. Hutchings
Τ..
W. H. Rendall (dead) 1097
117327
G. Gray (dead)
Females
N. O'Connell
86506
E. Chiddy
..146654
Bristol No. 2.
W. Lines
1606
Females
M. Fry
99008
G. Hopton
..119960
M. Jefferies (dead) ..103741
Chesham.
J. Reynolds
TF..146892
Daventry.
J. Baseley (dead) ST.. 93192
Desborough.
A. Murkett
4021
J. Howard
82340
Females
K. Page
65649
A. Coe
70625
M. Horsley
70622
Edinburgh.
D. Sutherland
4262
R. Jones (dead) T.. 89104
Eyam.
Female
M. Dawson
HM.. 97411
Glasgow.
R. Murray
H. Boyd
66604
J. McGregor
4426
.146926
Glasgow-Con.
W. McColl
..1406;6
A. Baird
..140356
H. Kelly
5319
Glasgow No. 2.
D. Wardley
5418
J. Brown
5686
R. True
5804
J. Cram
..130164
Females
M. Gordon
5831
A. Pringle
95733
M. Burgoyne
..111387
J. Steel
..117573
S. Patrick
..117587
Higham and Rushden.
S. Horne
TF..
7437
R. Stanley
HM.. 95751
W. Burgess (1)
76642
L. Alderman
7408
J. W Meadows
6924
J. Tate
6706
J. Morris
7994
W. G. Hardwick
95775
B. Bayes
..109008
W. O. Taylor
.115310
R. E. Sadler
..139484
A. Lack
10985
W. Hall
86916
T. Cooper
86931
W. Hall
8751
L. Atkins
..130234
J. Craddock
90276
S. Abbott
92343
H. Only
94413
H. Poyner
64761
D. Underwood
86954
G. Clark (dead)
69089
T. M. Coles (dead)
11394
A. J. Parker (dead)
6915
W. Willmott (dead)..
8493
A. Sears (dead)
6767
J. Saxby (dead)
64392
G. Parker (dead) TF.. 73284
J. Ablett (dead) TF..113092
Females
L. Cox
10492
M. Crouch
10790
R. Bryant
..127284
Mrs. Roberts
..123880
I. Craddock
9609
G. M. Taylor
9212
F. Bass
9254
E. L. Harbour
9388
N. Minney
11213
G. M. A. Holmes
75905
I. Letts
87013
G. M. Neal
89178
O. Burt
95855
H. Dickens
..104210
Mrs. Knighton
..106793
E. M. Taylor
..145603
E. Seamark
..135813
Mrs. Higby
10191
Higham & Rushden
Con.
E. Jeffkins
87042
J. Underwood
..139126
Mrs. Tum
ST.. 76679
Hinckley.
W. Herbert
11818
W. Harrison
12005
II. Beeby
HM..142123
Kendal.
Females
M. Townley
16406
E. Carradice
76809
Kettering.
C. H. Spence
83423
C. Woolstone
H. Driver
12564
P. H. Richards
13366
H. Buckby
83424
H. Westley
14092
A. R. Quincey
122495
J. W. Sanders
13198
P. Smith
84389
W. E. Hodson
12662
F. Tebbutt
..100405
B. Lovell
123942
C. W. Groome
..132663
C. Waters
14293
B. Tingle (dead)
85682
A. Conquest
..131623
J. Sumpter
T.. 91160
W. J. R. Wilson
HM..120344
J. Bryan
ΗΜ.. 109152
Females
G. Custance
..109173
E. Lovell
89243
E. Bray
97762
S. Routledge
99512
E. Dearlove
89244
F. Wilson
..101085
E. Thompson
94455
Kettering No. 2.
G. Calvert
14850
P. Golledge
64155
W. Turvey
66243
L. E. Towell
..115510
F Draper
HM..101404
Female
D. Dainty
90407
BURTON LATIMER
W. Eady
..125830
Females
M. Whittock
..135924
M. Eady
..135925
Kilmarnock.
S. Scott
52040
J. Hood (dead)
..140742


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
341
Left by Book Debts or Clearance - Con.
Kingswood.
W. Holiday  ..120433
A. Brewer  ..122612
A. Elms  .. 17620
G. C. Britton  ..1482.45
H. Long HM..144663
Female
A. Williams .. 74525
Leeds.
E. Barry .. 35582
J. W. Bayes (dead) .. 35551
E. C. Ashcroft (dead) 142724
Leicester.
W. A. Taylor .. 20380
F. Millward .. 22328
H. Frav ..149320
T. Chilvers  ..120554
G. Larrad (dead) .. 18991
B. Moore (dead) .. 17896
S. Clay (dead) T.. 67555
G. Wickwar (dead) T 135009
A. Toone (dead) .. 20552
J. Smith (dead) T..147059
W. Vaughan (dead) T 127506
A. L. Knight (dead)  ..25123
Leicester No. 2.
T. Welford ..31627
S. Williams ..113710
A. R. Mumford ..144231
H. Porter  ..29334
J. Sutton (dead)  ..29820
H. Page (dead) ..30762
T. W. Westbury (dead) 32234
S. Armstrong (dead) T1,34026
WIGSTON No. 2
A. Boat .. 81819
Leicester Women's.
D. Frost  ..127799
A. Simpson ..143316
London Metro.
H. Morgan (dead) .. 37387
F. Donato (dead) T.. 58259
G. Wilson (dead) .. 37249
London Metro. Con.
Transferred to free list
J. Algar ..38036
Manchester.
W. Gerrard  T..124902
Female
E. Wilcock  ..130949
Mansfield.
Females
C. J. Poxson  ..107747
D. Burrows  ..143361
E. Poxson  ..143362
T. Harris  ..145288
K. Gowen  ..145295
D. Sanders  ..144308
M. Watson  ..147848
E. Hobson  ..148432
I. Beresford ..150129
Maybole.
T. Sands  ..5473
A. Fullarton ..116379
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
P. Young  T..109815
Northampton.
J. Bland ..142556
A. W. Gayton .. 56117
H. G. Carvell  ..139682
G. Barker (dead)  46989
P. Daniels (dead) .. 46117
A. Garratt (dead) .. 45828
H. Smith (dead)  .. 47804
H. Seal (dead)  .. 47780
Northampton No. 2.
B. Richards .. 56936
J. Bunting (dead)  ..51092
W. Dawes (dead) ..51552
S. Hefford (dead) T.. 56953
J. Harris (dead) HM..147906
Female
A. Jarman  ..129743
Norwich.
A. Dickerson (dead) 1 4237,
R. High (dead) 41016
Norwich No. 2.
E. Larking HM..144190
Nottingham.
Females
M. Bray  ..84834
A. Rushworth  ..9731
Sileby.
G. Neale  ..144500
A. Taylor  ..27975
S. Kitchen ..117071
Stafford.
Females
E. Baker .. 67025
J. Price ..136728
Stone.
H. Hufferdine ..146805
Female
L. Snape ..148103
Street.
G. Underwood ..102090
C. Stone ..100572
E. Cox HM..144511
H. Marsh T..119537
Wellingborough.
W. J. Mallows ..64454
J. F. Lattaway (dead) 125271
Wolverhampton.
S. Simmonds TF..143063
H. Earp  ..61426
Females
E. Morriss  ..61627
E. Philips ..77205

KINGSWOOD BOOT MANUFACTURERS.
The annual meeting of the Kingswood and District Boot Manufacturers' Association
was held on Monday in Bristol, Mr. G. E. Britton presiding. The secretary reported
a balance in hand of £29 15s. 8d. Mr. G. E. Britton was thanked for his valuable services
and re-elected President, and other appointments were Executive Committee, Messrs.
G. E. Britton (chairman). G. F. Bryant, E. E. Pratt, A. Lovell, and A. F. Moon; Arbitra-
tion Board, Messrs. G. E. Britton, G. F. Bryant, E. E. Pratt, W. J. Edwards, F. Cook,
H. Sheppard, A. F. Moon, and F. Wilshire; reserve members, Messrs. A. H. Miles, O.
Lovell, O. Edwards, and A. H. Jay; secretary, Mr. W. T. Ling; hon. auditors, Messrs.
H. G. Fussell and R. C. Bird. Messrs. Allen and Prior, Kingswood, were elected members
of the association. - Western Press, 2nd May, 1923.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
MONTHLY SUMMARY
Of Cash and Set-off Paid by each Branch, also Amounts to Credit or Arrears (if any) for the Month ending 28th April, 1923.
Financial Members. Prob-
tionary
TOTAL.
NAME OF BRANCH.
Date of
Receiving
Returns,
Cash
Paid.
Sick and
Funeral
Set-off.
Trade
Set-off.
Total
Paid.
Total to
Credit.
Total
Arrears.
Males. Females. Members.
May, 1923.
£ s. d.
7 16 11
6 4 0
£ s. d.
6 4 0
4 2 0
14 12 0
£ s. d.
28 17 6
107
1
6
114
Aberdeen
8
14 0 11
228
144
26
398
Arbroath..
9
39 3 6
74
17
4
95
Ayr
14
14 12 0
10
10
Barnsley
15
43 18 4
151
45
20
216
Belfast
15
080
22
2
24
Bishop Auckland
15
73 11 9
519
32
15
566
Bristol
12
112 10 10
527
446
40
1013
Bristol No. 2
12
18 18 0
102
60
10
172
Bromsgrove
14
18 00
13 1 0
57
3
60
Burnley
15
4 10 0
95 9 0
304
74
378
Chesham
14
2 10 0
32
6
38
Chesterfield
15
5 0 0
29
8
37
Colchester
10
2 10 0
114
49
163
Cork
No return
received.
78 15 6
267
155
13
435
Daventry
11
62 19 6
24 19 8
109
97
51
257
Derby
15
626
99 9 1
528
173
14
715
Desborough
12
12 9 2
31 15 0
159
24
6
189
Dundee
15
21 15 0
43 13 3
303
41
6
350
Edinburgh
14
8 15 0
122 19 9
12
3
15
Eyam
8
122 19 9
73 7 6
698
37
12
747
Glasgow
14
59 15 6
27 6
186
280
22
488
Glasgow No. 2
9
030
27 17 4
21
Halifax
15
246
21
145
53
15
213
Heckmondwike
15
21 10 4
875 6 0
8
8
Hereford
313 15 0
36 12 8
5031
2430
219
7680
Higham & Rushden
5
27 7 0
481
132
26
639
Hinckley
14
28
Hull
15
28
125
7 15 0
88
25
12
Ipswich
15
28 9
6
284
179
18
481
Kendal
15
87 4
158 6 0
37
2875
Kettering
9
98 10 9
80 14 0
1428
170
2487
Kettering No. 2
8
46 1 3
52 14 10
1 18 6
7 1 8
25 6 9
675
012
9 1 10
027
200
081
3 15 5
---

---
```
246
138
0
393
Kilmarnock
1219
84
76
1379
Kingswood
1011
378
1389
Leeds
331
10
24
365
Leeds No. 2
8411
912
750
10073
Leicester
4164
396
4560
Leicester No. 2
3037
1150
4187
Leicester Women's
8
1
9
Lincoln
62
10
72
Liverpool
2169
218
1200
3587
London Metro.
169
7
10
186
London South
134
79
25
238
Manchester
82
133
21
236
Mansfield
193
75
24
292
Maybole..
62
6
3
71
Midsomer Norton
161
4
9
174
Newcastle-on-Tyne
2829
1550
456
4835
Norwich
1115
514
235
1864
Norwich No. 2
5296
325
5621
Northampton
2341
4133
530
7004
Northampton No. 2
70
15
2
87
Nottingham
7
2
9
93
Oldham
Plymouth
87
6
18
38
60
202
35
50
287
Sheffield
Shepshed
Sileby
Southampton
994
346
188
1528
Stafford
218
147
50
415
Stone
789
412
109
1310
Street
1612
875
120
2607
Wellingborough
25
1
26
Whitwick
396
203
29
619
Wolverhampton
143
147
6
296
Worcester
17
17
Yarmouth
24
24
York
4
14
15
12
172
15
6
16
15
14
11
14
15
7
15
12
15
12
9
10
7
15
15
11
15
8
15
10
2
5
10
15
12
7
15
0 11
98 9 11
33 6 6
17 0 0
548 5 10
399 17 2
1 0
6 16 0
51 10 6
9 12 6
16 0 0
6 7 2
19 2 0
154 11 0
291 10 1
244 2 10
3 12 6
7 17 3
0 15 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
23 17 6
94 8 7
31 0 0
57 15 7
59 0 0
21 15 0
11
11
0
0
0
6
0
6
0
0
7
2
0
0
1
3
0
7
1
0
0
0
14
7
0
0
0
14
14
11
15
4
16
14
0
12
14
15
7
12
15
15
14
9
10
7
15
11
16
7
10
2
5
10
15
0
14
0
12
14
15
7
12
15
80 19
72
9
373
124
172
1
19
6
8
0
2
0
0
0
20
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
6
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
1
6
9
1
3
0
0
0
3
2
0
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
5
0
8
6
9
10
12
10
6
10
7
3
0
5
0
14 0
6
1
10
10
11
0
5
14
7
3
0
0
0
0
10
0
3
0
6
10
6
0
7
5
0
5
1
9
1
0
0
9
14
0
7
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
8
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
30
0
14
17
0
0
0
6
6
3
13
5
5
0
0
3
0
9
0
3
4
6
8
0
0
0
0
0
7
0
0
0
0
0
8
9
0
9
0
4
10
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
8
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
3
1
0
10
1
9
2
5
6
7
8
3
9
6
0
3
7
5
10
0
0
0
3
8
9
9
0
0
0
19
0
0
0
10
0
1
0
0
0
0
3
3
3
11
0
0
0
0
46
185
176
48
1287
222
9
241
22
26
11
32
8
37
165
187
741
613
10
11
15
1
14
0
1
0
0
8
5
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
16
2
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
9
0
6
7
8
8
0
10
0
0
11
1
10
2
0
0
0
3
4
0
6
0
8
10
0
0
0
11
1
9
1
10
9
0
3
6
0
10
0
3
5
3
0
0
0
17
3
11
11
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
8
5
8
4
3
4
6
0
1
1
9
10
10
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
22
14
2
3
0
3
5
4
3
2
11
1
1
8
5
8
2
1
10
1
10
0
10
0
0
11
15
4
0
10
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
3
0
0
3
0
1
0
5
0
8
1
1
0
0
0
8
0
1
0
0
0
2
6
7
1
1
1
1
1
1
0
0
15
1
0
1
1
2
0
0
0
0
8
5
5
0
0
10
0
6
11
11
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image, in a tabular form:

| Financial Members. | Probationary Members. | TOTAL. | NAME OF BRANCH. | Date of Receiving Returns, May, 1923. | Cash Paid. | Sick and Funeral Set-off. | Trade Set-off. | Total Paid. | Total to Credit. | Total Arrears. |
| :----------------: | :-----------------: | :-----: | :-------------------- | :------------------------: | :-------: | :---------------: | :--------------: | :---------: | :---------------: | :-------------: |
|       Males.       |       Females.      |        |                       |                           |           |                   |                 |            |                   |                |
|        107         |         1          |    6    |         114         |         Aberdeen         |       8     |       7 16 11       |      -        |    -          |      -     |      -     |
|        228         |        144         |   26    |        398         |        Arbroath         |       9     |        6 4 0        |    28 17 6     |      -        |    39 3 6    |      -     |      -     |
|        74          |         17         |    4    |         95          |           Ayr           |      14     |        -          |    14 12 0     |      -        |   14 12 0    |    52 14 10    |      -     |
|        10          |          -         |    -    |         10          |         Barnsley         |      15     |        -          |     0 3 0     |      -        |     0 3 0    |    1 18 6     |      -     |
|        161         |         45         |   20    |        216         |          Belfast          |      15     |        -          |     2 8 0     |    41 10 4     |    43 18 4    |       7 1 8    |      -     |
|        22          |          -         |    2    |         24          |     Bishop Auckland      |      15     |        -          |        0 8 0        |      -        |     0 8 0    |       6 9     |      -     |
|        519         |         32         |   15    |        566         |          Bristol          |      12     |      13 5 8       |    41 3 4     |     19 2 9    |    73 11 0    |       7 5    |      -     |
|        527         |        446         |   40    |       1013        |        Bristol No. 2       |      12     |        -          |    41 3 0     |    71 7 10     |   112 10 10    |       1 2     |      -     |
|        102         |         60         |   10    |        172         |        Bromsgrove        |      14     |        -          |    0 18 0     |      -        |   18 18 0    |      -     |      -     |
|        57          |          -         |    3    |         60          |          Burnley          |      15     |      4 10 0       |    4 16 0     |     3 15 0    |    13 1 0    |      8 15 6    |      -     |
|        304         |         74         |    -    |        378         |          Chesham          |      14     |        -          |    26 10 6     |    68 18 6     |    95 0 0    |      46 1 3    |      -     |
|        32          |          6         |    -    |         38          |      Chesterfield       |      15     |        -          |     5 0 0     |      -        |     5 0 0    |      9 1 10    |      -     |
|        29          |          8         |    -    |         37          |        Colchester        |      10     |      -2 10 0       |     -        |     -     |    2 10 0    |      0 2 7    |      -     |
|        114         |         49         |    -    |        163         |         Cork          | No return received.     |      -          |      -        |      -        |      -        |      -     |      -     |
|        267         |        155         |   13    |        435         |        Daventry         |      11     |     9 1 2        |    16 16 0    |    62 19 6     |   78 15 6    |    14 13 1    |      -     |
|        109         |         97         |   51    |        257         |          Derby          |      15     |     31 16 11       |     -        |     6 2 0     |    24 19 8    |       2 0 0    |      -     |
|        528         |        173         |   14    |        715         |        Desborough       |      12     |        -          |    55 3 0     |      12 9 2    |    99 9 1    |    15 13 3    |      -     |
|        159         |         24         |    6    |        189         |         Dundee         |      15     |        -          |    10 0 0     |    21 15 0     |    31 15 0    |    37 11 2    |      -     |
|        303         |         41         |    6    |        350         |        Edinburgh        |      14     |        16 9 3        |    18 9 0     |     8 15 0    |    43 13 3    |      -     |      -     |
|        12          |          3         |    -    |         15          |           Eyam          |       8     |        -          |     -        |    122 19 9     |   122 19 1     |     51 4 0    |      -     |
|        698         |         37         |   12    |        747         |          Glasgow          |      14     |        -          |    -59 15 6     |      -        |     73 7 6    |       35 16 5   |      -     |
|        186         |        280         |   22    |        488         |        Glasgow No. 2     |       9     |        -          |     0 3 0     |    -2 7 6      |      -        |      65 11 6    |      0 8 1    |
|        21          |          -         |    -    |         21          |          Halifax          |      15     |       2 4 6        |     6 4 0     |    -3 3 0      |    27 17 4    |      22 19 9    |      3 15 5    |
|        145         |         53         |   15    |        213         |      Heckmondwike       |      15     |      21 10 4       |    6 4 0     |      -        |     27 7 0    |    15 19 2    |      -     |
|        5031        |       2430        |   219   |       7680       |   Higham & Rushden      |       5     |        -          |     313 15 0    |    561 11 0     |   875 6 0    |     -    |      -     |
|        481         |        132         |    26   |        639         |          Hinckley         |      14     |       27 7 0        |     -        |    9 5 8     |    36 12 8    |       -     |      -     |
---

---
Here's the extracted text from the image, organized as requested:

**Names of Branches, Secretaries' Addresses and Places of Meeting**

| **BRANCH.** | **SECRETARY'S ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER.** | **PLACE OF MEETING.** |
|---|---|---|
| Aberdeen | J. Anderson, 38, Bedford Road |  Council Buildings, 47, Belmont St. |
| Arbroath | J. P. Reid, 21, Lordburn, Arbroath | Shakespeare Hall, High Street, 7.30 p.m. |
| Ayr |  A. McQuaker, 4, West Sanquhar Road, Ayr | Newton Council Rooms |
| Barnsley | William Bowler, 37, Taylor Row, Barnsley | Industry Inn, Baker Street |
| Belfast | G. White, 220, Cupar Street, Belfast | Typographical Hall, Frederick St. |
| "Sections | J. McCloskey, 3, Nassau St., Londonderry | |
| Ballymena | Andw. Conway, 140, Queen Street, Ballymena | Labour Club, Queen's Place |
| Bishop Auckland | W. Crowther, 2, Seymour St., Bishop Auckland | Labour Room, Kingsley Chambers |
| Brighton | J. Osborne, 172, Newfoundland Road, Bristol | Star Coffee House, Old Market St. |
| Bristol | Tom Durban, 89, Worcester Street, Brynmawr | St. Clement's School |
| Bristol No. 2 | J. Manners, 19, Downend Road, Fishponds, | |
| Bristol | Section Clevedon, Paulton, Street | |
| Bromsgrove | A. Mole, 2, Rose Terrace, Brook Road, | Oddfellows' Hall, High Street |
| Burnley | Jas. Taylor, 45, Hammerton Street, Burnley | Central Club, Bank Parade |
| Chesham | F. Goodger, 139, Bellingdon Rd., Chesham, Bucks | Crown Hotel, Lordsmill Streets |
| Chesterfield | G. Rodgers, 3, Whitehouses, Hasland Road | |
| Colchester | H. Proctor, 8, Lisle Road, Colchester | Trade Hall |
| Cork | M. Cotter, 6, Crotomore Square, Cork | Trades Hall |
| Daventry | I. H. Johnson, J.P., West View, Warwick Road | Unity Hall, Burton Road |
| Derby | W. N. Blissett, 101, Leman Street, Derby | Co-operative Hall |
| Desborough | S. Barnes, J.P., 141. Union Street, Desborough | Gilfillan Memorial |
| Dublin | H. Dale, 33, Cook Street, Dublin |  |
| Dundee | Alex. Brown, 10, Pitkerro Road, Dundee | Temperance Hall, High Street |
| Edinburgh | Robert White, 28, Rodney Street, Edinburgh |
| Sections J. Scobbie Spion Kop, East Bridge St., Falkirk |  |
| Eyam | W. Slater, Townhead, Eyam. Derbyshire | [Street, St. Gorbals] |
| Glasgow | M. Gamble, 75, South Portland Street, Glasgow | Brass Finishers' Hall, 36, Main |
| Glasgow No. 2 | A. Kelman, 9, Grace Drive, Govan, Glasgow |  Masonic Hall, Rutland Crescent |
| Halesworth | J. Parker, 29, Chediston Street, Halesworth, |  |
| Halifax | S. A. Halliday, 21, West Mount Street, Pillon | Suffolk |
| Heckmondwike | A. Stott, J.P., 8, Melbourne Street, Union Road | Friendly and Trades Club, St. James Road |
| Hereford | W. H Bishop, 42, Berrington Street, Hereford | Socialists' Room, Back Lane |
| Higham & Rushden | W. Langley, J.P., Trade Union Office, Higham Road, Rushden | Trade Union Club and Institute, Rushden |
| Hinckley | W. Warner, 59, Stockwell Head, Hinckley | |
| Hull | C. W. Glover, 4, Park Avenue, Perry Street | Castle Tavern |
| Ipswich | F. Edwards, 192, Cemetery Road, Ipswich | Metropole, West Street |
| Kendal | J. B. Ellison, 31, Park Avenue, Kendal | Labour Institute, Silent Street |
| Kettering | Section J. Prickett, Rayrigg Road, Bowless-on-Winder- | Working Men's Institute, Market |
| | C. Mayes, Trade Union Offices, Club Street, | [Place |
| Kettering | Sections J. Taylor, William Street, Burton Latimer | Trade Union Offices, Club Street |
|  | J. Rowlett, 12, Gordon Street, Rothwell | T. 141 |
| Kettering No. 2 | C. C. Smith, Kettering Road, Walgrave |  |
| "Sections J. Taylor, William Street, Burton Latimer | Trade Union Offices, Club Street |
| Kilmarnock | A. Flanagan, 24, Fleming Street, Riccarton | T. 374 | Temperance Halls |


---
Here is the extracted text:
Names of Branches, Secretaries' Addresses and Places of Meeting-(continued).

BRANCH.		SECRETARY'S ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER.		PLACE OF MEETING.
Kingswood		
Leeds			A. Randall, J. P., 17, High St., Kingswood, Bristol
Leeds No. 2		G. Brent, Bristol Road, Paulton, Somerset
Leicester			J. Speight, 68, Cobourg Street, Leeds...	T. 23422
				Joseph Wescoe, 14, Upper Fountaine Street,		116. Moravian School Room,		[Kingswood
				Trades Hall, Upper Fountaine St.
		Trades Hall, Earl		
Sections H. W. Widdowson, "Glencoe." Church Lane,	Boot and Shoe Trade Hall, St.
A. Needham, 48, Mill Street, Barwell...
S. Bruin, Park Road Blaby
E. Starmer, Countesthorpe Road, Cosby
D. Astley, 126, Wood Street, Earl Shilton
F. W. Burchnall, High Street, Enderby
W. Elliott, London Road, Oadby
H. W. Taylor, 57, Bull's Head Street, Wigston
Leicester No. 2		J. Boulter, 3, Turn Street, Syston
James Street
		A. Hill, M.P., J.P., Boot and Shoe Trade	Boot and Shoe Trade Hall, St.
		Hall, Leicester
		T. 1120
Sections T. Jackson, Hope Cottage, Cropstone Rd., Anstey
A. Needham, 48, Mill Street, Barwell
T. Selvidge, 108, Countesthorpe Road, South
		Wigston		
Leicester Women's Miss A. Muir, Boot and Shoe Trade Hall,	Boot and Shoe Trade Hall, St.
		Leicester.		T. 2507
Section F. W. Burchnall, High Street, Enderby
G. Brumpton, 71. Winn Street, Lincoln
George Bishop, 89, Tagus Street, Lodge Lane...
J. Woodward, 365, Hackney Road, Bethnal
Tel. Dalston 1842
Lincoln			
Liverpool		
London Metro.	
"		
Sections
London South
Manchester
Mansfield
Maybole
Green, London, E. 2
F. Stanford, 13, Pageant Road, St. Albans
G. Staudeven, 67, Scovell Road, Boro' Road,
London, S.E. 1
J. Mason, 15, Oakhill Street, Heath Street,
Cheetham Hill, Manchester
Wm. Bramley, 7, Furniss Row Nursery
Jas. McCulloch, 6, Society Street, Maybole
Melton Mowbray		G. A. Wainer, 35, Norman St., Melton Mowbray
Midsomer Norton		F. Gould, 6, Rackfernal Road, Midsomer Norton
Newcastle-on-Tyne	W. H. Lodge, 16, Coquet Street, Newcastle
Norwich				F. C. Jex, 51, St. George's Street, Norwich. T. 465
Norwich No. 2		A. H. Folkard, J. P., 51, St. George's St., Norwich
Northampton		W. Pitts, 107, Overstone Road
Northampton No. 2		S. Thompson, J. P., 97, Charles Street.
Nottingham		F. Whiteman, 74, Waterway St. West, Nottingham
Oldham
Plymouth			W. Bottomley, Bridge End, Delph, nr. Oldham
J. Gay, 5, Albert Road, Plymouth
T. 265
T. 634
Section J. H. Tithecott, 48, Lime Road, Bideford,
Reading			
Redruth			A. W. Panting, 14, Edghill Street, Reading
B. Knight, Montague, North Country, Redruth
		N. Devon		
Sheffield			T. B. Robinson, 242, Main Road, Darnall
Shepshed		
Sileby			E. Peberdy, Forest Street. Shepshed
F. Leader, 39. Swan Street, Sileby
Section S. E. Eason, Vine Cottages, Rothley
Southampton			A. W. Murray, 70, Northam Bridge Road,
		Bitterne Manor, Southampton
Stafford			R. Dunn, 152, Marston Road, Stafford
Sections G. Shenton, Stoke-on-Trent
Stone			Richard Glover, 5, Edward Street, Stone, Staffs.
Street			J. H. Hooper, J.P., 56, High St., Street, Somerset
Waterford			W. Nicholson, 9, Castle Terrace, Waterford
Wellingborough		W. Wyman, 28, Silver St., Wellingboro'. T. 206
Sections F. Curzon, Doddington Road, Earls Barton
F. Mynard, High Street, Olney, Northants.
Whitwick			F. Berrington, 78, Leicester Road, Whitwick
Wolverhampton		Alex. Smith, 187, North St., Wolverhampton
Worcester			T. Worrall, 40, Dean Street, Worcester
			G. Rose, 45, Blakefield Road, Worcester
Yarmouth (Great)	W. Nash, 9, Row 61, Hall Quay, Gt. Yarmouth
			F. Cocker, East Dereham
York			J. Rafton, 20, Ratcliffe St. Burton Stone Lane
James Street
Socialist Club
I.L.P. Rooms, 264, Upper Parlia
[ment Street
New Lansdowne Club, 195, Mare
Street, Hackney
Royal Oak Inn, Culvert Street
Abbey Institute, Romeland Hill,
St. George's Stores, Newington
Causeway, S.E. 1
Land o' Cakes, Great Ancoats St.
West Hill Drive Labour Club
Coffee House, Whitehall Street
High Street Council Schools
Globe Inn, Clayton Street
Labour Institute, St. Gregory's
Keir Hardie Memorial Hall [Alley
Trades Hall, 107, Overstone Road
Trades Hall, 107, Overstone Road
Labour Exchange, Stanford Street
Greaves Arms
Plymouth Chambers, Drake's Circus
Trade Union Club, Oxford Street
Old's Restaurant, Fore Street
Trade Hall, Charles Street
Britannia Hotel
Liberal Club, Sileby
Branch Office, Marston Road
Reform Club
Bridge Inn
Committee Room. Crispin Hall
Assembly Room, Silver Street
The Church Schools, Market Place,	[Whitwick
White Rose, Powlett Steet.
Bridge Inn, Bridge St. Worcester
No. 2 Committee Room, Co-op.
Buildings, Railway Street
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF UNION OFFICERS.
Tel. No.: 4438 Museum, London. Tel. Address: "Natunishop, Holb., London."

GENERAL PRESIDENT.
T. F. RICHARDS, Business Address-34, Gullford Street, London, W.C. 1.
Private Address-7, Mecklenburg Street, London, W.C. 1. No business communications to this Address.
GENERAL SECRETARY.
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 69, Freegrove Road, Holloway, London, N.7.
ORGANISERS.
D. MCCARTHY, 23, Avenue Road Extension, Leicester.
W. R. SMITH, J.P., " Belle Vue," Old Catton, Norwich.
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
District No. 1-T. ADNITT, 65, Marfitt Street, Leicester.
" 2-C. BATES, 8, Denmark Road, Rushden.
" 3-A. W. LYNE, 21, Cranstoun Street, Northampton.
" 4-L. SMITH, 16, Northcote Street, Semilong, Northampton.
" 5-C. MAYES, 25, Pollard Street, Kettering.
" 6-Vacant.
" 7-W. WARNER, 59, Stockwell Head, Hinckley.
" 8-W. HINDES, J.P., 9, Tillett Road, North Walsham Road,
Norwich.
" 9-C. BLEAKLEY, 1, Drum Terrace, Edinburgh.
" 10-A. J. DOBBS, 6, Bramley Avenue, Bramley, Leeds.
" 11-ALEX. SMITH, 187, North Street, Wolverhampton.
" 12-J. MANNERS, 19, Downend Road, Fishponds, Bristol.

DISTRICT AGENTS.
District No. District No.
1-M. A. PARKER, Leicester. 7-J. H. BAUM, Leicester No. 2.
2-E. BATCHELOR, Rushden. 8-F. C. JEX, Norwich.
3-E. LAW, Northampton No. 2. 9-G. WEIR, Edinburgh.
4-I. H. JOHNSON, J.P., Daventry. 10-G. ABBOTT, Leeds.
5-G. CHESTER, Kettering. 11-C. HARPER, Wolverhampton.
6-Miss E. SHERWIN, Leicester 12-J. T. OSBORNE, Bristol.
(Women's).

UNION TRUSTEES.
S. THOMPSON, J.P., 97, Charles Street, Northampton.
L. E. BRADLEY, J.P., "Flossleys," Barton Seagrave, Kettering.
GEO. PARBURY, 118, Harrison Road, Leicester.
Miss E. A. TIMMS, 6, Scott Street, Leicester.
H. H. WOOLLEY, J.P., 124, Narborough Road, Leicester.

PARLIAMENTARY AGENTS.
T. F. RICHARDS, 34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
J. BUCKLE, M.P., J.P., 13, Eighteenth Avenue, New Wortley, Leeds.
W. R. SMITH, J.P., "Belle Vue," Old Catton, Norwich.
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 69, Freegrove Road, Holloway, London, N.7.
L. SMITH, 16, Northcote Street, Semilong, Northampton.

AUDITOR.
J. B. B. ROBERTSON, F.R.C.A., 241, Uppingham Road, Leicester.

BANKERS.
CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LTD., London.

NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.-Approved No. 281.
Manager: R. D. MAYES, Business Address-34, Gullford Street, London, W.C. 1.
TEL.: 5168 MUSEUM.
Printed by Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Limited, 99, Church Gate, for
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.


---
Here is the extracted text:
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES
34, GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1
Official Report
OF THE
Thirty-Fifth General
CONFERENCE
(THIRD ANNUAL CONFERENCE)
HELD AT THE
Imperial Hotel, Russell Square,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
21st-26th May, 1923
Edited by
E. L. POULTON, J.P.,
General Secretary,
London
Reported by
ERNEST BORDOLI,
Confidential Clerk to the
Union, London
LONDON:
LEICESTER CO-OPERATIVE PRINTING SOCIETY LIMITED,
22, Red Lion Square, W.C. 1; and Leicester
PRICE ONE PENNY


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

National Union of Boot & Shoe Operatives.
34, GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1.

Official Report
OF THE
THIRTY-FIFTH GENERAL
CONFERENCE

HELD AT THE

IMPERIAL HOTEL, RUSSELL SQUARE,
LONDON, W.C. 1,

Whitsuntide, 21st to 26th May, 1923.

Edited by E. L. POULTON, Esq, J.P., General Secretary, London.
Reported by Mr. Ernest Bordoli, Confidential Clerk to the Union, London.

LONDON:
Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Ltd. 22, Red Lion Square, W.C. 1


---
2
LIST OF DELEGATES.

Executive Council Members.
RICHARDS, Mr. T. F., Gen. President.
ADNITT, Mr. T.
BATES, Mr. C.
LYNE, Mr. A. W.
SMITH, Mr. L.
MAYES, Councillor C.
WARNER, Councillor W.
MANNERS, Mr. J.
HINDES, Mr. W., J.P.
BLEAKLEY, Mr. C.
DOBBS, Mr. A. J.
SMITH, Mr. Alex.
POULTON, Mr. E. L., J.P., Gen. Sec

Organisers:
MCCARTHY Mr. D.
SMITH, Mr. W. R., J.P.
Parliamentary Representative :
BUCKLE, Mr. J., M.P., J.P.
Standing Orders Committee:
HILL, Ald. A., M.P., J.P.
THOMPSON, Mr. S., J.P.
JEX, Mr. F. C.
TOWNLEY, Mr. W. R., J.P.
CHESTER, Mr. G.
Branch Permanent (Full Time) Officials.
OSBORNE, Mr. J. T., Bristol.
*MANNERS, Mr. J., Bristol No 2.
JOHNSON, Mr. I. H., J.P., Daventry.
BARNES, Mr. S. J. B., J.P., Desboro'
GAMBLE, Mr. M., Glasgow
*BATES, Mr. C., Higham and Rushden
BATCHELOR, Mr. E.
LANGLEY, Mr. W., J.P.
*WARNER, Mr. W., Hinckley
*MAYES, Mr. C., Kettering
CHESTER, Mr. G.
CHAPMAN, Mr. J., Kettering No. 2
RANDALL, Mr. A. G., Kingswood
*ADNITT, Mr. T., Leicester
PARKER, Mr. M. A.
WHEELER, Mr. J.
WORTH, Mr. A.
PARBURY. Mr. G.
ASTLEY, Mr. D.
HILL, Ald. Alfred, M.P., J.P.,
Leicester No. 2
SMITH, Mr. GEO., Leicester No. 2
VALLANCE, Mr. T. H.
BELL-RICHARDS, Mrs. M. J., Leicester
No. 3
MUIR, Miss Annie, Leicester No. 3
*DOBBS, Mr. A. J., Leeds
WESCOE, Mr. J.
MASON, Mr. J., London Metro.
WOODWARD, Mr. J.,
*HINDES, Mr. W, J.P., Norwich
JEX, Mr. F. C.
BIRD, Mr. A.
SEGON, Mr. F. H., Norwich No. 2
FOLKARD, Mr. A. H., J.P.
TOWNLEY, Mr. W., J.P., Northampton
*SMITH, Mr. L.
PITTS, Mr. W.
LAW, Mr. E., Northampton No. 2
*LYNE, Mr. A. W.
THOMPSON, Mr. S., J.P.
DUNN, Mr. R., Stafford
GLOVER, Mr. R., Stone
HOOPER, Mr. J. H., J.P., Street
*SMITH, Mr. A., Wolverhampton
POOLE, Mr. L., Wellingborough
WYMAN, Mr. W.
*Members of Executive Council.


---
Here is the extracted text:
3
ELECTED DELEGATES.
Leicester.
BRIGGS, Mr. J.
CRAMPHORN, Mr. H.
GREAVES, Mr. J.
KENDALL, Mr. W.
SKELDING, Mr. A.
CROUCH, Mr. A.
SANDERS, Mr. H.
SHORT, Mr. F. T.
HARTWELL, Mr. S.
ATTEWELL, Mr. H. C.
BIRT, Mr. A.
CRANE, Mr. S.
BROWN, Mr. E.
FAREY, Mr. G.
FOUNTAIN, Mr. J.
BURDETT, Mr. E.
MAYER, Mr. W.
ENGLAND, Mr. W.
FRASER, Mr. H.
CAMPBELL, Mr. G.
SOUTHWELL, Mr. W.
PLOWMAN, Mr. A.
RABBITT, Mr. T.
WILLIAMS, Mr. H.
NEEDHAM, Mr. A.
GOODE, Mr. C.
SMALLEY, Mrs. A.
Higham and Rushden.
UNDERWOOD, Mr. G.
NASH, Mr. W.
GOFF, Mr. J.
Northampton.
HAWGOOD, Mr. H.
SWANNELL, Mr. W.
Northampton No. 2.
PENDRED, Mr. T.
LAWRENCE, Miss K.
SMITH, Mrs. E.
Street.
DAVIES, Mr. H. G.
Glasgow.
ROBERTSON, Mr. T.
Leicester No. 2.
JEFFS, Mr. A.
BARROWS, Mr. J.
Norwich.
NEAL, Mr. F.
HINDES, Miss M.
Kettering.
TAYLOR. Mr. C.
Wellingborough.
TEBBUTT, Mr. E.

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
4
ELECTED DELEGATES---Continued.
Bristol No. 2.
CURRY, Mr. R.
Leicester Women's.
SHERWIN, Miss E.
BILLINGS, Miss P.
JEFFREYS, Miss I..
Bristol, Kendal.
WEST, Mr. F. (Bristol)
Kettering No. 2, London Metro.
COLTMAN, Mr. W. G. (Kettering
SHAW, Mr. L. (London Metro.)
No. 2)
TAYLOR, Mr. J. E. (Kettering No. 2)
POULTON, Mr. H. (London Metro.)
RAWSON, Mrs. A.
"
Norwich No. 2, Kingswood.
COHEN, Mr. H. (Norwich No. 2)
PAIN, Mr. W. E. (Kingswood)
JONES, Mr. G. H. (Kingswood)
Stafford, Leeds.
WALSH, Mr. J. (Leeds)
PEAT, Mr. A. (Leeds)
HOUSBY, Mr. E. (Stafford)
Aberdeen, Arbroath, Ayr, Dundee, Edinburgh, Glasgow No. 2, Kilmarnock,
REID, Mr. J. P. (Arbroath)
Maybole.
WHITE, Mr. R. (Edinburgh)
Chesterfield, Eyam, Hull, Halifax, Nottingham, Sheffield, Shepshed, Whitwick,
York, Bromsgrove, Barnsley, Bishop Auckland, Lincoln, Yarmouth.
MANSFIELD, Mr. T. (Hull)
Belfast, Burnley, Cork, Liverpool, Oldham, Waterford, Manchester.
MASON, Mr. J. (Manchester)
Hinckley, Desborough, Wolverhampton.
JOLLEY, Mr. J. (Wolverhampton)
PARKER, Mr. F. (Hinckley)
Daventry, Stone, Chesham.
HOLLAND, Mr. J., Stone
Leeds No. 2, Mansfield, Derby.
BLISSETT, Mr. W. N. (Derby)
Ipswich, Colchester, Sileby, Heckmondwike, Newcastle.
STOTT, Mr. A. (Heckmondwike)
Plymouth, Midsomer Norton, Redruth, Worcester, Reading. London South,
STANDEVEN, Mr. G. (London South)


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

5
STANDING ORDERS.
ANNUAL MEETINGS.
RULE 80. Annual Meetings of the Conference shall be held on Whit Monday
and subsequent days.
TIME OF CONFERENCE MEETING.
RULE 81. On the first day of Conference the Delegates shall assemble at a
place provided for the purpose, at Ten o'clock a.m. prompt, and
shall proceed to the election of Door Keeper and Two Tellers, and
shall also consider the President's Address and Council's Report; after
which the Conference shall adjourn at 12.30 p.m. and re-assemble at
2 p.m. and proceed with the business of the Conference and adjourn at
5 p.m. On Tuesday and each succeeding day, the time of meeting
shall be 9.30 a.m., adjourn at 12.30 p.m., re-assemble at 2 p.m., and
adjourn for the day at 5 p.m.
DELEGATES' QUALIFICATION.
RULE 82. The Conference shall consist of Delegates who have been elected
in accordance with General Rules 71 and 77, which read as follows:-
"Delegates shall be elected in accordance with the number of Financial
Members returned in the December Report previous to the date on which
the Conference is to be held. All Permanent Officials shall attend the
Conferences by virtue of their office, over and above the maximum of
representation. The basis of representation for delegates shall be one
delegate for every 1,000 financial members, with a minimum representa-
tion of not less than fifty delegates (one-third to form a quorum)."
"The latest date for sending in amendments and additions to Rules, or
Standing Orders of Conference, shall be January 15th, in the year in which
the Conference is due to be held, and they shall be published in the
January Monthly Report. Nominations for delegates shall be taken on
the February Monthly Meeting Night, and voting for same on the March
Monthly Meeting Night."
The Council to attend by virtue of their office.
PRESIDENT OF CONFERENCE.
RULE 83. The President of the Union, by virtue of his office, takes the chair
at all Conferences.
STANDING ORDERS COMMITTEE.
RULE 84. A committee of five persons shall be elected from the Delegates
of the Conference, whose duty it shall be to examine the Delegates
Credentials, and report thereon. They shall also be at the service of
the Conference to consider any questions or matters that may be
relegated to it with a view to reporting thereon during the sitting of
Conference. For such extra services they shall receive additional
pay, to the amount of 10s. each.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

6
TELLERS.
RULE 85. - Two Delegates shall be appointed as Tellers, whose ruling as to
numbers shall be final, except in cases of dispute, when the Chairman
shall order a recount.
DOOR KEEPER.
RULE 86. - A Door Keeper (not a delegate) shall be elected at the commence-
ment of the Conference, whose duties shall be to test all applications
for admittance to Conference, and also to keep the floor of the hall
strictly for Delegates only, and also to regulate the granting of
passes to members of the public to the gallery, and to perform such
other duties as may be required of him by the General Secretary.
Preference to be given to a local man, and his pay shall be 15s
per day for any day or days required.
VOTING.
RULE 87. - The system of voting shall be by show of hands, the decision
of the majority to rule.
LIMITATION OF SPEECHES.
RULE 88. - Every latitude is to be allowed the Delegates for giving expression
to their views on the various subjects that may be brought before
them; but in the event of the Chairman seeing that the business
is not making satisfactory progress, he shall have power to appeal
to the Conference to limit the time allowed to movers of resolutions
to ten minutes, a seconder to seven minutes, and any subsequent
speaker to five minutes. No one shall speak more than once on a
question, except the mover of an original resolution. Should the
President be of opinion that there is no practical difference among
the Delegates, he shall have the power to stop the discussion.
AMENDMENT OF STANDING ORDERS.
RULE 89. - Should any amendment of the Standing Orders of Conference be
proposed by any Branch, such amendment shall be forwarded at the
same time and under the same conditions as the amendments pro-
posed to the Rules. Notice of such amendment to be sent by the
General Secretary to the Delegates as early as convenient after
receipt.
DELEGATES LEAVING CONFERENCE.
RULE 90. - No Delegate shall leave Conference without the consent of the
President, and Delegates absent one whole sitting without leave of
absence shall be named by the Chairman. The Conference shall
thereupon decide what action shall be taken with any such
delegate.


---
Here is the extracted text:
7
ORDER OF BUSINESS
TRANSACTED AT THE
Thirty-Fifth General Conference
AND HELD AT THE
IMPERIAL HOTEL, RUSSELL SQUARE,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
WHITSUNTIDE, MAY 21ST TO 26TH, 1923.
Chair taken by the President at 10 a.m.
ON 21st MAY, 1923.
1.-Chairman's Welcome to Delegates.
2.-Election of Doorkeeper.
3.-Election of Two Tellers.
4.-General Secretary to report Result of Voting for Standing
Orders Committee.
5.-Chairman's Address to Conference.
6.-Council's Address.
7.-Amendments to the Industrial Rules.
8.-Amendments to the National Health Insurance Rules.
9. To decide the place for next Conference.
10.-General Business.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
8
EXISTING RULES.
RULE 32.—Persons over 40 years of age wishing to join the Union shall join
for trade purposes only, but may join the National Health Insurance
Department for sick purposes. Persons joining under this rule shall
be entitled fo £6 funeral benefit.
RULE 33.—Operatives of 50 years of age or over shall be allowed to
join the Union on the following scale: Entrance fee, 6d.; contri-
butions 5d. per week, 3 1/2d. to go to the Central Fund and 1 1/2d. to
branch (females 1 1/4d. and 3/4d.); the member to receive for the above
contributions all trade benefits, with the exception of out-of-work
pay, out-of-work contributions, and funeral pay. The benefits
allowed being strike, dispute, lock-out, travelling, bond-note and
legal assistance in connection with trade matters.
RULE 36.—A full financial member (male or female), with not less than five
years' continuous membership, leaving the United Kingdom with a
clearance card for employment abroad, and returning within five
tinuous member of another Union connected with our craft, shall serve
a probation of six months before becoming entitled to either sick,
funeral, or out of work benefit.

---
```text
9
ORDER OF AGENDA
As arranged by the
STANDING ORDERS COMMITTEE.
In accordance with Rule 78,
THIRTY-FIFTH GENERAL CONFERENCE,
LONDON, 1923.
Suggested Alterations and Additions to Rules.
Conditions of Membership.
/ THE COUNCIL. - Rule 32. - Delete, and insert: "Persons between 40 and 50
years of age wishing to join the Union can only do so for trade purposes
(but may join the National Health Insurance Department for sick pur-
poses). Persons joining under this Rule shall be entitled to Funeral
Benefit as named in Rule 247."
2 EDINBURGH. - Rule 32. - Delete "10 years," and substitute "45 years."
3 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 33. - Delete, and insert: "Persons over 50 years of age
wishing to join the Union may do so on the following terms:
Males. Entrance Fee Is., Contributions 6d. per week; 4d. to
Central Funds, Id. to Branch Funds. The member after serving the
probationary periods as named in Rule 37 shall be entitled to the following
benefits as named in the several rules, viz., Strike Pay, Dispute Pay,
Lock Pay, Travelling Assistance. Compensation Pay, Legal Assistance
in connection with accidents occurring at his employment. Out-of-work
Pay 6s. per week, and Rules 217 to 229 inclusive govern the conditions
to be complied with for this benefit so far as they are applicable to
members joining under this Rule. Payment of Out-of-Work Contributions
in accordance with Rule 230. Funeral Benefit on death of member
£3 only.
Females. Entrance Fee 6d., Contributions 3d. per week; 2d. to
Central Funds and Id. to Branch Funds. After compliance with the rule
as to probationary periods, as named in Rule 37, they shall be entitled
to half the amount of benefits for trade purposes as named in the rules,
viz., Strike Pay, Dispute Pay, Lock-out Pay, Travelling Assistance,
Compensation Pay, Legal Assistance in connection with accidents
occurring at her employment. Out-of-work Benefit 3s. per week, and
Rules 217 to 229 inclusive govern the conditions to be complied with for
this benefit so far as they are applicable to members joining under this
rule. Funeral Benefit on death of member 30s. only."
4 KETTERING NOS. I AND 2. - Rule 36.- Delete last two lines, "shall serve a
probation of six months before becoming entitled to either Sick, Funeral,
or Out-of-Work Benefit." and insert "shall be immediately entitled to
Sick, Funeral, Out-of-Work and other benefits."
5 NORTHAMPTON. - Rule 36. Line 6 Delete after "craft," and insert: "Shall
at once become entitled to Union Benefits, either Sick, Funeral or Out..
of-Work, after resuming work in the industry in the United Kingdom."
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
10
EXISTING RULES.
RULE 167.
TO BE DIVIDED AS FOLLOWS:
Entrance
Fees.
1/-
Males
Males (Sick)
Males (Trade and Funeral)
Males (Special Trade)
Youths
Females
Females (Sick)
Females (Trade and Funeral)
Females (Special Trade
Females (under 18)
Cons.
6d.
8d.
5d.
6d.
3d.
4d.
2½d.
3d.
3d.
4d.
ld.
Sick.
4d.
1d.
2d.
2d.
24d.
2d.
1½d.
Trade.
5d.
4½d.
ld.
2d.
2d.
4d.
2½d.
1d.
3d.
Branch.
3d.
14d.
2½d.
2d.
2d.
4d.
3d.
1d.
RULE 131.-The Branch Officers must be insured with the Union Fidelity
Fund.
RULE 189.-All Terms of Settlement, supplementary or general, shall be sub-
mitted to a vote of the Union before being signed by the Council.
RULE 196.-Members in receipt of Strike Pay if in arrears on their contribu-
tion cards shall pay up such arrears from the first week's strike pay
received.

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
11
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
Entrance Fees and Contributions.
THE COUNCIL. - Rule 167. - Delete, and insert:
TO BE DIVIDED AS FOLLOW:-
Entrance
Fees.
Cons.
Males
Males (Sick)
:: ::
1/-
Sick.
1/-
Trade.
Males (Trade and Funeral)
6d.
3d.
Branch.
Youths
50 years of age
Males (Special Trade) over
1/-
8d.
4d.
5d.
3d.
Id.
4d.
Id.
6d.
2d.
6d.
6d.
6d.
42d.
Females
6d.
Id.
Id.
6d.
21d.
Females (Sick)
Id.
2d.
Females (Trade and Funeral)
3d.
21d.
6d.
21d.
2d.
50 years of age
Females (Special Trade) over
4d.
d.
d.
21d.
Ild.
Females (under 18)
:: 3d.
3d.
3d.
3d.
24d.
d. Ild. Id.
d.
ARBROATH. "That Rule 167 be altered to allow of the following scale of
payments to Branches for Management Purposes, viz. :-
Branches with-
1,500 or more members, 3d. per week per, full male member.
between 500 and 1,500 members, 4d. per week per full male member.
less than 500 members, 5d. per week per full male member.
1,500 or more members, 2d. per week per full female member.
between 500 and 1,500 members, 3d. per week per full female member.
less than 500 members, 4d. per week per full female member.
Other management allowances to remain as at present."
Branch Officers' Duties.
Fidelity Fund.
THE COUNCIL. Rule 131.-After word "Fund," add "at the following
minimum rates for each official of the Branch :-
Branch with weekly income under £25
2/6 per annum
5/-
وو
،،
،،
£50
£75
،،
وو
£100
"
"
"
،،
£I
£150
£1 10
دو
£200 or over
£2
در
دو
ور
رو
Disputes.
NORTHAMPTON-Rule 189.-Add "Ballot papers to contain no other matter
except 'For' or 'Against,' any question to be voted upon."
Table of Strike or Lockout Pay.
10 NORTHAMPTON No. 2. - Rule 196." This rule shall apply to all other Union
Benefits."


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

12
EXISTING RULES.

RULE 205. - Compensation shall be given to financial members for loss of tools
by fire, at the discretion of the Council. The application to be made
through the Branch Committee.

RULE 209. - Any member who has belonged to the Union thirteen weeks, any
is clear on the books, shall be entitled to a Bond Note of £5, and and
branch wishing to give Bond Notes of greater amount or additional
Bonds, or Bonds to members who have not belonged to the Union
thirteen weeks, can do so, but on their own responsibility.

RULE 210. - If a member has made away with work, and the Union has made
it good, all expenses so incurred shall be placed as a book debt
against such member, who must repay it, serve twenty-six weeks'
probation, and be clear on the books before becoming entitled to
trade or sick benefits, the probation to date from the time he makes
his first payment towards the book debt. The Council shall have
power (on the application of the branch) to mitigate the amount as
they may deem fit.

RULE 211. - The Union to be at the cost of prosecution under this law, and no
Bond Notes to be issued but those supplied by the Council.

RULE 212. - In all cases where the parties so entrusted should abscond with
the work, or any portion thereof, the employer must make applica-
tion for them at their addresses, and should the employer fail to
recover the property he must be prepared to prosecute or the Union
will not indemnify him.

RULE 213. - All Bond Notes to be returned by the members to the Secretary
who issued them, or a note from the employer to show that all the
work has been finished up properly.

RULE 214. - The Union will not be answerable to employers for any work kept
out above fourteen days, unless the said employer notifies the same
within fourteen days of that date.

RULE 215. - Should any branch allow a Bond Note to remain in the possession
of an employer after the member to whom it was issued has con-
tracted a debt of 13s, including trade and sick contributions, fines
and levies, such branch will be held responsible for all claims made
on security of such Bond Note.

RULE 216. - All bills from employers for work made away with, and the Bond
Notes upon which the claims are made must be forwarded by
the branch officers to the Council when making their claims to the
Union.

RULE 217. - Members out of employment and entitled to benefit shall receive
3s. per day or 18s. per week for any ten weeks they remain out of
work during any 12 consecutive months.


---
Here is the extracted text:
13
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
Compensation for Loss of Tools.
11 LEICESTER NO. 2. - Rule 205. - To ask question re Employers' Liability.
Bond Notes.
12 THE COUNCIL. - Rules 209 to 216. - Delete.
Out-of-Work Benefit.
13 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 217. - Add after " months," " Members joining under
Rule- shall be entitled to Is. per day or 6s. per week for any ten weeks
they remain out of work during any 12 consecutive months."


---
Here is the extracted text:
15
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
THE COUNCIL. - Rule 219, Line 1. - Delete "f9."
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN (RAUNDS). - Rule 219. - Delete from end of Line 2 to
word "Members" on Line 4.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Rule 219. - Delete from word "Trade" in Line 3,
to "Members" on Line 4, substituting "not less than 8 weeks."
KETTERING No. 2. - Rule 219, Line 4. After "months" insert: "This shall
not apply in cases where the ten weeks' benefit is extended in all over
twelve months prior to the date of again declaring on shall not be reckoned
eleven months. In such cases the complete periods of benefit ending
against the member"
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. - Rule 221, Line 1. Add after "discharge,"
"or suspension."
NORTHAMPTON. - Rule 221. - Add "But the Branch Officials, with the sanction
of the Branch Executive, shall have power to sanction members calling
to sign books three times per week only."
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. - Rule 223, Line 2.- Add after "discharged,"
"or suspended."
BRISTOL No. 2. - New Rule. "To ask Council to consider and report to
Conference the possibility of giving members Out-of-Work Benefit during
periods of suspension."
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. - New Rule." Members thrown out of work
through suspension owing to bad trade, shall serve a probation of 4 weeks
for Out-of-Work Benefit, and shall be eligible on the first day of the 5th
week if remaining unemployed."
NORWICH NO. 1.-New Rule." To request the Executive Council to prepare
a scheme to allow benefit to be payable for and in respect of under-
employment."
NORWICH NO. 1.-New Rule." That having regard to the adoption in recent
years of a system of suspension of operatives from the factories instead
of discharge, this Conference is of opinion that it is essential in the interests
of the Union for some adjustment of rule to be made whereby members
affected by this development may receive Benefit."
WOLVERHAMPTON. - New Rule." That a rule should be inserted that any
member who has been suspended from work, or who is given extra long
holiday, should be entitled to Unemployment Pay from the Union after
the first week of suspension or holiday."
LEICESTER NO. 1. - " That the expense of all Union Votes shall be borne by
the Union."
Out-of-Work Contributions.
EDINBURGH - Rule 230, Line 2. - After "employment," "shall have his
contributions paid from Union until finding employment"


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

16
EXISTING RULES.
28
or
RULE 236. - Male members declaring on the sick fund shall receive 2s. per day
females, and youths under 18 years of age, to receive 1s. per day
or 12s. per week for twelve weeks in any twelve consecutive months
6s. per week during the same period, provided it is drawn continuousy.
But should a member declare on the sick fund oftener than once
during such twelve months, the whole amount previously drawn, if
coming within the twelve months previous to the date on the
declaring-on certificate, shall be reckoned against him. Example:
a member drew one day's pay on the 29th May, in any year,
and declared on again on the 29th May the following year, that day's
pay shall be counted. Members who may have received their full
amount in such twelve consecutive months, shall not be entitled to
any further sick benefit until after the expiration of 52 clear weeks
from the date of receiving his or her last sick pay. The total amount
of sick pay to be drawn by any full male member shall not exceed
£40; half-pay members, £20; females not to exceed £20, whether
continuous members or not. A member working for a longer period
than three hours in a day is not entitled to any payment from the
Sick Funds for such day.
Suppose
RULE 252. The General Secretary shall keep a banking account of £500 of
the Union Funds and shall find security to that amount.
RULE 253. The Council shall have a banking Account of £3,000, and shall be
empowered to draw on the said account. Cheques must be signed
by the General President and General Secretary.
RULE 255. In the event of the sick fund being reduced below an amount
equal to 7s. 6d. per financial member, the Council shall have power
to lay a levy of 1s. per quarter per member, and 6d. per quarter per
female or youth member, until the fund is restored to an amount
equal to 7s. 6d. per financial member. The only exemption shall be
members paying for special trade benefits. Sick levy must not be
paid from the branch funds, but directly by each individual member
of the Union.
RULE 263.-Any member engaged on Union business after his working hours
shall be paid at the rate of 1s. 6d. per hour.
RULE 294. --Any members whilst on the sick funds found out of their homes
after nine o'clock p.m., between the first of April and the first of
October, and seven o'clock p.m. between the first of October and
the first of April, shall be fined to 2s. 6d. for each offence. Any
member not suffering from bodily infirmity, but unable to follow his
usual employment, may, by permission of the branch officials, obtain
exemption from this Rule.
29
30
31
33
34


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```
17
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.

Sick Pay.
28 KETTERING NO. 2. - Rule 236, Line 16. - After "sick pay" insert: "This
shall not apply in cases where the twelve weeks' benefit is extended in
all over eleven months. In such cases the complete periods of benefit
ending twelve months prior to the date of again declaring on shall not be
reckoned against the member."

Funds and Finance.
29 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 252, Line 2.-Delete "£500," and insert "£1,000."
30 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 253, Line 1.-Delete "£3,000,” and insert "£5,000."
31 THE COUNCIL. Rule 255, Line 2.-Delete "7s. 6d.," and insert "9s."
Line 5.--Delete "7s. 6d.," and insert "9s."
Allowances to Members engaged on Union Business.
2 EDINBURGH. Rule 263. - Delete " Is. 6d." and substitute “ 2s.”

Offences and Penalties.
3 LEICESTER NO. 2. Rule 294, Line 4.-Delete " 2s. 6d." and insert " 1/-."
4 NORWICH NO. 1. - Rule 294.-Add "Members to be allowed out of their home
till 10 p.m. during the operation of the Daylight Saving Act."
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
19
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
Duties and Powers of Branches and Branch Executives.
35 EDINBURGH. - Rule 145. - After "support" delete and substitute "All expense
to be paid from Central Funds.'
35 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 146. - Delete.
Arrears of Contributions, Fines, and Levies, Refractory
and Scratched Members.
37 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 171, Line 2. - Delete words "trade and sick."
38 THE COUNCIL. Rule 172, Line 3.-Delete words "trade and sick."
39 THE COUNCIL. Rule 173, Line 3.--Delete words "trade and sick."
40 THE COUNCIL. Rule 174, Line 1.-Delete words "trade and sick."


---
```text
21
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
Political.
41 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 59, Line 2. - Add "financial members of the Union."
42 LEEDS. - Rule 59, Line 2. - Delete all words after "Union," up to and including
"success " on fifth line, and insert the following: - " Who shall submit
all offers received from constituencies to the Council. The Council shall
have power to place any Agent in a Constituency where they think there
is a reasonable chance of success. In the event of any Agent refusing
to contest a Constituency selected by the Council, he shall resign his position
as Agent."
43 LEICESTER NO. 1. - Rule 60, Line 9. - After "circumstances," insert: " and
if elected to Parliament shall be granted the same allowances as the elected
Parliamentary Agents."
44 LEICESTER NO. 2. - Rule 60, Line 11. - After word "conditions " insert "and
being successful shall be deemed to be one of the Official Parliamentary
Agents." Delete remainder of Rule.

District Agents.
45 LEEDS. - Rule 61. - Delete.
46 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 64. - Delete, and insert: "One delegate shall be elected
annually by a vote of the financial members of the Union to represent the
Union at the Annual Council Meeting of the General Federation of Trade
Unions with the General President and General Secretary to attend by
virtue of their office."
47 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 66, Line 2. - Delete "November and December," and
insert "February and March."
48 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 68, Line 8. - Delete "The District Council representative,"
and insert "The Council Members of the District."
49 ARBROATH. - " That Rule 68 be extended to include provision of expenses of
such meetings from the Union Funds."

Auditors.
50 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 69, Line 5. - To read "Public Auditors shall be appointed
where possible."
Objects.
51 ARBROATH. - Rule 18 to read as follows:-(a) To assist in federating all
Leather Trade Workers in Great Britain. (b) To seek the Federation of
all Unions or Groups of Unions in Great Britain.
52 NORTHAMPTON. - Rue 18. - Add after "Federate," " or Amalgamate."
```

---
Here's the extracted text:

```
22

EXISTING RULES:

RULE 23. To make provision for the Union being represented in Parliament
by Members, who shall pledge themselves to work for the realisation
of the Union's objects, and carry out the decisions of the Trade
Union Congress.

RULE 25. To administer the National Health Insurance Acts, 1911-1920, and
Amendments thereto.

RULE 48. - Any member or members bringing a clear card of more than twenty-
six weeks' standing from another society, shall be admitted free, and
forthwith entitled to a Bond Note. He shall, however, serve
the necessary probation of twenty-six weeks for trade, and fifty-two
weeks for out-of-work, sick and funeral benefits.

RULE 55. The President and Secretary (who must reside within a radius
of fifteen miles of the seat of government) shall be elected every two
years by a general vote of the Financial Members of the Union.
For the election of the Council, who shall also serve for two years
the Union shall be divided into twelve Districts (see Constitution for
division of districts, Section 3, Rules 26, 27 and 28), and each district
shall elect its own representative, who must be a Financial Member
of one of the branches in the district.

RULE 57. Two Organisers shall be appointed by the vote of the whole
country. They shall act under the direction of the Council. They
shall be elected every two years, at the same time and in the same
manner as the Union officers.

RULE 58. A manager for the business of the Union under the National
Health Insurance Acts shall be elected every two years by a general
vote of the Union. He must be a Financial Member of the Union
and over 21 years of age. The salary of the manager shall be £400
per annum. The nominations and method of election for the said
official shall apply as in the case of election for the Union officers.
The duties of the manager shall be to manage and control the
business of the Insurance Department, to see that the business is
carried out in accordance with the Insurance Acts and the rules of
the society. The manager of the Insurance Department shall be
subject to the control of the Council and act under their instructions.

RULE 99. He shall attend the Trade Union Congress and the Annual Meeting
of the Labour Party, by virtue of his office.

RULE 100. He shall also attend the Trades Union Congress and the Annual
Meeting of the Labour Party by virtue of his office.

RULE 106 The duties of an Organiser shall be to act as an Organising Agent,
investigator and dispute manager if necessary when called upon to
do so by the Council. He shall give full particulars in writing if
engaged on dispute, investigating, or organising, as the case may be,
to the General Secretary. He shall also be at the service of the
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
23
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
53 NORWICH NO. 1. - Ncw Rule.- "That this Conference is of the opinion that the
affiliation of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives with the
General Federation of Trade Unions should be terminated."
54 THE COUNCIL, Rule 23.-After word "Congress" add "and National Labour
Party."
55 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 25. - Delete, and insert: "To administer the National
Unemployment and Health Insurance Acts and amendments thereto."
Reinstated Members, or Transferred from Other
Branches, or Joining from Other Societies.
56 EDINBURGH. Rule 48, Line 2.-After "society," add "in the Shoe Trade."
Union and Branch Officers.
57 LEICESTER NO. 2.- Rule 55.- To ask question.
58 EDINBURGH.-Rule 57.- Delete "two organisers," and substitute "three
organisers, one to be mainly employed in District 9."
59 KETTERING NOS. I AND 2.-Rule 57.-Delete "two," and insert "three
Organisers shall be appointed."
60 THE COUNCIL. Rule 58, Line 3.- Add "financial members.'
Union Officers' Duties.
1 THE COUNCIL-Rule 99, Line 20. After word "Congress," add "and the
Annual Council Meeting of the General Federation of Trade Unions."
2 NORTHAMPTON NO. 2. - Rule 99.- Add "That the General President shall
attend all Branch Monthly Meetings periodically."
3 THE COUNCIL - Rule 100, Line 28. - After word "Congress," add "and the
Annual Council Meeting of the General Federation of Trade Unions."
4 KETTERING NOS. I AND 2. - Rule 106. - Delete Rule and insert :-
(a) The duties of two of the Organisers shall be to act as Organising
Agents, Investigators and Dispute Managers, if necessary, when called
upon to do so by the Council. They shall give full particulars in writing
when engaged on dispute, investigating or organising, as the case may be,

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
24
EXISTING RULES.
him. He shall be in attendance at the Council meetings. He may
take part in the discussions upon matters relating to organising,
disputes and investigating, but shall have no vote at the Council
meetings. He shall, by virtue of his office attend the Conferences to
the Union. He shall report to the General Secretary daily where he
may be found; he shall do his best to organise all working at the
trade, including repairers, and shall also push the Trade Union Stamp
by attending all meetings and gatherings in his area where such
advertisement would be likely to help.
RULE 108. The duties of Parliamentary Agents when elected to the House of
Commons shall be to pay strict attention to all questions brought
before the House affecting the Union, and the interests of labour
generally. They shall from time to time publish particulars of such
questions in the Monthly Report. When not engaged in the House
of Commons they may be employed as organisers by arrangement
between themselves and the Council. It is understood that for active
and consultative purposes their services shall be at the disposal of the
Council. Parliamentary Agents shall pledge themselves to and carry
out the labour programme as laid down from time to time by the
Annual Conferences of the Union; otherwise they shall cease to hold
office. When elected to Parliament they shall attend the Annual
Conference and give in their report. Should a Parliamentary Agent
be elected to the House of Commons who was a full time national
official before the election to the House, and fails to secure re-election
to the House of Commons, he should act as organiser for the Union
until the following Conference, when his position would be
determined.
RULE 70. A National Conference of Delegates from each and every district
in the Union shall meet annually for three days, on Whit Monday,
Tuesday, and Wednesday, to discuss matters of policy connected
with the Union, and every third year the conference shall be
extended to six days to deal with suggested alterations, amendments
or additions to rules, the expense to be borne by the Union. Except
that if any rules need alteration in Part II. the Conference may
deal with the same at any Annual Meeting.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

25
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
to the General Secretary. They shall also be at the service of the Council
shall be in attendance at the Council Meetings. They may take part
for any other duties to which they may think fit to appoint them. They
in the discussions upon matters relating to organising, disputes and
investigating, but shall have no vote at the Council Meetings. They
shall, by virtue of their office, attend the Conferences of the Union. They
shall report to the General Secretary, daily, where they may be found.
They shall do their best to organise all working at the trade, including
repairers, and shall also push the Trade Union Stamp by attending all
meetings and gatherings where such advertisement would be likely to help.
(b) The duties of the third Organiser shall be, as far as possible, specially
confined to visiting branches.in a general supervising capacity. He shall
lecture at Branch and specially convened meetings on Educational and
Political matters. He shall seek the general establishment of Rules
68 and 156 in all centres, and strive for the fulfilment of Rule 155. He
shall be subject to the same general conditions as applied to the other
Organisers.
THE COUNCIL. - Rule 108, Line 13.-Add after word "conference," " by virtue
of their office."
THE COUNCIL. Rule 108, Line 13.- Delete word " Annual."

Conferences and Delegate Meetings.
THE COUNCIL. Rule 70. - Delete, and insert: "A national conference of
delegates from each and every district of the Union shall meet biennially
for six days at Whitsuntide to discuss matters of policy connected with
the Union and to deal with suggested alterations, amendments and addi-
tions to rules, the expense to be borne by the Union. The place of meeting
to be fixed by the delegates to Conference. Further, that one half-day's
leave be permitted during the week."
ARBROATH. Rule 70. Delete, and make a new rule read in favour of "A Con-
ference of delegates every two years, each Conference to be of a week's
duration, and to deal with suggested alterations, amendments or additions
to rules, the expenses to be borne by the Union, and further that all such
future Conferences be held in Leicester."
EDINBURGH - Rule 70, Line 2. After "Union," add "shall meet annually
for six days on Whit Monday and subsequent days."
EDINBURGH. - Rule 70, Line 4.-After "Union," add "When the place of
meeting for the next Conference shall be balloted for."


---
Here is the extracted text:
27
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
71 HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Rule 70, Line 2.-" Shall meet biennially, for six
days to deal with policy of the Union and alterations to Rules, such Con-
ference to be held away from London."
72 LEICESTER NO. 1." That the next Annual Conference shall be held in a
place to be named, other than London."
73 NORTHAMPTON. - Rule 70.- Delete and substitute: -"That we revert back to
the old order of Biennial Conferences."
74 NORTHAMPTON NO. 2. - Rule 70, Line 2. - Delete " annually," and substitute
"every two years." Also Delete (Line 4) "third year the" and sub-
stitute "alternate."
75 ARBROATH. - Rule 71. - To delete the second sentence.
76 NORTHAMPTON NO. 2. - Rule 71, Line 3. - Delete
"All permanent Officials
shall attend the Conference by virtue of their office, over and above the
maximum of representation."
77 EDINBURGH-Rule 72.-Delete "Council," and substitute "members."
78 THE COUNCIL. Rule 76. - After word "Organisers," add "Parliamentary
Agents who are Members of Parliament."
79 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 77, Line 2. - Delete " January," and insert "February."
Line 4. - Delete " January," and insert "February."
Standing Orders of the Conference.
Meetings.
80 THE COUNCIL - Rule 80. - Delete "Annual," and insert "Biennial."


---
Here is the extracted text:
29
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
Time of Conference Meeting.
SI THE COUNCIL. - Rule 81. Line 2. - Delete "Ten o'clock a.m.," and insert
"Eleven o'clock a.m."
Standing Orders Committee.
NORTHAMPTON NO. 2. - Rule 84, Line 6. - Delete words after "Conference."
Door Keeper.
3 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 86. - Delete after the words "General Secretary."
Methods of Nomination and Election of all Officers
and Delegates.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. - Rule 91.-Delete, and insert: "All Union
Elections shall be by ballot, but in all cases the Voting Papers and the
names of all candidates shall be uniform. No votes will be counted at
any time unless given by the members in person, at such places as the
Branch may appoint for voting. Voting shall take place on one and the
same day, except in the case of Branches having Sections. Members
shall be supplied with a Ballot Paper after the Branch Officers or others
appointed for the purpose, have satisfied themselves that the member is
financial and registered, and being not more than 8 weeks in arrears,
the member's card shall be date stamped when ballot paper is issued.
After members have recorded their vote, they shall deposit their paper in
a box provided to receive it, or return the paper to the person appointed
to receive it, who shall be responsible, and shall see the papers deposited
in the Ballot box. Such Ballot box shall be sealed after the votes have
been recorded, and not opened until the day of counting, and then only
in the presence of the elected scrutineers. All votes to be counted on one
and the same day in each District, the Council to fix the same in the
Monthly Report. Council be asked to suggest amendment to induce
larger numbers of members to vote."
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN - Rule 96. Line 6. - Delete whole of words from " is
not financial."


---
Here is the extracted text:
29
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
Time of Conference Meeting.
THE COUNCIL. - Rule 81. Line 2. - Delete "Ten o'clock a.m.," and insert
"Eleven o'clock a.m."
Standing Orders Committee.
NORTHAMPTON NO. 2. - Rule 84. Line 6. - Delete words after "Conference."
Door Keeper.
THE COUNCIL. - Rule 86. - Delete after the words "General Secretary."
Methods of Nomination and Election of all Officers
and Delegates.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. - Rule 91. - Delete, and insert: "All Union
Elections shall be by ballot, but in all cases the Voting Papers and the
names of all candidates shall be uniform. No votes will be counted at
any time unless given by the members in person, at such places as the
Branch may appoint for voting. Voting shall take place on one and the
same day, except in the case of Branches having Sections. Members
shall be supplied with a Ballot Paper after the Branch Officers or others
appointed for the purpose, have satisfied themselves that the member is
financial and registered, and being not more than 8 weeks in arrears,
the member's card shall be date stamped when ballot paper is issued.
After members have recorded their vote, they shall deposit their paper in
a box provided to receive it, or return the paper to the person appointed
to receive it, who shall be responsible, and shall see the papers deposited
in the Ballot box. Such Ballot box shall be sealed after the votes have
been recorded, and not opened until the day of counting, and then only
in the presence of the elected scrutineers. All votes to be counted on one
and the same day in each District, the Council to fix the same in the
Monthly Report. Council be asked to suggest amendment to induce
larger numbers of members to vote."
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Rule 96, Line 6. - Delete whole of words from "is
not financial."


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

30
EXISTING RULES.

31
GENERAL SUGGESTIONS.

56 THE COUNCIL. -New Rule.- "Five women members shall be elected annually
to attend the Annual Advisory Conference of Women in connection with
the Labour Party (Women's Section). Voting to be confined to the
British Trade Union Congress districts."

57 ARBROATH. - New Rule. - "That the Industrial Policy of the Union be to
establish day-work regulated by quantity statements, as against piece-
work with unlimited output, and that a new rule be framed to emphasise
the principle."

58 NORTHAMPTON NO. 2. - New Rule. - "The abolition of all Minute Notice Con-
tracts, and that the term of employment shall be a week's notice on
either side."

59 ARBROATH. - New Rule. - "That full reports be published of the proceedings
of conferences with Employers when the Council are negotiating new
Terms of Settlement."

90 ARBROATH. - New Rule. - "That the Council be instructed to prepare and
institute a superannuation scheme for the members, and that the necessary
changes of Rules be made accordingly."

91 HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - New Rule. - "Contributions to be paid by Union
for members with no income."

92 KETTERING NOS. I AND 2. - Workers' Educational Trade Union Committee. -
"This Conference presses on the Executive Committee the necessity of
at once considering the desirability of linking up with the Workers'
Educational Trade Union Committee, and thus affording to the members
of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives similar educational
facilities as are enjoyed by the Iron and Steel Trades Federation, the
Union of Post Office Workers and other organisations."

93 KETTERING NOS. I AND 2. - Hours of Labour. - "This Conference urges the
Executive Council, in its negotiations with the Employers' Associations,
to continuously and strenuously press for the realisation of Object II
in the Rules of the Union, feeling that the fulfilment of such rule will go
far to absorb the unemployed in the Boot and Shoe Industry."

94 The following Resolution to be passed at the Conference held in London during
Whit-Week, May 21st to 26th, 1923:-

"That the Council take the necessary steps to amend the Rules in
accordance with the various resolutions passed; to register the
same with the Registrar under the necessary Acts of Parliament,
and that the new Rules should come into force on and from
Saturday, September 1st, 1923."


---
Here are the bounding box detections:
```json
[
  {"box_2d": [379, 195, 432, 301], "label": "text"},
  {"box_2d": [511, 122, 549, 369], "label": "text"},
  {"box_2d": [433, 226, 442, 270], "label": "text"},
  {"box_2d": [348, 949, 567, 972], "label": "text"},
  {"box_2d": [280, 475, 779, 501], "label": "text"},
  {"box_2d": [390, 486, 437, 501], "label": "text"},
  {"box_2d": [489, 122, 550, 371], "label": "text"}
]
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
33
Opening of the Conference.
MONDAY.
Morning Session.
THE Thirty-fifth General Conference—and the Third Annual Conference of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives opened at the Imperial Hotel, Russell Square, London, W.C. 1, on Whit-Monday, the 21st day of May, 1923.
The General President of the Union—Mr. T. F. Richards—took the chair promptly at 10 o'clock a.m., and was supported on the platform by Messrs. C. Bleakley (Edinburgh), A. J. Dobbs (Leeds), C. Mayes (Kettering), J. Manners (Bristol), W. Hindes, J.P. (Norwich), Alex. Smith (Wolverhampton), T. Adnitt (Leicester), A. W. Lyne (Northampton), Len. Smith (Northampton), W. Warner (Hinckley), C. Bates (Rushden), and E. L. Poulton, J.P. (General Secretary).
In addition there was present on the platform, Messrs. D. McCarthy and W. R. Smith J.P. (National Organisers), together with Mr. J. Buckle, M.P., J.P. (Parliamentary Representative of the Union).
The Chairman's Welcome.
THE CHAIRMAN: On behalf of the Executive Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives I offer you a very hearty welcome to London, and hope on this occasion as on all others, we shall concentrate our minds and intelligence for the benefit of the members whom we loyally and steadfastly represent.
Some of you are possibly aware that our General Secretary met with a very serious set-back in his health in the early part of this month. As a Council we considered the matter yesterday, and whilst we should like to see him take a prolonged rest, he informed us he had consulted a medical man and thanks to a small respite our General Secretary feels a little better. He has agreed to take another rest after this week, and we hope it will bring him back to health and vigour again. Let us hope and pray that.our wishes will fructify in this direction.
We do not intend to take advantage of the presence of the General Secretary this week, and as a Council we decided to do all we could—including Mr. Bordoli—to try and relieve the General Secretary as much as possible in connection with his duties.
Mr. E. L. POULTON thanked the Chairman and the delegates for their kindness.
Election of Doorkeeper.
Upon the proposition of Mr. J. Woodward, seconded by Mr. Albert Mason, it was unanimously decided that Mr. H. C. Robbins, of the London Metropolitan Branch, should act as Doorkeeper.
Tellers.
The following delegates were nominated for the position as Tellers:—Mr. H. Cramp- horn (Leicester), Mr. R. White (Edinburgh), Mr. W. Langley (Higham and Rushden), Mr. H. Fraser (Norwich), Miss E. Sherwin (Leicester Women's). Mr. D. Astley was also nominated, but declined to go to the vote.
Upon the names of the nominees being put to the vote the CHAIRMAN declared Mr. W. Langley and Miss E. Sherwin the two Tellers elected, the voting being:—
Mr. W. Langley  62   Mr. H. Fraser  16
Miss F. Sherwin  40  Mr. R. White  20
Mr. H. Cramphorn  30 
B


---
34
Standing Orders Committee.
THE CHAIRMAN then read the Minutes of the Standing Orders Committee as
Minutes of the Standing Orders Committee held at the Head Offices of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, on Wednesday, 17th April, 1923, at 11.30 a.m.
Those present were Mr. W. R. Townley, J.P. (Chairman), Alderman A. Hill, M.P.,
J.P., Mr. F. C. Jex, Mr. S. Thompson, J.P., Mr. Geo. Chester (Secretary to the Com-
mittee), Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P. (General Secretary) and Mr. Ernest Bordoli (Con-
fidential Clerk).
Social Gathering.
It was decided to ask the Conference to adjourn at 12 o'clock noon, on
Wednesday, the 23rd May, 1923, in order to enable the delegates to have lunch
before proceeding to Windsor as the guests of the Council.
Political.
In connection with the reports to be submitted by Mr. J. Buckle, M.P., J.P.,
and Alderman A. Hill, M.P., J.P., it was agreed to suggest that such reports be taken
immediately following the paragraph in the Council's Address dealing with political
matters.
National Health Insurance Department.
The report dealing with the work of the above-named department will be taken
on Thursday, the 24th May, 1923, at 2 p.m.
Agenda.
The Committee then dealt with the resolutions submitted by the Council and
the branches seriatim, and arranged them in the order which in judgment of the
Committee the said resolutions should be dealt with by the Conference, after which
the Committee adjourned.
(Signed), W. R. TOWNLEY,
Chairman.
The Minutes were unanimously endorsed.
The following report was then presented relative to the election of the Standing
Orders Committee :-
As a result of the voting of the delegates for the Standing Orders Committee,
the following five members have been elected, in the order of precedence named :-
Mr. F. C. Jex.
Mr. W. Townley.
Mr. G. Chester.
Mr. A. Hill.
Mr. S. Thompson.
The number of votes recorded for each delegate are as follow, but the delegates'
names who failed to secure a single vote are omitted.
RESULT OF VOTING.
Standing Orders Committee, Conference, 1923.
Name of Delegate.
Branch.
No. of Votes
Astley, Mr. D.
Leicester
3
Barnes, J.P., Mr. S. J. B.
Desborough
3
Batchelor, Mr. E.
Higham and Rushden
1
Bell-Richards, Mrs. M. J.
Leicester No 3
15
Bird, Mr. A.
Norwich
2
Birt, Mr. A.
Billings, Miss P.
Northampton
1
Blissett, Mr. W. N.
Leicester No. 3
2
Campbell, Mr. G.
Derby
1
Chapman, Mr. J. F.
Kettering
4
*Chester, Mr. G.
Kettering No. 2
5
Cohen, Mr. H.
Kettering
48*
Coltman, Mr. W. G.
Norwich No. 2
1
Cramphorn, Mr. H.
Kettering No. 2
3
Curry, Mr. R.
Leicester
1
Dunn, Mr. R.
Bristol No. 2
1
Folkard, J.P., Mr. A. H.
Stafford
1
Fountain, Mr. J.
Norwich No. 2
5
Fraser, Mr. H.
Glasgow
3
Gamble, Mr. M.
Norwich
5
*Elected.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
35
RESULT OF VOTING-Continued.
Name of Delegate.
Hawgood, Mr. H.
*Hill, M.P., J.P., Mr. A.
Hindes, Miss M.
Hooper, J.P., Mr. J. H.
Jeffreys, Miss L.
Jeffs, Mr. A.
*Jex, Mr. F. C.
Johnson, J.P., Mr. I. H.
Jolley, Mr. J.
Jones, Mr. G. H.
Langley, J.P., Mr. W.
Law, Mr. E.
Mason, Mr. A.
Osborne, Mr. J. T.
Pain, Mr. W. E.
Parbury, Mr. G.
Parker, Mr. M. Α.
Pitts, Mr. W.
Plowman, Mr. A.
Poole, Mr. L. P.
Branch.
Northampton
Norwich
Leicester No. 2
Street
Leicester No. 3
Leicester No. 2
Norwich
Daventry
Wolverhampton
Kingswood
Higham and Rushden
Northampton No. 2
London Metro.
Bristol
Kingswood
Leicester
Leicester
Northampton
Wellingborough
Wellingborough
No. of Votes.
1
44*
2
1
1
4
52*
1
1
1
16
5
2
3
2
38
4
5
1
Poulton, Mr. H.
London Metro.
4
Randall, J.P.. Mr. A. G.
Kingswood
3
Reid, Mr. J. P.
Arbroath..
17
Robertson, Mr. T.
Glasgow
3
Sherwin, Miss E.
Leicester No. 3
1
2
Smalley, Mrs. A.
Smith, Mr. G.
Leicester
1
Leicester No. 2
3
Standeven, Mr. G.
Stott, Mr. A.
London South
1
Heckmondwike
1
Taylor, Mr. J. E.
Kettering No. 2
1
Tebbutt, Mr. E.
Wellingborough
1
*Thompson, J.P., Mr. S.
Northampton No. 2
39*
*Townley, J.P., Mr. W. R.
Northampton
51*
Vallance, Mr. T. H.
Leicester No. 2
5
Wescoe, Mr. J.
Leeds
12
Wheeler, Mr. J.
Leicester
1
White, Mr. R.
Edinburgh
2
Williams, Mr. H.
Leicester
1
Woodward, Mr. J.
London Metro.
1
Wyman, Mr. W. A.
Wellingborough
3
* Elected.
Roll Call.
At this juncture the Roll was called, and every delegate-with the exception of Mr.
J. Wescoe-answered to their names.
The Chairman reported that he had received the following letter from Mr. J. Wescoe,
of Leeds, and explained that quite recently Mr. Wescoe had suffered several bereavements:
(COPY.)
THE NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
MR. T. F. RICHARDS.
LEEDS NO. 1 BRANCH,
4, UPPER FOUNTAINE STREET, LEEDS.
15th May, 1923.
DEAR SIR, Many thanks for your kind and sympathetic letter. I regret to
inform you that my health at the present time is not what I should like it to be,
therefore I intend having a few days at the seaside with a view to an improvement
in health, therefore please excuse my absence from the Conference.
I hope all Officers and Delegates may have a happy and prosperous Conference.
With best wishes to all,
Truly yours,
(Signed) JAS. WESCOE.
that under the special circumstances Mr. Wescoe be granted leave of absence.
Upon the proposition of Mr. G. Parbury, seconded by Mr. A. G. Randall, it was agreed


---
36
The Chairman's Address.
Mr. T. F. RICHARDS: You will find the Council's Address is very elaborate and
gives many things I wished to raise. Further, we have now two Members of Parliament
instead of one, and I don't want to trespass upon the political situation. I should like to
say that I don't mind how many M.P's this Union can boast of, but I do think when you
once have a Member of Parliament he should be retained come what may. We never
ought to lose a seat once it has been captured, and although it may bring comfort to some
minds that our friends Buckle and Hill have taken the place of Mr. Walter Smith, it is no
(Hear, hear.) Once Labour has won a seat it ought always to be ours
for ever and a day. I look at the matter most seriously. When a person has served and
given four years of his life for the benefit of the workers and an organisation, and then
another person can come into that constituency only three weeks before the election and
win the seat, it passes my comprehension. It is not to the credit of our members, and I
hope our friends in the Wellingborough Division of Northants will endeavour to see that
in future they vote in the right direction. Further than that, if the Union had done
nothing in this division one might understand it. The work done by the Union for the
members there is and has been enormous, and it is not pleasurable to find that we only
have two Members of Parliament when we ought to have more. That seat should never
have been lost.
Another matter I should like to dwell upon is our National Agreement which we fixed
up last December. I don't wish to boast, but so far as the employers are concerned, we
did not find them so antagonistic upon the last occasion as has been the case in many
instances. When you consider our position and compare it with other industries it com-
pares very favourably indeed with what those in other trades are getting. (Hear, hear.)
I hope when we get to that part of the report we shall find someone who will confirm this,
and although we did not carry the whole of the country with us-taking the vote as a
whole it was a good one—and if there are any of the minority present perhaps they will
voice their views as to what they think we should have obtained. I think we will now turn
to the Address of the Council, and any other points I wish to raise will be dealt with upon
the particular paragraphs.
The Council's Address.
The Address of the Council to Conference was, upon the proposition of Mr. George
Parbury, seconded by Mr. J. Wheeler, taken as read. Appended is a copy of the Address:
2nd May, 1923.
FELLOW DELEGATES,
1.-THE NATIONAL (DECEMBER, 1922) AGREEMENT.
Since our last Conference, we have effected another national agreement
with the Employers' Federation in connection with working conditions for the
trade. The Agreement is as follows:—
CONFERENCE AGREEMENT.
Uniformity in Labour Price of similar classes of Goods.
1. Subject to Resolutions 1 and 5 (d) of the Terms of Settlement it is
desirable that a uniform system of prices should obtain, and that the general
outline or ground-work of such system should be arranged on a broad basis,
so that the essential conditions and prices can be applied or adapted to the
same class of labour and materials in all areas producing similar classes of goods.
Basis of Piecework Statements.
2. Where general or shop statements do not at present exist, the Local
Arbitration Boards, at the request of either side, shall proceed forthwith,
upon the ratification of this Agreement, to prepare piecework statements
for their respective districts (subject to Clause 1). All manufacturers and
operatives shall accept such statements in their entirety as a basis of payment,
but the system shall be termed a daywork system, and the wages of the opera-

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

37

tives shall be regulated and adjusted weekly according to the amount of work
done at the prices fixed by the statements for each operation or process,
provided that no adult operative shall be engaged at less than the minimum
wage rate without the written permit of the Union or the Local Arbitration
Board in cases where the minimum wage is applicable, and provided also that
when operatives, whether on full or short time, have been supplied with a full
quantity of work, and have been granted reasonable facilities for the proper
performance of their work, and do not earn the minimum or agreed wage rate
at the statement prices, they shall be paid only for the actual work done at
the statement prices. In cases where circumstances arise that prevent the
operatives earning the minimum or agreed wage rate owing to bad materials
or special care required in the performance of their work, such cases shall be
subject to special adjustment between the employer or his representatives,
and the operatives or their trade union officials.
Non-Restriction of Output.
3. It is understood that operatives use their trade skill and productive
ability to the best advantage and fullest capacity provided they are paid the
full rate of wage for all output.
Regulation of Conditions of Employment.
4. (a) Where operatives attend at the factories on the instructions of
the employers or their representatives, work shall be found for them for at
least half a day, except when short time is being worked, and in that case
operatives, whether engaged on day or piecework, shall be informed overnight
if their services will not be required on the next working day, and shall be
informed before the mid-day interval if they will not be required to attend
in the afternoon. If no such intimation is given, and operatives attend at the
factories, work shall be found for them for a period of not less than four hours
in the morning and three hours in the afternoon, or they shall be paid for the
four hours and three hours respectively at not less than the minimum or agreed
wage rate.

(b) This clause shall not apply in the case of machinery breaking down in
any factory after the operatives have entered, or in the case of illness or absence
of any operative which interferes with the organisation of the factory, in which
cases the operatives shall be allowed to leave the factory at once. It is under-
stood that employers and their representatives will take all reasonable pre-
caution to avoid the necessity of sending operatives away from the works on
account of breakdown of machinery or disorganisation of the factories.
Uniformity of Organisation.
5. All operatives shall be subject to the same organisation and discipline
in regard to attendance at the factories during working hours.
Hours of Labour.
6. The ordinary working week shall be one of 48 hours.
Period of Training.
7. A person under 18 shall not be eligible for the minimum wages specified
in the succeeding clauses unless and until he or she has had twelve months'
experience in the trade. During this period of probation a young person shall
receive an advance in wages at the end of six months. When the twelve
months' probationary period has elapsed, he or she shall be paid at the minimum
rate applicable to his or her age.


---
D. The following operations or processes in the Closing Departments and
Stock or Shoe Rooms are exempted from the minimum wage and
graduated scale rates :
Knot-tying
Inking
Solutioning
Repairs and odd jobs
machine
Brushing off by hand or
Loop-covering
Trimming ends by hand
This clause, however, is not intended to permit the continued employment
of adult workers at these operations at less than the minimum wage
rates unless permits have been granted to the operatives.
CONFIRMED.
E. PIECEWORK STATEMENTS shall be revised in conformity with the
schedule set out in paragraph 6 (b) of the February (1922) Interim
Agreement, as follows :-
(a) MALE OPERATIVES.
Atter Index
Figure falls
to:
Corresponding
Minimum
Wage Rates.
PERCENTAGE TO BE DEDUCTED FROM TOTAL
EARNINGS ON:
Statements
Statements
Per week.
A.
Statements
Statements
Points.
B.
C.
D.
70
56/-
Nett
2%
10%
5%
50
54/-
2%
5%
5%
12%
7%
30
i
50/-
7%
10%
17% 121%
REFERENCE.
STATEMENTS A.-All Statements compiled or revised under the 1919
Agreement, which came into force on or before 31st December, 1919,
and upon which 10 per cent. was added to the total earnings under
the Interim (1920) Agreement.
STATEMENTS B.-All Statements which came into operation on or after
1st January, 1920, and upon which 7½ per cent. was added to the total
earnings under the Interim (1920) Agreement.
STATEMENTS C.-Those Statements, the Piecework prices of which include
the percentage increases granted by the Interim (1920) Agreement.
STATEMENTS D. - The Northampton County Clickers' Statement, which
came into operation on the 2nd June, 1919, and upon which only
5 per cent. was added to the total earnings under the Interim (1920)
Agreement.
(b) FEMALE OPERATIVES.
Corresponding
Minimum
PERCENTAGE TO BE ADDED TO OR DEDUCTED
FROM TOTAL EARNINGS ON:
Statements
B.
After Index
Figure falls
to:
Points.
Wage Rates.
Per week.
Statements
A.
70
50
Plus 21%
110%
Nett
4/0
30
31-
Nett
1
REFERENCE.
34/-
33-
Ded. 14%
21
"
Statements
C.
Ded. 7%
84%
10%
"
"
STATEMENTS A. - All Statements compiled or revised under 1919 Agree-
ment, which came into force on or before 31st December, 1919, and
upon which the 10 per cent. was added to the total earnings under the
Interim (1920) Agreement.


---
Here is the extracted text:
43
contained in any agreement or award made between the Federation and the
Union, or which extends beyond the period for which any such national agree-
ment or award, or any local agreement or award of a similar character affecting
federated manufacturers has been fixed.
(b) Local Boards of Arbitration are recommended to bear in mind the
importance of maintaining national uniformity in regard to the conditions of
employment, hours of labour, the basis of the rates of wages and the Holiday
(Provision) Scheme.
Strikes and Lock-outs.
22. The Conference re-affirms Resolution 8 of the Terms of Settlement
of 19th April, 1895, which is as follows:-
"No strike or lock-out shall be entered into on the part of any body
of workmen, members of the National Union, or any manufacturers
represented on any Local Board of Arbitration."
(a) Where grievances exist they shall be investigated immediately by
representatives of the Local Manufacturers' Association and of the
local branch of the Union concerned, with a view to adjustment.
(b) Where any strike or lock-out takes place and is continued beyond
the period of three days allowed by the Agreement of 31st March,
1910, the right of the Federation or the Union, as the case may be,
to claim upon the monetary guarantee under that Agreement and the
Trust Deed, may be exercised by application to a National Umpire
appointed in accordance with Clause 9 of the Trust Deed and on the
recommendation of the Minister of Labour for a forfeiture either
(a) by way of fine or penalty or (b) by way of damages or compensation
for loss sustained, and in any case where the latter alternative is
adopted the amount of such loss shall be assessed by a committee of
three representatives of the Federation and three representatives of
the Union, and in the event of their disagreement the question shall
be referred to the National Umpire.
Joint Standing Committee.
23. A Standing Committee of three representatives of the Federation
and three representatives of the Union, with the Chairman of the Conference,
shall be appointed to deal with all matters arising out of or in connection with
the Terms of Settlement of 1895, so far as they are now operative, and any other
National Agreement between the Federation and the Union and this Agreement,
including any disputes that may arise as to the interpretation of such agree-
ments, provided that due regard is paid to the authoritative decisions that
have already been given under the above-named agreements.
Conflict with Local Arbitration Boards.
24. Anything in this Agreement which is in conflict with existing local
awards or agreements shall be remitted to the parties by whom such agreements
were made, or to the Local Arbitration Board. Failing agreement by the
local authority, the matter in dispute may be remitted to the Standing Com-
mittee, acting in an advisory capacity with a view to obviating the necessity
of a reference to the Arbitrator for such local board.
Responsibility for Observance of Agreement.
25. Both parties to this Agreement undertake to use such means as are
at their disposal to ensure its due observance by all employers and workers,
whether members of their respective organisations or not.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

45
We feel, however, that the present is not an opportune time to ask for an
increased contribution for such a scheme, and it is quite clear that there
must be a very considerable increase in contributions if a scheme is to be
incorporated in the Rules. We do not, therefore, feel warranted in recom-
mending the adoption of a Superannuation Scheme.

3.—COUNCIL MEMBER—No. 6 DISTRICT.
It will be observed that District No. 6 is still vacant. This we very much
regret, it is however no fault of ours that the vacancy continues. In our judg-
ment it is a very mistaken policy, that because of some disagreement that one
district may have upon a small portion of our policy that they refuse to send
a representative to take part in the executive work of the Union. In our
judgment such action tends rather to weaken than strengthen, and we can
only hope that the LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH will see their way to
reconsider their decision, and take their full share of the work of the Union as
a whole.

4.—UNEMPLOYMENT.
We regret to have to report that unemployment and underemployment
has been above the normal, and as a result the call upon the Trade fund has
been somewhat serious. The rate of pay which was settled by the Edinburgh
Conference has increased the liability upon the fund, and this will be better
seen by the following series of tables :-

Half year ending 1920	
June, £9,328 16 10	
Dec. 46,061 16 3	

Half year ending 1921	
June £76,920 17 10
Dec. 19,536 17 11

Half year ending 1922
June £23,304 6 11
Dec. 18,534 12 4

£55,390 13 1	
£96,457 15 9	
£41,838 19 3
Grand Total for three years, £193,687 8s. 1d.
It will be seen that when the Suspension Scheme was in full operation
it made a very serious inroad into our Funds, the amount paid out being
shewn in the following tables :-

For the half year ending December, 1920
For the half year ending June, 1921...

£46,061 16 3
76,920 17 10
£122,982 14 1

It must be apparent that such demands could not be continued to be
met unless an increased contribution was paid. We feel sure the delegates
will bear this in mind when the question of Unemployment and Out of Work
Pay are dealt with as per Agenda.
The result of the payment from the Trade Funds of such a large sum of
money has had the effect of reducing the balance, although it may be said
that the reduction is not a serious one. The position, however, of the fund
would have been an entirely different one had we not conserved our funds
during the period of the war, and the fact that we have explicit rules govern-
ing the claims for unemployment benefit. We are fully aware that it is held
that unemployment benefit should be paid even for odd days off; this,
however, would mean a very much higher contribution than the present one
to meet the increased liability, but in our opinion the present is not an
opportune time to increase the contributions. Although, as stated above, we
do not feel justified in bringing forward a scheme for payment of odd days,
nevertheless we claim that the policy we have pursued has been such a one as


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
46
made on the 22nd January, 1923, and the details circulated to the branches in
to lighten the burdens of the members. Our latest departure from rule was
the following terms :-
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT.
22nd January, 1923.
Benefit, the Council at their meeting to-day have again considered the matter,
and eventually the Council unanimously decided that no benefit can be
Owing to certain irregularities as to the payment of Unemployment
allowed unless Rule 223 is strictly carried out.
The Council are, however, prepared to consider the claims of certain
suspended members, viz.:
NO benefit will be payable until after the fourth consecutive week of
suspension, holiday periods not to be reckoned, and payment will then only
be allowed from the commencement of the fifth week. The Officials must,
even then, be quite satisfied that the suspension is a bona fide suspension
before any benefit is allowed.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
This policy was endorsed by the branches, and we venture to suggest that
it has been of considerable help to the members, who, owing to unfortunate
circumstances, are forced out of employment.
Upon further consideration of the question of suspension from employ-
ment and the unfortunate position in which many members find themselves
owing to the fact that although, technically, it may be said they have not
received a full discharge in accordance with Rule 223, the method adopted of
"suspension" really means that the member is unemployed. It is clear to
us from the evidence we have before us from month to month at the meetings
of the Council, that it is impossible (financially) upon present contributions to
grant benefit to members immediately they are suspended. We do, however,
feel that something must be done to try and meet such a position, and we
therefore now recommend to the delegates in Conference that we insert a rule
in the Rule Book upon the following lines :-
ANY member who may be suspended from work for more than TWELVE
CONSECUTIVE WORKING DAYS shall be allowed to declare upon the
Out of Work Fund of the Union, payment from such Fund to the member
to COMMENCE as and from the THIRTEENTH WORKING DAY upon
which the member is not employed; it always being understood that the
the suspension
benefit is allowed under this rule. Holidays are not to be counted as
entitling a member to claim benefit under this Rule. In the event of a
member resuming work, and again being suspended, he must serve a further
probation of twelve consecutive working days before again being entitled
to re-declare upon the Out of Work Fund under this special rule.
NOTE. - For the purposes of the paragraph relating to non-payment for
holidays the following is the method for calculating the same:-
Easter,
three days.
Whitsuntide, three days.
August,
one week.
Christmas, one week.
For SCOTLAND-The July Holidays, one week.
The New Year Holidays, one week.


---
```text
47
The question of INSURANCE BY INDUSTRY for unemployment is a
matter which has engaged our attention for some time. The trade union
movement is divided upon the subject; nevertheless, for ourselves we lean to
industries only, because in some industries the contribution would be high and
the view that it should be made a national matter rather than one for
the rate of benefit low owing to the heavy rate of unemployment, whilst in
others such as workers under Government and municipalities who are in
regular employment-would escape their full responsibilities and should pay
backing up the General Council of the Trades Union Congress and the Labour
to a national fund. Along with other Unions we have done our part in
Party in striving to bring about a more enlightened and humane policy towards
those who find themselves without work. We hold strongly to the view,
even if it is done at a loss, that it would be much better to give the workers
some employment rather than pay them for doing nothing. All kinds of work
are needed to be done to put the nation in a satisfactory position, yet the
Government steadfastly resist any of the schemes put forward by the Labour
Party. We can only hope this constant refusal of the Government to adopt
such a policy as outlined time after time by the Labour Party will so open the
eyes of the electorate that within a short period of time they will return a
majority of members to Parliament in favour and determined to carry out the
policy of the Labour Party.
In the STATE UNEMPLOYMENT SECTION of the Union's work, the
sum of £84,739 1s. 4d. has been paid out from March, 1921, until the end of
December, 1922, through the Central Office. As a result of experience we have
found out that when the forms are properly filled up there is very little
trouble in dealing with the claims which are promptly dealt with. The pay-
ment of the State benefit to the members through the branches of the Union
is of considerable advantage to the members in receipt of unemployment
benefit, the benefit from the Union and the State being made at one and the
same time. Further, we venture to suggest that the fact of signing the
unemployment books at the branch offices rather than at the Employment
Exchanges is also of advantage to the members.
5.-ORGANISING.
The organising work of the Union is being continued in all parts of the
Kingdom by the branch officers in addition to the General President, Mr.
T. F. Richards; Mr. D. McCarthy, Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., and the General
Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P. In relation to the position of Mr. W. R.
Smith, J.P. (who was not, we regret to say, returned at the General Election
in 1922) the rule provided that :-
"Should a Parliamentary Agent be elected to the House of Commons who
"was a full time national official before the election to the House, and
"fails to secure re-election to the House of Commons, he should act as
"organiser for the Union until the following Conference, when his
position would be determined."
We felt we were carrying out the rule, and meeting the situation-in
as much as Mr. J. Buckle, M.P., who was an organiser, had been returned to
Parliament and consequently resigned his position as organiser-in appointing
Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., to the position of organiser, thus having two organisers
outlined in the rules. This appointment however, requires your endorsement
to you to endorse our action in this matter; especially having regard to the
as stated in the quotation of the rule named above. We confidently appeal
according to rule, and ensuring at the same time a position for Mr. Smith as
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
48
1922, Report and which policy was not objected to by any branch.
fact that we stated our policy and procedure upon the question in the November
The question of organising is one that branches should constantly have
before them, and meetings of members should be called so that in consultation
with the members the real position can be ascertained as to whether the
Agreements are being carried out in their entirety, so that they may be
adjusted before any serious consequences grow up in any particular district
We trust, therefore, apart from the national organising, that the branches will
keep up an active campaign to still further increase the membership of the
carried out, it being clearly understood that the Central Office, whether
Union, and also, as stated above, to see that the National Agreements are
to give help and assistance in this important branch of the work of the Union.
through the National Officers or a member of the Council, is always prepared
6.-FINANCE.
The financial position of the Union is as follows :-
Cash in Hand, Sick Department
دو
وو
دو
Trade
Political
Fidelity
"
Branch Funds
"
...
£114,599 5 5
157,744 11 11
5,222 14 3
497 15 7
93,979 6 10
Total
...
£372,043 14 0
These figures represent the balances on the 30th April, 1923. Having
regard to the heavy demands made upon the Funds during the past three
years, we feel our financial position is a satisfactory one.
7.-POLITICS.
The Political situation both nationally and internationally is very serious.
In our opinion the Government signally fails in rising to its responsibilities
in dealing with problems which are before the nation. Whether it is
Unemployment, Housing, or Finance, the situation is equally unsatisfactory.
Internationally, timidity, rather than courage seems to be the guiding policy
of the Government. We know the Prime Minister has said "tranquility" is
desired. Tranquility there cannot be whilst so many millions of people are
constantly on the verge of poverty. It is fortunate that we have at the
present time in the House of Commons a strong Labour Party. We venture to
say the past few months' work of the Party in the House of Commons has been
very valuable to the nation as a whole. It is not always the amount of work
accomplished or shewn in black and white as Laws of the Land which count,
but things prevented being done very often are of equal value, and we venture
to say that had there not been a strong opposition such as the Labour Party,
bad as things are to-day, they would have been worse without such representa-
tives being present to fight for and on behalf of the workers.
With pleasure we record the fact that two of our colleagues were returned
to Parliament in November, 1922, in the persons of Mr. John Buckle, M.P.,
J.P., for Eccles, and Alderman Alfred Hill, M.P., J.P., for the West Division
help forward humane administration in laws whereby the lot of the workers
of Leicester, who along with other labour members are doing their best to


---
Here is the extracted text:
49
will be permanently improved. We sincerely regret the loss of the seat in the
Wellingborough Division of Northants, which was represented by our colleague,
Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., from 1918-1922. We do not profess to understand
Mr. Smith that he should be rejected. The workers are in the great majority
when a member of Parliament has served the constituency so faithfully as did
when the loss is due to the workers themselves. We can only hope that upon
in the Division, and it is useless blinking the fact and trying to blame others,
reflection the workers in the Wellingborough Division will realize their
mistake, and determine at the earliest possible moment to return a labour
candidate to Parliament.
Our colleague Mr. Len. Smith put up a great fight in the Wells Division
of Somerset, and undoubtedly during the campaign did a considerable amount
of good work to make known the policy of labour which we hope will bear
fruit in the days to come.
We have, as a result of the vote in the Wellingborough Division of
Northants and the Wells Division of Somerset, fully and seriously considered
☑ the position as shewn in the General Election. In connection with Welling-
borough, a special Committee was appointed consisting of the General
President, General Secretary, and Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., to go into the
question, both in the Division and the general position, along with the
Executive Committee of the Wellingborough Divisional Labour Party.
As a result, we have come to the conclusion that for the present it would
not be advantageous for us to place a prospective candidate in the Division.
Following upon this decision we terminated the engagement so far as the
Union is concerned-of the Election Agent, Mr. H. Allen.
In the Wells Division the position is somewhat different. There the
circumstances were such as to be practically new to the Labour Party, but
having regard to the whole of the circumstances and the vote recorded, we
did not feel justified in continuing a full time Agent in that area, and the
necessary action was taken to terminate the engagement of Mr. O. Lewis.
The details of the voting in the four constituencies where the Union had
candidates is set out hereunder:
LEICESTER, WEST (39,604).
A. Hill (Lab.)
*J. F. Green (Ν.D.P.)
Dr. G. Spero (L.)
Labour Gain.
12,929
8,137
7,631
Majority
4,792
1918-J. F. Green (Co.-N.D.P.), majority 14,223.
ECCLES (35,899).
J. Buckle (Lab.)
14,354
*M. Stevens (C.)
13,551
Labour Gain.
Majority
803
1918— M. Stevens (Co.-U.), majority 12,413


---
WELLINGBOROUGH (32,820).
G. II. Shakespeare (N.L.)
*W. R. Smith (Lab.)
N.L. Gin.
14,995
11,057
Majority 3,938
1918 W. R. Smith (Lab.), majority 997.
WELLS (27,526).
R. Bruford (C.)
A. L. Hobhouse (L.)
L. Smith (Lab.) ...
10,210
7,156
4,048
Majority 3,054
1918-H. Greer (Co.-U.), majority 2,851.
No Change.
"DAILY HERALD."
In close connection with the movement exists the need for day by day
propaganda and the placing of information at the disposal of the people
whereby they may be kept fully acquainted with the various movements that
indeed generally. The Trades Union Congress, in September last, undertook
are taking place in this and other countries both industrially, politically and
tion by taking over the "Daily Herald," which paper is now the property of
on behalf of the movement to place at the disposal of the people such informa
Unions to the Trades Congress, and the Executive of the Labour Party as
the General Council of the Trades Union Congress as representing the affiliated
representing the organisations attached to the Labour Party. Since last
September the paper has increased in circulation very considerably, and we
now is to increase still further the circulation. There ought not to be any
venture to say that it is also a much improved paper. The great need
difficulty in securing a daily sale of half a million copies. We appeal to the
delegates to do what they can to increase the circulation of their own paper.
In connection with the paper the need still exists for further financial support.
The General Council, as the responsible body
ment, is appealing for funds so as to place beyond any doubt the continuance
on behalf of the organised move-
of the "Herald," and we ask for your approval in paying in advance for
the years 1924 and 1925 the membership fee of 2d. out of the 3d. contribution
which was specially earmarked for the "Daily Herald" and propaganda
purposes, so that we can hand over this amount to the General Council to
enable them in their turn to pay the "Herald" sufficient money with a view
to enable the paper to be placed upon a paying basis. If you agree, and we
sincerely hope you will, it will be one more Union to help in ensuring such a
policy being persued by the pap r as will constantly keep in vigour, and with
prominence before the public, not only the crying evils of our day, but finding
out the remedies whereby such evils could be totally abolished.
It has also been decided to ask every Trade Union Branch in the country
effort either on the part of officials or members, will, if put into effective
to co-operate in a plan which, without asking any great sacrifice of time or
operation, ensure for the paper a very large circulation indeed and make it
entirely self-supporting.
has been selected and adopted after consideration of many alternative schemes.
The plan has never been tried before, though it is simplicity itself. It
reasonable promise-not to buy a non-Labour daily uniess he has already
By these cards, every Trade Unionist is asked to give a very simple and
The pledge cards are intended for members of the Union.
bought the daily paper which the Unions own.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

51
8.—OBITUARY.

We exceedingly regret we have to report the loss of some of our
colleagues who held official positions in the Union.
Mr. W. BRAY, LONDON METRO. BRANCH, was, from the
point of view of his being secretary to the Branch only in office a
short time, although for many years Mr. Bray had taken an active
part in the work of the Union in endeavouring to consolidate the
general position.
In the person of Mr. WM. H. LOWE, J.P., LEICESTER No. 2
BRANCH, he was amongst the first members to join the Union, and
was the first secretary to the Branch, and held such position from
1890-1921. He was for a considerable number of years Treasurer of
the Union, which position carried with it a seat on the Executive
Council. In both positions the late Mr. Lowe rendered yeoman
service both to the Union as a whole and the Leicester members in
particular. In addition, Mr. Lowe was for a time a member of the
Leicester Town Council, Treasurer to the Leicester Trades Council, and
a Justice of the Peace, so it will be seen that he lead a very busy life
on behalf of the movement and such men can be ill-spared.
We have also to report that we have lost by death Mr. W. J.
MURBY, Manager to the National Health Insurance Department of
the Union from 1913 until February, 1923. In Mr. Murby we had an
officer who could be thoroughly relied upon, and one who did his work
in a courteous and efficient manner. For many years Mr. Murby had
taken an active part in politics, especially in connection with the
I.L.P., for whom he addressed meetings in all parts of the country.
For many years Mr. Murby was also a member of the Leicester Town
Council. Mr. Murby never spared himself in striving to help the
working classes of the country, whose interests he had so much at
heart.
Mr. THOMAS A. WATTS, J.P., who was Secretary to our
Kendal Branch for 32 years, died in November last. He was for
many years a tower of strength in the Kendal district and was an
officer of great tact and discretion. He was a member of the Kendal
Town Council until his death, manager of one of the public schools,
and a magistrate both for Kendal and Westmoreland.
To the relatives of our departed colleagues we have tendered, in
your name, the sympathy and condolences of the members, resting
assured that their services were fully appreciated, and we can only
hope the result of their work will continue to act as an inspiration to
others to carry on and to still bring about greater success in the work
they have been compelled to lay down.

9.—CONSUMPTION.

For a very considerable period, a number of our members have been
under the special treatment of Major C. H. Stevens, of Wimbledon, for the cure
of consumption. The treatment is of such a character that the members need not
pay a visit to London, their case being dealt with by correspondence between
themselves and the Major. During the period there have been 75 members
under treatment, and the reports to date show on the whole a very consider-


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

52

able benefit has resulted to the great majority of members treated. We feel
the time long enough to state that in our opinion the remedies which Major
Stevens has applied are of such a character as to warrant us in saying that
with care and attention to the instructions given from time to time by Major
Stevens, there is a reasonable prospect of members being restored to health and
strength again.

We have had before us the reports of the members and branch officials
as to the progress made, and these reports bear out the statements made
above.

Having regard to these statements we feel fully justified in asking for your
full assent to our continuing to send suitable patients for treatment. The finan-
cial arrangements made by us are of such a character that the money paid to
Major Stevens has proven to be well spent, £645 for 75 cases over a period of
18 months. We would remind the membership that although this is not in
the rules, it is really a very substantial benefit granted to those members of
the Union, who unfortunately need special treatment for this dread complaint.

10. THE UNION'S JUBILEE.

We would remind the delegates to the Conference, that in February next,
the Union will have been established fifty years-years of great and grave
importance, and despite the slowness with which we move, a great deal has
been done to soften on the one hand, and improve on the other, the conditions
of the workers in the industry. It is equally true that a great deal has to be
done before we can attain to anything like what can be regarded as a satis
factory position. By reference to the report of the Union for 1874, we find
there were Thirty Three Branches with a membership of 4,195. To-day we
have Seventy Two Branches and 75,000 members 20,000 of whom are women.
In 1874 the Funds of the Union stood at £67 15s. Otd., whilst to-day the total
funds of the Union are £372,043 14s. Od., thus shewing remarkable progress so
far as the Union's finances are concerned. We venture to say that if the
present was the time to give in a report relating to the past years, it would be
found that the Union had made very great progress in many ways. We feel
some special recognition of the fact of having 50 years of history now behind
us should be taken note of, and we, therefore, propose to make certain
suggestions on the floor of the Conference itself, relating thereto.

11.—MATTERS INTERNATIONAL.

So far as the Boot & Shoe Workers' International Union is concerned,
although we are keeping as closely in touch as possible with the said body,
we cannot at present report any great progress. As a matter of fact, a
meeting of the Executive of the International was called in the early part of
this year, but it was found impossible at the last moment—to have the
meeting in consequence of the disturbed state, particularly of Germany, which
was brought about by the action of France in the Ruhr. This we sincerely
regret, and we are hoping that within the very near future normal conditions
will prevail and thus enable the work to proceed in this connection.

Upon the wider sphere of the International position, it becomes more and
more apparent that one of the great needs of nations is for a better, clearer
and closer understanding between the peoples, whereby not only may we be
able to prevent war taking place, but such a policy being pursued both
economically and industrially as will enable the workers to be for ever released
from the circumstances which make for many millions one continuous round
of anxiety and dread of what may happen from day to day.


---
12.-IN CONCLUSION,
having regard to the abnormal circumstances by which not only our own
industry, but throughout the world generally, finds itself surrounded we feel
justified in claiming that we have successfully held our position in the midst
of very grave difficulties which we have had from time to time to face, such as
the last national agreement. There is, however, an obligation not merely
upon the national and local officers of the Union, but upon the membership
generally to do all they can to strengthen the organisation and to maintain a
sides. We have no sort of doubt that the times ahead of us will be strenuous
live interest in the work of the Union both on its industrial and political
times, and will require a great deal of endurance and steadfastness if we are
to go forward. We appeal to the membership in all parts of the country to
help those whom they put in office from time to time, to do all they can not
only to strengthen the position, but so mould public opinion as to secure such
a series of laws being passed in the near future which will make for the general
uplifting of mankind.
Yours fraternally,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
C. BLEAKLEY,
A. J. DOBBS.
C. MAYES.
J. MANNERS.
W. HINDES.
C. BATES.
LEN. SMITH.
A. W. LYNE.
WM. WARNER.
THOS. ADNITT.
ALEX. SMITH.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
Importance of Organisation in Industry.
Extract from Minutes of Joint Industrial Council of the Boot and Shoe
Manufacturing Industry-27th Jan., 1920 :-
"That this Joint Industrial Council is of the opinion that it is in the
best interests of the trade that operatives and manufacturers should be
well organised, and urges that no obstacle be placed by the management
of any factory in the way of any operative joining the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives."
The Incorporated Federated Associations
of Boot and Shoe Manufacturers of Great Britain and Ireland
and
The National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
NATIONAL
CONFERENCE.
Of REPRESENTATIVES OF THE FEDERATION and THE NATIONAL
UNION, held at 7, Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, on 23rd, 24th and
30th November, and 12th December, 1922.
COPY OF AGREEMENT arranged by the Conference and of the RATIFICA-
TION thereof by the respective organisations.


---
54
On the motion of Mr. H. J. Bostock, seconded by Mr. T. F. Richards, it
was unanimously resolved that-
"This National Conference urges upon H.M. Government the desirability
of giving to National Agreements voluntarily entered into and
approved by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity as Awards
under the Trade Boards Acts, 1909 and 1918, with the object of
ensuring the observance of fair conditions of labour, by all engaged
in the industry.
Mr. H. C. ATTEWELL (Northampton) asked why the result of one vote only
It having been decided to discuss the Address seriatim,
appeared in paragraph one.
THE CHAIRMAN: Upon this Agreement only one vote was taken.
The paragraph dealing with the National Agreement (December) 1922 was then
unanimously endorsed.
Superannuation.
THE CHAIRMAN reported that the Council had gone very carefully into this
ques THE CHAIR aborately examining the matter find there is only one way out of it,
and that is why we shall have to increase our contributions if superannuation beneft
is to be paid.
Mr. L. SMITH (Council Member): What effect will this really have in reference
to Item 90 on the Agenda ?
THE CHAIRMAN: Now is the opportunity for Arbroath to raise it if they so desire.
If this paragraph is carried it will wipe out Item 90.
Mr. L. POOLE (Wellingborough): As representing the Branch which was respons-
ible for having this matter put on the agenda at the last conference, those of our members
who took an interest in the matter felt as you, Mr. Chairman, have just stated, that in
order to have a real superannuation scheme it would involve a tremendous amount of
finance and increased contributions. Whilst we feel a scheme is necessary, we do not think
the present is opportune to proceed with such a matter. We agree with the suggestion
of the Council that for the present the matter should be allowed to lapse. At the same
time we should be glad if when things get better and normal, then the Council might bear
the matter in mind.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I should not like the Conference to pass the
resolution without having some of the information placed before them which the Council
have considered. The Council have always endeavoured not only to carry out the letter,
but the spirit of the resolutions passed at conferences from time to time. We feel that we
are not justified in going in for an elaborate scheme and calling in experts upon this subject.
These experts are quite expert in their charges also as we found when we had to consult
one in connection with our proposed unemployment insurance scheme. So we felt we were
not justified in getting right down to detail and incurring hundreds of pounds expenditure
when we had first-hand evidence from other societies. I feel confident you will unanimously
support such a position. I will read you the following details on
SUPERANNUATION.
The following data has been collected and placed in the form of a résumé of matter
dealing with the above-named subject.
Iron and Steel Trades Confederation. This scheme dates back to 1886 and
provided that a continuous membership of 20 years and inability to work at his trade
entitled a member to qualify for benefit, provided he is not less than 55 years of age.
Benefit varied from Is. to 8s. per week according to class and length of membership,
it taking 40 years' consecutive membership of the organisation before 8s. was paid out.
Until the end of 1912 the benefit was taken from the Union Funds, when it was
decided to establish a separate fund and £2,000 was transferred to such an account,
and every year thereafter 2s. 6d. per member on the average membership for 12
months was transferred. This, together with the interest on the money invested,
was the mainstay of the fund.
a separate fund by providing for 3s. per average member. In 1920 it was found that
In January, 1917, the Confederation was formed, when it was decided to establish
the fund was increasing at a higher rate than the liability appeared to warrant, when
it was decided to suspend further transfers from the Union Funds. At the end of 1921
there was £62,300 in the fund and 1,442 was paid out in benefit for that year alone


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

55

Amalgamated Engineering Union. - No portion of the contributions is car-
marked for the payment to a Superannuation Fund but levies are made to meet the
benefits payable of varying amounts. Benefit is payable at age 55 and the rate varies
according to the years of membership, at least 25 years' membership with the Union
must have elapsed before benefit is paid, when 7s. weekly is paid 30 years' member-
ship, 8s. 35 years' membership, 9s., and over 40 years' membership, 10s. weekly.
Contributions for all benefits vary from 1s. 8d. to 3s. 7d. weekly.

Amalgamated Society of Woodworkers. — Contribution of 1s. 6d. weekly is
paid when members become entitled to this benefit in the event of their being unable
to earn the full trade union rate of wages at the age of 60 years providing they have at
least 30 years' membership. The benefit is 8s. weekly.
weekly is paid.
When a member reaches the age of 65 and has at least 35 years' membership, 9s.

No separate fund is kept for this purpose. All contributions are deducted before
the benefit is paid.

Boilermakers and Iron and Steel Shipbuilders.— Benefit is only paid to
first-class members; they pay a contribution of 1s. 6d. weekly; 6d. is placed to a
Superannuation Fund together with a Levy of 1s. per member per quarter. In
January, 1923, 2,700 members were on superannuation and there was a balance in
hand of £331,000. After 30 years' membership 7s. per week is payable :-

34 years and under 37  ... 8s. per week.
37  ... 40  ... 9s.
40  ... over  ... 10s.

National Union of Railwaymen. They have no scheme only for Officials and
Members of the Head Office and Branch Office Staffs.

National Union of Shop Assistants and Clerks only have a scheme for
Officials and Head Office Staff only.

Typographical Association. Contribution of 6d. a week; benefits are paid
1.5s. when a member has belonged to the Union for 40 years and upwards; 12s. 6d.
weekly from 30 to 10 years and 11s. 3d. from 25 to 30 years.
12th May, 1923.

You will see the varying methods adopted, and the reason why we did not feel ourselves
in a position to recommend a scheme because it would mean an increased contribution,
possibly of sixpence per week to meet expenditure in connection with such a scheme.
Details of schemes and letters were presented by the General Secretary giving contribu-
tions paid and benefits received, which went to support the statement as to an increased
contribution. Under such circumstances we ask you to endorse this paragraph in the
Council's Address.

Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): We had the resolution on the Agenda this time to
confirm the resolution passed a year ago. The proposal is definite enough, and this
paragraph now before us is merely the view of the Council. The Union requires a super-
annuation scheme just as much as any other union in the country. We are shedding our
members quickly, and if we had such a scheme as this they would continue to pay to us
because they would hope some day to get a benefit. Members would cling to us if we had
such a scheme. Now as to the question of payment. It is very desirable to have the
experience of other organisations, but in the year 1923 the Boot and Shoe Union should
support such a scheme, and we need not make it obligatory upon all the members of the
Union. As to the contributions we pay, if we heard the amount of contributions paid by
other Unions we might look at the matter differently. Other unions pay a much higher
contribution than we do, and I am surprised that we carry on with such a small contribu-
tion. We had our General Secretary giving
in connection with
us the warning of one society that had not
like the majority of this conference to instruct the Council to prepare a scheme so that the
Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union could make provision for those members desirous of
taking up superannuation benefit.
THE CHAIRMAN: The difference between the resolution from Arbroath and the
Council's report is a direct negative. Mr. Reid would have us make a new rule, despite
the fact that we have considered the matter during the past twelve months. We suggest
that a scheme should not be adopted. Mr. Reid would be in order if he moved the reference
back of this part of the Report. I wish he would take his memory back to the time when
we raised the contributions, and I remember the time when we put a levy on the members,
and in one big branch alone we lost 75 per cent. of the membership. It is experience
which teaches us which way to go.

Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath) proposed the reference back of the particular clause
under discussion and appealed to the delegates to support him. He continued, "It does
not definitely tie you down to increased contributions even, but asks that a scheme be
prepared and either accept or reject at the right time."


---
56
Mr. J. FOUNTAINE (Northampton No. 2) formally seconded the resolution.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): Whether the delegates were getting tired or not when
then went through without the delegates understanding what they were doing or what the
the resolution affecting superannuation was carried last year I do not know. The matter
conference was being committed to. The Council say they have considered the matter
they do not feel it is desirable to carry out the suggestion. If we agree to Mr. Reid's
and have given some amount of time in examining the proposal. They say in their wisdom
proposal the Council will be committed to a scheme, and that the Conference does not
endorse the findings of the Council. Personally I am not in favour of a scheme at present,
and I hope the delegates will accept the Council's Report upon the matter. If the trade
union movement is to be that instrument for changing the basis of society then let us
keep the trade union movement in its proper perspective. The trade union movement is
an instrument through which we hope to obtain better conditions and we shall never do
it by adding benefits such as these but only make it into a glorified friendly society. Spend
not too much of your time in this kind of work, but let us march on for the trade union
principles. Vote against the reference back.
The question was then put to the Conference, and there
Voted for Reference Back
6
the CHAIRMAN intimating reference back was beaten by a big majority.
Paragraph 2 dealing with superannuation was then endorsed.
Paragraph 3 dealing with the question of the Leicester Women's Branch not sending
a member to the Executive Council of the Union next came under discussion.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): Will the delegates from the Leicester No. 3 Branch
give the reasons why they are hostile ?
THE CHAIRMAN: We had over two hours' discussion upon this subject last year,
and if you take my advice you will leave them alone.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): Have the Leicester Women's Branch placed their
decision in writing, or any particular form that they don't want representation on the
Council?
THE CHAIRMAN: I understand that for the present they have decided not to be
represented on the Council.
The paragraph was then endorsed and Item 4 dealing with
was discussed.
Unemployment
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The Council were not in a position to deal with
this matter in January, and this clause was put in the Address later on to meet the views
of some of the branches who sent resolutions to the Council, and as the Council had no
desire to break the rules they dealt with the matter in this way. It has taken the Council
a very long time to arrive at this decision, and they hope as a result it will prove advan-
tageous to the members.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): I am most desirous of knowing the intentions of the
Council in regard to this matter. Would you agree to the whole of page 23 standing over
until the items on the agenda dealing with unemployment are reached ? If so I beg leave
to move that, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): I will second that. If you pass the paragraph
which is set out here, then all the other resolutions dealing with unemployment fall to the
ground. We get this address only a week before the Conference, and the Council want
to do in a week what they deemed the branches should do three months earlier. You will
be trapped if you accept this. This matter ought not to be dealt with at present, and I
hope the delegates will support the resolution.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I would call both Mr. Parbury's attention,
and also that of the delegates to the item on the Agenda in which the Council are asked
to consider the matter and report. Item 21 is a request from the Bristol No. 2 Branch
who ask the Council to consider and report to Conference-report to Conference upon
this question. Technically the Council could have said we have no right to look upon
that resolution until the Conference have dealt with same. All of us here have been
overburdened with unemployment these two past years, and the Council, as sensible
administrators, said it was their duty-having regard to the present position of the
would prefer to have the scheme in a concrete formand should be the last to say you
members for us to consider the matter, and not stand on our dignity. We felt you
must accept what the Council suggest. It does not at all follow that because the Council
views before you.
branches have asked them to do certain things to consider those resolutions and put


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
57
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood): We welcome these suggestions from the Council, because the delegates will remember the conditions in our trade have changed. We have bombarded the Council from Kingswood for assistance in this connection.
THE CHAIRMAN: This is the biggest question we shall have on this week. The Standing Orders Committee have made no report nor resolution upon the matter. They are entitled to do so, and have not done it, so the Chair must rule, and I say this matter shall be referred back.
Upon the paragraph dealing with Insurance by Industry
Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering) asked the position of the Council relative thereto, and
THE CHAIRMAN said: We spent nearly £100 on expert advice to try and get out a particular scheme, because at that time we wanted a scheme, but later found it was not advisable to go on with it, and if we desire to go on our own the general movement is not the same against us. So far as this is concerned, we should take up a different attitude from what is being taken at the present time by the Rt. Hon. C. A. McCurdy. Mr. T. T. Broad once met us, and at that time did not make any mention of a contribution from the State. If we have unemployment by industry we must see that we get a contribution from the State, every time. The whole thing is in the melting pot, and Mr. Broad is now advocating a State contribution. It is in embryo. We want to do the best thing we can, but there is nothing definite at present.
Mr. G CHESTER (Kettering): I don't want the Council to assume any authority of fixing up insurance by industry without calling a conference such as this.
THE CHAIRMAN: We are all agreed upon that.
Paragraph 4, with the reservation respecting the suggested rule by the Council, was then endorsed.
Organising.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): What does this mean, Mr. Chairman, about the Council appointing Mr. Smith as an organiser ?
THE CHAIRMAN: It means that the Council have carried out rule, and they ask the Conference to endorse it.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): I agree that Mr. Smith should be found work. If the Council have power to class a man as an organiser then I say he ought to have gone to a vote of the members. I am not against Mr. Smith after the work he did for four years.
THE CHAIRMAN: Here is a man who has been a Member of Parliament. Fortunately he was an ex-organiser and had been in his time elected both Organiser and a Member of Parliament, and in order that he should not suffer the rule gives the Council power to set a full time national officer who fails to secure re-election to Parliament on as an organiser, and now we ask for your endorsement. We have acted rightly provided you endorse our action.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Mr. Parbury did not mention all the matters connected with this paragraph. I need not detail the unfortunate circumstances of the defeat of Mr. W. R. Smith at the General Election, but Rule 108 distinctly states :
RULE 108.—The duties of Parliamentary Agents when elected to the House of Commons shall be to pay strict attention to all questions brought before the House affecting the Union, and the interests of labour generally. They shall from time to time publish particulars of such questions in the Monthly Report. When not engaged in the House of Commons they may be employed as organisers by arrangement between themselves and the Council. It is understood that for active and consultative purposes their services shall be at the disposal of the Council. Parliamentary Agents shall pledge themselves to and carry out the Labour Programme as laid down from time to time by the Annual Conferences of the Union; otherwise they shall cease to hold office. When elected to Parliament they shall attend the Annual Conference and give in their report. Should a Parliamentary Agent be elected to the House of Commons who was a full time national official before the election to the House, and fails to secure re-election to the House of Commons, he should act as organiser for the Union until the following Conference, when his position would be determined.
The Council felt they were bound to act upon this rule, and in a moment I will quote another rule which gives them the necessary power. The circumstances were such that although Mr. Smith lost the seat at Wellingborough, inasmuch as one of the national


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
58
organisers had been elected for another constituency we felt it would meet the wishes of
the members, and also conform with the rule as to having two organisers, if we appointed
Mr. Smith in the place of our colleague, Mr. Buckle, M.P. In the November Report we
put a very ample statement therein, and the remarkable thing is, Mr. Chairman, that
out and the Council Address brought before the members at the branch meetings month by
that statement was endorsed by every branch in the Union. that is if our rules are carried
month, and unless objection is registered at the Central Office the Council have a perfect
over-ride the Conference, but the Council have respected the rules in every detail. They
is why it is sent out. The paragraph is drawn up, Mr. Chairman, not with any desire to
right to assume the members are in agreement with what is stated in their Address. That
and we con-
have no desire to break the rules of the Union, but to respect them, and now they ask the
highest authority in the Union-this Conference to endorse their action. The paragraph
states this "appointment however, requires your endorsement. . . . . . . and we con-
fidently appeal to you to endorse our action in this matter." I contend that we have
carried out the rule in its entirety. I will now read you Rule 110:-
RULE 110. The Council shall be empowered to take a vote of the Union upon all
questions brought before it. Such votes to be by ballot as prescribed in
Rule 91 unless decided otherwise. The Council shall also have power to
deal with the internal affairs and general interests of the Union and combined
Trades Unionism generally, and shall have power to suspend or remove any
branch or district officer for misconduct, incapacity, refusal to carry out the
rules of the Union, or for any dereliction of duty which in the opinion of the
Council shall be deemed prejudicial to the best interests of the Union; the
Council shall also have power to decide whether in a case arising under this
rule, any period of suspension of any officer shall also carry with it the
penalty of suspension of salary or wages during the period of suspension,
which decision shall also be final and binding and without appcal; any officer
whom the Council may have to take action against in the manner named
above shall have the right to place his case before the Council; any decision
come to by the Council shall be final and binding, and conclusive and without
appcal.
Under that particular rule the Council have power to deal with a position such as this,
as it gives the Council authority to act in circumstances which may arise. Then some
years ago the conference also placed on record Rule 113, which states :-
RULE 113. Should any case or circumstance arise for which no provision is
made in the Rules, the same shall be dealt with by the Council, and the
decision of a majority of the said Council present at the meeting dealing
with any such case shall be final and binding, and act as a precedent for any
future case of a similar character.
It is for the Council at the first meeting, after they have so acted, to come to you
and say under Rules 108, 110 and 113 we ask you to endorse what we have done. The
Council thought this the best solution of a difficult position forced upon them and all they
ask is that you will endorse their action.
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's): Does the endorsement
of this paragraph mean that we shall not have any nominations for an organiser for some
time?
THE CHAIRMAN: There will be no nominations until the next election of officers.
I had a similar case years ago and that is why this rule was put in. When you read the
rule very carefully you must agree we had no option but to administer it in the way we
did, and secing it has not been challenged we claim we did the proper thing.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): I say you have done the right thing. I don't
mind being misunderstood, but I object to being wilfully misunderstood. My objection
is that on the back of the report you have Dan McCarthy organiser-who was elected by
the members and W. R. Smith-who was not elected. He was not an elected organiser.
Mr. L. SMITH (Council Member): What difference does that make ?
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): It makes all the difference. You will be able to
put in who you like if you are allowed to go on like this. Even now I have raised my
objection I know you will do as you like.
Mr. A. BIRT (Northampton): What is the good of trying to be sympathetic and
then raise trivial matters like this? As the Chairman had already stated if we have a
good man we ought not to lose him. If our men get beaten at the polls we ought then
to be prepared to support them.
Paragraph 5 was then endorsed.


---
59
Finance.

When paragraph 6 came under discussion

Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering) asked if the General Secretary would give an explana-
tion as to why all the interest was allocated to the sick fund instead of being divided
according to rule.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: You all know there is such a thing as income tax.
My duty is to safeguard the funds of the Union and keep them intact, rather than let other
people have them. If that is done in a straightforward honest way I submit it is my duty
to report such method to the Council, and I prefer to discuss this matter with Mr. Chester
privately.

Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): I am in a position of being unable to let the
statement of the General Secretary go by unchallenged, but feel unable to discuss it fully
for reasons he has stated. I challenge any contradiction that there is any risk whatever
from a financial standpoint of the income tax being lost unless it is placed to the sick fund.
I can give you any number of instances of unions who suffer no injustice because they do
not allocate the interest to the sick fund. Your trade fund has gone down in an alarming
degree. If this question had been dealt with on the basis of interest being allocated
differently there is a difference of between forty and fifty thousand pounds due to the
trade fund. Your sick fund would have been down by that amount. This, to me, is a
most important point. When we are reviewing in the light of past experiences, the right
and correct thing to do in future in regard to the interest is to see that it is allocated accord-
ing to rule. As a matter of fact your trade fund is considerably less than it was a year ago,
although your total funds are higher. Having regard to what was emphasised this morning
by Mr. Jex, it does appear to me you are running some risk unless this matter is altered.
The matter has been dealt with in quite a constitutional manner. It is definitely laid
down that funds from which you pay out-of-work benefit income tax is recoverable.
£18,000 was paid out in out-of-work benefit last half year, and does anyone believe that a
fund which is used for such a purpose must be charged with income tax. As the matter
has been raised I would ask this Conference in the interests of our members-to see
that the allocation of the interest is revised.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I hope we shall view this from its proper per-
spective. To sit and listen to Mr. Walter Smith one would think it was an enormous
amount that the Trade Fund has lost. It is approximately £5,000 per annum.

Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): If you started from the point when the proportion
was altered it is a considerable sum. Once the contributions were divided into one quarter
to one fund and three-quarters to another. Now it is half and half.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I would remind the Conference that it is
only a few years ago that we had to borrow £10,000 from the Trade Fund to
place to the credit of the Sick Fund, to put it in a better financial state. This
was not repaid until 1921. There is no sort of feeling with the General Secretary
and his colleagues upon this matter. The only thing I desire is to safeguard-as far
as it is possible to do the whole of the funds of the Union. If the position has
been altered from the standpoint of the Treasury I cannot argue that position any
longer, but I am not aware that it has been altered. At the time we acted as we did, we
took the best possible advice it was possible to take. Within the last six months two
big unions have applied to me to know how we get our income tax back. I made the
suggestion to the Council and it appears upon the agenda, that to try and meet the altered
circumstances you should transfer d. per week of the full male contributions to the Trade
Fund because the fund seems now to be in a comparatively healthy state as compared with
the position when we had to borrow the £10,000. It is purely a matter of book-keeping at
the Central Office. By adopting the suggestion of the Council you will be able to transfer
between five and six thousand pounds annually-on our present membership-which will
balance the amount of interest which is not now allocated to the Trade Fund. If there
is any loss on the Trade Fund because it receives no interest, that loss will be reduced.
I submit that is a better way than running any risk of losing monies by not being able to
recover the income tax. Mr. Smith has drawn attention to the fact that the Trade Fund
is lower than a year ago, whilst the Sick Fund is higher. You all know we have had an
abnormal slump during the past two years and in one year alone £96,000 was paid out in
unemployment benefit. It is a record of which we should feel proud. We can also show
a balance in hand in the Trade Fund of £157,744, whilst many unions have suffered a
reduction in their funds, and in addition have had to reduce benefits. The reduction in the
Trade Fund is mainly due to the humanitarian methods of the Council in allowing sus-
pension benefit and not because it has received no interest. I quite appreciate the friendly
criticism given by Mr. Smith, and the Council purpose to meet the difference by the transfer
of monies, but having regard to the strain put upon the Funds I think we have every
reason to congratulate ourselves. (Applause.)


---
```text
60
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): A statement was made that our Trade Fund is the
vital fund, and the suggestion that the others did not count. I hope our delegates will
not agree with that statement. We have built up our strength through our benevolent
side, and I hope nothing will be done to affect that side of the work, and think we all ought
to back up what our General Secretary has done.
THE CHAIRMAN: I cannot find any rule to which Mr. Chester refers, and don't
think there is one. In 1894 we raided both the sick and trade funds ; it was immaterial
to us which fund it was and we used it then for Lock-Out Pay. It is only a small item
and might be left as it is.
The paragraph dealing with the finances of the Union was then endorsed.
Politics.
Whilst dealing with the question of politics Mr. J. Buckle, M.P., J.P., was called upon
to give in the report of Ald. A. Hill, M.P., J.P., and himself, which was as follows:
HOUSE OF COMMONS,
WESTMINSTER, LONDON, S.W. 1.
9th May, 1923.
FELLOW DELEGATES,
In presenting this report, it is with great pleasure and satisfaction
that we are able to record the fact that the Labour Party has gone many steps
towards reaching the position when its members in the House of Commons
will be called upon to take up the reins of Government. Surely we have much
to be proud of, when we remember that but so short a time back the Party
which was looked upon by some as being quite insignificant, has now to be
recognised as the official opposition of H.M. Government as we had 142 Labour
Members returned at the Polls last November. While taking satisfaction in
the triumph of the Labour Party, let us not forget that a Conservative Govern-
ment is in power, possessing all the qualifications associated with the traditional
character of that Party, and when some of us seem inclined to become impatient
at what is apparently little progress, it is well to remember that numbers
count, and that Division Lobbies tell the tale.
It is undoubtedly true that judged by the standards of real progress the
Government of to-day is profoundly lacking, but this should be a constant
challenge to the opposition to display constant and determined effort to mitigate,
as far as possible this lack by well directed and constructive criticism.
Parliament opened on 23rd November, 1922. The election of Speaker
having taken place, the first business the House had to consider was the passing
into law a Bill which has given to Ireland her freedom after long years of
coercion and force. We hope the foundation has been laid for Ireland to
ultimately become a happy and prosperous Nation.
The past few months has been a very strenuous time. The Party has put
up vigorous opposition, and has somewhat altered the atmosphere and outlook
upon many important questions appertaining to the well-being of the com-
munity. The Party has been responsible for raising the question of the
Occupation of the Ruhr and the dangers that may accrue, and they have
repeatedly suggested that some method should be employed with a view to
having the Reparation question settled on what could be regarded as a fair
basis, so that the reconstruction, economically and otherwise, could take
effect. The Government has simply taken up a non-interference attitude
upon the matter. So strong has the feeling become, that official deputations
have gone over to the area concerned with a view to investigating the matter
from time to time, in order to get a good grasp of the situation as regards
France and Germany.
```

---
61
UNEMPLOYMENT.
The Government have failed to bring forth any policy which will help to
solve this pressing problem. True it is, arrangements have been made to
provide certain monies for Relief Work, and a further extension of Uncovenanted
Benefit in connection with the Unemployment Acts, but this has been done
very largely under duress, for it is inconceivable to think of any Government
leaving something like a million and a half of unemployed men and women to
starve. But when we come to Policy, the only idea seems to be that of emigra-
tion. What could have been done if only half of the energy that was exerted
for the prosecution of the War had been exerted on behalf of the Unemployed
in the time of Peace, and if the suggestions of the various Labour organisations
had been acted upon, one feels that the situation would have been vastly
different ?
HOUSING.
There is going on in Committee an animated discussion of the Housing
Bill, the proposal to give State money only to "non-Parlour" Houses. The
houses may either be two-storeyed, with a minimum of 550 and a maximum of
780 superficial feet. These measurements will be calculated in accordance
with rules laid down by the Minister of Health.
The Plan A has a total available area of 754.66 square feet, Plan B 808.82
square feet, and Plan C 836.00 square feet. These are official plans and are
well within the maximum allowed under the new scheme. It will be seen
from a study of these plans that every available inch has to be utilised. The
planning has to be very carefully thought out. The architectural problem
involved, demands greater cleverness in design, so as not to waste any space
on passages or corners. The essential measurements laid down by the Ministry
is: 180 feet should be allowed for the Living Room, 150 feet for the first
Bedroom, 150 feet for the second Bedroom, and a minimum of 65 feet for the
third Bedroom. In addition, room will have to be found for the Scullery and
usual offices. The Bath may either be placed in the Scullery or in a separate
compartment, or either on the first or ground floor. Undoubtedly there are
powerful arguments in favour of the Parlour House, notably that a Parlour
provides privacy for the younger generation-in case of sickness or death a
parlour is invaluable. Much is being made of the so-called disregard of the
Middle Classes. A study of the full text of the Government Bill shows that
their needs have been considered. The proposed amendment of the "Small
Dwellings Act" extends the limit on the market value of houses in respect
of which advances may be made from £800 to £1,200. It will also be of direct
assistance to the skilled artisan class that local authorities may guarantee
the repayment to a Building Society of any advances made to any of its members
to build or acquire houses. Money may also be advanced to persons or bodies
building houses.
A generous limit has been placed on the estimated value of such houses,
for the advance or guarantee can be given on such value up to £1,500: for
£1.200 under the Small Dwellings Acquisition Act, and £1,500 for houses
financed by Building Societies and other bodies.
EDUCATION.
Here again we have evidence of the fact that the Government are retro-
grade and reactionary. Wherever possible, economy has been applied regard-
less of consequences. The promise held out in the Fisher Act made impossible
of fulfilment, and the vision which was opened up by the possibilities contained
therein gradually receding, until a position almost of despair has taken the
place of hope. The cry for economy has been seized upon by certain public
bodies, no doubt glad of the opportunity to curtail expenditure until the


---
Here is the extracted text:
62
about by what we must regard as false economy which must inevitably result
children of the workers are becoming the victims of the inefficiency brought
lowering of the standard to which all progressive people would aspire.
After a war that was to end war, we are still confronted with the appalling
for the spending of something like £126,000,000 on War Services, only some-
fact that for the year 1923-24 that whereas provision is made in the Estimates
in a
believing in the Educational Policy of the Labour Party we can never rest
until these figures are reversed.
FINANCE.
As a consequence of the prosecution of the late war the country has to
face huge financial liabilities, which if dealt with along the old lines, will
constitute a burden for generations to come and lead to permanent high prices.
At the last General Election the Labour Party foreshadowed a Policy which
sooner or later will hold the field. It may be that it will not be called a Capital
Levy, but whenever the question is properly dealt with, it will be in a way
that will work out on the lines advocated by the Labour Party. This huge
indebtedness cannot be allowed to remain where it is, crushing out the life
of the community-something will have to be done to lift the load, or we shall
sink lower and lower beneath its weight.
BUDGET.
Mr. Baldwin, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, introduced his first new
Budget on the 16th April, 1923, and it is a most remarkable fact that
whilst there was a surplus of £100,000,000 brought forward from the
previous year, still the reduction in taxation, as far as its effect on the vast
majority of the working class population is concerned, reductions are con-
spicuous by their absence. The employing and capitalistic classes were again
favoured with reduction on the Income Tax, Postal and Telephone Rates,
and without doubt the Budget stands out as one of the most capitalistic and
"favoured-class" pieces of legislation of modern times. The interest on the
National Debt alone absorbs over £300,000,000 per annum, and whilst this
vast amount of interest is payable it is not at all likely that reductions of
taxation on the essentials of life will be seen.
for the reduction of duty on Tea, Sugar, &c., but without avail. And so we
The Party put up a strong fight
look in vain for the promise of that sort of legislation that will usher in the time
so glibly spoken of by the late Prime Minister; whether we look at home or
abroad the same disappointment is experienced.
In our preceding remarks we have dealt with what may be regarded as the
Home Policy; and now perhaps in a few words we may be allowed to bring
to your notice the failure of the Government in the field of Foreign Policy.
In this respect the experiences of the last few years seems to stand for nothing
so far as improvement goes. The same old jealousies, suspicions, and pre-
judices, seem to be operating. Men of responsibility are talking about the
next war as if it had already been decided that the same was inevitable. The
race for armaments is again starting, leaving one to infer that nations, who,
but a short time back were our Allies, now, if not our actual enemies, are having
to be watched and treated, if not as probable, yet as possible ones, or why the
frantic talk of the French superiority in Air Forces, or the huge expenditure
to be incurred in the Pacific which can only be justified by the fear of an Eastern
Power. Ah well while the great mass of the people seem to be satisfied,
which must be the explanation of the present Government's majority, we
suppose things will remain pretty much as they are, but some day surely the
eyes of the people will be opened and they will discover for themselves the
right path.


---
Here's the extracted text:

**63**

**DEPORTATION.**

There has also been the question of Deportation raised, the outcome of which is that a deputation has been appointed to visit Ireland and the Free State Government. The keen debates that have taken place from time to time in the House proves this: that the Government are not out to do anything substantial unless forced by the untiring efforts of the opposition. There is no doubt the opposition of the Labour Party is a real live wire, and is creating an impression both inside and outside of Parliament.

**CIVIL SERVICE.**

Another question which has occupied the attention of the Party is that of the Lytton Entrants to the Civil Service, on which question the Government were defeated on 10th April, on the Motion that a Committee of Enquiry be set up to investigate the conditions obtaining in the service. The actual grievance is that the overwhelming majority of the Lytton Entrants to the Clerical Clerks are ex-Service Men, and started at the rate of £70, £80, or £85 per annum, in other words, although they are men of all ages, the majority married and have families to support, and with anything up to seven years temporary service, had to start at the same rate of pay appropriate to a boy of 18 years of age. The strong feeling of the House with regard to the disgraceful conditions obtaining, and the Government taking up an attitude which was regarded as an unreasonable one, and the unsatisfactory arguments of the Minister for that Department when the Division was taken, the Government were defeated, and after an adjournment of the House, the Government conceded to the opinion of the House, and a representative Committee to investigate and report on the conditions of employment was appointed.

**PRIVATE MEMBERS’ MOTIONS.**

Private members have a system of balloting and those who head the list are given a paper with a list of Motions to choose from. Those members who are lucky enough to head the list fix on a particular Motion and are allowed to move it in the House; for example, Mr. Snowden's Motion on “Failure of Capitalistic System.”

Motion made, and question proposed, “That, in view of the failure of the capitalist system to adequately utilise and organise natural resources and productive power, or to provide the necessary standard of life for vast numbers of the population, and believing that the cause of this failure lies in the private ownership and control of the means of production and distribution, this House declares that legislative effort should be directed to the gradual supersession of the capitalist system by an industrial and social order based on the public ownership and democratic control of the instruments of production and distribution.” Debate adjourned.

**MOTHERS’ PENSIONS.**

"That in the opinion of this House, pensions adequate for the proper upbringing and maintenance of children should be paid to all widows with children or mothers whose family breadwinner has become incapacitated, such pensions to be provided by the State and administered by a committee of the municipal or county council wholly unconnected with the Poor Law."
Rejected by: Ayes 184; Noes 248.

**ACCIDENTS IN MINES.**

"That this House deplores the heavy loss of life and the large number of non-fatal accidents in mines, and is of the opinion that legislation to improve and strengthen the provisions of the Coal Mines Act, 1922, should be introduced
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

64
and carried into law without delay in order to secure the fullest protection
possible to those engaged in this dangerous industry.” Agreed to without
Division.
NATIONAL MINIMUM WAGE.
" That in view of the practically universal acceptance of the principle
that a living wage for all workers should be the first charge on industry, and
in view of the large measure of agreement with respect to the advisability of
Conference, this House urges the Government to proceed without delay with
the Bill introduced by the Government of the day in 1919, constituting a
Commission to inquire into and report upon legal minimum rates of wages.”
Rejected by : Ayes 176 ; Noes 189.
POSITION OF PROFESSIONAL WORKERS.
“ That in view of the worsening conditions of middle-class professional
workers, and of the advantages resulting from the recognition of the organisa-
tions of manual workers and the practice of collective bargaining, this House
is of the opinion that local authorities, banks, insurance and shipping com-
panies and other employers of professional and clerical workers should follow
the example of the Government in recognising the organisations of these
workers.” Agreed to without Division.
OLD AGE PENSIONS.
“ That in the opinion of this House, the recommendation of the Depart-
mental Committee on Old Age Pensions in favour of the repeal of the provisions
of the Old Age Pensions Act as to calculation of means should be adopted and
the Old Age Pensions Acts amended accordingly, thereby enabling applicants
for, and recipients of, the old age pension to derive the full benefit of their
thrift and personal provision for old age and receive assistance from friends,
employers and organisations without reduction of, or disqualification for, the
full pension.” Rejected by : Ayes 208 ; Noes 230.
We deeply regret the fact that our two colleagues who were nominated
for Wellingborough and Wells Divisions respectively, were not successful in
securing election. We hope, however, that whenever a General Election comes
along, the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives will have its full quota
of representatives in the next Parliament.
Our concluding words are in the nature of a warning to you all, as Trade
Unionists. We may rely upon it that our position is to be challenged. We
question whether the Prime Minister will be able to restrain the rank and file
of his own Party in their aggressive opposition to Trade Unionism. Already
a motion has been carried to amend the Trade Union Act re the Political posi-
tion ; also as recently as the first day of the month (Labour Day) a Bill was
introduced having for its object the repeal of the Trade Union Act, 1906. To
be in the House and to hear the frenzied applause which is given every time
anything is said against Trade Unionism it is quite easy to discover the spirit
of antagonism which prevails, and which has for its object the weakening of
our position. To be forewarned is to be forearmed, and it is hoped that when-
ever the attack comes we shall be found prepared and sufficiently strong enough
to maintain our hard-won position.
May we be allowed to say that we consider it to be a very great honour
to be allowed to represent our fellow workers and citizens in Parliament.
Conscious as we are of our own limitations, we sincerely hope that our presence
there will be of some, if little help, and service, in helping to make things better
for us all.
Fraternally yours,
JOHN BUCKLE.
ALFRED HILL.


---
Continuing Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P. said: I wish to thank the very many people
for their congratulations received from all parts of the country. I deeply regret that our
colleague, Mr. Walter Smith, did not win his election in Wellingborough, nor did Mr. Len.
Smith, at Wells. Had we had the four years' experience of Mr. Smith it would have been
of distinct advantage. Ald. Hill and I decided that in view of the fact that we expect
to get a very large number of representatives of the Union in Parliament before very long,
that it was better for us to have a joint report as this would also save a great deal of time.
(Applause.)
ALD. A. HILL, M.P., J.P. After the exhaustive and detailed report of Mr. Buckle
there is not much for me to add. I should like to emphasise the sincere regret in not seeing
our colleagues returned along with us. We very much regret the fact that our friend
Mr. W. R. Smith was not re-elected for Wellingborough. You can quite imagine what it
is like going into a strange place like the House of Commons quite a stranger, how very
much nicer it would have been to have had a guide who had had four years' experience.
There are times when I feel very lonely and isolated for the simple reason that I am the
only Labour man returned either for the City or County of Leicestershire. Buckle is
come up to expectation the fault will not be ours. I think the Labour Party is to be con-
gratulated upon the outcome of the questions concerning deportation. If you had been
in the House of Commons when Mr. Patrick Hastings, M.P., raised the matter and seen
assumed delight of the Attorney-General, you would have thought that the result would
have been quite different. It looked as if there was no chance of that gentleman making
a mistake. Of course he had the backing of the Government, and upon this occasion
they let go. The other night when the Attorney-General had to take his gruelling, and
Bridgeman, the scapegoat of the Attorney-General, had to admit a blunder had been made,
they were in quite a different mood. It is to the credit of the British constitution-
notwithstanding the weight and power of the Government-that the Law Lords allowed
no prejudice nor bias to over-rule them, and they decided the Government was in the
wrong. You know the result. If it had been decided otherwise who would have been
safe from arrest ? As we have pointed out in our report there is a large and powerful
number amongst the Government supporters who are attacking the trade unions. There
would have been nothing to prevent trade union leaders being arrested later on. One
other point I wish to emphasise is that we must offer a prayer to be saved from our friends.
These men get up in the most friendly spirit and say they are anxious for the welfare of
the men and women who belong to a tyrannical trade union. They are not only trying
to save the trade unionists from their false leaders, but also the co-operative movement
from being over-run by bolshevists. The only friend the working man has to-day appears
to be on the Government benches. Rightly or wrongly the majority of the people in
Leicester West returned me as their Member of Parliament. When one remembers the
great number of boot and shoe operatives there are in the Division there is no reason why
we should not have won. I am unable to understand how the boot and shoe operatives
allowed anyone else to be returned to Parliament for Wellingborough.
I wish to thank you all for the confidence placed in me; firstly, by the Council in allow-
ing me to go forward as a candidate, and I very much appreciate their action in providing
me with a railway contract. Secondly, I wish to thank the people of Leicester, and right
along the line I have met with the greatest friendship and the helping hand has been
extended to me both in Leicester and at the Central Office.
Mr. A. PEAT (Leeds) asked why there was no mention in the report of the Parlia-
mentary representatives dealing with war pensions ?
Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P.: Being new Members of Parliament we have to feel our way.
Members are allowed to ballot and if they are the fortunate ones they move a resolution
similar to those I have read out to you, but we have not overlooked pensions at all.
THE CHAIRMAN : This is only a report and it does not pretend to contain every-
thing, but I am sure both Buckle and Hill will bear the matter in mind.
ALD. A. HILL, M.P.: It is very rarely we have a chance of dealing with the situation
of war pensions until it has been turned down by the House of Lords Tribunal. Upon
nearly every occasion that Minister of Pensions tells us that regulations are sent to the
General Council dealing with ex-Service men upon which Council there are four repre-
sentatives of the British Legion. You will understand, therefore, we have a tough job on,
but if you feel there is anything we can do we shall be prepared to do it. We shall do all
in our power for the ex-Service men.
Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P.: Thirty hours per week has been spent upon this question
alone. I have forty-five cases at present before the Minister of Pensions. One fortnight
I had over six hundred letters, and one hundred and nine of them were from ex-Service
men, so you will see we are doing all we can.
The Conference then adjourned at 12.30 a.m.
C


---
Here is the extracted text:
66
Afternoon Session.
The Conference resumed its first day's sitting at 2 p.m., Mr. T. F. Richards presiding.
The Roll was called and all the delegates answered to their name.
Mr. W. R. TOWNLEY, J.P. reported that it was pleasureable to note that the
Standing Orders Committee had found every credential card in order.

Beer v. Tea and Sugar.
Mr. H. C. ATTEWELL (Northampton): The Parliamentary Agents' Report is
not couched in that tone of language with which Ald. Hill made his separate report. Upon
the question of Ireland it states in the report that Parliament passed a Bill which gave
to Ireland its freedom. If that is the opinion of the Labour Party of this country it is
not the opinion of the Northampton Branch—at any rate not the opinion of myself.
There can be no freedom in any part of the British Empire until countries are represented
by their own representatives instead of being dominated by this country. Ireland to-day
is seething with revolution because we allowed our people to say they must be allied to
the Empire. I contend that this is an absolutely rotten policy. The question of deporta-
tion has gained more sympathy since this document—referring to the Parliamentary
Agents' Report—was published. There is no credit due to the Labour Party for the
presentation of the case on deportation. It is due to the judges of this country. The
Labour Party raised the question in Parliament and came up to a stumbling block. There
is no credit to the Labour Party in the grand finale concerning deportees. The question
of deportation has been put before the Government upon numerous occasions, but what
did the Labour Party do when they came to the stumbling block? Why, let it stop at
that. Then we have the question of the Egyptian and South African deportees. If there
is any part of the British Empire which wants to govern itself we, as the working people
of this country, should be prepared to see that they can govern themselves. The question
of Reparations is also mentioned. I would like to have seen it put down that we are
against Reparations. In order to curry favour with a few of the people who do not under-
stand the position, the official Labour Party say we should have as much in reparations
as they can afford. The whole Treaty of Versailles should be scrapped.
The price of beer was reduced in the Budget of this year, but the price of sugar and
tea were not. We, as workers, are pleased to have this reduction on beer, even if that is
all that can be got. Wives of the boot operatives also like a drink of beer. There is now
a good saving on beer, more than would have been saved on sugar and tea, and the Labour
Party would do more good in trying to get a further reduction in the price of beer than in
trying to get a farthing off sugar.
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): If you sat in the House of Commons and watched
the way the Government behave, you would see they are like tigers towards our men.
If you want a lesson on class distinction you ought to go to the House of Commons. I
think the Labour Party have put up an excellent fight. What they want is the intelligent
backing of the people outside. You think you have done your duty when you have sent
your Member to Parliament, but all the time our people should be watchful. The public
Press which we have to-day is a hindrance to the working-class people. I would rather
a son of mine be a hangman rather than he be a journalist with the rich proprietors of the
Press. Material wealth and power is all they stand for in the House of Commons. You
have not finished with Ireland yet. I want to call the special attention of the delegates
that the most advanced Sinn Feiners in Ireland would have taken the Bill as it was pre-
sented, but you allow Ireland to have barriers. Privileges and power have been given
to a section, but if Ireland had been left complete they would have accepted the position
sooner or later. There are some of our friends who give considerable time to education,
and why should we not take advantage of their efforts. The children of the working
people are denied proper access to secondary schools and this ought not to be. I heartily
support what the Labour Party has done and is doing.
THE CHAIRMAN: I think the two last speakers don't appreciate that our two
Members of Parliament have tried to give you an idea of what they have done. We are
not here for political purposes only, and to introduce something which is not on the Agenda
is not fair. When a man gets up he should know what he is going to speak about and not
wander all over the place, and I say we ought not to expect nations to govern themselves
if we cannot govern ourselves.
Parliament.
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): I have sincere sympathy with our Members of
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): With regard to the question of the Labour Party
giving freedom to Ireland I think they deserve our congratulations. Ireland to-day has
the opportunity of governing herself and to settle her own differences. Whatever
divisions there are are all their own seeking.
Mr. D. MCCARTHY: No, No, No!


---
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): Home Rule was offered them some years ago,
but they said we want two sections. Then there was conflict. The British Government
doing things as they do. They have the referendum to submit anything with which they
disagree before it is put into operation. We are all sorry for what they have gone through.
We have disagreed with the policy of past governments, but we must not allow these people
over these people.

Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester): I thought it would have been within the province
of the Parliamentary Agents to answer the criticism of the delegate from Northampton.
To lay criticism against our Labour Members of Parliament is too bad, especially after
the last election when Northampton failed to return Margaret Bondfield, and Well-
borough, Mr. W. R. Smith.

THE CHAIRMAN: If any of you present have the opportunity of seeing the
reports of the Parliamentary Debates as we do at the Central Office, then you will see
what has been done. No one could have done more than the Labour Party. It is no
good throwing the responsibility upon one or two men because they are Englishmen and
exempt another because he comes from Ireland. There is a schism in Ireland between
the North and the South. There is only one party which has ever mated them and that
is the Labour Party. Remember what Leiber says:—
Oh, Dublin, sure there is no doubting
It is the finest city upon the sea,
Where you will see O'Connel sporting
And Lady Morgan making tea.

The finest city of the greatest nation
A peaceful peasantry and fruitful sod,
Where they fight like devils for conciliation
And hate each other for the Love of God.

Up to the present we have too much talk about Roman Catholicism and the Protestants.
If you can sweep that away you might get a reasonable settlement. The General Secretary
could tell you of the many many meetings of the General Council of the Trades Union
Congress and the Parliamentary Labour Party that have been held. Dozens and dozens
of them with deputations from Ireland, but they could not satisfy them. Don't try and
blame someone else all the time.

Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P.: I have been in the House of Commons just about six
months, and had to shoulder the responsibility of accepting the Bill or taking part in its
rejection. What would Attewell have done had he been in my place having regard to the
whole of the circumstances? Would he have rejected it as a friend of Ireland or would
he have voted for it? We say the Bill has given to Ireland her freedom. If the Parlia-
mentary Labour Party had had their own way matters might have been much different:
You should judge the Labour Party by the Bills it introduces and remember they are not
yet in power.

I was very sorry to hear the delegate from Northampton say what he did in reference
to beer and sugar. I am not anxious to belong to any Party which believes in reducing
the tax on beer whilst sugar and tea are still taxed. (Hear, hear.) I am not a teetotaller,
and I like a glass of beer with anyone when I can get it, but to say the Labour Party should
fight for a reduction in the price of beer whilst tea and sugar are kept up, then I have no
desire to belong to them—in fact it would not deserve to exist under such circumstances.
(Cheers.)

We have kept the House of Commons sitting longer and kept it busier than it has
been for years. We hope to introduce before long the question of the Capital Levy, and
I tell you we are in for some great fights. I am delighted with the ability and capacity
of those who lead us. As we say in our report the story is told in the Division Lobbies,
and that is why we must fortify our position. The House of Commons is not very par-
ticular whether you are right or wrong. In twenty-one Divisions one night I was laughing
up my sleeve because I thought we had the Government beaten every time, but when the
Division figures had been taken we were whacked by one hundred votes. Where they
had been I don't pretend to know. I am not particular about people calling me an old
fogey. There are plenty of young men about and I hope they will be prepared to take on
the fight, instead of trying to build up a case to try and catch a man out every time. Your
two present Members of Parliament have been in more divisions and put in more time
or at any rate as much, as any other Member of Parliament in the country. I hope the
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, and the Labour Party will never ask me—
because I never should—to vote for a reduction in beer whilst the necessities of life like
sugar and tea are kept up. These are the things that the wife and children must have
to live, and I hope the majority of the delegates don't take Attewell's view.


---
68
and my colleagues were not. The Labour Party in giving their consent to the Bill had
question with reference to Ireland came up during the time I was a Member of Parliament
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser) : I think the report is an excellent one. The
first of all all the information they could get. Mr. McCarthy, in his enthusiasm for his
native country, felt bound to indulge in criticism regarding two parliaments for Ireland.
where the Labour Party ever advocated two parliaments in Ireland? The Labour Party
Can Mr. McCarthy or our friend from Northampton tell us, or point to any document
has always been in favour of one parliament for Ireland.
Mr. D. MCCARTHY: I admit that wholeheartedly.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): Still the Labour Party is subject to criticism.
themselves. The people whom the Irish people elected went unopposed to the Dail in
The Labour Party has stood for the principle of the right of the Irish people to govern
1918. They made the Treaty, and the Labour Party had nothing to do with it. The
Irish Treaty is the work of the Irish people in Southern Ireland, at any rate. Was the
Labour Party in a position to say they were wrong, or to tell the people's representatives
for that Treaty as being an agreed position. Let us preserve some sense of proportion.
do not deserve it. I have a great
regard for the Labour Party. It has sufficient enemies outside its ranks without having
unless your party is the Government. No one can produce legislation unless with the
I wish the delegates could see how the House of Commons does its work. You are helpless
consent of the Government. If there is to be any criticism in regard to the Labour Party
I appeal to you to reserve some sense of decency towards those whom we have sent there
to do the best they can under difficult circumstances. It may be that in this Parliament
although the Labour Members are double that of the last that their task is more difficult
because they come up against things which you cannot understand. I agree with Mr.
McCarthy and his reference to class hatred. You have arrayed against you an intensity
of feeling and bitterness so strong that no one amongst us can imagine. Let us always
hesitate before we try to leg people down. Let us have criticism by all means, but such
criticism which will help forward the movement and not hurl charges about which are
based upon misapprehension and not facts. (Applause.)
Mr. LEN. SMITH (Council Member) spoke upon the position as to his candidature
in Wells. "One might feel," he continued, "that good work was not put in. I can assure
our delegates that a great deal of work was done in that Division. I make no apology
for the figures which appear in the report under the Wells Division."
In the report of the Parliamentary representatives you have some effective figures
under the heading of education. I get the circular and reports sent to me from the Board
of Education, and I can assure you the Government has set out on such a line as to starve
the education of the children of the working classes of this country to such an extent
that has not been known in this country for thirty years. In Northampton we have
thirty teachers less than we had two years ago. There have been ten inspectors in the town
during the past fortnight. They wish to reduce the teaching staff by a further forty-nine
teachers. In one school there is an average of fifty-one scholars for each teacher. No
one can teach such a number. I have questioned and criticised our Director of Education,
and he at once points out the regulations issued from the Board of Education. We had
great hopes would result from the Fisher Bill. The Labour Party backed it, not as being
complete, but as something which meant a step forward, but that is not now a fact. It is
much harder for your children to get into the secondary schools to-day than it was fifteen
years ago. I know it is exceedingly difficult for the Labour Party but they are doing
their best under hard circumstances. No action can be too strong against the present
Government. We don't want our children to be badly educated. We want them to have
a better education than we had. I wish to congratulate our two Members of Parliament
as I know the work they have been trying to do. I have been to the House of Commons
and watched the debates, and was there when the question of reducing the tax on tea and
sugar came up. The finest case possible was put up by H. B. Lees-Smith, and the Govern-
ment never tried to answer it, but when the Division came out, although the Labour Farty
had all the argument, the vote was against them.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): I am afraid the members have misunderstood Mr.
Attewell. We had Michael Collins and other working men me ting the finest capitalists
and brigands it was possible to meet. It is hardly to be expected that working folk could
establish better conditions against such men.
alive in these matters, but I think friend Attewell has been misunderstood.
I hope the Labour Party will always be
THE CHAIRMAN: He made out his own case; don't tell us what he meant.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): I note what Mr. Len. Smith said, and should like to
England. If you spend a small amount then Scotland's share will be smaller too. Our


---
Here is the extracted text:
continuation classes and every school will all suffer as a consequence. There is a reso-
lution in this report on Old Age Pensions, and I suggest that our Members of Parliament
should have an amendment made if this is the opinion of the Labour Party. You ought
to fight for Pensions at 60 years of age for all persons who do not pay income tax, and
that would be much fairer than the present position.
Wellingborough Election Echo.
Mr. E. TEBBUTT (Wellingborough): It requires some courage to get up, coming
as I do from Wellingborough. The statement made by the General President this morning
was quite justified, although we will try to make amends. In your report it states :-
We can only hope that upon reflection the workers of the Welling-
at the earliest possible
As a result, we have
moment to return a Labour Candidate to Parliament.
come to the conclusion that for the present it would not be advantageous for us to
place a prospective candidate in the Division."
I will not go into the other part, but should like to say that the Capital Levy beat
Mr. W. R. Smith in that Division. The manufacturers told the workers' wives that if the
Labour Party got into power their factories would be closed, and their husbands thrown
out of work. We cannot understand why Miss Bondfield was not returned for Northamp-
ton, or Banton for Leicester. It is the unanimous wish of the workers in the Division
to have Walter Smith as their candidate. I know some of the workers voted for Shakes-
peare because they thought Smith was safe, and they would have altered it the next day
if they had had the chance.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): In reference to the position at Wellingborough
you say "In connection with Wellingborough, a special committee was appointed to go
into the question, both in the Division and the general position, along with the Executive
of the Divisional Labour Party." As a result you have terminated the engagement of the
Flection Agent, Mr. H. Allen. It tells us very little indeed as to the reason why you took
that step. I should like a full explanation from the members of the Committee as to why
they did so, and what they reported. If you take a Division like Wellingborough with a
4,000 minority, and you had kept a good agent in the Division and nursed the constituency,
possibly Smith may yet be returned. Why have you taken that decision ?
Mr. A. STOTT (Heckmondwike): It must be obvious so far as Wellingborough
is concerned the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives have a vast interest in that
Division, and I should welcome more information as to the position. If you feel it is
not wise for Mr. W. R. Smith to continue, then surely you have reasons, and I think the
Council should consider the position of the Labour Party's future there. Are we to take
it that you have wiped your hands of the Division, and will nothing more be heard of it?
It so, then I presume you have consulted the National Labour Party. Having regard
to the expenditure in this Division we are entitled to have a clear statement.
THE CHAIRMAN then asked Mr. W. R. Smith if he would give the reasons, but
Mr. Smith declined do to so. The Chairman said he would give some of the explanation
providing it was taken without prejudice, and continued: 1 think it would be much
better if you sought private information rather than give too much publicity to this matter.
We were very disappointed over the position. All the excuses put forward did not help
us. We were told the first clection was a "fluke." We did not believe it. We believe
the work of the organisation should be kept up, but it was not kept either to our satis-
faction or the satisfaction of Mr. W. R. Smith. Unless local people put their backs into
it we cannot do more than we did. Wellingborough had never been interfered with so
far as the Head Office was concerned. We thought they should look after themselves.
We paid an agent £275 per annum towards his salary, much different from my agent who
only had 12s. per weck and had to work overtime. We found things were not working
so nicely as they should have done. We held an enquiry, and we don't blame all Mr.
Smith's workers. We blame those who were not working. There was no complaint
that Mr. Smith had not done his duty. I was told that out of 1,200 voters in 1918 Smith
secured 700 of them, but they would see he got no more than 200 the last time. That
was in a shoe centre. The officials in London cannot hold the fort at Wellingborough.
The candidate himself will tell you he never refused one invitation to go into the Division
when he was appealed to, to go. You ought to throw the responsibility upon the people
in the district. I am not sure that Mr. Smith has had an invitation to stand again. If,
after serving people for four years they want to bracket you with others, then I said that
is a vote of censure. If our friends in Wellingborough are anxious that they should
agreeable, we should consider the matter. We said that for at least three months we could
not commit ourselves in the Division. The Council want their members to be in Parlia-
ment, and don't want them to be defeated by any Bill, Jack or Harry who comes along.
I cannot accept our friend's suggestion that there were people who voted against Smith
one day and then said they would vote for him the next. They ought not to have voted


---
Here is the extracted text:
70
We were bound to bring about a change in the constituency for a while
It was done in the best interests of the Union and the ex-Member. I don't
think any member of the Council would put up opposition to your having a fresh start in
against him.
at any rate.
the Division, always providing it was on favourabl. lines.
There are several people
of the election, and that the Council withdrew their support. I should like to ask if there
in Wellingborough who say our Council did not do all they could for Mr. Smith at the time
is any truth in that statement.
THE CHAIRMAN: The General Secretary was away in Geneva, and I wrote to
the Executive of the Union was prepared to place his time at the disposal of the candidates.
Mr. W. R. Smith, Mr. Len. Smith, Mr. Hill and Mr. Buckle, telling them every member of
and to the best of my knowledge everyone who had an invitation went to Wellingborough.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): I have no complaint whatever to make against
the Council. I got all the support I asked for. I did not ask my Agent to write to everyone
of them, because I recognised we had four candidates in the field. On the statement made
by the Chairman I should like to say there is no difference of opinion between the Executive
Council of the Union and myself on the action they have taken. On the question raised
by Mrs. Richards there is no justification for the statement at all, as I have no complaint
against the Council.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): I think we should have a fuller explanation as
to why Mr. Smith was not returned. Our friend, I suppose, was speaking on behalf of
Wellingborough after consulting the voters who voted against Mr. Smith. The statement
is one which the Council would have to take seriously into consideration before they put
Mr. Smith there to waste his talents in the constituency.
Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden): Mr. Smith considerably increased
his vote in November last. Milner Gray, the Coalition candidate in 1918 was known to
be an extreme prohibitionist, with the result that when the election came round he did not
get on particularly well with those who disagreed with him. The drink interest was shy
of him, and although he wobbled considerably during the election campaign he lost the
support of some of his own members. Take Irthlingborough where I live. On the day
of the election Mr. Milner Gray had to be welcomed by us, because he only had one man
in his committee room, and that man was imported from Wellingborough. In Finedon
he had no committee room at all. Walter Smith had very little to fight in comparison
with what he had against him last year. He was returned in 1918 with less than a thousand
votes: he increased his poll against Shakespeare, although he had both the Conservative
and Liberal vote against him. You Leicester people should remember what you did to
get Banton returned, against the late Mr. Marlow. The shoe manufacturers in our district
-as a matter of revenge-made up their minds to see that W. R. Smith was rejected as a
result of the Leicester people's attitude against Marlow. We feel that we have never
had a finer man in the Division than Mr. Smith, and if the opportunity occurs should like
to see him run again. I know the local Press has said other people will run, but that is
not true.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): What about sacking the Agent. (Laughter.)
Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): We had Mr. Bazeley as the first
election agent and he knew everyone, and was respected by all. After Mr. Allen had
been appointed for some time I was given to understand that some of the people in the
villages did not know him, although this Union was paying him between £5 and 16 a week.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): Now we are getting at it. (Laughter.)
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): I don't know why our friend Parbury
should be so insistent upon the matter. Are we to stand here and give every little detail
as to what has happened between the agent, the candidate and ourselves? Are we to
explain every detail? I daresay Mr. Parbury knows as much about it as I do.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester) : I don't; if I did I would get up and tell everybody.
(Laughter.)
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): We are all very sorry that Walter Smith
was defeated, and as the report of the Council has been considered in a general matter,
I should like to say the policy of the Labour Party ought not to be blamed, but we ought
to try and adopt some method which will enable the Party to be more effective than it is
at the present time. I am delighted with the Labour Party and the fight it has put up.
I have had the somewhat doubtful privilege of sitting in the Strangers' Gallery in the
House of Commons, and the last time I was there they were discussing pensions for mothers.
Everyone that spoke was in favour of the Bill, and yet it is still in the air. We talk about
educational matters. Many Labour men have lost votes becaus: the age limit for leaving
school was raised. The same thing applies to unemployment. Go through the queues
at the Employment Exchanges and not one of those waiting will you hearsay a word
about the Labour Party being so organised as to get them returned to power and so try
and remedy this evil. Instead they are thinking how best to get their unemployment
benefit. If the Capital Levy has been held responsible for Smith's defeat then there could


---
71
have been no Labour Party in the Division. So far as I am concerned. I am convinced
Council have done their duty to Mr. Smith, the Union and the Division by discharging
in my own mind that it was the Capital Levy which got the men in in the North. The
Mr. Allen. The real reasons could be obtained by sending a letter to the Council, and
get them privately instead of trying to get them brought out in a conference of this
description.
G. PARBURY (Leicester): You say I should ask a question privately. You
know there is something at the back of all this. Are we ornaments for you people or what?
At the bottom of the whole thing you know is the Agent, and he did not do his duty. We
went to Wellingborough and won a seat, and after four years you allow others to put
Smith out, and I would remind you that this Agent had a lot more money than I got each
it true that there were some
visited at all?
THE CHAIRMAN: I have no such information.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): The Council sent four men as a deputation
from London to Wellingborough and had a meeting lasting three hours and a half, and
yet you keep the thing up your sleeve. You ought to tell the conference what happened
and not lay a trap for anyone.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Can anyone imagine there is any trap in the
statement made by the Council; the Council have not laid a trap. The Council have
not used this language to lay a trap, but as a matter of fact although it has been
smiled at several times the basic reason was, is, and will continue to be the fact
that our own people did not appreciate the position properly. No amount of arguing and
camouflage will get away from the position. To suggest the Council were lukewarm in
supporting Mr. Smith is entirely erroneous. We did all we could for Mr. Smith. As the
Chairman has said, I was in Geneva at the time that the election was being conducted,
and contracted a chill. I was so ill that my colleagues over there advised me not to
return for a time. I came back, however, contrary to their wishes and did my bit.
I addr ssed one big me ting in Rushden, another at Irthlingborough, and another at
Wellingborough; and statements wer circulated on the one hand that I shirked
the Capital Lavy, and on the other that I made attacks on Mr. Shakespeare. I never
did either. The fact of the matter is, many of our own people are too willing to listen to
the enemy on these matters. Why have we put this paragraph in the Report in this way?
I will tell you. After the lection, it was the duty of the Council to try and find out the
reasons why we were not successful in the Division, especially when we had success at the
previous election. I think you will all agree it was our duty so to do. We held the
enquiry and felt the position was sufficiently serious to depute a small number of our
colleagues to go down to Wellingborough and consult the local people on the spot. That
could be done better than by correspondence. We dealt with the matters on the spot
and they were of great and grave importance. After three and a half hours' interview,
and an attempt to get at the facts to dissever facts from fiction, we made a report to our
colleagues, who decided to take a certain action upon that report. The Labour Party,
as a Labour Party, had a representative at this particular meeting, and we contend the
position is met in these few lines. We thought we ought not to magnify differences of
opinion in our own ranks. We ought to be prepared to accept the report of the men we
send to make the enquiries. Mr. Parbury ought to know better than to be persistently
asking for personal reasons for our actions.
We have quite an adequate and good case, but we must also have some regard for Mr.
Smith, and although we had to part company with Mr. Allen we remember he is a young man
and has to get his living in the future, and we had full regard to these things. We felt the
kindest thing we could do was to act as we did, and so we withdrew our payment
towards the Agent's salary. That meant Mr. Allen's services would be dispensed with.
I hope you will not press this matter further, so that we have to go into personalities.
Regarding the future position I hope and appeal to our Wellingborough friends not to allow
copy to get into the Press. If matters do get into the Press that are not official, then you
should issue an official denial. It has made things uncomfortable for the Council that
Certain statements got into the Press, yet apparently the statements are untrue. We shall
have enough uphill work in this district without making more for ourselves. No one can
avoid making mistakes, but we hope in the future matters will be forced to a successful
and dot the "i" or cross the "f" in the same place as the local people. I hope no one
will press this matter further.
Mr. J. H. HOOPER (Street): I regret very much that Mr. Len. Smith was with-
drawn from the Division of Wells, and also that the Agent was dismissed. I do not think
it is possible for everyone to appreciate what has to be done in these rural areas.
the principle should be defined as to what is meant by success.
success, or success after a time? In boroughs it is an easy thing to get men returned.
We have the landlord caste in our Division and they represent us in Parliament to-day.
They will have to be dug out, and it is only the Labour movement that can do it. Are we
---

---
72
going to sit on the fence and let other people do the spade work and then come along to
get our people returned. We must concentrate upon the rural areas if they are to be won.
We hope Mr. Len. Smith will come back to us, and make another fight on behalf of the
Labour Party.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester) expressed himself satisfied with the explanation
given by the General Secretary.
It was then decided to proceed with the question dealing with
"The Daily Herald."
THE CHAIRMAN: We think it is a shame to have to keep subsidising the labour
paper. The work of Hamilton Fyfe, the Editor, is worth the money. Come what may,
whenever we want to buy a paper we should always take the Daily Herald first. It is a
real live paper and full of information. Its present size will satisfy those people who like
a lot for money, and it is the trade union world upon which this paper depends. Out of the
six and a half million organised men and women in this country we ought to get at least
half a million copies of the Herald sold every day, and like the boy in Pears' Soap " I shan't
be happy till we get it." I should like to see three million copies sold daily. I hope all
our officers take it. The pledge card is for everyone, and the Heralu people would like to
be sure of your fidelity by filling in the pledge card. We presume you will not do as some
people do in another phase of life when they have filled in the pledge card-(Laughter)-
and fail to carry it out. We should not live in a fool's paradise, because if the efforts of
some of the members of the Government fructify you will find your funds cannot be used
for subsidising a daily paper. The paper gives you the record of every organisation in
the kingdom, and I hope the vote will be unanimous, and that everyone will support this
appeal.
The paragraph was unanimously endorsed.
Paragraph 8, which gave a list of the names of the officials of the Union who had
passed beyond recall, was received whilst the delegates stood in silence.
THE CHAIRMAN called particular attention to the death of Mr. J. W. Murby, the
late manager to the National Health Insurance Department, and said he wished to make
it quite clear that his death was not hastened by any overwork in connection with his
official position in the Union.

Consumption.
Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester): I have a daughter under the treatment of Major
Stevens. Five weeks ago she was taken to the sanatorium and I wrote and told him,
and now she is taking the medicine in tablet form, and indeed I am very grateful for what
he has done.
Mr. A. PEAT (Leeds): I served in the army for three years and eight months.
I was diagnosed as suffering from tuberculosis. I consulted a chest specialist and was
granted a war pension. I was examined later by the D.D.M.S. and sent to a sanatorium
and got worse. After being there for some time they decided I had not contracted the
disease in war service and I was discharged. I walked about for eighteen months and
gradually got worse, and the doctor said it is no use you bothering here any more. I went
to the branch office and Dobbs said, "Would you like to try this new treatment?" I said
"Yes." I felt worse during the first week and went back to the sanatorium; then I
gradually began to get better and better, and since then I have been at work for the past
thirteen months and never had a day's illness. I have not seen a doctor since then either.
I have never come across any medicine which gives me more ease or relief. It is a
terrible complaint and you are soon despised and rejected. I hope the Conference will
continue to allow the Council to let members have the treatment.
Mr. A. BIRT (Northampton): Do you think the Medical Research Board is as
active as it should be? Our officials are almost powerless. The solution used in the
boots is one of the worst things to bring about consumption. Has this Committce also
come under the economy stunt? I know of several factories where the lighting arrange-
ments are very bad and think something should be done to bring about an alteration.
THE CHAIRMAN: I am afraid you will find upon enquiry that the Medical
Research Board have come under the Geddes Axe. With the Home Office none of our
suggestions have come off, and on the Trade Board the Inspectors have been cut down by
half. The local factory inspector should have his attention called to the matter, and
failing any action then let us know at the Central Office, when we would see the Home
Office officials.
Mr. L. P. POOLE (Wellingborough): Will the Council allow additional names of
consumptives to be sent along?
THE CHAIRMAN: Every branch has had the opportunity to do that, and I do
not remember any embargo being placed upon them.
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): Can you tell us the opinion of the Medical
Research Board upon factory basements?


---
73
THE CHAIRMAN: The Medical Research Board have met the Council upon the
subject. Men on that Board are far in front of us as workers or officials. They condemn
hip and thigh underground workshops. As the country is hard up I am afraid we cannot
persuade the Government to interfere. When the C.W.S. factory was built in Leicester
ask any medical officer of health what is an insanitary area, he will say any place where
in 1891 we objected to men working in a basement, and they were taken out. When you
there is not sufficient sun and air, and that must be determined by the local sanitary
committee. In some districts it is a very difficult thing to get whitewashing done.
Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): You get people working in good
factories going in consumption. It looks to me that if the children do not have a good
start in life then they are more subject to it. If we worked less hours and had more money
parents would be able to look after their children better.
The paragraph was then unanimously endorsed.
Paragraph 10, dealing with the Jubilee of the Union, was next considered and
THE CHAIRMAN intimated that the Council proposed to hold the next Conference
in 1924 in Stafford, where the Union was founded. I know there is a difficulty in getting
accommodation for so many delegates, but that might be overcome by some of them
r siding outside.
Paragraphs 10 and 11 were then passed.
In connection with the final paragraph in the Council's Address THE CHAIRMAN
said: I have had to report several employers recently, but I am glad to know that the
Employers' Federation is not composed of employers of that character. At the present
time we have four most important matters before us, and there are four responsible officials
of the Federation who are trying to evade their responsibilities, so we must not agree to
anything without getting advice. Your local officials will have to advise you and if they
cannot, then they must send to the Central Office. Advice is cheap enough. By this
means manufacturers will understand our agreements are not merely paper agreements,
but that they must be loyally carried out by all. I am pleased to say about 80 per cent.
of the manufacturers are already doing so, and amongst the leading manufacturers we get
from them their support in trying to enforce the agreement upon all.
Mr. A. STOTT (Heckmondwike): I beg to complain of the fact that there is no
reference in the report as to the present organisation of the trade. We have run up
against the employer who is trying to undermine the position of the existing agreement.
The Council should inform us at this stage what information they have at their disposal
with a view to our taking stock to see how far the agreement is carried out. The value
of the agreement to-day is very much worsened than when it was signed. I understand
an employer has the right to revert back to daywork conditions. That is the insidious
part of the attack upon the operatives. I am told by employers that it has met with
success in various parts of the country, and whilst I have no information to the contrary
I should welcome enquiry. Whilst the employers are trying to scrap the question of
piecework it is quite obvious that in any factory the operative may be called upon to do
his piecework quantity for the day rate wage. The bulk of the piecework conditions were
established in a period of trade almost unprecedented. During the two years which have
recently passed I suggest the policy pursued by employers has been to secure improved
workmanship, and in consequence the operative has lost wages. I hope this Conference
will give its mentality to this problem.
THE CHAIRMAN: What you have said contains nothing new. In 1895 it was
decided that we must accept either daywork or piecework. That is not the position to-day
-only on paper. Our policy to-day is when you go on day labour you have a set wage
and earn that wage according to the quantity statement. Where is the difference? The
man or woman limits the work done according to the wage they are to receive. I don't
think at the present time there is enough work for all our operatives to work full time.
It is not a wise thing to put something into an employer's head. I could name many
cases of firms who have gone on the day labour system but in all instances instructions
have been issued that the quantity must be limited. We are all of the opinion that piece-
work is the right system, and we only differ on the point as to whether an operative should
earn as much as he wishes or limit his wages. The employers got their point in 1895.
This is what they fought for and won, and whether they will give it up now is another
matter. They say they get better work, and there is no scamping when operatives are
on day wages. We believe in good work and good time, and in everybody acting fairly
the National Agreement, to write to the Central Office and let us know.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester) then proposed that the Council's Address be en-
dorsed, subject to the question of Unemployment being discussed when the Agenda proper
was reached. Mr. H. WILLIAMS (Leicester) seconded the resolution, and upon
the Chairman putting the same to the vote of the delegates, declared it was carried unani-
mously.
It being 5.7 p.m. the Conference adjourned until Tuesday.


---
Here is the extracted text:
74
TUESDAY.
Morning Session.
The Conference resumed its deliberations at 9.30 a.m. on the 22nd May, 1923, Mr.
T. F. Richards, General President, presiding.
Upon the Roll being called it was found that Mr. H. Sanders (Higham and Rushden)
was absent, but he arrived later and explained the reason for being late.
The Minutes of the proceedings of the Conference for Monday were read and unani-
mously endorsed, the Chairman signing the same.
The Report of the Standing Orders Committee was presented and endorsed.
Standing Orders Committee Report.
The Standing Orders Committee reported that Item 15 had been withdrawn. Item
6 to be taken as the proposition and 7 as the amendment.
Following Item 19, the Council should propose their recommendation re the payment
of Suspension Benefit, and that representatives from Branches supporting Items 20-25
be asked to speak for or against the Council's proposal.
Item 23 to stand by itself.
With reference to Items 68-76 the representatives of the Branches concerned should
consult with the members of the Standing Orders Committee at 1.45 p.m.
The recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee were adopted.
The Standing Orders Committee also submitted a resolution dealing with the
Russian Trading Agreement
which Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser) proposed, viz:-
"This Conference of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives representing
75,000 members, views with great apprehension and alarm the possibility of the
Trade Agreement between this country and Russia being cancelled, leading as it must
to a rupture between the two countries.
"It declares that such policy will not only be detrimental to the people of this
country, and accentuate the problem of unemployment, but also will greatly add
to the danger and possibility of War. We therefore call upon the Government to
take steps to submit the points in dispute to a conference, whereby they may be
adequately examined, and adjusted upon an amicable basis satisfactory to both sides.
"We strongly condemn the action of the Government, and Secretary for Foreign
Affairs in particular, in issuing ultimatums without the consent of the people of this
country, and further pledge ourselves to support the General Council and the Parlia-
mentary Labour Party in any action they may take."
The delegates who have followed the discussions of the Russian position will remember
that it was promised that negotiations would go on for a few weeks. It was stated by all
parties in the House of Commons that they did not want war between this country and
Russia, and that war must be avoided at all costs, and although the Government stated
they did not desire anything like that, it was clear from the ultimatum that negotiations
may be broken off, and in that event there would be an elment of hostility which would
point in the direction of war. I believe this country feels we have had sufficient of war.
In submitting this resolution I would like to say it is not a new question. It has been going
on between the two countries ever since the Great War finished. It is a question upon
which the Labour Party has very pronounced views. One of the questions which was
passed at the Conference of 1920 dealt with unemployment, and if this country is to succeed
then we must develop our foreign trade. As a nation at this moment we live largely
upon our exports We have become a manufacturing nation. In regard to coal, iron,
steel, cotton, wool and boots and shoes we manufacture more than we can consume, and
this surplus must be disposed of if we are to try and solve the question of unemployment.
We felt the position so keenly a few years ago that a Council of Action was set up and they
were partly responsible for the abandonment of the policy of war.
This resolution states
it views with alarm and apprehension the possibility of a breach with Russia. I would
like to make it clear that we do not endorse everything that has been done in Russia.
(Hear, hear.) It does not mean we endorse what their Government has done. We ought
to recognise the form of government that any country creates by the people living there.
There is in this policy something else we should strongly condemn. We cannot permit
questions of dispute between nations to be settled by ultimatum. I am not going to say
Russian Government. It may be they have carried on propaganda in a way beyond their


---
75
round their borders. Surely that is more a reason why we should have a conference with
rights. It may be they have gone beyond what is their prerogative in regard to the fishing
them to discuss these questions, because by issuing an ultimatum you settle nothing,
has replied to the British Note. If that reply has not yet been received I know it is on the
but create the impression that you seek an injustice and misunderstandings. Russia
have dictated terms. That is a fair position. Let Russia be condemned as much as you
upon the questions, but they will not allow this or any other country to say they will
but I say they have a right to be heard. Only by the peoples having an understanding
of these questions can they know each other, and that information should be given in a
conference between nations who have disputes, and such action would be in the best
interests of all. It is because I believe this matter is pressing that I move this resolution.
(Applause.)
Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P.: I have pleasure in seconding this resolution so ably moved
by Mr. Walter Smith. It has occupied a great deal of the time of the House of Commons
becently. There has always been a fear that there was something going on behind the
scenes which was unsatisfactory until the whole matter culminated in the behind the
That being so the Labour Party began to feel some steps must be taken in view tune
seriousness of the situation. The leaders of the Party raised this matter as they have been
senstantly doing, because a breach of relationship at this juncture would be a very, very
serious defect and act detrimentally against the working classes. By private conversations
and also debating the matter in the House of Commons the issue was fought out, and you
will remember that an ultimatum was issued demanding a reply within fourteen days, but
that time was further extended. It is dreadful to think of our relations with Russia if we
went to war, with a population of 120,000,000 people, and with whom we desire to bring
about some common understanding. I am not going into the question of what has taken
place in Russia. If we believe there should be no more wars then we must take steps to
prevent another war. Just as we have fixed up machinery in our own industry for the
purpose of perfecting negotiations, surely it is as important for us to fix up similar machinery
for the settling of disputes between nations, and overcome secret diplomacy and have a public
discussion. Who will suffer if we get involved in a war? We know who always suffers when
breaches take place. We know what is going on between France and Germany. 120,000,000
people arrayed against us is a menace. The stability of finance and renewed confidence
with the whole world would surely be shaken, and now is the time for us to make a move.
We are trying to compel people to do something, people whom we do not understand, and
we cannot afford to sacrifice life, prosperity, industry and happiness of our country until
we have exhausted every other means to prevent war. There is no organisation in the
trade union world, political world, or the co-operative movement but will not persist in
trying to prevent hostilities. I hope this resolution will be carried unanimously. Let the
working classes of this country insist upon matters being thrashed out in a constitutional
way, and arrive at a settlement which will be lasting and fair to all concerned. We ought
to have good relations not only with Russia, but with all nations of the world, and so
have a medium of exchange which will enable us to grow into happiness and prosperity.
(Applause.)
THE CHAIRMAN: It is not our business to interfere with the rights of other
nations, and it is late in the day for our Foreign Secretary to interfere with Russia because
our fishermen have been affected because they fish within the three mile limit. If the
present Government want something to occupy their minds they have plenty to do to
keep the foreigners out of Scotland. If Italy had as much attention paid to it as Russia
things might be better. The resolution is not spicy enough and we should make it
stronger.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath) agreed with the general remarks of the Chairman and
suggested the resolution be sent back to the Standing Orders Committee so that they
could make it stronger and to make it quite plain that the workers of this country would
have no war with Russia. The newspapers here tell us it is only the extreme people who
want to declare war on them.
THE CHAIRMAN suggested the words be added that we protest to the Foreign
which the General Council of the Trades Union Congress or the Parliamentary Labour
Secretary and the Government in issuing an ultimatum, and that we back up any steps
Party may take.
Mr. H. ATTEWELL (Northampton): It may be better if we asked the Trades
Union Congress to call a special congress in order that it may set up what has proved in
of the working classes in this country make it clear that they are going to do more than
On the 18th April the Labour Party raised this matter. Mr. Lansbury asked a question
speak upon the
the effect that of
This policy is linked up with the imperialistic policy of our country. The question of the
---

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

76

Near East will have to be settled. In 1915 we promised to give Russia the Straits of
Constantinople. The question of Persia is behind all this. I heartily support the reso-
lution, but I do ask that you shall call in the Council of Action and if possible a Special
Trades Congress.

Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): Is our opinion any more emphatic because the resolu-
tion may be stronger or more adjectives are used? Let the Government understand the
significance and the dangers in front of them. Do you want to feel the blood running
down your back? All the tomfoolery of words does not count to-day. Get your expert
at English language if you will, and that would not count. It is not merely the duty of
this Conference to pass the resolution, but for each delegate to go home and gravitate
along similar lines and let the Government see we are consistent, and I hope that will
be done.

THE CHAIRMAN: I am afraid my friend Jex is not subject to resolutions from
his members. Resolutions should be strong. Unless they are, people will not move.
In 1906 the Government was divided on peace or war, but strong resolutions prevented
it, and if there is any chance of our going to war then we ought to take such steps as will
prevent it. The public should be made aware of all the details. I will now put the
resolution.

The resolution was then submitted to the delegates and unanimously endorsed.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY then intimated that he would send a copy of the
same to Mr. J. Ramsay MacDonald, M.P., and the Secretary for Foreign Affairs.

Later in the week the following reply was received :-

THE FOREIGN OFFICE,
LONDON, S.W. 1.

24th May, 1923.

The Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs presents his compliments to
the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, and, by direction of the Secretary
of State, acknowledges the receipt of their telegram of the 22nd instant, which is
receiving attention.

TO THE SECRETARY,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
34, Guilford Street,
London, W.C. 1.

Conditions of Membership.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I beg to move Item numbered 1:-

1.  The Council. Rule 32. - Delete, and insert. “Persons between 40 and 50
years of age wishing to join the Union can only do so for trade purposes
(but may join the National Health Insurance Department for sick pur-
poses). Persons joining under this Rule shall be entitled to Funeral
Benefit as named in Rule 247."

The Council feel sure this will be endorsed as it makes it quite clear that the benefits
named can only apply to men between 40 and 50 years of age. At these ages they can
join for trade purposes only, and as we feel sure it will be carried I do not think I need
enlarge upon the subject.

Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow) seconded.

Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): I don't wish to entirely oppose the resolution, but
wish to put before the delegates a point which the Council may have to consider. I think
that Rules 32 and 33 should be read together to get a full understanding as to whom we
take for this particular benefit. A few years ago when the Government were trying to
include boot and shoe operatives in their scheme some tacit understanding was given
that unemployment benefit would be paid to our members. That came about as a result
of a Norwich member objecting to the Government. I want to know why the Council
now wish to alter this rule. I offer strenuous opposition to the change. Quite two-thirds
of the members drawing unemployment benefit in Norwich are men between 18 and 23
years of age, and not those between 50 and 60, and if you believe by your efforts you will
ease the situation, then it would not be applicable to Norwich. The people who know
several sections of our trade are not likely to be unemployed so easily as those who only
know a sectional part. During the war you attracted a type of labour which you would
interpretated in Norwich, and there would be no undue liability incurred. It is not like
not otherwise have attracted. We could very well continue the rule as it is at present
taking them for sickness benefit. Men may have been compelled, owing to circumstances
over which they had no control, to leave the Union, and when they wing to circumstan
down, and I do not think you should restrict the man's benefits.


---
Here is the extracted text:
77
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Mr. Jex has based the whole of his argument
because of the Norwich case, and we had to give an undertaking to the Minister of Labour
Item 3 we are increasing them. With reference to the aged member the rule was altered
Therefore it cannot be said the Council ever attempted to put that embargo upon the
to alter our rule because of the objection from Norwich, so we tried to meet the position.
aged member.
Mr. like to have some
documentary evidence as to why the Council desire to alter the rule.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The evidence was before the Conference in 1916,
and I did not think it would be required this morning or I should have rence in 1916,
want to make it quite plain that this only applies to persons wishing to join between
the age of 40 and 50 years, and persons beyond 50 will join under the conditions set out
Item 3. We felt that as our organisers go up and down the country they may find men and
women over 50 years of age who desired to join, who by some set of circumstances ceased
to be members and meantime may, say, have reached the age of 52. We argued the
matter out, and there is at present a scale for such members at 5d. per week contribution,
which definitely states what their benefits are. In consequence of the endeavour of the
Council to mect the position and the evidence before them we felt we ought to try and meet
the position, so we are trying to make provision for them. Despite the statement of our
friend Jex, generally speaking, the obligation is upon us to provide unemployment benefit,
and the possibility of the call upon the funds is greater when a man is over 50 years of age
than before. The Council decided to suggest therefore, that they be put in a separate
class and to make the 5d. man pay 6d., and for that extra 1d. he would receive out-of-work
pay at the rate of 6s. per week and in addition £3 funeral pay.
Mr. A. HILL, M.P. (Leicester No. 2): Does this apply to the present 5d. member
who has served his probation ?
THE CHAIRMAN: This will only apply to new members. It distinctly states to
"members wishing to join." The Government would not allow us to administer the
Unemployment Act unless we made some provision for everyone.
Mr. A. HILL, M.P. (Leicester No. 2): On page 9 the Council have made no pro-
vision for the 5d. man.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: We allowed a few cases to continue on the old
rate of contribution as there were so few of them, and of course they only get the old
benefits, and we certainly should not allow the 8d. member to go back to 5d. but he would
have to continue to pay his 8d.
Mr. A. W. LYNE (Council Member): So far as the representatives on the Council.
from Northampton are concerned the answer of the Chairman is contrary to how we
understood it. I understand in Northampton and Leicester men over 50 years of age
have only joined on the 5d. scale of contribution.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): That is not a fact so far as Leicester is concerned.
Mr. A. W. LYNE (Council Member): Are we to understand any member over
50 years of age can pay 8d. and receive the full trade benefits ?
THE CHAIRMAN: It is very rarely we make benefits retrospective. We feel
very strongly that men should wake up before they are 40 or 50 and join the Union before-
hand. It is a pitiable thing and should not be encouraged. Some people will join a
Union which gives them the biggest benefits for the lowest contribution.
We ought to be concerned
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): Owing to the war conditions, we have taken 500
people of any age up to 70. We knew it was only a temporary position and had we taken
them for full benefit they would have been on the funds for ever.
for the well-being of all members. The question which has arisen and been interpreted
in Norwich is not so interpretated elsewhere. We have national rules and they ought
to be administered the same everywhere.
THE CHAIRMAN: The language of this resolution is very plain. There is no
mention of old members. It says" persons between 40 and 50 years of age wishing to
join the Union." If you wish it to apply to present members then you should have said
so. In one branch only one member refuses to pay to the Political Fund and his opinion
is respected, so we should carefully consider all the facts which are before you.
5d. if he wants DOBBS (Council Membution. He could easily resign his membership
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): Of course this applies to the man who pays
and rejoin. I have no enthusiasm over this alteration at all. If a man reaches 55 years
the Union he will never
going to take these people at all I suggest the Council have made a reasonable offer.
Sympathy sometimes carries us too far and we can only run a trade union on business
lines. If you want to do something for these people then I don't think you can do anything
better than accept the Council's resolution.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

78

Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's): If the 5d. member transfers to 6d. scale would he have to serve a probation?

THE CHAIRMAN: Quite.

The Item numbered 1 on the Agenda was then carried unanimously.
Item 2 fell out as a consequence of No. 1 being carried.
2 Edinburgh. - Rule 32. - Delete "40 years," and substitute "45 years."
THE GENERAL SECRETARY proposed Item 3 :-
"Persons over 50 years of age
3 The Council. - Rule 33. - Delete, and insert:
wishing to join the Union may do so on the following terms:
Males. - Entrance Fee 1s., Contributions 6d. per week; 4¼d. to
Central Funds, 1½d. to Branch Funds. The member after serving the
probationary periods as named in Rule 37 shall be entitled to the following
benefits as named in the several rules, viz., Strike Pay, Dispute Pay,
Lock-out Pay, Travelling Assistance, Compensation Pay, Legal Assistance
in connection with accidents occurring at his employment. Out-of-Work
Pay 6s. per week, and Rules 217 to 229 inclusive govern the conditions
to be complied with for this benefit so far as they are applicable to members
joining under this Rule. Payment of Out-of-Work Contributions in
accordance with Rule 230. Funeral Benefit on death of member £3 only.
Females. - Entrance Fee 6d., Contributions 3d. per week; 2d. to
Central Funds and 1d. to Branch Funds. After compliance with the rules
as to probationary periods, as named in Rule 37, they shall be entitled
to half the amount of benefits for trade purposes as named in the rules,
viz., Strike Pay, Dispute Pay, Lock-out Pay, Travelling Assistance,
Compensation Pay, Legal Assistance in connection with accidents occurring
at her employment. Out-of-Work Benefit 3s. per week, and Rules 217
to 229 inclusive govern the conditions to be complied with for this benefit
so far as they are applicable to members joining under this rule. Funeral
Benefit on death of member 30s. only."

I cannot imagine the 5d. member - if this is passed - wanting to continue to pay 5d
when for another penny he can get out-of-work benefit. If there are, then we should
deal with them the same as the few odd members I have already mentioned. In fact I
believe there are still one or two members in Northampton who pay under the old regime,
and also in Rushden and they get full value for their money. It is no injustice to us
or them, and I hope you will accept this resolution.
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser) seconded the resolution. Take the town of
Melbourne and the Secretary from Derby will tell you that the biggest opponents of the
Union there are all over 50 years of age. They want benefits if they join us. The Council
have been charged with not being advanced enough. I think the Council have been very
wise in this thing, and I hope you will pass it.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) supported the resolution of the Council, but felt no pro-
vision should be made to pay funeral benefit. No sympathy should be shown to members
who did not join until they were at the graveside, and we ought not to make our union a
glorified friendly society. No funeral pay should be granted.
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood): To make the Union effective we must do
something of this kind. It was easy to make members during the war. When men
joined in Kingswood over 50 years of age they did so as Special Trade members only,
and they were satisfied until the slump came. Friction was then caused when they found
they had no out-of-work pay, and I suggest this will be a valuable addition to the Union,
and will give an inducement for old members to rejoin.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): As no contribution is paid to the sick fund it
may be a dangerous policy to pay funeral pay. Possibly it was overlooked in the drafting
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: There was no specific minute taken in connection
with the allocation of the 1d. nor any of it going to the sick fund, but we felt the amount
required would be so small that it would not be a serious matter to ignore the fact, at any
rate for the time being. We may have to consider it at our next revision of rules as to
whether the whole of the 1d. should go to the Trade Department. It is quite true that under
the existing rules the member gets part of his 8d. transferred to the sick and funeral fund
but there £6 death benefit is payable. By parity of reasoning you could say ½d. should
likewise go to the sick fund under this suggestion, but as I have said we do not look upon
it as a serious matter.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): Surely when Item 6 comes up we can amend it.
I sincerely hope our members are not against this.
THE CHAIRMAN: As I told you all yesterday, in 1895 we did not care where the
money belonged to but used it for lock-out pay. We can divide the money just as we
think fit. I think you should accept the Council's recommendation.
The New Rule was unanimously accepted.


---
Here is the extracted text:
79
Members Returning from Abroad.
Mr. C. MAYES (Kettering) proposed Item 4 :-
4 Kettering Nos. 1 and 2.—Rule 36. Delete last two lines, "shall serve a
probation of six months before becoming entitled to either Sick, Funeral,
or Out-of-Work Benefit," and insert "shall be immediately entitled to
Sick, Funeral, Out-of-Work and other benefits."
Members serve four or five years' membership with us and then go to Canada, Australia
or South Africa, and they are immediately put into full benefit. Some of them come back,
hand in their card to us, and have to serve a probationary period. We feel we ought to
allow these members to immediately become entitled to benefit when they return.
Mr. G. CAMPBELL (Kettering) seconded the resolution.
Mr. L. SMITH (Northampton) proposed Item 5 as an amendment to the
resolution:
5 Northampton. - Rule 36, Line 6. - Delete after "craft," and insert :- "Shall
at once become entitled to Union Benefits, either Sick, Funeral or Out-
of-Work, after resuming work in the industry in the United Kingdom."
It contains the same spirit as the Kettering resolution, but there is a difference in the
wording of the last line "after resuming work at the trade." We have had cases of men
taking a clearance card, going abroad and becoming members whilst abroad and then
coming back, present a fully paid-up trade union card, and under the present rule feel
they are being dealt with unjustly.
Mr. W. R. TOWNLEY (Northampton) seconded the amendment. We will assume
a young man goes to one of the Colonies and after a while has a breakdown in health; if
we carry the Kettering resolution he would become a burden to the Union, but under
the Northampton resolution he would be safeguarded providing he resumed his work.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): What benefits do the members get who go abroad?
Mr. C. MAYES (Kettering): Full benefits.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): They are entitled to immediate benefits over there,
but for trade purposes only. We take them for sick and out-of-work and death. Our
men tell me there are no such benefits abroad, the only one being strike pay. I favour
Northampton's resolution because if you take them into immediate benefit the sick men
would be a liability on the Union.
THE CHAIRMAN: We have had correspondence with Mr. C. L. Baine, of the
American Union, but no arrangements have been made. I think the policy we have
been working upon is the best one.
Mr. L. SMITH (Northampton): When Mr. Odell was over in England and was
speaking to us as a Council he suggested something might be arranged between the two
countries, but no arrangement has yet been fixed up.
Mr. W. KENDALL (Leicester): Could the Council give the delegates any informa-
tion as to the number of boot and shoe operatives belonging to the Union who emigrate
and come back?
THE CHAIRMAN: Less than twelve per annum..
Upon the Question being put, there were only six delegates voted in favour of the
Kettering resolution, and only nine against the Northampton resolution, the Chairman
declaring Item 5 standing in the name of the Northampton Branch as carried.
Entrance Fees and Contributions.
6 The Council. - Rule 167. - Delete, and insert :-
To be divided as follows:
Entrance
Fees. Cons.
Sick.
Trade. Branch.
Males
1/-
1/-
3d.
5d. 3d.
Males (Sick)
6d.
42d.
14d.
Males (Trade and Funeral)
1/-
8d.
ld.
43d.
24d.
Males (Special Trade) over
50 years of age
1/-
6d.
44d.
14d.
Youths.
6d.
6d.
13d.
21d.
2d.
Females.
6d.
6d.
13d.
24d.
2d.
Females (Sick)
3d.
24d.
Females (Trade and Funeral) 6d.
4d.
d.
24d.
11d.
Females (Special Trade) over
50 years of age
3d.
3d.
24d.
d.
Females (under 18)
shown to us that the Trade Fund should have a small additional portion of the money which
comes to the Central Office. This transfer will mean between £6,000 and £7,000 extra
THE GENERAL SECRETARY proposed the above resolution. Experience has
3d.
3d.
d.
Id.
ld.

---
80
per annum being placed to the credit of the Trade Fund. So long as our present machinery
exists for the settling of disputes, we may be considered all right. If our negotiations
were to break down in the near future we should soon find the contributions were not
very much per head in the
adequate to meet the position, as there is not
Trade Fund.
It is due to the methods by which our disputes are settled that we have been able to give
big benefits for small contributions. One of the great advantages of our conferences
is to enable us from time to time to review the allocation of the funds. The member is
not concerned about the allocation of the funds providing he always gets his benefit.
The contribution revolves upon experience which enables the Union to balance its various
funds. Now in relation to Item 7 which it has been decided to take as the amendment.
In my judgment the amendment would be a very complicated and highly technical way of
dealing with our accounts. You will notice the considerable number of scales which it is
proposed should be allowed. If that was put into operation, it might-as a matter of fact-
begin to operate, within a very short time, adversely. One district might have a factory
close down and lose a considerable number of members; another district where the
factory might re-open would benefit and the latter branch take the members of the former,
and we should have a very grave difficulty created by the very rule which Arbroath have
put on paper. I hope you will not accept the amendment, not because of the amount
of additional work it would throw upon the staff at the Central Office-because if the
present staff was not large enough to deal with it we should a have larger staft, and that
without any sort of hesitation. We oppose the resolution from Arbroath upon its
merits as being unworkable. We feel our present position is the better one. During
the past five years we have given subsidies to a number of the smaller branches to enable
them to carry on their work from the standpoint of efficiency, and we shall continue so to
do unless this Conference decides that is a wrong policy, but I cannot imagine any delegate
here saying it is a wrong policy. It may be that a small branch, so far as membership is
concerned, would be in a higher state of efficiency so far as organisation is concerned, than
a larger one, but on account of its small membership it has not sufficient money to carry
on the work with that efficiency so desired from headquarters. When such cases are brought
before us we have never hesitated to say we will help those cases of hardship to enable the
branch to work efficiently. I hope, Mr. President, the proposal of the Council will be carried.
It is only a question of book-keeping, and I believe it will bring about the proper pro-
portion of the funds.
Mr. T. ADNITT (Council Member) seconded the resolution.
Mr. A. H. FOLKARD (Norwich No. 2): Is the 6d. entrance fee for Special Trade
over 50 correct or should it be one shilling ?
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: One shilling. The 6d. is a misprint.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath) proposed Item 7 as an amendment to the Council's.
resolution.
7 Arbroath.—“That Rule 167 be altered to allow of the following scale of
payments to Branches for Management Purposes, viz.:—
Branches with—
1,500 or more members, 3d. per week per full male member.
between 500 and 1,500 members, 4d. per week per full male member.
less than 500 members, 5d. per week per full male member.
1,500 or more members, 2d. per week per full female member.
between 500 and 1,500 members, 3d. per week per full female member.
less than 500 members, 4d. per week per full female member.
Other management allowances to remain as at present.”
We were pleased to hear the argument of the General Secretary. The small branch
has had difficulty to get along at all, although I agree with the General Secretary that the
Central Office has been watching them. We have a rule giving branches the opportunity
of establishing District Advisory Committees, but we in Scotland cannot do it because
we cannot afford it. Later on you may decide to have a conference in Arbroath, and as a
consequence destroy the Branch. (Laughter.) Unless branches have a larger form of
income in the near future they cannot do their work properly. I hope if our resolution
fails to-day it will be carried in a few years time.
Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow) seconded the amendment.
THE CHAIRMAN: I don't think it is the wish of the Council for some years to
come to ask branches to do the entertaining of the delegates, so you can get that out of
your mind, Mr. Reid.
Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow): Perhaps having had more experience than Mr.
Reid it is not a new subject, and the question of the equality of benefits from the Union
has been presented in a strong form from the Chairman. Our General Secretary has
rather taken the sting out of the question, but we find this: It is all right for those branches
who are concentrated, but some of the branches in Scotland-particularly the one
represent-has a scattered membership ranging within thirty miles of the city and have


---
81
and although no boots have been made there for seven years the people have still retained
41 per cent. would be looked upon by the Council as a very big pull off a shilling. At the
same time I do not accept the General Secretary's statement when he says the Council
is always prepared to consider any branch in hardship. In the latter part of the war period,
Glasgow branch nearly became bankrupt, but we put on a local levy. I appealed to the
difficulty
I could not take a reduction in wages nor afford to
two hundred men away at the war.
give my services for nothing. I do hope some consideration will be given to this matt
It is just possible
we cannot count on the result at times. The Council may at times
fail to appreciate the work put in as organising when no immediate result comes along,
and I appeal this Conference to seriously consider the matter.d
a very glaring case.
member.
Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P.: If branches ever asked for preferential treatment this is
You built up a case upon the question of expenditure. It is rather
surprising that this question comes from Arbroath, the richest branch of the Union per
er. Out of the shilling contribution if you have less than 500 members the branch
is to keep 5d. That branch will have benefits for 7d. which another branch has to pay
9d. for. The position would be unfair. Other figures work out at 334, 25, and 45 per cent.
off the contribution, and on the females scale they ask for 334, 50 and 66 per cent. from
the contribution. That is an impossible position. I do not desire to express any opinion
that there are not certain branches who require help, but that help can be fairly given.
If Arbroath resolution is carried you would have to consider the position financially in
jess than two years.
Mr. T. H. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): Might I suggest part of the 4d. for
Special Trade members be transferred to the Sick Fund?
THE CHAIRMAN: That is just the extreme to what Mr. W. R. Smith suggested.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): If the d. could be transferred to meet the assumed
liability, and another d. given to the Branch Fund, the position would be better. We
receive 2d. out of the 6d. for a youth, and 2d. for a full female member, yet you only
recommend 1d. out of this 6d. contribution.
In relation to the general position of apportioning the money, I am bound to back
the Council. Certainly their position stands out very clearly. I suggest there should be
more elasticity given to the smaller branches so that their difficulties might be understood.
Mr. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member): I am supporting the resolution from
Arbroath, because we should do more for the smaller branches. In Maybole we have a
permanent official who has to rely upon a levy from his members to pay his wages. The
attitude of some of the employers in Scotland is such that they cannot work in the factory
and keep an official position as well. Mr. Reid has had the "sack" from his employer
because he dared to come to this Conference. I think some consideration should be given
to the small branches. By centralisation much could be done. Meantime our little branches
are starving and it might be better to refer this matter back to the Standing Orders Com-
mittee.
THE CHAIRMAN: Is there any trouble about you being here, Mr. Reid? If so,
we ought to have known. Where do you
work?
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): I work for Messrs. Fairweather & Son.
THE CHAIRMAN: They are a Federated firm and we ought to have known this
so that we could have taken the matter up with Tavistock Square. We have never found
any difficulty with similar cases, and take it for granted that we shall at once ask why this
has been brought about.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): The other weck, owing to orders coming in, I was
informed I could not go to this Conference. Last Friday afternoon I again asked to be
allowed to go, and said I must go. Then I was told I need not go back. I shall, of course,
approach the firm when I go back next Monday.
THE CHAIRMAN intimated that a letter would be sent ascertaining the reasons
why Mr. Reid had been dismissed.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): We have heard the difficulties put before this
Conference as to some of the branches not being able to be properly equipped in their
ourselves up
against a financial proposition. You must balance your position all the time, and unless
will find
it to be understood that this position can only be met by the centralisation, or by an
given to the branches. It is hopeless to think that our smaller branches can get adequate
ncreased contribution from the members, which would enable a larger proportion to be
consideration upon our present methods of allocating the funds. The Council have
there has been a loss of 63,000 upon the Trade Fund. One admits quite readily that the
Suggested the need of a transfer from one fund to the other. During the past three years
---

---
82
major proportion of that is due to the increased out-of-work benefit paid during periods of
suspension, but since then, during the past twelve months, this fund has gone down £12,000.
There is only one end if you keep losing, and that is your funds will run out, and it is only
a question of time when the funds may be gone completely. The proposal of the Council
is to transfer one halfpenny from one fund to the other. The contributions from the
members in June, 1922, to the sick fund were (23,834. One-eighth of that represents
2,979, taking it as a basis of calculation upon your figures being altered. To adopt the
method suggested by the Arbroath Branch would mean that that sum would be immedi-
ately withdrawn again by their peculiar method of reasoning. I don't think it would be
wise to commit ourselves in the future as we have done in the past. Friend Reid's case is
an example of what we may expect. This question of finance is a very important one.
We have passed through abnormal periods. Taking a broad view of the situation we
must look at it from the standpoint of putting the Trade Fund upon a satisfactory basis.
We would like to see everyone of our branches, where there is any number of members
worth speaking of, have a full-time official, and so be enabled to look after the interests
of the members.
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): We have tried several times to try to get
branches to amalgamate and so have a full-time officer. Some Unions have thirty or forty
organisers because they have no permanent officers, and our Union is unique in this respect.
From that point of view I think the matter should be left with the Council to consider
the smaller branches and report to a later conference.
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): I should like to see Arbroath withdraw
this resolution. Having considered the matter very carefully the Council have come to
the conclusion that any attempt to work the system on the lines of Arbroath is impossible.
I suggest they withdraw it rather than have a large vote against them. People at the
last conference were against the matter being dealt with. I have had a fair amount of
experience amongst the small branches in Yorkshire and Lancashire and I know their
troubles. It is no answer to Arbroath to say they are the wealthiest branch in the country.
It is not so much the amount of money they have at the present time that matters, nor the
fact that they cannot afford to pay a permanent man, but the real position is the work
they want to do. If Arbroath, or some other of the branches have a banking account,
had done what they should have done, the banking account would have diminished. I
know the prejudice against centralisation. I know that to argue it to-day would be out
of order, but I hope the conference will not forget it because much as you are prejudiced
against it, you will have to come to that position. A chain is only as strong as its
weakest link, and if you have a weak branch it will affect the strong ones.
THE CHAIRMAN: I don't know of any branch which has made an appeal to the
Council and been turned down, providing they have made out their case.
branches in the Union which carry more weight than they ought to, and more than they
There are
can afford. The reason our friends in Maybole levied their members is not because the
man was overworked, because he never had enough to do. The work is less than half
time. I was in a very awkward position when I went with him once to get the operatives
the minimum wage, and the employer turned round and said, "Go an' get the minimum
wage for the'sen. We find our officers can only get evidence in the dinner hour and
evenings. I was sorry to hear what Mr. Gamble said, and know that in Edinburgh they
have a lot of trouble to keep in touch with their members in so large a district. If an
attempt has been made and you have not met with success you must remember Bruce
and the Spider.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath) asked for permission to withdraw the amendment,
and hoped the Council would consider the matter in a favourable light if at all possible.
He also asked the Council to consider any monetary appeals with a sympathetic spirit.
Item 7 was then withdrawn and Item 6 carried unanimously.
Fidelity Fund.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY formally proposed Item 8:-
8 The Council. Rule 131.--After word "Fund," add "at the following
minimum rates for each official of the Branch:---
Branch with weekly income under £25
2/6 per annum.
£50
5/-
£75
£100
10/-
"
£1
£150
£1 10
£200 or over
22
£2
Mr. ALEX. SMITH (Wolverhampton) formally seconded.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): I don't see the necessity of increasing the amount
to this extent. It will mean a decent sum of money if this is carried


---
83
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: We established this fund some years ago because
we felt we should have the benefit rather than the insurance companies. Upon the whole
it has proved beneficial. We have not had many calls upon the fund, but we have had
some, and this fund has helped those branches who found it necessary to claim upon it.
The Council felt, having regard to the amount of money paid into the branches that the
officials should be properly covered by this insurance, as they have to look upon the matter
from the business point of view, and the amount of money received by some Branches
and the amount they pay to the Fidelity Fund is not comparable. In some instances
the Council feel that branches have not paid sufficient to the fund having regard to their
income. It is not so much one individual, but the Council feel that there should be some
parity between the amount of money paid in weekly, and the amount they pay
for the insurance of the officers. Some branches still have the idea that it is optional
whether they pay or not. This fund is obligatory, and sometimes we have had to write
asking for the premium. I hope this will not occur again as it increases
the amount of correspondence from the Central Office and also the branches.
THE CHAIRMAN: It is simply a case of protecting the members and the funds.
The few claims we have met have been considered satisfactory.
Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden): What is the position of those branches
who have about forty shop presidents and collectors?
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: We have always given a very wide interpretation
to this matter. We have dealt with it from the point of view of men or women who handle
money on your behalf. Some shop collectors, presidents and clerks are insured by
branches under the scheme. If a shop president collects £12 weekly he could be insured
on the 2s. 6d. scale. If, say, he only collects 12s. 6d. weekly it would be for
your local executive to decide whether to insure him or not.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): Could the General Secretary tell the Conference the
difference it will make to the funds? We pay a £1 per annum, but I find in 1914 the
fund stood at £258, whilst at the end of 1922 it had reached £502.
THE CHAIRMAN: The fund to-day is £497 15s. 7d.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: We hope there will not be any calls upon the
fund. It must, however, be viewed from the point of view that there might be. Some
branches will not pay any more under this scheme, whilst others will pay 100 per cent.
more. We feel some branches have paid an inadequate sum for the amount of money
paid into the branch weekly.
ALD. A. HILL, M.P. (Leicester No. 2) thought the premium was excessive.
THE CHAIRMAN: I know two instances where the whole of the fund would
have been exhausted if we had paid all they claimed as the liability. We have created
an atmosphere of security.
Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden): The resolution states "each official
of the Branch shall be insured at the minimum rates." What would a shop president
be insured for?
THE CHAIRMAN: We agree the Secretary should be insured for the sum paid
weekly into any particular branch. If a shop president collects say £12 weekly he would
only be insured for that amount. Insurance for shop presidents is optional.
We have power in our rules to protect shop presidents, but it must be done by the
member first. I think you ought to pass this, and if you feel it is unfair later on then it
could be altered with the next revision of rules. I am told the rates of premium are
favourable with those charged by any insurance company.
The resolution having been passed unanimously, the Conference adjourned at
12.40 p.m.
Afternoon Session.
The Conference resumed its sitting at 2 p.m., Mr. T. F. Richards presiding.
Upon the Roll being called it was reported that all the delegates were present.
Ballot Papers.
Mr. H. ATTEWELL (Northampton) proposed Item 9:--
9 Northampton. -Rule 189.- Add "Ballot papers to contain no other matter
except For' or 'Against,' any question to be voted upon."
The object we had in view in Northampton when this matter was discussed was the
question of balloting which has now become a most important subject. They thought
that this particular addendum was wanted. In so far as 99 per cent. of our ballot papers
are issued by the Council in the proper way and conform with rule. We do not wish to
lay any particular charge against the Council, but we hope they will give us a ballot paper


---
84
similar to that given us by the capitalistic classes, and have no side issue printed on the
ballot paper. No particular advice should be placed upon the ballot paper. Some weeks
prior to an agreement being voted upon, the Northampton Branch hold a series of meetings
whereby those questions are placed before the members. The Council, as is their invariable
rule, have separate leaflets printed which members can read, and then when members
go to the poll their mind is made up. At the present time it is in the power of the Council
to place upon the ballot paper some advice which may be contentious, and as the men
walk into the voting station they read advice and cannot offer any criticism thereto.
If you accept this resolution you will have a satisfactory ballot paper, and everyone will
know what they are voting for. On one paper you put
ment, or a Strike." We do not grumble at at that, but what we ask is that all ballot papers
shall be devoid of any contentious matter.
Mr. A. BIRT (Northampton) seconded the resolution. Our members think that
no advice should be given on the ballot paper. Some people realise that a Council of any
organisation can so place on a ballot paper a trap to serve their own ends, and we claim
no statements whatever should appear on the paper.
Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester): I am not surprised that this resolution should
come from Northampton. The Council are doing nothing but their duty seeing they are
men of experience. They have borne the burden of trade union life, and they have had
to put up the fight to bring us to our present level. I have been a member of the Union
as many years as our friend from Northampton has lived, and I hope the Conference will
reject the resolution.
THE CHAIRMAN: One feels in a quandary when advanced men come forward
with old-fashioned ideas. It is the idea of asking the ignorant to vote blindly. We ought
to have another resolution before this one is discussed, and that is that all members should
write a précis on the Union's rules and regulations. They ought to understand the economic
side of the workers. If members do not come to branch meetings to be educated, what
alternative have we? When one looks at the Council members they are not a lot of
juveniles, and everyone is a permanent official with one exception. It seems to me we
ought to do our best for the organisation. In a ballot paper it is just the same as a marriage
certificate. You might sign away your liberty. (Laughter.)
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's): Very willingly some of
you. (Renewed laughter.)
THE CHAIRMAN: I have yet to learn that we have issued a ballot paper without
giving our opponents the opportunity of voting against our suggestions. It is just as
easy to vote against as for. I only wish Mr. Attewell could be satisfied to ask the rank
and file to vote "yes" or "no." I am prepared to take my chances upon that at any
time. I have yet to learn there is any organisation-whether it be the Social Democratic
Party, the National Labour Party, the A.S.P. or the Communists, have ever committed
themselves to a "yes" or "no" policy without understanding the question they are
voting upon. The best men oppose the referendum unless they can get all the people
there. The only thing we can do is to put the whole of the circumstances on the ballot
paper and the alternative. I am surprised to hear people grumble with the last ballot
paper because we asked people to vote for or against a strike. If the strike had come
off, our critics would have been on the Council like a load of bricks. I don't think
any of my colleagues differed upon the form of the ballot paper. I think it would be
unwise on your part to ask members to vote " yes " or "no." Yes or No on what?
You cannot put other men's views unless you are honest yourself. To say we are to hide
ourselves behind the rank and file is not manly.
Mr. H. ATTEWELL (Northampton): I definitely complained of misunderstanding,
and laid it down that the subject matter of the ballot paper is in the hands of the Council.
I contend that no footnote should be added to the ballot paper. Regarding the sneers
made over my age, that counts for nothing. I have 100 per cent. membership; I joined
at 16 years of age and am still a member: many here cannot say that. I am prepared to
stand for ten minutes against anyone here who may sneer at me and see who gets the best
of the argument.
Upon the resolution being put to the vote, only thirteen delegates voted in favour
of the same, and the Chairman declared it was lost.
Deductions from Benefits.
Mr. A. W. LYNE (Northampton No. 2) proposed Item 10 :-
10 Northampton No. 2. - Rule 196. -" This rule shall apply to all other Union
Benefits."
We believe this matter has been before previous conferences and turned down. We
still feel some good purpose could be served by its adoption, and ask that you will
accept it.


---
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's) seconded the resolution.
For two conferences the Leicester Women's Branch put a similar resolution forward and
were defeated. We have always stopped all arrears from all benefits. The Leicester
Women's Branch cannot afford to have people in arrears, because eventually they are
branch debts. We claim, as women members, we are not in such a fortunate position as
the men members. Many of our women members have drawn all their benefits and then
hard-up cases who leave their trade contributions. You pay contributions for certain
ciple. It is often the people who have the most deserving case who will pay their own
Contributions rather than fall into debt. I hope the Conference will pass the resolution
this year.

Mr. E. TEBBUTT (Wellingborough): Speaking as one of the rank and file and
a father of a large family, I feel this would be an injustice to our members. If this rule
had been in operation during the past few years it would have meant a real hardship.
I admit we cannot run the Union on sympathy. Ex-service men with a wife and three
children had only been earning 15s. per week. When he had paid the rent, he and his
wife went without food for the children, and when he was offered another job could not work
because of weakness. Under this suggestion all his contributions would have been deducted
(which he owed) from his sick pay, and I hope the Conference will vote against it as it
would cause a real hardship.

Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): I hope the Conference will reject this resolution.
At times members let their contributions run to 8s. This is due to circumstances over
which they have no control. We shall be punishing people at a time when they ought
not to be punished. If a man is 8s. in arrears and then falls sick, his secretary would have
to stop that 8s. from the first week's benefit; the secretary has my sympathy. I am
speaking on behalf of the Leicester Branch, and our executive feel sure it would be unwise
to pass it. In Leicester we have decided to have show-card days to make people members,
but I don't think we ought to pass this resolution.

Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester): I wish to endorse all Mr. Wheeler has said. Men
do not run into arrears because of any lack of interest in the Union's work. There comes
a time when it is hard for members to keep up their contributions.

Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden) opposed the resolution. We think
it a most unkind resolution. Members, who through circumstances over which they have
no control, would suffer an injustice, and would be called upon to pay up their arrears
at a time when they could least afford it. I hope the resolution will be defeated.

Mr. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member): It is very amusing to hear the differences
of opinion even from our friends in Leicester. Once we were told the best member in the
Union was the one who always owes eight weeks' contributions. They have to pay the
Central Office. The Central Office does not let the branches off. If we could adopt ad
something like the Friendly Societies have in the way of a clearance night, I think it would
be a good thing. We should have no humbug about this business, and we ought to adopt
some scheme to meet the matter.

Mr. T. MANSFIELD (Hull) opposed the resolution. We all know the conditions
of trade during the past two or three years. We also know the great number of members
of all unions in Great Britain who have left. It is up to any Union to make its laws as
elastic as possible under the circumstances because it would be conducive for members
to re-enter, and also for operatives to join. All these things should be taken into con-
sideration.

Mr. A. BIRT (Northampton) supported the resolution. I know the workmen of a
certain factory who can well afford to pay and yet they are constantly on the eight shilling
mark. Shop presidents have had to compel them-time after time to pay up their
contributions, and you would have a difficulty even if you had a clearance night. If eight
weeks' contributions are not paid then it is a hardship to the member whenever he pays.
Every
new member should be encouraged to pay his contributions weekly. I hope you
will pass this resolution. I am of the opinion that the older members are not so much in
arrear as the younger ones.

Mr. T. PENDRED (Northampton No. 2): The people who put up this case in
Northampton were the shop presidents who know all the difficulties of members getting
into arrears. At a very large factory with 100 per cent. membership, members get into
arrears. They have read the rule and point out that they can owe eight weeks and still
be in benefit. What would happen if they got behind with the rent? They pay that
because they know they must, and we should do something to make them pay their con-
tributions.

Mr. D. McCARTHY (Organiser): Years ago we brought forward from Leicester
a suggestion that we should have two clearance nights each year. The object of this
resolution is not so much to get money, as to make people thoughtful. Will it do that?
I am always sceptical about punishment of any form. It does not have a reforming
effect. Even if you pass this now we should at least have two clearance nights.
---

---
```text
86
Mr. T. ADNITT (Council Member): (Our friends from Northampton are only
going to penalise those members who happen to be sick or out of work. What about the
thousands on the eight shilling mark ? They cannot be penalised, yet you want to penalise
those who can least bear it. There would be some sense in deciding to have clearance
nights.
Mr. W. PAIN (Kingswood): I think the present is an inopportune moment for a
resolution such as this being put into operation. Many members of ours who may have
had a strenuous fight to keep up their contributions and failed would have to suffer. I
feel I must oppose this at the moment, although I quite agree with the principle. So far
as the Kingswood Branch is concerned we generally advise a member to reduce his arrears
hen he comes on for benefit, and that has the desired effect.
Mr. A. H. FOLKARD (Norwich No. 2) : I think there has been too much senti-
mental talk about members getting into arrears. We suggest to members who come on
the sick or out of work fund, and are in arrears, should pay them off, and this has always
worked well with one exception. I have been ordered to oppose this resolution, although
I quite agree that some members will never be clear on the books.
Mr. F. NEAL (Norwich): In Norwich we have departmental committees, and when
we find a member getting behind with their contributions, we approach them and ask
them to toe the line, and with few exceptions it has had effect.
THE CHAIRMAN: The unfortunate position is that you have already decided to
stop arrears of members who desire dispute pay. No delegate has said a word about the
striker. He is the most important man, and the one who is called upon to act under
officials' instructions. To them you say, "Thou shalt clear thy card," and this to the
very man who has obeyed orders. The striker has no additions to his income. In Leicester
we once lent £2,000 to the members and we could not get it back, but when the great
lock-out took place we stopped it from their pay. You might decide to have a clear night,
but to my mind it would not meet the position. If every member always did his duty
then he would pay his contributions regularly. Many of them know they can miss for
eight weeks, and they take advantage of it.
Mr. H. FRASER (Norwich): The Chairman seemed to infer that because this rule
applies to strike pay it should also apply to those in receipt of unemployment benefit.
In the case of a strike we expect every member to be out of the shop, and so everyone
suffers the same disability. In the case of a man being on sick he needs the money, and
it only applies to odd cases.
Mr. A. W. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): I said at the beginning that it might
create hardship. The questions raised by Leicester, Norwich, Higham and Rushden,
and other branches make no difference at all. What is the difference between a man who
has been working short time and kept his contributions going. One may pay his contribu-
tion and other does not. It is just as hard for one man to pay as it is for the other not to
pay, and have his arrears stopped when he wants benefit. You don't stretch the rule
and let them owe nine weeks. It is not punishment, but would help the smaller branches
rather than the bigger ones.
to be as elastic as possible. We have no desire to punish members, but desire the rules
I appeal to the delegates to vote for this resolution.
Mr. R. WHITE (Edinburgh): Arrears are something foreign to Edinburgh. Thirty
shillings would cover the whole of the arrears in the Branch. Whenever a shop clerk
says to me "Bob, here is a member who has not paid this week," I say, "See he pays
two weeks' contributions next week." (Laughter.) No one owes more than 6s.
Upon the question being put to the Vote, there voted :-
For the Resolution
Against the Resolution
and THE CHAIRMAN declared the resolution lost.
28
67
Fire Claims-Loss of Tools.
Mr. T. H. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2) asked the question No. 11 ;—
11 Leicester No. 2.- Rule 205. -To ask question re Employers' Liability.
The necessity for asking this question arises out of a fire in Leicester over twelve
months' ago. In the early days of April last year, the firm of Messrs. Howard, Freer & Co.
was burned out. Our members put in their claims for loss of kit. The branch officers
went through these claims very carefully and reduced them considerably. Mr. Poulton
replied to say the claims for compensation would be placed before the Council in due course,
and informed us that aprons were not considered to be kit so far as a shoe operative was
concerned. Later we heard from Mr. Poulton who told us to go and see the firm, and we
did not like it, going cap in hand as if for charity. We should like to know whether there
is any understanding between the Federation and the Union as to manufacturers finding
```

---
kit, and if so, how long that understanding has been in existence, and were the branch
officials notified? Where does the matter stand now? We ought to delete this rule if it is
to be looked upon as charity.

THE CHAIRMAN: If there is such an elaborate question to be asked it ought
surely to be put upon the Agenda. (Hear, hear.) The power is always in the hands of
the questioner to make it as long or as short as he thinks fit, and it would save trouble
if it had been put down on the Agenda. So far as the rule is concerned, Rule 205 says:-

RULE 205. Compensation shall be given to financial members for loss of tools
by fire, at the discretion of the Council. The application to be made through
the Branch Committee.

Even in your Secretary's time on the Council we decided what was to be considered
as kit.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I am sorry Mr. Vallance used the word "charity."
We feel there is a moral obligation upon all employers to recognise the necessity of finding
kit for all operatives. When we put the matter before the Joint Industrial Council some
years ago they were sympathetic towards the matter, and a resolution expressing the desire
Mr. Vallance asks if branches were notified. The answer is " yes,"
through the Monthly Report. In this particular case now raised I have the series of
letters here which deal with the case, and as the Leicester Nos. 1 and 3 branches had secured
the money for their members, the Council thought that strengthened our case.

(COPY.)
LEICESTER NO. 2 BRANCH,
SHOE TRADE HALL, LEICESTER,
19th May, 1922.

MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P.

DEAR SIR,-Re the claim for kit at Messrs. Howard, Freer & Co., I have been in
touch with the Principal and he has agreed that he is prepared to meet the claims in
a reasonable manner, as soon as he knows his own position with the Insurance Com-
pany, but whether the Company admit the claim or not, he will.

(Signed) A. HILL, Secretary.
This policy has been adopted for some time past and has met with success. We
hope members will carry out Rule 7 and insist upon kit being provided for them. We
know some members prefer to find their own kit. Surely we have a right, without using
the word charity, if members have lost kit in a fire, to ask the firm to reimburse the member
for that loss. The Council deal with every case upon their merits. We have some extra-
ordinary cases and claims sent in under the heading of tools. We have had claims for
topcoats, boots, spectacles, tea jugs, so you will see the Council have to use their discretion
in the matter as to what comes within the four corners of the rules. I know the Council
have incurred some hostility in the matter. The rule does not say we shall honour all
claims sent in, and I assure you, as the person who is responsible for passing the claims on
behalf of the Council, those claims are all dealt with on one basis. There is no sort of
desire to favour one part of the country from another. The fact that we have generally
satisfied the majority of the members is sufficient proof that we have carried out the rule.
If you want aprons and overalls, then you must make it more explicit as to what does come
under the rule. In some cases it would mean a very considerable expenditure if we passed
the claims as sent in-one which I think was not intended when the rule was passed.
When you have claims for £1 for topcoats, 15s. for overalls, and other items, you will see
that when forty or fifty people are claiming the cost would be heavy. We have struck
out those kind of things and shall continue so to do unless you instruct us otherwise.

ALD. A. HILL, M.P. (Leicester No. 2): The General Secretary has over-stated
the question. Leicester No. 2 Branch does not want the Council to willingly back every
claim that is handed in. The Leicester No. 2 Branch Executive examined all the claims.
Are we right in asking for the rule to be carried out? It got about that the employer
in this instance was going to pay. We sent three or four letters to the Central Office,
and as many to the employer. I challenge the General Secretary to prove that we ever
sent in an excessive claim. We want to know if members are not entitled to this benefit,
have we a legal claim on the employer?

Mr. T. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2) said he wished to withdraw his remark
when he used the word "charity."

THE CHAIRMAN: The difference between the non-federated and the federated
employers is that one takes instructions from headquarters and the other does not. We
feel our members ought not to take their kit into a factory. I know they have done it
because they prefer to use special kit. We had a meeting with the Federation and agreed
must not get upset because you had to wait a bit. We had an Umpire give an Award
and it took us five months before it was carried out, and not until the employer had been
seen three times, but we got it in the end.


---
Mr. J. BRIGGS (Leicester): Sixteen years last September I worked for Messrs.
John Rawson & Sons, and they had a fire. The whole of the benches were not burned
down and the salvage company put all our kit into a box. The men were told they would
never received their kit. We saw Mr. Evan Barlow, and he said we ought not to have
be sent for as required and could get their kit out of the box. Those who never started
any kit, as in the agreement it said the employers should find standing room, lighting
and told us we had no legal claim. We claimed 12s. 6d., and after a while Mr.
Barlow got it for us.
Mr. H. POULTON (London Metro.): There have been one or two fires in London
recently, and in one instance it took four months to get the claim passed. We think they
should be passed quicker than that unless something is out of order.
THE CHAIRMAN: The rule really only applied to men on the old shape. As soon
as machinery was introduced I have never met branch officials who believed their men
had to find kit. It would be a bit rough if a man had to find his own Consol. (Laughter.)
A DELEGATE: I know a man who wanted to buy one. (Renewed laughter.)
THE CHAIRMAN: In the clicking rooms, with the exception of the press, they
have no additional machinery, and you cannot have a general rule to cover everything.
We had claims from one branch for 25s. for each member who lost kit. We allowed 15s.,
and it was accepted under protest and the men are still protesting. Later on we found
the employer had found all the kit, so we have to be very careful.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): We find the same difficulty as the Leicester No. 2
Branch. I don't want to say the Council do not judge each case on its merits, but I would
remind them that the local executive always examine every claim sent in. You find men
coming to our office and we get them a job, the men taking their own kit. They are, as
a matter of fact, told to bring along their kit, and I venture to say if these men did not do so
they would not get the job. After using my kit for years I should not like to leave it and
go to another shop and use fresh kit. It may handicap a man to the tune of 10s. or £1
per week. I think the Council should say definitely why they refused these claims.
THE CHAIRMAN: I wish you would apply your minds to the business before the
Conference. I have quoted Rule 205 once which says the Council is to "use their dis-
cretion." Consequently the Council must use their judgment, but if you say the Council
are not to decide the matter we shall know where we are.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): Our friend Wheeler has agreed the Council have
discretion. We all know when there is a fire members claim for something they never had.
(Laughter.) They have come for smocks and other things. What do the executive do?
They carry out the rule, and Wheeler says to the members we must put it before the
Council. There is no one more thankful for that than Mr. Wheeler. You take the finishers;
all they must have is an apron, crow and knife, and they would cost about two bob. Lasters
require a pair of pincers and knife. I am pals with the Council this time; it is not very
often that I am, but for God's sake don't alter this rule.
ALD. A. HILL, M.P. (Leicester No. 2): Do you consider an apron is not part
of the wearing apparel of a boot and shoe operative?
THE CHAIRMAN: We do not look upon it as kit.
Mr. A. H. FOLKARD (Norwich No. 2): Ten years ago aprons were allowed
Six months ago my claim for an apron was disallowed, so the decision of the Council has
changed.
THE CHAIRMAN: We have had claims for two slops. Then a clicker wears a
bib, usually a leather one.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): He is a fool if that costs him anything. (Laughter.)
THE CHAIRMAN: We do not know whether it costs him anything, but they
often claim for it. We judge each case on its merits, and try to treat everyone in a fair
manner.
No vote was taken; but it was decided to deal with the next subject.
Bond Notes.
THE CHAIRMAN: raised Item 12.
12 The Council. - Rules 209 to 216.-Delete.
We were prepared to delete these rules, but our London friends may wish for them
to be retained. In districts like London and Kingswood, where there are not sufficient
constructional places, it may be necessary to retain these rules. We expect to be taking
over the East End Ladies' Shoemakers' Union shortly, and it may effect them.
Mr. J. MASON (London Metro.): So far as London is concerned I do not think
it wise to do away with the present rules. There is a section of workers in London, the
sewround hands, who still work outdoors. On account of the difficulty of finding factories
I hope you will keep this open for the time being.
---

---
89
THE CHAIRMAN: We have no feeling in the matter, although we should like to
dispense with outdoor working altogether. For the present, as we wanted information,
we think it best to withdraw our suggestion, but will bear in mind it the East End Union
does come over, then we should try and induce them to go indoors.
Unemployment Benefit.
Items 13 and 14 being consequential were passed nem con.
Rule
13 The Council.—Rule 217.-Add after " months," " Members joining under
shall be entitled to 1s. per day or 6s. per week for any ten weeks
they remain out of work during any 12 consecutive months."
14 The Council.-Rule 219, Line 1.-Delete "£9."
Item 15 was withdrawn.
15 Higham and Rushden (Raunds). - Rule 219. Delete from end of Line 2
to word "Members" on Line 4.
Mr. E. BATCHELOR (Higham and Rushden) proposed Item 16:—
16 Higham and Rushden. - Rule 219. -Delete from word "Trade" in Line 3,
to "Members" on Line 4, substituting "not less than 8 weeks."
We have members who have been out of work three years and not qualified for benefit
again. After examining the amount of unemployment benefit paid out during the past
two or three years I do not know whether the Conference will agree to the resolution.
I have great pleasure in moving the same.
Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden) seconded the resolution. The feeling
in that particular part of the country where the resolution comes from is very strong. In
normal times we should not have brought it forward, but it is almost impossible for members
in this distressed district to secure employment.
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): I am sorry the Higham and Rushden
Branch withdrew their previous resolution. Had they moved it and added to it "the
Council to make the necessary financial arrangements," I should have voted for it. A
man who has worked eight weeks is better off than the one who had done nothing at all.
I should like to see the Conference accept this principle, providing the members were
prepared to pay for it. My contention is that those members who are working should be
prepared to do something for those unemployed, and be prepared to sacrifice a bit. This
is the type of people who need our sympathy. We should know what it will cost before
we accept it, and the Council should have power to raise the necessary funds.
THE CHAIRMAN: As a Council we have decided to oppose this resolution.
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood) supported the resolution.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: This is likely-if passed to impose considerable
financial obligations upon the Central Funds. If you vote for it you should do so with
your eyes wide open. The Council have considered the matter, and whilst giving credit
to those unfortunate members they must have regard to the position of the funds, and at
the present time they cannot support such a resolution because of the additional burden
it would bring. It is not because the Council are opposed to the resolution in theory, but
they feel the amount of money required to meet such a set of circumstances is more than
we can afford.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): You can do anything if you have the money,
as you can pass anything. If this was carried it would be possible for a member who
worked eight weeks to have his benefits and only pay eight weeks' contributions in any
year. At Leicester we find the three months' period works very well.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): The opposition are speaking as if this thing was going
to be permanent. Surely the future will be better for our members than the past two or
three years has been, and we ought to try it.
THE CHAIRMAN: After our experience over the Suspension Benefit-which
thade branch officers unpopular-we ought to be very careful about giving a benefit and
then withdrawing it. The trouble and cursing by some of our members to their officials
was bad, and if their prayer answered some of the officials will never get to heaven,
It is all very well for prayers are answer the benefit, but it is those who never received it,
and want the benefit now, who kick up the row.
with the exception of Mr. Dobbs, and we feel the present rule should stand.
This resolution does not appeal to us,
The vote was then taken, and as only seventeen voted in favour of the resolution
the Chairman declared the same lost.


---
Recommendation of Standing Orders Committee.
A further recommendation was submitted by the Standing Orders Committee relative
to the proposals re the future Conferences, as follows:-
Item 67 in the name of the Council be taken as the amendment to the present rule,
the branches having amendments numbered 68, 69, 70, 71, 72 and 73 being withdrawn.
Item 74 to be taken as an amendment.-Agreed.
17 Kettering No. 2. - Rule 219, Line 4 - After "months" insert: "This shall
not apply in cases where the ten weeks' benefit is extended in all over
eleven months. In such cases the complete periods of benefit ending
twelve months prior to the date of again declaring on shall not be reckoned
against the member."
Item 17 was moved by
Mr. J. E. CHAPMAN (Kettering No. 2) for the purpose of calling attention to
an anomaly which exists. As the rule at present stands it is possible for a man to be out
of work 62 weeks out of 105, and only draw one stretch of benefit. Another man in the
same house out of work 62 weeks, can draw two stretches of benefit. As a Branch we feel
we are up against this anomaly, and ask for it to be removed, as I am sure you will realise
our difficulty.
Mr. W. G. COLTMAN (Kettering No. 2) seconded.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The delegates will have some difficulty in follow-
ing the technical points. My experience has been somewhat difficult, and the experience
of most branch secretaries also, in carrying out this rule when the Central Office is appealed
to, but because two men in one house in Kettering have drawn at different periods benefit
and we cannot go into it unless the details are given. I hope the Conference will vote
against this resolution because of the ingenuity which may be brought forward, and will
make us more difficulties.
Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering): I have several cases in Kettering, too. Here is
one: In January a member drew 2 weeks' benefit; March, 4 weeks; July, 1 week;
December, 2 weeks; all in 1921, and after receiving nine weeks' benefit in eleven months
comes on again in October, 1922, and I understand by the Central Office ruling that nine
weeks count against him. Mr. Chapman has the letters from the Central Office and can
producethem if necessary.
Mr. E. TEBBUTT (Wellingborough): I am pleased this matter has been raised.
It appears either the Central Office is wrong or the Branch. Several instances were given
and explanations given.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): A man can draw so many weeks in 12 months.
If in January and the next month or so a man drew 9 weeks out-of-work pay, and another
week in December of the same year, that world all count against him. That is rule.
How would you alter it? I cannot understand why the resolution is here.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY having obtained the details of the Kettering cases,
named them as follow:-
I have the details of the case before the Conference which are as follow:-
9th August, 1920 .. Benefit drawn 2 weeks.
3rd January, 1921 .. 2
4th July, 1921 .. 4
1st August, 1921
8th August, 1921 .. 1
Total, ten weeks. The Central Office rules that this benefit came within the twelve
months' period, and was right.
DELEGATES: Agreed.
Mr. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member): That is as clear as daylight. A member
must wait twelve months before he can claim benefit again after once drawing his full pay.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: That is the reason why a member only had one
stretch of benefit in 103 weeks.
THE CHAIRMAN: Once we had a case where a member drew 9 weeks and went
off, but we made him draw the odd week. (Laughter.)
Only six delegates voted for the resolution, which the Chairman declared lost.
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood) formally moved Item 18:-
18 Kingswood and District. -Rule 221, Line 1. Add after "discharge,"
or suspension."
Mr. W. PAIN (Kingswood) formally seconded.


---
Here is the extracted text:
91
Mr. ALEX. SMITH (Council Member): I take it by Item 18 they only ask the
members to report to the office; they are not asking for benefits.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): It means the moment a member signs
he is qualified for benefit.
Mr. A. G. RANDALL then withdrew the resolution.
Signing the Out-of-Work Book.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton) proposed Item 19:-
19 Northampton.- Rule 221.-Add "But the Branch Officials, with the sanc-
tion of the Branch Executive, shall have power to sanction members
calling to sign the books three times per week only."
It is almost impossible for anyone to twist so as to get unemployment pay. The
Employment Exchange people complain because we do not make our men sign the book
daily, yet they allow signatures three or four times a week only. Twelve months ago I
brought forward a resolution which was not accepted, but I hope you will be unanimous
this time as it will be a great help to the branch officers.
Mr. S. THOMPSON (Northampton No. 2) seconded the resolution.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): In Scotland our members have to sign daily.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I hope the Conference will vote down this sugges-
tion from Northampton. The General President and myself had to enter into an under-
taking with the Minister of Labour over this particular matter. We went there and had
a long interview; later Mr. W. R. Smith went with the Chairman, and they, the Govern-
ment officials, stated that our rules must be carried out. We said you are not asking people
to sign daily at the Exchanges and they replied that that was because they were over-
whelmed with men and women, and were bound to make temporary arrangements. They
also told us that our own rules provided for daily signatures, and I venture to suggest
that with all the shortcomings of the Unemployment Insurance Act it has been a real
advantage for our members to draw their State benefit through the Union rather than at
the Employment Exchanges. (Hear, hear.) The rule has called for this ever since the
inception of our out-of-work scheme, and I contend it is no hardship for a member who is
unemployed to call at the office daily to sign the book. If there is any distance then the
Department say a man can be excused on certain days of the week. In consequence of
men calling daily, officials have been able to get jobs for our men which may not have
been the case otherwise.
Mr. W. R. TOWNLEY (Northampton) supported the resolution. We should
only want it put into effect when there was a rush of members. Our members say if we go
to the Employment Exchange we sign three times a week whilst we have to sign every day
at the branch offices. So far as a man missing a job is concerned, that does not enter into
it. In Northampton if a manufacturer rang up for a man we should go round to his home
and give him the information in a very few minutes.
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood) supported the resolution. I agree with all our
General Secretary has said, but our accommodation is limited, and we ought to relieve our
men as much as possible.
Mr. S. THOMPSON (Northampton No. 2): You will see this suggestion says
the alteration will be made at the discretion of the branch executive. I think it would
be wise to pass it because the officials will have more time to attend to their duties in the
office. If you put this paragraph in we shall have no difficulties with the Ministry of
Labour, because they would accept our rules. I hope the Council will see their way to
assist us.
THE CHAIRMAN: Could Mr. Thompson tell us the number he has on his books?
Mr. S. THOMPSON (Northampton No. 2): About forty.
THE CHAIRMAN: We have had a big difficulty to get the Government to allow
us to do this. I know some officers do not care about it because there is no payment
attached to it, so far as they are personally concerned. I find it wherever I go. Our Union
was not set up for the benefit of officers, but for the benefit of the members. I think
pushing your members off to the Exchanges is a bad policy. I am sorry to find some
branches have more boot and shoe operatives at the Exchanges than they have on their
books. I cannot see any reason why an unemployed person should not sign the book
daily. There voted
For the Resolution
Against the Resolution
eighteen delegates abstaining from voting.
The Conference then adjourned at 5.12 p.m.
56
45


---
92
WEDNESDAY.
Morning Session.
The delegates reassembled at 9.30 a.m., Mr. T. F. RICHARDS, General President
of the Union, being in the chair.
After the Roll had been called, it was reported that Mr. A. J. Dobbs (Council Member)
was absent. Mr. Dobbs arrived later.
The Minutes were read and signed as correct.
Mr. A. MASON (London Metro) explained he had been on a Dispute on Tuesday
morning, and that was the reason for his not answering the Roll. The explanation day
accepted.
Unemployment Benefit to Suspended Members.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY proposed the following New Rule, which had been
referred back from the Address of the Council to Conference :-
Any member who may be suspended from work for more than twelve con-
secutive working days shall be allowed to declare upon the Out-of-Work
Fund of the Union, payment from such Fund to the member to commence
as and from the thirteenth working day upon which the member is not
employed; it always being understood that the officials must themselves
be satisfied that the suspension is bona fide before benefit is allowed under
this rule. Holidays are not to be counted as entitling a member to claim
benefit under this rule. In the event of a member resuming work, and again
being suspended, he must serve a further probation of twelve consecutive
working days before again being entitled to re-declare upon the Out-of-Work
Fund under this special rule.
Note. For the purposes of the paragraph relating to non-payment for holidays
the following is the method for calculating the same :-
Easter, three days. August, one week.
Whitsuntide, three days. Christmas, one week.
For Scotland-The July Holidays, one week.
The New Year Holidays, one week.
We are hoping, but that hope seems against hope, that the position regarding
employment would become again normal. Meantime many of our members are out of
work or suspended, owing to an understanding with the manufacturers operatives were
not dismissed wholesale, but were suspended. The existing rule is very explicit and
allows of no two interpretations. We have had as you are all aware-various methods
to try and meet these members of ours who have been suspended from work, and
although the amount of money paid out in unemployment benefit has been tremendous, still
the position has not been fully met. The present position is such that at the monthly
meetings of the Council reports are presented and requests made that something should be
done for those members who go into the branch offices morning after morning to see if
there are any jobs for them, or if there is any proposal whereby they may receive benefit
from the Union. The Council desire me to say that they appreciate to the full the loyal
and sympathetic way in which the branch officers throughout the country have tried to
meet the position. This is not merely lip service. The Council know you must have had
a very unpleasant job to have to refuse these members benefit. The Council highly
appreciate the fact, however unpleasant it has been, that you have all tried to meet the
situation. I hope you will, therefore, accept my word upon this matter. The Council
have given very careful thought and consideration, not only to the items on the Agenda,
but to the position generally to see if anything could be done for members who may be
suspended for indefinite periods. It is much better frankly to tell the members that the
contributions are not sufficient to give additional benefits, rather than do a thing and then for
it to break down. The Council of the Union boldly faced the position and told the members
the position we should be placed in. There are one or two resolutions on the Agenda
which we should like to see carried. It needs no words of mine to say the Council would
like to be in a position-and would be eager to be able to grant all cases which come before
them-rather than have to say no. To be enabled to say yes rather than no, would mean
the members must pay a higher rate of contribution. When we discussed the matter we
felt the present was not an opportune time to ask for any increase in the contributions.
Many members in all districts, and the branch officials know better than I do, that although
some of the members are at work, they are working such short time that it is hard for them
to take some risks and liabilities when they are faced with a set of circumstances similar
to meet all their dues and demands. An Executive Council has always to be prepared
to those with which we are faced to-day, and this resolution was drafted a great number
of times, before it was finally decided upon in its present form. We would rather do this


---
93
than boast of a big account at the bank. You know that it has always been my ambition
as General Secretary, to see our Union the strongest in the country, so far as our worth per
head is concerned and general efficiency. I hope I have never forgotten, although one
endeavours to help our unfortunate members. I know some of the delegates will be
likes to see a big fund, that we must not rest content until we have used our best
disappointed having regard to some of their resolutions, yet I hope you will accept this
position. It is not this week, nor next week that long-sighted men ought to take, but of
many days ahead of us. I have therefore pleasure in moving this resolution and hope
it will be unanimously carried.
Mr. T. ADNITT (Council Member) formally seconded the resolution.
Mr. A. H. FOLKARD (Norwich No. 2): What effect will this clause regarding
Easter and Whitsuntide have on those drawing State benefit?
THE CHAIRMAN: We do not interfere with the State side. We are only protecting
our own funds. It ought not to be the sole idea of officials to give people all the funds.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): Will the Council add " and must report the first
day of suspension" If they do not, men will be suspended for a week and not report,
and when they come down will want to sign back.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member) proposed Item 21:—
21 Bristol. No 2.—New Rule.—"To ask Council to consider and report to
Conference the possibility of giving members Out-of-Work Benefit during
periods of suspension."
In Bristol we felt the changed circumstances required something to be done to meet the
position. It has become the practice for manufacturers to close their works and men to
come on our funds. However we look at it, it is an extended benefit which will be given
to the members. At the present time we have no data as to what it will cost. We don't
expect to be overwhelmed with members the same as we were in the first instance when
suspension benefit was granted. In that case members signed back from the first day.
We feel no effort is too great to make to try and meet these men, as even when we get a
Labour Government they will not be able to do away with unemployment altogether.
Prior to the war we were a seasonal trade and all of us have gone through long periods of
short time. To-day, owing to unrest in all parts of the world trade seems to have gone.
There can be no question about the position, because all of us know what unemployment
means. If the cost proves too big then it ought to be re-discussed at the next Conference.
I hope the Conference will pass the Council's proposal, and any questions which branch
secretaries or individual members desire to put up should be put up here and now, so that
advice can be given and the administration be equal in all parts of the Union. Now,
so far as the paragraph relating to holidays is concerned. I don't think we should bother
our heads about Unemployment Insurance at all, because whatever we decide must be
general for all the country, and if our people lost no more time than is laid down in the
Council's proposals they would be much better off than they are at present. The holidays
we have named are a minimum. I am of the opinion that the Council have dealt with the
question in a most generous spirit, and the only question so far as I can see is whether
it is possible for us to do this on the present rate of contribution.
THE CHAIRMAN: If you pass this resolution to-day, you cannot alter it next
year. We shall know how it works probably every quarter, but the rules cannot be
altered next year.
Mr. W. PAIN (Kingswood) withdrew Item 22:—
22 Kingswood and District.—New Rule.—" Members thrown out of work
through suspension owing to bad trade, shall serve a probation of 4 weeks
for Out-of-Work Benefit, and shall be eligible on the first day of the 5th
week if remaining unemployed."
Mr. W. HINDES (Norwich) withdrew Item 24:—
24 Norwich No. 1.—New Rule.—" That having regard to the adoption in recent
years of a system of suspension of operatives from the factories instead
of discharge, this Conference is of opinion that it is essential in the interests
of the Union for some adjustment of rule to be made whereby members
affected by this development may receive Benefit."
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): In the early part of this year the members in Norwich
suggested something should be done to meet the position, but they also felt that the con-
tributions may have to be increased to meet the position. I am pleased with the suggestion
brought forward by the Council. It will, without a doubt, make inroads into the funds.
Speaking on behalf of the Norwich Branch, I may say we are very grateful for the con-
sideration shown by the members of the Council. During the past few years the whole of
the circumstances have lent themselves to short and sharp dismissals, but what has added
to our difficulties is the fact that these men have been able to draw State benefit, even though
they were not dismissed. The members could not understand why it was not in order to


---
94
claim Union benefit when they were being paid by the State. That position will have to be
so knowing well that in order to meet the liability the members may be called upon to pay
some attention. When Norwich asked the Council to consider the question, they did
faced. I have known suspension periods last for six months. Such circumstances require
increased contributions as they are to support this resolution from the Council. Do the
extra contributions. Norwich will be just as enthusiastic to support a resolution for
Council intend the holiday periods not to count as a waiting period, or would it count for
benefit?
paid for in any sense.
THE CHAIRMAN : According to the wording of the resolution they are not to be
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): Even though the men may have been drawing benefit
THE CHAIRMAN: This is suspension. The man is not unemployed. It is a
for five or six weeks before the holiday?
Mr. L. SMITH (Council Member): The Council felt if an operative had to stand
matter it was understood upon the Council that those holidays named in the resolution
off for the first period during a holiday week it would not count. When discussing the
big
even after a rush period. In taking that into consideration, the Council cut out the
concern to meet its liability. You will see there are twelve waiting days, and if any work
is done, then another twelve waiting days. All up and down the country when the Union
put the suspension scheme into operation, manufacturers gave their operatives just a fort-
should not count at all. By experience we have
to work this. The question
night off and then the operatives went back to work. The Unemployment Act must be considered. We feel if this resolution is adopted it will give
considerable relief to many of our members, and we feel the administration should be the
same in all branches.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): If a member was suspended before the holiday
and was on benefit, I take it he would continue to be paid during the holiday. Is that
the intention of the Council?
THE CHAIRMAN : How can we pay when the paragraph states no payment will
be made for holidays.
Mr. A. SMITH (Council Member): In the discussion which took place upon the
Council, it was understood if a man was on the funds prior to the holiday he should continue
to receive his benefit.
Mr. T. ADNITT (Council Member): I cannot understand how there can be any
difference of opinion upon this resolution. It does seem to me there is even a difference
of opinion amongst the Council members themselves. (Laughter.) I am convinced
that when the Council passed this resolution, it was upon the understanding that should
an operative be suspended at the end of a week prior to the holiday week the holiday
period should not count towards his waiting days If a man was suspended last Friday
he could not count his first day until Thursday of this week; that is clear. If a member
had been suspended a fortnight last Friday, he would be paid this week. I fail to see how
the National Unemployment Insurance can affect the position at all. In Leicester the
Employment Exchanges opened on Tuesday, but our office did not open until Wednesday,
and we simply marked the books excused for the two days, which met the position. Per-
sonally, whilst I may say we were unanimous in reaching our decision, some of us felt we
were taking more on than the funds could bear. I am wtih the Council on this resolution
because of their desire to try and meet the unfortunate members, but when we decided
four weeks was a fair and reasonable time for a man to be suspended before being entitled
to benefit, I am of the same opinion to-day. I realise we are up against a big thing. We
cannot in any sense whatever imagine what it will mean.
At the same time we must do
something for our people who ar suspended and not discharged. As officials we must
insist upon it being a bona-fide dismissal, and not a matter of coming on the funds for a week
or so, and then getting back to work and being put off again. It is up to us as officials
to always see our rules are constantly adhered to in the truest sense, and we should try
and safeguard our funds.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: If I was called upon to give a ruling upon this
question I should do so in the following manner: Before giving a detailed explanation I
should like to say we spent a good deal of time upon this matter, and if you had seen the
number of resolutions drawn up before we finally settled upon this one, you would see we
did not rush into print. Supposing a member was suspended ten days prior to the Whit-
suntide holidays, would that member be entitled to come on the funds on Wednesday
morning in Whit-week? I should say No. The ten days would be placed to the member's
credit, and the three holiday days being a break in between would prevent him coming on,
because we should count those days the same as we do Sunday, and the member would
continue his twelve working days on the Thursday morning. He would then come on for
benefit on the following Saturday. You could also count it in exactly the opposite direction.
---

---
95
continuous. I should say if the member had fulfilled all the obligations named in the rule.
Supposing a member had been on the funds prior to the holiday period, is the payment
he would be entitled to continue receiving the benefit in accordance with our established
principle. A member finished his twelve working days last Saturday. When would he
come on the Funds? Not until Thursday of this week.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): I don't think all the delegates appreciate the
difficulties it will create between the administration of this paragraph and the State
benefit. I think it would create endless difficulties.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The experience we have in the Central Office is
not the method by which it appears to work in many parts of the country. So far as our
rules and regulations are concerned the Department itself put the embargo upon us, which
proved they expect us to carry out our own rules, and I really cannot understand why our
Northampton people are so anxious over the methods obtaining at the Exchange. The
suspended member in all parts of the country is being paid by the State, so there must
necessarily be a different method obtaining between the Union and the Government, and
the point raised by Mr. Pitts could easily be got over by using different books.
Mr. A. BIRT (Northampton): I entirely disagree with the interpretation of the
General Secretary. Supposing a man is on his twelve waiting days and then the holiday
comes along at August. That would make him wait nineteen days. Suppose a man has
been on the fund for six weeks and a holiday comes along, according to the wording here
he could not get paid during the holiday period. It should be laid down v.ry clearly
that holidays are not to be counted as waiting days.
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester) : The General Secretary has stretched the suggestion
to his widest imagination, and I suggest if his ruling is the correct one, then the wording
should be altered so that it is made quite clear as to what is the intention of the Council.
Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow) : The discussion which has gone on this morning
shows there is a difference of opinion in administration. So far as the Labour Exchange
people are concerned they frequently call upon me, and I should like to know how you
would deal with cases signed for and then no benefit is paid, because trade benefit may be
received on certain days and State benefit on others. I suggest we should have a form
similar to the one we had for the suspension benefit previously. I quite agree with the
proposal. We have had men suspended for a long period with no hope of restarting.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath) suggested the Council's proposal would make members
much happier if it was administered as suggested by the General Secretary. I would also
make an appeal in relation to the stipulated holidays, as in Scotland they may be taken
by the Local Employment Committees to be recognised in the trade.
Mr. A. SMITH (Council Member) withdrew Item 25 at this stage :-
25 Wolverhampton.-New Rule." That a rule should be inserted that any
member who has been suspended from work, or who is given extra long
holiday, should be entitled to Unemployment Pay from the Union after
the first week of suspension or holiday."
THE CHAIRMAN: If you are going to accept the suggestion of the General Secre-
tary the language in the suggested rule will have to be altered.
Mr. W. R. TOWNLEY (Northampton) suggested a circular should be issued to
the branches giving details and illustrations as to when benefit should be paid.
THE CHAIRMAN: If we have the consent of the delegates to alter the language
to meet the position it will be all right.
DELEGATES: Agreed.
Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden) suggested the liability would be too big,
and in that event would the Council suspend the benefit. He thought the Union gave
too much in benefits at present, and the Council may either have to put a levy on the
members or discontinue the benefit.
THE CHAIRMAN: The figures are not so high just at present. In January 1,822
members drew benefit; February, 2,053; March, 1,719; and 1,881 in April. If we found
the position grew too bad then we should have to call a special conference.
Mr. A. STOTT (Heckmondwike): Can we have an assurance that our rules will
not be affected so far as the Labour Exchanges are concerned ?
THE CHAIRMAN: I wish you would not confuse State benefit with our own.
We should try our best for the member as we have tried so to do in the past.
Mr. E. TEBBUTT (Wellingborough) expressed his appreciation of the suggested
benefit put forward by the Council, and felt sure it would be beneficial to the Union. I
should let each member with whom I come in contact know of this, and explain how generous
the Council have been and how they have come forward in a broad-minded spirit. I should
therefore like to thank the Council for putting such a proposal before us.
The Resolution was then unanimously endorsed, it being understood the wording
should be altered to meet the position explained by the General Secretary.


---
96
Under-Employment.
Mr. H. FRASER (Norwich) proposed Item 23:
23 Norwich No. 1. - New Rule.-" To request the Executive Council to prepare
a scheme to allow benefit to be payable for and in respect of under-employ-
ment.
When the Norwich Branch discussed this question it was distinctly understood if
anything was done for under-employment then the contributions would have to be raised.
The Council, in their Address, state that some members want to claim benefit for the first
day they are suspended, or payment for odd days. If that refers to Norwich I can assure
the Council we have never met a member in Norwich who objected to having a day off,
especially the day after Sunday. Employers during periods of depression put men off.
Some men are sacked and come on the Union funds. Then we have men and women
suspended, and you have just agreed to give them benefit, and we feel under-employment
benefit could be paid if the contribution was raised to meet the liability. In Norwich
large numbers of members have been put on short time. With others, I was on short
time since last August, and only worked three days per week for three months, and then
for something to be done. Probably it will be shown that the present is not an opportune
two days each week for three months. I believe this Conference will understand the need
time to bring such a scheme into operation, but we suggest a scheme should be prepared.
and, if necessary, the contributions raised to meet the position. The delegates will under-
stand there are bound to be difficulties in the way, which the Council fully realise, and I
suggest it would be statesmanlike if they tried to prepare such a scheme.
The resolution having been formally seconded,
THE CHAIRMAN: If this is carried it is bound to be a new rule, which it is open
for the delegates to speak for or against.
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester) proposed next business, and this was seconded.
Upon the Chairman putting "Next business " to the vote of the delegates the same
was carried, and it was decided to proceed with the other items on the Agenda.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester) formally proposed Item 26:-
26 Leicester No. 1.-" That the expense of all Union Votes shall be borne by
the Union."
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester) formally seconded the proposition and asked the
Conference to vote against it. (Laughter.)
The resolution was lost.
Payment of Contributions.
Mr. R. WHITE (Edinburgh) proposed Item 27:-
27 Edinburgh. Rule 230, Line 2.-After " employment," " shall have his
contributions paid from Union until finding employment."
and asked the Conference to endorse the same.
Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow) seconded.
THE CHAIRMAN: When men went to the Front we did not expect them to pay
their contributions, but we withheld all benefits except funeral pay. We are getting
into a very bad habit of expecting everything to be done for us.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): You have gone as far as you can do having regard
to your financial liabilities. If you put any more benefits on you will see where you will
be getting. You know when you raise your contributions what every branch secretary
gets. Always when contributions are raised it gives an opportunity to some of the weak
trade unionists to leave the Union. You already pay the contributions for a member
who has no income, and then the 30 years' membership member gets a bigger liability
every year. We pay for something like 150 of them every week. You will bring in all
your chronics. If you pass a rule of this kind your liability might be so great as to make
the delegates sorry they voted for it. I have had some experience as a secretary and think
we ought not to do too much. There is not a Union in the country that gives as good
benefits as the boot and shoe union for so small a contribution. You had better be un-
popular and straight, rather than cheap and popular.
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester): It looks, Mr. Chairman, as if some of our members
everybody 9d. for 4d.
are going to pay Is. per week and want 4s. for it like Lloyd George when he promised
ment is a menace to our trade, and I think we do a large amount for our members. Our
Mr. H. ATTEWELL (Northampton): I cannot accept the resolution. Unemploy-
members must find it difficult to pay their contributions when only drawing 15s. from the
State, and whilst I cannot accept this resolution I suggest the Council should do something
to try and meet the position.
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
97
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): This resolution is merely to extend the present rule.
In the days gone by we decided no man over 40 years of age should join the Union for full
benefits. There are plenty of good trade unionists who join after they are 40 years of
age, and I think our rules should be extended to encourage people to join us.
THE CHAIRMAN: The Union is already finding the contributions of members
with no income, the Union secured the Holiday Fay for its members, and that alone pays
their trade contributions with a little to spare, so your trade really costs you nothing.
At the present time we are paying about £3,000 per annum on this benefit, and before the
ink is dry on one scheme others want to go the whole hog. Even the proposal which the
Council have been carrying out has not yet become a rule, yet you say "Let'em all come."
It requires a bit of courage to say we cannot go any further. Many members find their
contributions now cannot be paid, but I appeal to you not to ask us to do too much for
the young members.
Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): Some people seem to think there was
no unemployment until the war came along. Twenty-one years ago I had the sack, but
I still paid my contributions. In my opinion my first duty is to pay my contributions
to the Union, and if I had to decide between paying to go and see a football match and
paying my contribution, I should pay my contributions. Like old Charles Dickens said,
“Let us try and be sensible.” (Laughter.)
Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester): This is no new idea to those who have belonged
trade contribution as far back as when it was 6d. per week.
Mr. T. ADNITT (Leicester): I appeal to this Conference to turn down the reso-
lution. If we are not careful we shall be legislating for one class of member and bring
trouble upon ourselves.
The resolution was lost.
Item 28 was withdrawn.
28 Kettering No. 2.--Rule 236, Line 16.--After "sick pay" insert:--" This
shall not apply in cases where the twelve weeks' benefit is extended in
all over eleven months. In such cases the complete periods of benefit
ending twelve months prior to the date of again declaring on shall not be
reckoned against the member."
Items 29, 30 and 31 were unanimously accepted.
29 The Council.--Rule 252, Line 2.--Delete "£500," and insert "£1,000."
30 The Council.--Rule 253, Line 1.--Delete "£3,000," and insert "£5,000."
31 The Council.--Rule 255, Line 2.--Delete "7s. 6d.," and insert "9s."
Line 5.--Delete "7s. 6d.," and insert "9s."
What is Political Work?
Mr. R. WHITE (Edinburgh) proposed Item 32:--
32 Edinburgh.--Rule 263.--Delete "1s. 6d." and substitute "2s."
Mr. T. ROBERTSON (Glasgow) formally seconded the proposal.
Mr. T. RABBITT (Wellingborough): We want to know what constitutes political
business. We have a member on the Employment Exchange Committee who has done
good work, but we cannot get any payment from the Central Office for this man. Our
Secretary says it is not Union business, and we cannot afford to pay him. We claim it
is Union business and think we are entitled to draw upon the Political Fund to pay for
such business.
THE CHAIRMAN: When the Government calls upon anyone to do work for
them they are prepared to pay for it. Your man is working under price. None of our
members on the Trade Board--and we have representatives on fourteen District Com-
mittees, and six of us on the National Board, with Mr. Buckle and I on the Advisory
Committee--are expected to work for nothing. They do not pay permanent officials
except their travelling expenses. The Government pay members on the panel, but how
far this is Union business I cannot say. We don’t want to do the trade union business
for everybody.
Mr. H. POULTON (London Metro.): I should like to know what this member
is doing. Twice every month I sit on the "Juvenile Committee" and do the work voluntary,
because I feel it helps the youngsters to get the trade union rate of pay. I don't consider
that Union business for payment purposes.
Mr. L. P. POOLE (Wellingborough): This particular member is on the Local
Employment Committee which regulates the cases at Wellingborough. Both the Branch
Secretary and I sit upon a Committee, and we attend during the day time. This par-
ticular member attends meetings in the evening. We consider he is doing good work
for the members of the Union, and as a consequence he is on Union business. As a con-
sequence we claimed 1s. 6d. per hour. For a time this was allowed, but was cut off. We
considered, rightly or wrongly, that this was Union work, and that the member should be
paid from Union funds.
D


---
THE CHAIRMAN: The officials of this Branch should tell you all that they did
not send any details with their claim, and these had to be written for. When the details
came along the claim was disallowed. Some people will not send details, and it is not
fair to the Central Office to submit a statement for cash unless the details are given. The
General Secretary acted upon the advice of the Council. This is no new departure, and
we cannot do for Wellingborough what is not done for any other branch in the Union.
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's): Our girls in Leicester
who are on the rota get 2s. 2d. per hour, which amount they lose if not at work. We
have no evening meetings, and I cannot understand why Wellingborough allow evening
meetings if there is no pay attached to the position for the member concerned.
The Resolution was lost.
Out After Hours (Sickness).
ALD. A. HILL, M.P., proposed Item 33:-
33 Leicester No. 2.-Rule 294, Line 4. Delete "2s. 6d." and insert " Is."
and asked the Conference to pass it so as to bring the Industrial and Insurance rules into
line. It is unfortunate for a member to pay Is. fine for being out on the Insurance side
and 2s. 6d. on the Industrial.
Mr. W. MAYER (Leicester No. 2) seconded.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: At the time the Insurance rules were incorporated
in our rule book, the Government Department were against our fine, and insisted upon
one shilling only being inserted in the rules.
THE CHAIRMAN: A man deserves double punishment for imposing upon the
trade union funds against the Government funds.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): If you pass this, some members will often have
a bob's worth. They will be able to go to the Opera, or Theatre, or second house at the
Palace, and will not grumble if you fine him a shilling. I hope the Conference will turn
it down.
Mr. H. WILLIAMS (Leicester): As an old sick visitor of the Leicester Branch
I hope you will keep this rule intact.
Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester) heartily associated himself with the statement of
Mr. Williams.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): Will Alderman Hill tell us how many members have
been fined in his branch during the past twelve months?
ALD. HILL, M.P. (Leicester No. 2): I don't reckon to keep count; I'm not a
walking encyclopædia.
The Resolution was lost.
Daylight Saving.
Mr. A. BIRD (Norwich) proposed Item 34:-
34 Norwich No. 1. Rule 294. Add " Members to be allowed out of their homes
till 10 p.m. during the operation of the Daylight Saving Act."
The need for the operation of this particular rule has been shown to the officers and
members on account of the fact that Friendly Societies in Norwich have granted relief to
their members, and we ask that a similar extension be granted on the Union side.
Mr. H. FRASER (Norwich) seconded the amendment.
THE CHAIRMAN: What chance would a sick visitor have if a man is out. He
has no right to find a man at home only after hours. It will make it very difficult if sick
visitors have to start their work after 10 o'clock at night.
Mr. J. GREAVES and Mr. H. WILLIAMS (Leicester) opposed the amendment
to the present rule.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): Although I am not pressing this item personally, I should
like to say the sick visitors themselves raised the matter at the branch meeting. Early
in the week the Chairman said the Union was created for the benefit of the members and
not branch officers, and now you have a chance to vote in that direction.
The resolution was lost.
The Conference adjourned for the day at 12 o'clock noon.
On Wednesday afternoon the delegates travelled from Russell Square, London, and
had a most enjoyable motor trip to Windsor, as the guests of the General Officers and
members of the Executive Council, acting for the Union. Upon arrival tea was provided
at the Thames Hotel, Windsor, and despite the inclement weather, many of the
delegates visited historical places of interest, including Windsor Castle, whilst other
delegates enjoyed themselves at an impromptu concert at the Hotel.
The return journey to London commenced at 8 p.m., and upon arrival home, all
expressed their pleasure with the delightful outing.


---
99
THURSDAY.
Morning Session.
The Conference resumed its sitting at 9.30 a.m., Mr. T. F. RICHARDS presiding.
South)
was absent. Mr. Standeven arrived later, and the reason given for his absence was
accepted.
Payment for Arbitration.
Mr. R. WHITE (Edinburgh) proposed Item 35:—
35 Edinburgh. - Rule 145. After "support" delete and substitute "All
expense to be paid from Central Funds."
We understood at the Edinburgh Conference that all the expenses of arbitration
boards would be paid for by the Central Office. Mr. Gamble put in an account and it
was refused by the Central Office. I think all expenses of arbitration board meetings
should be paid from Central Funds as it means a lot to the Scottish branches if they have
to pay even a portion. Mr. Gamble asked for £16, but was refused.
THE CHAIRMAN : What was the £16 for?
Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow) after seconding the resolution, said "After we met in
Conference at Edinburgh we formed an arbitration board. The expenses for the meeting
were sent to Mr. Poulton and he refused to honour it. It took me twelve months to get
the money from the Scottish branches, as they all dissented and did not want to pay.
The claim which was refused was for printing statements.
Mr. C. MAYES (Council Member): Can we have a detailed account of the expenses
sent to the Central Office which were turned down?
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: As a matter of fact this matter was fully fought
out at the Edinburgh Conference, when details were gone into. It is really raking up a
question which was settled three years ago. To try and meet the position the Council
agreed to pay for additional items in connection with arbitration, and the only items the
branches now pay for are postages and printing. We tried to meet the position raised by
several of the smaller branches, and when the contribution was raised we gave a higher
proportion of the contribution to the branches. They have had 25 per cent. of the contri-
bution since the Edinburgh Conference, and in my judgment that meets the position of most
branches; so far as the women are concerned we felt that they should have 334 per cent.
of the contributions for branch management. On the whole that has been found to be
satisfactory, but it was made clear that the Central Office could not pay for printing.
I hope the Conference will say the Central Office is already paying enough. It is very
little indeed that the branches are now left to provide for and they might well carry this
amount. It is quite true what Mr. Gamble has said and Mr. Gamble has my sympathy
in connection with the particular case he mentioned. The Scottish branches did not act
as they should have done. This is the only case we have had brought before us and I
hope you will reject the suggested amendment.
Mr. W. WARNER (Hinckley): Undoubtedly many branches will agree with the
idea from Edinburgh. The cost of printing to a branch like ours is very heavy, and if the
Central Office paid for the printing of statements they would keep them in their office
and sell to the branches. I appeal to you to pass the resolution.
Mr. T. H. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): Mr. Poulton asked Mr. Harris at Edin-
burgh whether his resolution included printing, and Mr. Harris said "No," so the position
is unmistakably clear.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): I am not surprised to hear the statement that a
claim was sent to the Central Office and knocked out. Our Leicester No. 2 friends had a
claim knocked out for printing.
Mr. T. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): No we did not.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): Mr. Harris was not in doubt. I am continually
applied to the little branches where would they be. The General President is forming a
alled upon to send statements weekly to branch secretaries all over the country. If that
Branch for Nottingham, Mansfield and Derby, and how can they afford to pay for printing.
I have sent claims in and had them knocked out so far as arbitration expenses are concerned.
I think it would be a good thing for the Council to pay all the expenses.
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood): There is one difficulty we have in mind
and that is the cost of printing, which is very heavy. We sell our statements and they are


---
100
If the Council printed the statements and
valued by the members as a consequence.
charged the branches with them there would not be much in it.
Upon being put to the vote the Amendment was lost.
Item 36 was endorsed.
36 The Council. Rule 146.-Delete.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY proposed Item 37: "trade and sick."
37 The Council. - Rule 171, Line 2. - Delete words
The only reason we ask for this is to remove any sort of doubt about a member who
may have a fine put upon him, or a levy. I know that several have never paid the
levy put on years ago, but have had it added to their book debt, but we feel if you
accept our suggestion it will be quite clear that if any member acted in that capacity in
future, then the fine or levy added to his contributions made more than eight weeks'
contributions, he should be declared out of benefit.
Items 38, 39, and 40 were also endorsed, they being on similar lines to Item 37.
This was agreed to.
38 The Council. - Rule 172, Line 3. - Delete words "trade and sick."
39 The Council. - Rule 173, Line 3. - Delete words "trade and sick."
40 The Council. - Rule 174, Line 1. - Delete words "trade and sick."
Item 41 was accepted.
Political Agents.
41 The Council. - Rule 59, Line 2. - Add "financial members of the Union."
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Leeds) proposed Item 42:--
42 Leeds. Rule 59, Line 2. - Delete all words after "Union," up to and including
"success" on fifth line, and insert the following:-" Who shall submit
all offers received from constituencies to the Council. The Council shall
have power to place any Agent in a Constituency where they think there
is a reasonable chance of success. In the event of any Agent refusing
to contest a Constituency selected by the Council, he shall resign his position
as Agent."
We have had a big discussion in Leeds over this question, and I hope you will discuss
it in the spirit in which it is brought forward. There is no bitterness intended towards
anyone, and no personal attack is made on anyone. The time is fast coming when the
⚫economic pressure upon our members would be so great that they would have to choose
between carrying out the national agreements and starvation. We say something will
have to be done to relieve the pressure which is continually being put upon the working
classes. The best method of doing that is through political action. As the Labcur Party
grows, so we want to see the number of Labour men in the House of Commons grow, and
eventually have a Labour Government who will give us laws for the advancement of the
people. Our rules say we shall have five Parliamentary Agents, and under certain cir-
cumstances seven. We need not be concerned about the other two, because they are not
affected by this resolution. The rule says we shall have five Parliamentary Agents. The
result shown in the last election was such that we really only had three agents. I am not
blaming our General President nor General Secretary for not accepting constituencies.
I do not think we could expect them to do so under present circumstances. I don't think
any sensible man would, with a position such as the one they hold, accept an offer to go to
Parliament. We ought, however, to make a provision that we should have our five
Parliamentary Agents, all of whom are prepared to stand for Parliament. If the General
President and General Secretary have decided not to stand for Parliament, then
they should retire from that position and not act the dog in the manger policy.
I was asked pointedly how it was that two of our agents could not find
stituencies. I knew they could. As a matter of fact the General President has
made no secret of the fact that he had many offers. I don't say they were all
satisfactory. We do not want men to accept a position and then not go on with it.
They should be prepared to carry out the rules. I don't think it is necessary for me to
say much more about it, as it is a question as to whether we believe in political action or not.
I have never hesitated to say I am prepared to spend as much money as we can afford on
political action, as I believe it is political action in which we shall have to make our stand.
I am longing for the time when we can get a majority in the House of Commons, amongst
whom our Union has its full share. Members who have been elected as Parliamentary
Agents of the Union should either carry out the rules or resign and give others a chance.
Mr. J. WALSH (Leeds) seconded. I cannot add much to what friend Dobbs has
said. Our Parliamentary Agents should have a reasonable chance in any constituency.
There may be constituencies where there is little chance of success in any constituenc
mer would succeed. I hope all the points raised will be replied to We have been told
Nothing is too good for me, and I don't see why it should be too good for other people.


---
101
One Man One Job.
ALD. A. HILL, M.P. (Leicester No. 2): The thought struck me that the mover
of the resolution is on the wrong rule, especially when he said he was not surprised at
neither of the general officers not accepting a constituency. It is just as well to deal
with the situation. So far as our present general officers are concerned, what stands in
their way is rule 67. which says:—
RULE 67.—No member shall hold more than one Union office at one time. This
not to apply to members taking office on Boards of Arbitration, or as Par-
liamentary Agents previous to election to Parliament, but on any Union
officer being elected to Parliament his other Union office shall automatically
become vacant, and the F.C. shall take the necessary steps to fill such
vacancy.
I believe that is the rule which operates against the General President and General Secretary.
new. I believe that is the rule which cuts its general officers off from
financial details, as that can easily be settled later on. I don't want to go into the question of
ways and means of making it possible to meet the situation by which our general officers
could be returned to Parliament if they so desired. Following upon the advice of the
Executive Council of the Union my branch has made it possible for me to go to the House
of Commons and retain my position, and what has happened in the Branch should not
be a difficult thing to fix up at headquarters.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): Could we refer this matter to the Standing Orders
Committee for them to submit a resolution to meet the position?
THE CHAIRMAN : It is early yet ; let the discussion continue so that we know the
frame of mind of the delegates.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): I should strongly oppose this Conference giving Standing
Orders Committee power to deal with a situation for which no provision has been made.
There has been no intention nor suggestion to deal with Rule 67, and whatever we may do
in the future I hope we shall not prostitute the powers of the Standing Orders Committee
in such a way as to deal with matters of this kind. There is no power which gives the
Standing Orders Committee a chance of dealing with it, although I recognise the necessity
of trying to meet a certain set of circumstances. The rule Mr. Dobbs requires altering is
in the direction of the Council having the power to say whether a General Officer shall
say "yes" or "no" to any invitation which comes from a constituency, and unless they
do, then the General Officers debar another member having the opportunity, because at
present you have two General Officers and an Organiser holding such positions. Friend
Hill argued that the General Officers should retain their present position in the event of
their being returned to Parliament. We have reached the stage when neither the General
President nor General Secretary can do the two jobs satisfactorily. He would be a very
clever man indeed who could do the two jobs. I think our General Officers should say
whether they are going on with their industrial work or going to take on the political
work. As a result of the fickleness of working men's minds I am not prepared to say that
we should cut a man off entirely in the event of his being returned to Parliament, because
at the following election he may be thrown out. Whatever conclusion we reach to-day
I shall strenuously oppose any of our officers going to Parliament and holding a full time
position in the Union as well. I give our General President and General Secretary every
credit for their ability. No man can do the work our Union requires doing and be a Member
for men to recuperate, and it might not be wise for men to be asked to do work whilst they
plays an unimportant part of this rule.
Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P.: I have been transferred from the Industrial side to the
Parliamentary side of our work, and if I get beaten at the next election I am stranded with
the exception of what the Council may ask me to do. We should discuss very fully what
is in the best interests of the Union itself. I think it is the wrong thing to cut off a man
from his Union immediately he is returned to Parliament. Take the Miners' Union—
and you will have to face this matter—men will refuse to run for Parliament because they
would be worse off. The Miners' representatives are not cut off. In the Workers' Union
every man retains his industrial position. Every morning when in town they go to their
Central Office, and they have their political department just as effective as their industrial
department. If you want to be effective and strong and influential—and this work is
department, and I would like to see a well-equipped political department equally efficient
very strenuous—then you must be well equipped. Our Union is fairly efficient in every
---

---
with every other department. We must face the position as it is. The General President
or General Secretary, present or future, would be absolute asses to accept a political
position and lose their status with the organisation as heads of it. What we have always
done as shoe operatives is to try and find ways and means to get a man in an influential
position, and then immediately transferred him from our organisation. Every other union
keeps their men intact, and so gains influence. I have always held that view. When
Mr. Smith got in for Wellingborough and was cut off from the industrial work of the Union
I say it was a weakness to the organisation. For the first year or two Mr. Smith was in
the House of Commons he was not even a consultative member of the Council, because the
rules were against him. When the Leicester people appointed him to act as arbitrator
under the Terms of Settlement, then they could see that a mistake had been made, and
I don't think it is a good thing if Parliament closes for four months to have men like me
later on he was co-opted on to the Council. I say it is a great danger to cut men off.
Smith could not help us so he was elected president of the Agricultural Labourers' Union.
idle, because I am not a fit chap to be idle. I should deteriorate in that period. Mr.
I gave up all my local positions when I was elected to the position of Organiser, but I want
I gave quite frankly I should never do it again. (Hear, hear.) Many good men in our
Union will not go to Parliament under the present set of circumstances. I have never
seen the difference between your local branch officials holding positions on town councils
and local bodies, because they are not asked to give up their local positions, but when it
comes to the national positon they are immediately excluded by rule. I should like it
to be distinctly understood that I am speaking independently-I have lost my job and got
a better one I hope-and I am very serious about the matter. I am called an old fogey
by some people but I do not mind that, but some of us have reached an age when we
cannot afford to take risks, and no man should take a risk such as our General Officers
would be called upon to take. After all, security means something to the men in a Union
such as ours. You have got to face this question whether you like it or not. Now I ask
that in the event of our General Officers being returned to Parliament and keeping their
official positions, in what way would the work in the Central Office be interfered with?
We have a staff in our head office in my opinion-equal to any in the country. (Hear,
hear.) We don't want to see the General President or General Secretary working at
figures, not at all. It is admitted that the work of our Industrial Department, Unemploy-
ment Insurance and Health Insurance are amongst the first rank of the country, and nothing
but praise is given for the expedite way in which matters are dealt with. We expect
our people to do that. I want our General President, General Secretary and Organisers
to have broader work and so be enabled to develop an outlook both politically and indus-
trially, and I venture to say we should be at no disadvantage even with our General
President or General Secretary away occasionally. There should be no personal feeling
amongst us, but we must be prepared to defend the objects of our Union. Some men have
walked straight into the House of Commons and made their maiden speech upon their
own trade, but I expect Hill and I will have to wait until shoemaking comes up for dis-
cussion. It has been said that we give more for a shilling than some organisations give
for 2s. 6d. If you belonged to the Engineers you would have to pay five bob and get no
benefits. When Lady Astor's Bill on Pensions for Mothers was before the House, I had
600 letters in eleven days. You have experts to put down the questions, and I say what we
want is another department at our Central Office where that work could be done. If you
want us to become parliamentarians you must expect to find us some clerical staff. I feel
in the interests of the Union that our General Officers should be allowed to retain their
present job if they are returned to Parliament. If you cannot consider the matter to-day,
I hope you will think about it. The Organisers are as much entitled to a guarantee of
security as anyone. If you want the best men in the Union to go in for political life, then
you must be prepared not to cut them off from the industrial work.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): I am in favour of the resolution from
Leeds, and as a Branch Secretary I know what sort of reply I should get from the Central
Office if one of our members was seeking a certain position and wanted to retain the one
he already had. The reply would be to the effect that the rules of the Union must be carried
out. When anyone stands for the position of Parliamentary Agent they are well aware
of the other rules in the rule book which govern their position. I am not at all concerned
whether our General Officers take on industrial or political work, but I agree with friend
Jex that the time does come when they must choose which they shall take. When we are
told our General Officers would be absolute asses merely because they would lose a monetary
consideration for serving the movement, I ask is that what the movement has been built
upon. Let us take the position of our friend Walter Smith, as it has been said he worked
for another Union soon after he became a Member of Parliament. I am prepared to tell
this Conference that when some of us felt Mr. Smith was the proper person to do certain
never been reported to us as to whether Mr. Smith was worse of or not, and it was not
work, it was with the utmost difficulty that we had him appointed to the job. It has
without difficulty that we secured for him his railway pass. I understand the work he
did for the other organisation was of a voluntary character. He has served that society
for twelve years, and in my judgment he did what he could with the time at his disposal
In no unmistakable manner he was informed at times that the Union did not require his
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
103
entered into the matter at all. If that is so, then this matter should have been raised
services. I have never heard either of our General Officers say that the question of finance
years ago. It is impossible for this matter to be decided upon to-day, and I urge the
Conference not to be led away by anything which has been said. There has been personal
hostility against one man and another, and it is most unfortunate, and not for the good of
the organisation, and if some people have ability they should be allowed to use it for the
good of others.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): We should have more than five Parliamentary Agents,
and I think the Conferences of the future will have to try and meet the position put forward
discretion of the Council, and surely it can hurt no one.
to use their sound judgment, and trust the delegates will pass this resolution.
I think we should leave the Council
THE CHAIRMAN: Perhaps I had better take you back a little, and I don't accept
the glamour of Mr. Dobbs when he tells you in one breath he is not attacking either of the
General Officers, and then in the next breath charges them with the dog in the manger
attitude. I was the first person in the Union to go to Parliament, and I got it by overtime,
not at 25s. a day, nor 21s. per day, but at 11s., and I did my own work for three years
at the office as well. I did my speaking at street corners and did not follow another
candidate. I got elected. It cost £750 to elect me and the delegates immediately lowered
it to £500 so that I should not be re-elected. It had the desired effect. All the Council
members of that day did all they could for me and did good work. When the time came
and I was beaten by 400 votes, my Agent told me beforehand that I should lose by that
number, as the other people had put that number of latchkey voters on the list, and my
Agent only had twelve bob a week. During that three years the work had an effect upon
me. I did not have to send for a doctor, but I lost my hair and many of the delegates
will remember it. I went bald-headed to Parliament due to hard work. When I had been
in Parliament four years I finished seventeenth on the list for Divisions, and so you will
see I paid some attention to the work, but during the recess my greatest trouble was to
find some work to do. Some of my friends in Northampton grumbled because I took
up temperance work, and they could produce the letters if they wished-as, like Buckle,
I must always be doing something-to show that I was striven off, although I had been the
most active member on that executive and had official positions since 1899. The Council
were asked not to find me employment; however, they did find me something to do,
and since then I have taken jolly good care that no man should have to be dealt with as
I was. I have always done my bit to try and improve the lot of our Parliamentary Agents.
I claim that not only Members of Parliament, but our Judges should be in Parliament,
so as to know the proper perspective with which to administer the laws. Now let us
come to the 1922 election. Three weeks prior to the election I was asked to contest a
Division, which was a safe one. My colleague, the General Secretary, was away in Geneva,
and likely to be until the election; we were due to meet the Employers' Federation a
fortnight later. Was I to neglect the work of the Union or to accept this invitation to
fight? Luckily for us the employers did not give us a lot of trouble, but I was very busy
getting all the information from the branches respecting wages and conditions. I said
to the deputation which waited upon me that I did not like the idea of fighting a con-
stituency and leaving our operatives; I suggested another official of a trade union in
London, and promised to ring him up whilst the deputation were on their way. He
promised to consider it, but I told the members of the deputation that if they could not
persuade this other gentleman I would consider the matter. He accepted it, and had
almost a walk-over. In two other constituencies I was on the point of taking, but the
local people thought we should not win until the next time. I told them I was not out
for propaganda work nor to spend good Union money. I want to back a winner when I
put up for Parliament again, and I want the majority to be substantial. I am not at all
envious of the positions held by some of our people to-day. The Labour Party is not
congratulating itself over having fought Ludlow. All of us should Have liberty of action.
Am I not to be the over having fought? Do you want to spend money on propaganda
work willy nilly. If so why not have fifty or one hundred agents? Suppose you say to a
man you must go and the man is not interested. Your money will be lost. Altogether
I had fifty-four invitations to stand for Parliament at the last election. Some of them
I would not touch with a long pole. I don't believe in backing forlorn hopes. The
experience I have gone through teaches me not to make a mistake the next time. I don't
know why there should be any jealousy because a certain individual is not in a hurry to
have had more experience you will be more careful. I object to the view of preventing
put his bead in a noose. Many people will run to pull the rope. As soon as some of you
an open door so far as our Union was concerned. I did my best to remove that embargo.
Your best men from being allowed to go to Parliament. When I was in Parliament it was not
I say the narrowness and prejudice which was exhibited was too bad. I don't have little
side talks for people to make up their mind upon matters; everyone is the same to me.
There is nothing hid up my sleeve. In my humble judgment this resolution is too auto-
cratic and interferes with the liberty of the subject. I wish friend Jex had been as out-
spoken at the beginning of the week.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): On what question ?
---

---
THE CHAIRMAN: As to whether we should have thrown open a vacancy or the
Council fill it up. You endorsed the action of the Council in doing an illegal thing. Every.
thing should be done for unity. I recommended to the Council that the vacancy should
to fear, and his position would have been strengthened. Years ago, when I appealed
be filled in the usual way, but they rejected it. The individual concerned had nothing
to the Council that 11s. was not enough for me to receive, and when I only got 7s. for doing
my work out of town, and it cost me 4s. for bed, what was there to keep my home on and
altered that position at Leeds. It is quite true to say this rule was not altered to give the
my other meals? Still I got no consideration. but I am pleased to say the Conference
Members of Parliament a chance to join the Council until 1920. when the Northampton
Branch brought forward a resolution which was passed, and since then Mr. Smith has
attended the Council meetings. Mr. Manners has dealt with a lot of imagination. The
member if it is likely to cause unpleasantness. We have had many such things, but one
General Secretary and I have not sent organisers into a district where there is a Council
I say candidly I shall not submit my correspondence to the Council. That will be done
must try to forget these things and try to do to others as we should like them to do to us.
after I have made up my mind as to what action I am prepared to take.

Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): If any of our members go to Parlia-
ment they ought not to lose their situation. We have better conditions to-day than we
to ropresent us in Parliament. I appeal to all officials to stop this animosity.

Mr. W. R. TOWNLEY (Northampton): This alteration of the rule will not touch
the desired spot, because what have been the reasons for the change desired by Mr. Dobbs.
of a person who gets returned to the House of Commons. I think it would be better for
It may be the financial basis has not been proper because of the changed circumstances
the matter to drop, and let the rule stand as it was, because the General President has told
us that it will be inoperative so far as he is concerned. It might be unfair for him to adopt
that attitude. We are asking our General Officers to-day to take risks and make financial
sacrifices. Suppose one of them gets elected to Parliament, and in two years time is
scrapheaped, you will then see that it is very difficult for them to make such a sacrifice
because it would be very unfair. Let the matter be dropped, and it could be raised at
some future conference when further experience has been obtained, as we do not want
any scenes created which would not bring credit to the Union.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I submit this suggested alteration wants to deal
with the position of the Agent in a very arbitrary manner, and our Agents should have a
voice in any matter of great importance such as this one. An Agent might quite conceivably
have letters from time to time, but which for the time being would not warrant him in
bringing that information before the Council. Take the latter part of the Leeds proposed
amendment-"An Agent refusing to contest a constituency
position as Agent." This means a person who may have had an invitation to stand for
he shall resign his
Parliament extended to him, might himself feel, and has justification for feeling, that
he is not in favour of accepting the offer. The Council may say to him, "You must
accept," and the Agent would either have to comply with the request of the Council
or resign his position as Agent, which, in my opinion, is not acting fairly towards
the Agent in such a case. Along with the General President I have had many,
many constituencies offered to me.
favourable, but the majority to my mind were not suitable. Owing to the unfortunate
illness of my two predecessors, our work had not reached that stage of efficiency which
I considered it should do, having regard to the numbers of persons who might become
members of the Union. When the Union did me the very great honour of electing me the
General Secretary, my mind was made up upon the point, and although I have never
shirked my responsibility on the political side, I have tried to build up our industrial
work. My desire and ambition was to make our organisation the finest in the country.
I felt that for the time being my work must be concentrated in the office of General Secretary
to do that work which I wished to carry out. I think, without any boasting, one can
say we have made a good deal of progress during the past few years. Our Union has not
only increased in members, in funds, in prestige, but it has brought to the members'
homes week by week, money which has helped members to meet their obligations.
Although it is quite true the Leeds resolution talks about Rule 59, it is impossible to
dissever the rule from No. 67. I want to call your attention to the fact that it has been
have happened since then. In my judgment this particular rule has been found and
three years since we dealt with the question of alteration of rules, and a great many things
rule was put in the rule book. One of the reasons latterly why I have consistently refused
objection may be urged against it-not to work in quite the way it was urged when the
uncertainty, and if the General President or I were clected to Parliament we should have
to positions. I as
cut us off from the industrial side. If I was elected to Parliament I should have to forth-
with resign my position as a member of the General Council of the Trades Union Congress.
It
whichyself, and are still in that
Some of them might have been considered


---
105
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): No.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Mr. Smith says “No.” The fact is, I should
believe I am doing some amount of good work for the movement there, both nationally
I do not think the members quite contemplated cutting me off in that kind of way. I
and internationally, and I am reluctant, and very reluctant, to think that I should be
called upon to give up that kind of work. If this Conference feels that is the right position
to stand for Parliament have come along. I still believe a position giving me some status,
you know me well enough to know that I should accept your decision. I think the Con-
ference is entitled to know why I have largely decided in the negative when invitations
that in my very early days as General Secretary I did not approve of things done to himself
even if it was not holding the present position, might be found. The Chairman knows
by the Union, and I hope we shall never try to repeat them. There is another question
I do not want to shirk. With Mr. Dobbs I hope to see our membership increase in the
has always been difficult for me to state this, but I have always been gravely in doubt
House of Commons. Nothing would give me more delight. Having said that, and it
about the number of members coming to the Council meetings and taking full part. I
am not afraid of them, but should be proud of them. I was proud when Mr. Richards
seven Agents were returned to Parliament. In my judgment, with a Council of twelve
was first elected then Mr. Smith, and now our present two members. Supposing the
then seven not elected by
weighted. I want the Conference to seriously consider these matters. When my friends
Buckle and Hill were elected, I told them that so far as I was concerned—and I knew I had
the full concurrence of the Council—that any help would be given either by myself or the
Central Office staff. I am quite sure the Conference will endorse that attitude. The
Central Office has always been only too pleased and delighted to do all it could to help
our colleagues in their work in the House of Commons. I deprecate any personal questions
being introduced, but I think you will quite understand why I have refused the applications
As Mr. Jex has stated, the rule which should be altered is not before us,
made to me.
but there are plenty of precedents which have arisen out of a discussion such as this.
If the Leeds resolution is carried I shall not take it as a personal hit at myself, because
you will be quite within your rights in passing it. I repeat, before I sit down, that I should
be very reluctant to give up my industrial work.
At 11.40 p.m. the previous question was proposed and seconded, but upon being
put to the vote, there voted :-
For the Previous Question
Against the Previous Question
and the Chairman ruled the discussion must continue.
36
46
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): It is with some amount of hesitation that I rise
to take part in this discussion. It is not easy to keep the discussion out of the personal
atmosphere. I don't know whether it stands for condemnation or otherwise, because
the question at issue is very largely a personal one, which must be looked at more or less
from the standpoint of personal experience, and when you get personal experience entering
into a question it is difficult to separate the individual from the experience itself. Because
of that, and because I am not anxious to take part in personal discussion, I hesitate to say
anything. I am not certain that this is the best way to proceed in order to remove what
may be a difficulty. The Chairman and the General Secretary have spoken, and given
their opinion upon this particular matter. In principle. I do not entirely disagree with
item. I should, myself, feel very awkwardly circumstanced if, in the end, a decision as
to the fighting a constituency had to depend upon other people than themselves. This
perhaps is not altogether what is aimed at, but I don't see how you can separate that from
the resolution. I cannot conceive anyone going into a constituency and fighting with
the idea that they do not want to be there, and it is only the particular member who can
decide the question. This is an attempt to deal with a situation that apparently in the
minds of some, has created a difficulty. Personally, nothing has ever been said in my
presence to lead me to think there has been any difficulty. I remember when the General
Secretary allowed his name to go forward when we increased the number of Parliamentary
Agents, and I expressed some surprise that he was running for the position, because I
always felt his mind was turned to the industrial side of the movement, The General
Secretary gave me an explanation and I fully accepted it, but there was no difference,
certainly nothing to speak of. From the statement of the Chairman, there is no difficulty
o far as he is concerned. When the General Secretary informed the Council that it would
mean if he was returned to Parliament he would have to resign from his position on the
General Council. I certainly dissented from that observation, because I cannot conceive
it happening. If it did, no one would deplore it more than myself, because upon every
occasion we hear nothing but praise of the work of the General Secretary. I felt
it was to the credit of the organisation for the General Secretary to do the work
he is doing, and because we have in our General Secretary a man who could climb, not
merely to the highest position in the Labour world, that of the Chairman of the Trades
Union Congress, but he was also able to accept the International position, which, by general
---

---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

107
from one position to the other, and then go back again, and I ask this Conference not to
us remove it. In making this statement I am speaking as an official, and have had to change
deal with the matter upon the personal basis, not upon the needs of the individual
organisation, and the whole of the Labour movement.
but upon the broad basis of that which is best in the interests of the members, the
ALD. A. HILL, M.P. (Leicester No. 2): If under our present rules the General
Secretary was elected to Parliament and ceased to hold office as a permanent official of
the Union, would that prevent him representing the Union on the General Council of the
Trades Union Congress ?
THE CHAIRMAN: Yes.
Mr. W. JONES (Kingswood): I thought this resolution was a reasonable one,
and that if a man would not fight then he should resign. Since I have heard all the state-
ments made I am prepared to alter my opinion. If a man such as our General President
or General Secretary are successful, after all the years of service they have given to the
Union, I think some office should be found for them. Men ought to be kept who have
had the fight, and borne the battles of trade union life, and I suggest this matter be dealt
with on broader lines. More consideration should be given to the matter.
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): I am pleased the discussion has been
carried on so long. So far as I am personally concerned I did not wish to do anything
to create a personal feeling. I never pretended to touch either the General President or
I thought it was time our rules regarding the political agents was
carried out, and that they should be clearly defined. I am astonished at the opposition,
but no one has spoken upon the rule before us. They have all spoken round Rule 67.
Yet there was not even an amendment to that rule. Why? Do the delegates who come
to these Conferences never go through the rules until they get here. What the Chair-
said about his treatment over Wolverhampton was shameful, and I agree with him, and
I should be ashamed to belong to a Union which treated their members as he was treated.
I have always taken up the position at the Council meetings that we had not treated
our Parliamentary Agents as well as we should have done. I should be ashamed of the
Union if it sacked a man should he not be re-elected to Parliament. The General President
told us he went bald-headed to Parliament. That proves that he could not do the two
jobs. More security should be put into our rules, say some, and I agree with them. I do
not think any of our men returned to Parliament should be cut off from the Union. As a
matter of fact if on being sent to Parliament it makes our men better, and gives them more
knowledge, that is all the more reason why we should keep them with us. The idea in
our minds was, as I said before, to see that all our men were prepared to go into the political
arena. We must use the political weapon to make our individual organisation effective.
The present effect of our methods of working only gives us three Parliamentary Agents.
I know the rule says five, but we really only have three. If we only mean three all well
and good. Why not have the full number of Parliamentary Agents and tack on the national
officers? Our agents ought not to refuse others the right of standing, and I will be quite
frank and say I disagree with Rule 67. Has any officer of our Union the right to accept
an office which he never intends to use? I don't think there is any need to raise the per-
sonal side, because if I disagree with a man I do not hesitate to tell him, but I have no
animosity against him. I don't want to make the position of our general officers more
difficult. Even now the treatment of the Parliamentary Agents is better than in the
past, still I am not satisfied that we treat them sufficiently well. I feel sometimes we have
been too mean and too near with our national officers. It is not my fault, but the
fault of the members who frame the rules. Are you satisfied with the present position ?
If not, then I ask you to vote for the resolution number 42, and I appeal to you with every
confidence.
THE CHAIRMAN then asked the delegates to vote upon the resolution, and there
voted-
For the Resolution 48
Against 47
THE CHAIRMAN then complained that twenty-four of the delegates had not voted,
although the delegates were paid to do their duty. He claimed his prerogative and ruled
that there should be a vote by name.
Delegates protested against the Chairman's ruling, but he persisted in his authority
and called for the delegates' names to be read.
After this had been done, the Chairman announced the result, as follows :--
For the Resolution 58
Against the Resolution 57
Neutral 3
Absent 2


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```
108

A list showing how the delegates voted is appended :-

                         For.              Against.
Adnitt, Mr. T.                  x
Astley, Mr. D.
Attewell, Mr. H. C.             x
Barnes, Mr. J.
Buckle, Mr. S. J. B.             x
Barrows, Mr. J.                  x
Batchelor, Mr. E.                x
Bell-Richards, Mrs. M. J.        x
Birt, Mr. A.                     x
Bird, Mr. A.
Billings, Miss P.                 x
Blissett, Mr. W. N.              x
Briggs, Mr. J.                   x
Brown, Mr. E.                    x
Burdett, Mr. E.                  x
Bates, Mr. C.                     x
Bleakley, Mr. C.                  x
Campbell, Mr. G.                  x
Chapman, Mr. J. E.                x
Chester, Mr. G.                   x
Cohen, Mr. H.                    x
Coltman, Mr. W. G.               x
Cramphorn, Mr. H.                x
Crane, Mr. S.                    x
Crouch, Mr. A.                   x
Curry, Mr. R.                    x
Dobbs, Mr. A. J.                 x
Davies, Mr. H. G.                x
Dunn, Mr. R.                     x
England, Mr. E.                  x
Farey, Mr. G.                    x
Folkard, Mr. A. H.               x
Fountain, Mr. J.                 x
Fraser, Mr. H.                   x
Gamble, Mr. M.                   x
Goff, Mr. J.                     x
Goode, Mr. C.                   x
Greaves, Mr. J.                  x
Hartwell, Mr. S.                 x
Hawgood, Mr. H.                  x
Hill, Mr. A.
Hindes, Miss M.                   x
Holland, Mr. J.                 x
Hooper, Mr. J. H.               x
Housby, Mr. E.                   x
Jeffreys, Miss L.                 x
Jeffs, Mr. A.                   x
Jex, Mr. F. C.                   x
Johnson, Mr. I. H.
Jolley, Mr. J.                    x
Jones, Mr. G. H.                  x
Kendall, Mr. W.                  x
Lyne, Mr. A. W.                  x
Langley, Mr. W.                  x
Law, Mr. E.                     x
Lawrence, Miss K.                 x
McCarthy, Mr. D.
Mayes, Mr. C.                   x

Manners, Mr. J.                  x
Mansfield, Mr. T.                x
Mayer, Mr. W.                    x
Mason, Mr. A.                    x
Mason, Mr. J.                    x
Muir, Miss A.                    x
Nash, Mr. W.                     x
Neal, Mr. F.                     x
Needham, Mr. A.                  x
Osborne, Mr. J. T.                x
Poulton, Mr. E. L.                x
Pain, Mr. W. E.                  x
Parbury, Mr. G.                   x
Parker, Mr. F.                   x
Parker, Mr. M. A.                 x
Peat, Mr. A.                     x
Pendred, Mr. T.                  x
Pitts, Mr. W.                    x
Plowman, Mr. A.                  x
Poole, Mr. L. P.                  x
Poulton, Mr. H.                  x
Richards, Mr. T. F.              x
Rabbitt, Mr. T.                  x
Randall, Mr. A. G.                x
Rawson, Mrs. A.                  x
Reid, Mr. J. P.                   x
Robertson, Mr. T.                x
Smith, Mr. L.                   x
Smith, Mr. Alex.                 x
Sanders, Mr. H.                   x
Segon, Mr. F. H.                  x
Shaw, Mr. L.                     x
Sherwin, Miss E.                 x
Short, Mr. F. T.                  x
Skelding, Mr. A.                  x
Smalley, Mrs. A.                 x
Smith, Mrs. E.                    x
Smith, Mr. G.                    x
Southwell, Mr. W.                x
Stott, Mr. A.                    x
Standeven, Mr. G.                 x
Swannell, Mr. A.                 x
Taylor, Mr. C.                   x
Taylor, Mr. J. E.                x
Tebbutt, Mr. E.                  x
Thompson, Mr. S.                 x
Townley, Mr. W. R.                x
Underwood, Mr. G.                x
Vallance, Mr. T. H.               x
Warner, Mr. W.                    x
Walsh, Mr. J.                     x
West, Mr. F.                     x
Wheeler, Mr. J.                   x
White, Mr. R.                    x
Williams, Mr. H.                 x
Worth, Mr. A.                     x
Wyman, Mr. W. A.                  x
For the Resolution                 ...
Against the Resolution                ...
Neutral-                                 58
                                         57
Glover, Mr. R.
Hindes, Mr. W.                  ...
Smith, Mr. W. R.                  ...
Absent-
Wescoe, Mr. J.                  ...
Woodward, Mr. J.                  ...

The Conference then adjourned at 12.40 p.m.
```


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

109
Afternoon Session.
The delegates resumed their sitting at 2.15 p.m., Mr. T. F. Richards presiding.
The Roll was called, after which it was reported that Miss M. Hindes, Messis Bird,
Cohen, England, W. Hindes, fex and W. R. Smith (all of Norwich) were not in their
places
These delegates arrived later, an apology for their lateness being accepted.
Mr. R. D. MAYES (Manager to the National Health Insurance Department)
was also present.
National Health Insurance Work.
THE CHAIRMAN suggested the Report of the National Health Insurance Depart-
ment should be taken as read, this being unanimously agreed to.
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.
COUNCIL'S REPORT.
34, Guilford Street,
Russell Square, London, W.C. 1.
May, 1923.
Fellow Officers and Delegates,
1) It is with extreme regret that we have to put on record the
passing away of Mr. John W. Murby, the Manager of the Insurance
Department, since the last Triennial Conference. For 10 years
Mr. Murby was Manager of this Department - years of change, years
of experience in the evolutions through which National Health matters
have passed. A zealous Trade Unionist, he was always interested
in that which made for the uplifting of the lowest, and any question
having the welfare of the workers as its ultimate aim, found his strong
support. A keen politician, he spent himself, without stint, in the
pursuit of his ideals, and it is almost certain that, but for the break-
down of his health, he would have reached a position of national
influence for his Party. In connection with the decease of Mr. Murby,
a grant has been made to Mrs. Murby of £100, being three months'
salary. We feel sure that this step will meet with the approval of the
delegates.
2) In accordance with Rules 50 and 67, Part 2, and the Com-
missioners' Regulations 408 A.G.D., 1912, the Report of this Society,
and the Cash Statement showing amounts received and disbursed
covering three years ending December 31st, 1922, is herewith


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
paid in Benefits;
presented. During this period the sum of £85,808 16s. 2d. has been
the amount spent in Administration being
£18,340 7s. 5d., making a total of £104,149 3s. 7d. December 31st,
1922, marks the completion of 10 years' benefit payment under National
Health Insurance. Across this decade more than a quarter million
pounds has been paid away by this Society in Benefits and Administra-
tion. The total for Benefits being £208,669 3s. 2d. and Administration
£45,825 14s. 7d., making a grand total of £254,494 17s. 9d.
(3) The Cash Statements relating to the three separate years, 1920,
1921, and 1922, together with the Audited Cash Statements for the
years 1918, 1919, 1920, and 1921, are appended to this report and
should provide some interesting perusal. It is a matter for congratula-
tion that the Administrative expenses of the Society have been kept
at the lowest possible figure compatible with efficiency, the sum of
no less than £8,741 standing to our credit as Surplus on the Adminis-
tration Account. Unfortunately, however, the heavy Sickness to
which our members are subject nullifies the effect of this saving by
the fact that on Valuation the Surplus on Administration is auto-
matically turned over to the Benefit Fund Account, thereby helping to
reduce the adverse balance, caused by - as stated above - the heavy
sickness rate which has obtained. It is a matter of constant anxiety
to those responsible, to devise some means of keeping our Sickness
incidence down to the lowest possible figure, consistent with the
determination to perform our true function as a medium through
which distress caused by Sickness can be alleviated.
(4) Intimation has been received from the Ministry that this Society
will be Valued for the second time, as at December, 1923. The report
of the first Valuation was submitted to the Annual Conference, held
in May, 1921, and for nearly two years our members have had the
advantage of increased benefits as a result of the Surplus shewn at
that Valuation, on our total Funds. It is stated on good authority
that the result of the second Valuation will be, if anything, better than
the last, speaking nationally.
(5) Appended to this Report will be found a Table shewing the num-
ber of Contributions and Cash Values received during the three years
ending June, 1922. Our gross membership is 43,253, being members
who have passed through the Society since its inception; our nett
membership is 32,500--25,290 men and 7,210 women. It is pleasing
to note that during this period of generally decreasing membership
of Approved Societies, this Society has held its own, and although
shewing no nett increase over last year, new entrants have kept our
membership practically stable.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```
111

(6) A Table is also shewn in the Appendix giving particulars of
our Investments. It will be seen that the sum of £77,081 14s. 1d.
has been invested in securities selected by the Society, and £63,933
in securities selected by the Ministry of Health, making a grand total
of £141,014 14s. 1d. Reserve Values also standing to the credit of
the Society, but which are gradually being redeemed, amount to
£118,000. These figures prove that our Society is in a sound healthy
financial position, and though it has been found impossible to provide
for a larger Surplus increase of benefits as compared with some
Societies which have the advantage of healthier occupations and a
smaller incidence of Sickness, there is room for congratulation on
our position.

(7) The question of a Joint Card for Health and Unemployment
Contributions is one that has occupied the minds, both of the Ministry
and the Managements of Societies, for a considerable time. No
decision, however, has yet been arrived at. Many arguments can be
adduced both for and against the suggestion. The matter is at present
down for the consideration of the General Council of the Trade Union
Congress.

(8) Your Executive express the hope that every effort will be made
on the part of officials and members, to extend the growth of the
Approved Society of our Union. We would point out the advantages
to our members of being able to draw their Sickness Benefits from
one source. Every effort is made to settle claims for benefit as soon
as received, without any vexatious delay, and our procedure in pay-
ment of benefit is such as to ensure prompt settlement of claims.

(9) In conclusion, we would urge each member to do their part
in making known to their fellow workers the advantage of joining
up with them in our Approved Section, and thus making it a still more
effective and efficient Society in helping the members in their time
of need.

Yours fraternally,

THE COUNCIL.

T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
C. BLEAKLEY, Edinburgh.
W. HINDES, Norwich.
A. J. DOBBS, Leeds.
T. ADNITT, Leicester.
C. BATES, Rushden.
A. W. LYNE, Northampton.

L. SMITH, Northampton.
W. WARNER, Hinckley.
ALEX. SMITH, Wolverhampton.
C. MAYES, Kettering.
J. MANNERS, Bristol.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
R. D. MAYES, Chief Clerk.
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
CASH STATEMENT for Year ending 31st December, 1920.
TRUSTEES' CURRENT ACCOUNT.
INCOME.
£ s. d.
To Balance, 1919 9 19 8
English Commission 28500 0 0
Scottish 1553 0 0
Irish 277 0 0
Welsh 17 10 0
Returned Benefits-
Sick Pay 12 13 3
War Pensions 9 11 8
Disablement 640
Compensation 0 13 4
Imprest-Norwich 25 0 0
Use of Telephone 013
Dividend 2 18 4
Bank Interest 31 15 6
Returned Administration 0 13 6
Sale of Rules 2 16 9
Fines 680
Insurance (Staff) 912
Transfer Fees 11 14 0
£30,477 0 5
EXPENDITURE.
£ s. d.
By Drawing Account 29350 0 0
Bank Commission 17 7 10
Balance, December, 1920 1109 12 7
£30,477 0 5
DRAWING ACCOUNT.
INCOME.
£ s. d.
To Balance, 1919 314 14 4
Uncashed Cheques 1 16 1
Bank Interest 18 3
Trustees' Account 29350 0 0
EXPENDITURE.
£ s. d.
By Salaries and Agents' Re-
muneration 4298 14 10
Printing, Stationery,
Postage, &c. 425 11 7
Rent 224 5 0
Travelling Expenses,
Council and Conference
Fees 604 11 3
Medical Referee 3 13 6
Sundry Expenses 76 8 6
Sick Pay 15918 4 2
Disablement 3766 17 9
Maternity 4251 0 0
Bank Commission 16 19 3
Imprest (Leicester) 55 0 0
Bank Balance 26 12 8
Cash 002
£29,667 18 8
£29,667 18 8

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
113
CASH STATEMENT for Year ending 31st December, 1921.
TRUSTEES' CURRENT ACCOUNT.
INCOME.
EXPENDITURE.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
To Balance
1109 12 7
By Drawing Account
35600 0 0
Ministry of Health
35704 0 0
Bank Commission
9 10 4
Returned Benefit-
"
11 10 0
Sick..
80 11 6
Balance
1357 3 5
Bank Interest
54 10 9
Sale of Rules
0 1 10
Transfer Fees
7 2 0
Insurance (Staff)
14 14 1
Fines
6 1 6
Sundry Receipts
196
£36,978 3 9
£36,978 3 9
DRAWING ACCOUNT.
INCOME.
EXPENDITURE.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
To Balance
26 12 10
By Salaries, &c.
5097 19 4
Trustees' Account
35600 0 0
Printing, Postages, &c. 395 13 1
Rent
254 5 0
Travelling Expenses,
&c.
497 15 11
Sundry Expenses
86 7 10
Imprest "No. 2"
100 0 0
Sick Pay
19038 19 8
Disablement
5538 8 6
340
Maternity
4174 1 11
Medical Referee
0 10 0
Bank Commission
434
Balance (Bank)
424 1 10
"
(Cash)
11 2 5
£35,626 12 10
£35,626 12 10

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
114
ADMINISTRATION ACCOUNT, 1921.
ANALYSIS.
£
s. d.
400 0 0
2287 6 5
2410 12 11
25 0 0
395 13 1
0 10 0
254 5 0
65 11 2
497 15 11
£6336 14 6
£7400 0 0
Amount per
Member.
s. d.
0 3
1 5
1 6
0 0
0 2
0 0
0 3
3 11
4 8
Salaries, &c. :-
(a) Manager's Salary
(b) Head Office Clerical Staff
(Number Employed, 1921 - 15).
(c) Agents' Remuneration
(d) Grants for Sick Visiting
Printing and Stationery
Medical Referees
Rents and Rates
Incidental Office Expenses
Cost of Executive Meetings and Annual Conference
Expenses
Total Expenditure
Administrative Income
ANALYSIS OF SICKNESS FOR YEAR ENDING
31st DECEMBER, 1921.
Actual Expenditure.
Actual
Expenditure.
Total.
Men
Women
Total
Per Member per
England.
Scotland.
Ireland.
Wales.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
13516 12 3
817 17 4
133 2 8
18 6 0
14485 18 3
4516 0 11
37 0 6
Nil.
Nil.
4553 1 5
18032 13 2
854 17 10
133 2 8
18 6 0
19038 19 8
week:
Men
Women
2.65d.
2.92d.
2.48d.
2.34d.
2.83d.
Nil.
2.63d.
Nil.
2.64d.
2.91d.

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
115
CASH STATEMENT for Year ending 31st December, 1922.
TRUSTEES' CURRENT ACCOUNT.
INCOME.
£ s. d.
To Balance 1357 3 5
Ministry of Health 39757 0 0
Returned Benefit 106 5 1
Bank Interest 35 10 7
Transfer Fees 4 8 0
Insurance (Staff) 13 0 2
Fines 2 15 6
Sundry Receipts 0 3 6
£41,276 6 3
EXPENDITURE.
By Drawing Account £ s. d.
Balance 39200 0 0
Bank Commission 2055 10 3
20 16 0
£41,276 6 3
DRAWING ACCOUNT.
INCOME.
£ s. d.
EXPENDITURE.
To Balance 435 4 3
By Salaries, &c. £ s. d.
Trustees' Account 39200 0 0 5337 13 6
Printing, Postage, &c.. 340 13 11
Rent 289 0 0
Travelling Expenses. 332 10 2
Medical Referee 6 14 4
Sundry Expenses 36 16 9
Sick Pay 22394 8 6
Disablement 7017 5 5
Maternity 3706 6 3
Imprest (Leicester) 5 0 0
Bank Commission 5 0 4
Balance (Bank) 144 1 4
" (Cash) 19 13 9
£39,635 4 3 £39,635 4 3
ADMINISTRATION ACCOUNT, 1922.
ANALYSIS.
Amount per
Member.
Salaries, &c.:- £ s. d. s. d.
(a) Manager's Salary 400 0 0 0 3
(b) Head Office Clerical Staff 2229 18 3 1 4
(c) Agents' Remuneration 2687 15 3 1 8
(d) Grants for Sick Visiting 25 0 0 0 0
Medical Referees 6 14 4 0 2
Printing and Stationery 340 13 11 0 2
Rents, &c. 294 0 4 0 0
Incidental Office Expenses 36 16 9 0 2
Cost of Executive Meetings 332 10 2 3 11
Total Expenditure £6353 9 0 4 103
Administrative Income £7830 0 0


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
116
ANALYSIS OF SICKNESS FOR YEAR ENDING
31st DECEMBER, 1922.
EXPENDITURE.
England.
Scotland.
Ireland.
Wales.
Total.
£ s. d.
15900 9 4
5380 17 10
Men
Women
Total
21281 7 2
Per Member, per
week:
Men
3.11
Women
3.48
£ s. d.
929 0 7
28 7 11
957 8 6
2.82
1.79
£ s. d.
129 2 8
2.74
£ s. d.
26 10 2
3.82
£
16985 2 9
5409 5 9
22394 8 6
3.09
3.46
SCHEDULE SHOWING PRINCIPAL AGENCIES, NUMBER OF MEMBERS AND
SICKNESS AND DISABLEMENT BENEFIT PAID DURING THE LAST
FOUR WEEKS OF 1922.
Agency.
Sickness.
Disablement.
Total.
Number of
Members.
£ s. d.
345 1 6
263 12 10
179 19 0
95 12 6
82 4 10
95 6 6
41 14 10
74 14 10
25 2 6
35 13 0
28 0 6
13 14 4
25 14 8
37 3 6
28 10 8
19 15 0
21 10 4
20 17 0
6 13 4
12 6 2
17 16 6
6 0 8
6 7 6
17 10 8
1 17 4
9 16 10
Leicester
Northampton No. 2
Northampton
Higham and Rushden
Leicester No. 2
Norwich
Kettering
London Metro.
Norwich No. 2
Leeds
Kettering No. 2
Stafford
Wellingborough
Kingswood
Glasgow
Hinckley
Earl Shilton
Barwell
Street
Wolverhampton
Bristol
Maybole
Bristol No. 2
Arbroath
Leeds No. 2
Edinburgh
Kilmarnock
Glasgow No. 2
£
87 5 5
71 11 3
56 13 8
42 1 4
34 4 5
16 14 4
25 4 8
43 16 0
5 11 4
20 2 0
9 1 4
7 16 0
6 18 1
13 13 4
9 12 0
8 0 0
8 6 8
7 18 0
6 8 0
14 8 0
3 4 0
3 4 0
3 4 0
6 4 0
2 12 0
s. d.
432 6 11
335 4 1
236 12 8
137 13 10
116 9 3
112 0 10
66 19 6
118 10 10
30 13 10
55 15 0
37 1 10
21 10 4
32 12 9
50 16 10
38 2 8
19 17 4
29 17 0
28 17 0
14 11 4
18 14 2
32 4 6
9 4 8
9 11 6
20 14 8
16 12 10
Men. Women.
4094
512
1040
3199
3053
1338
848
2129
1330
380
991
889
15
574
127
634
46
219
332
442
49
292
192
426
20
416
321
59
251
127
159
131
243
25
299
54
215
173
26
166
29
163
10
160
514
123
7
103
9

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
121
Amount Appropriated.
£ s. d.
3233 16 8
995 5 10
6 9 10
4235 12 4
1114 9 8
£3121 2 8
/// ANALYSIS OF ADMINISTRATION RECEIPTS AND PAYMENTS.
RECEIPTS.
£ s. d.
6 10 0
11 3 8
PAYMENTS.
£ s. d.
Salaries, Wages, &c.
3165 14 3
Printing, Stationery & Postage
342 15 7
Rent, Rates, Taxes and Insur-
ance
84 2 0
Incidental Office Expenses
41 16 7
Travelling Expenses
255 15 11
Expenses of Medical Referees
2 17 6
Total Receipts
£17 13 8
Total Payments
£3,893 1 10
1. With reference to paragraph 2 of the Report on the Accounts for the year
ended 31st December, 1916, Form 516A/A.G.D. has been re-submitted at audit and
certified.
2. As stated in the Special Report dated 25th March, 1920 (Membership
Alterations) the Membership Register as submitted for audit was not completely
written up, and was too defective to form the basis of account of the mean member-
ship as required by Clause I. of the Second Schedule to the National Health Insurance
Approved Societies) Consolidated Regulations, 1918 : the Society has adopted
the cards-surrendered basis as the method of calculating the amount available
for Administrative Expenditure.
3. From the information available at audit it does not appear that the records
and accounts of the Society have been adopted by the Executive Council as required
by Article 40 (2) of the National Health Insurance (Approved Societies) Consolidated
Regulations, 1918.
June, 1920.
S. J. BURFORD,
Auditor.

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

130
VIII.-ANALYSIS OF ADMINISTRATION RECEIPTS AND PAYMENTS.
PAYMENTS.
RECEIPTS.
£ s. d.
5 19 6
0 1 10
6 14 0
Salaries, Wages, &c.
Printing, Stationery & Postage
Rent, Rates, Taxes and Insur-
Fines
Sale of Rules
Transfer Fees
5083 1 3
398 19 3
ance
Incidental Office Expenses
Travelling Expenses
Expenses of Medical Referees..
264 0 0
81 4 8
488 0 5
0 10 0
Total Receipts
£12 15 4
Total Payments
£6,315 15 7
THE CHAIRMAN: We have with us this afternoon Mr. R. D. Mayes, our new
Insurance Manager, who was recently elected by the members. Let me add that with
the exception of the General Secretary, Mr. Mayes is the oldest member connected with
its inception, and was in our Leicester No. 2 Branch office for six months prior to his taking
up a position in the Central Office, and in addition his activities in the trade union world
are well known to all of us in the City of Leicester. I wish to congratulate Mr. Mayes
upon his election.
Mr. R. D. MAYES (Manager) thanked the Chairman and the delegates for the
reference made to him.
The Report of the work of the Department was then considered seriatim, Items
1 to 6 being accepted without discussion.
In connection with Item 7 the Chairman stated that the Union had played an important
part, and on Item 8 he impressed the desire of all shop clerks taking members into the
Approved Section as soon as they reached the age of 16 years.
Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester): You expressed the idea that we should make our
Approved Society stronger, and that we want members for the Society. In the election
just completed I noticed very particularly that many of our members, not approved,
had a vote. To me this seemed a peculiar position.
THE CHAIRMAN: I don't differ with you at all, but the Government made that
part of our understandings. They did not like the idea of dissecting members and we had
to obey their wishes. The rule is very clear upon the point. I know some of my colleagues
felt the Manager should be the controlling authority, but the Government turned it down.
Our General Secretary is responsible to us in every sense, and the Government hold him
responsible for the work in the Department. Some of us on the Committee of Manage-
ment do not come under the régime of insurance, but we were told owing to the position
we hold on the Industrial side that we should be expected to take this additional office.
Mr. W. KENDALL (Leicester): I should just like to say that many members
where I work who are not approved with us did not vote.
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester): That cuts both ways. We have a young man who
has just been elected Secretary to the Foresters' Approved Society, yet he belongs to our
Approved Society.
Mr. W. KENDALL (Leicester): When a youth attains the age of 16 we cannot tell
by his looks, but the C.W.S. have his age because of paying him the scale, and when we
approach him to approve through us we are often too late. We are at a great disadvantage
compared with the firm.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): Do we have any members in our Approved Society
who are not members of the Union?
THE CHAIRMAN: No.
Mr. J. ROBERTSON (Glasgow): There are a goodly number of members in
Glasgow who joined us when State Insurance was first introduced; they left the trade,
but are still members with us.
THE CHAIRMAN: That is quite permissible.


---
131
Earl Shilton and Housing.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): I want to raise the question of the insanitary
conditions of certain villages round Leicestershire. I should like friend Astley to tell
the delegates the reason why sickness is so high in Barwell and Earl Shilton. Out of every
shilling collected in that district, nearly 6d. per week is paid out in sickness benefit. You
can look at our balance sheets and see the excessive sickness in the district. I should like
the Council to investigate the matter, and see if something cannot be done to get the
Minister of Health to move in the matter.
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester): It is not always advisable to take the facts as stated
in the Press. Friend Hill has raised the question in the House of Commons, and it has
district should be a good deal better. On page 116 of this report there are some statistics
done a good deal of good, and if the report presented is carried out then the health of the
given, and there you have Leicester, which is supposed to be one of the cleanest cities in
the country right at the top of the list, whilst Earl Shilton is much lower. Earl Shilton
benefit averages 1s. 6d., and classical Leicester 1s. 10¼d.
Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester): Why has Mr. Parbury gone to Earl Shilton to find
bad conditions? Councillor Parbury represents one of the poorest districts in Leicester,
and I am a Guardian for the same district. He need not go to Barwell and Earl Sister,
as the figures for the Wyggeston Ward of Leicester could beat either of those districts
Mr. W. WARNER (Council Member): The public are aware of what has been
going on in Barwell and Earl Shilton. Mr. Parbury asks for the Minister of Health to
make enquiries, and the grievances as stated by him are not exaggerated.
Mr. W. KENDALL (Leicester): Is it not a fact that owing to a report and figures
drawn up by the late Manager, Mr. Murby, that a special enquiry was held in that district ?
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester) : There has been no special enquiry held until this
last time.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): I do represent one of the worst Wards in the City
of Leicester, and no one has been more active than I in trying to bring about a better set
of conditions. I will read what Astley said :-
Mr. Astley said something ought certainly to be done with regard to the
drainage at Carr's Row, Earl Shilton. It was now several months since the Council
decided to insist upon the defect being remedied.
The Clerk said there was a question as to who were the owners.
Mr. Astley said a drain ran the length of the property in question at the back of
the houses.
The Chairman said notices had been served, and it was a question as to what
action should be taken.
I coll cted some information and sent it on to the Council about the heavy sickness
in these districts. They cam out much more per head than they are in Leicester. Cannot
we do something to alter this and not try to smother it. This question has cropped up
several times and should be remedied.
Mr. R. D. MAYES (Manager): I think it would be as well if I read to you copies
of the correspondence which the Department has had in connection with this matter.
As representing the Insurance Department the Council have been pressing this matter
for the last ten years. We have had several enquiries and we have a sheaf of correspond-
ence which has been sent on to Mr. T. Crew, Secretary to the Leicester Insurance Committee.
I will read you some of the letters :-
LEICESTERSHIRE INSURANCE COMMITTEE.
144, LONDON ROAD, LEICESTER,
19th March, 1923.
DEAR SIR,
My Committee have recently given serious consideration to the excessive
incidence of tuberculosis in the Earl Shilton and Barwell District of this area, and to
the undue drain upon the funds of Approved Societies in consequence. For some
this County.
Thason consumption in this district is considerably higher than in any other part of
The district in question is a strong industrial centre, the chief industries being
the manufacture of Boots and Shoes and Hosiery, and your Society appears to have
a large membership in consequence.
ness in this district and to enquire whether you will be good enough to furnish statistics
I am desired to ask what your Society's experience has been in the matter of sick
which will enable my Committee to take any further action they may consider necessary.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
132
In view of the fact that the question of housing enters into the matter perhaps you
will be good enough not to confine your observations and statistics to the disease of
tuberculosis only.
THE SECRETARY,
N.U.B. & Shoe Operatives, A.S.,
34, Guilford, Street,
London, W.C. 1.
Yours faithfully,
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
34, GUILFORD STREET,
T. CREW,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
Clerk.
20th March, 1923.
DEAR SIR, I have your letter of yesterday s date to hand. The question raised in the
same is one that has occupied the attention of my Executive for the last ten years.
Many efforts have been made by this Society to call the attention of those responsible
for the condition of things in the Earl Shilton and Barwell District. Representations
were made, within the first few years of the introduction of National Health Insurance,
to the Local Government Board, and have been repeated time after time, and as
recently as January of the present year, communications have been sent to the
Ministry of Health on the same subject. The question of Housing is one that enters
very largely into the difficulty surrounding the matter. Unfortunately our protests
have borne very little fruit, beyond evoking the reply that certain houses have been
built recently in the district. Our protest is naturally respecting the insanitary
condition of houses already existing.
Regarding your request for Statistics, I may say that although the Union has a
large membership in the district, the Friendly Societies have such a strong hold,
that the Approved Society has a comparatively small number of members residing
there.
This being so I am afraid any figures supplied would be based upon such a small
number of persons, that they would be of very little use to you. Suffice it to say
that this district has always been regarded by this Society as its blackest spot. I
trust you will be successful in your efforts to call the attention of the proper authority
to the state of affairs that exist.
Any further assistance that you think it is possible for me to render I shall be
pleased to provide.
MR. T. CREW, A.F.I.,
Leicestershire Insurance Committee,
144, London Road, Leicester.
Yours faithfully,
E. I.. POULTON,
General Secretary.
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
DEAR SIR,
27th March, 1923.
Following my last letter I am enclosing various cuttings and copies of corres-
pondence referring to the matter of Earl Shilton and Barwell, and the Housing and
Sickness conditions prevailing there. It is possible they may be of some service to
you in your enquiry. I shall be pleased if you will kindly return, in any case, the
letter copies after you have made what use of them you can.
Am also enclosing copy of correspondence on the same subject contained in our
Conference Report in 1916, which you will notice is marked private and confidential.
Please return same.
MR. T. CREW,
Yours sincerely,
Leicester Insurance Committee,
144, London Road, Leicester.
DEAR SIR,
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
R. D. MAYES, Chief Clerk.
LEICESTERSHIRE INSURANCE COMMITTEE.
144, LONDON ROAD,
LEICESTER.
various correspondence relating to the districts of Earl Shilton and Barwell, and same
I am much obliged for your letter of the 27th inst., enclosing also copies of
will be returned to you about May. For your information I may say that we have
28th March, 1923.

---
already represented to the Ministry of Health in December last as to the heavy tuber-
culosis incidence of these districts, and of the necessity of dealing more stringently
with the domiciliary conditions of insured tuberculous persons. A medical officer
of the Ministry has already visited the area in conjunction with representatives of
the Leicestershire County Council.
We have now appointed a special Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of
Dr. R. Pratt, to enquire into the housing and sanitary conditions of the whole county
and the following other Approved Societies: General Federation of Trade Unity,
A.O. Foresters, M.U. Oddfellows, have been invited to furnish the Committee with
evidence as to the sickness incidence in the two districts referred to.
With many thanks for your kind co-operation in this matter,
E. L. POULTON, Esq., Yours faithfully,
General Secretary, T. CREW,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, Clerk.
Approved Society,
London W.C., 1.
You will see, therefore, that we never lose sight of the matter. In reply to Mr. Astley
the figures must be taken as reading in rotation. Because Leicester is at the top of the
list it does not follow that they have the worse average of sickness benefit. The member-
ship is graded. You will see you come up against a bump at Glasgow which shows that
also is a very heavy sickness district.
Now in relation to the voting. The Union as a Union is approved: were we approved
as a Society only, then Society members only would be allowed to vote.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): Can the Manager of the Insurance Department
give us a sample of the certificates which come through from Earl Shilton? I remember
the late Manager bringing a certificate to the Council meeting when I was on the Council
stating a man was suffering from "bad will."
THE CHAIRMAN: Unless you had given the Manager notice you cannot expect
him to bring his office with him.
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester): Does Mr. Wheeler infer that that certificate came
from Earl Shilton.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): It was signed by Dr. — anyway.
Mr. C. BLEAKLEY (Edinburgh): Astley's position is a household word throughout
the Union. The Council have had certificates and doctors' reports about the position
many times, and I am surprised to hear Mr. Astley telling us that his place is a Garden
City. (Laughter.) The excessive amount of sickness benefit goes to prove that it is not,
and I do not think the district is in a healthy condition. Still, Earl Shilton is represented
in Parliament by a member of the land-owning class.
Mr. W. JONES (Kingswood): I read the report to which Mr. Parbury referred
in that outlandish place called Kingswood, and it called to my mind something I saw in
Ireland many years ago. I believe the statements made by Mr. Parbury are correct,
and I cannot understand why Mr. Astley blinks the statements. The misery and painful
thoughts of the parents of the district must be terrible.
THE CHAIRMAN: You should not be too severe upon Mr. Astley. There is not
a more active chap who is more bitter against the landlordism than Astley. He has been
on the Board of Guardians and the local Council for years, and if there was a firebrand
that name applies to Astley. I don't want to deprive him of any criticism, and will read
you an extract from the Municipal Engineering and The Sanitary Record, for 22nd March,
1923 -
One of the most insanitary of the big villages in Leicestershire, viz., Earl Shilton,
has neither a sewerage nor a sewage disposal system, nor has it any creditable system
of sanitation. The consequences are that preventable diseases have been endemic
in it for the last quarter of a century. Yet neither the Hinckley Rural District
Council, in whose area it lies, nor the Leicestershire County Council, both of which
bodies are somewhat diffident in sanitary administration, appear to recognise that
the responsibility for the high death-rate which prevails lies on their shoulders.
According to the Leicester Mercury, the Rural Council is frequently "tinkering"
with the drainage of the place, and quite recently were indulging in an "improvement
scheme" which revealed the fact that house drains in many cases had been laid into
the public road and not connected to the main drain, and that sewage springs periodi-
cally burst out. The sewage of the village is discharged on to a field without any
systematic treatment, and not only pollutes the stream most seriously, but the con-
ditions constitute an offensive nuisance to the neighbourhood. The Hinckley Rural
District Council should act as other Sanitary Authorities do, and obtain the advice
of sewerage engineers to help them to deal with the existing insanitary condition,
failing which the Ministry of Health will, we are confident, feel it their duty to intervene.
However, the Council will not lose sight of the matter.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
134
Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering): I have recently read a paragraph in the Press
that the Insurance Act is coming to an end at the end of the year, and trust if such a
statement is made again our Council will take steps to contradict it.
I wish to compliment the Council upon the way in which the National Health Insurance
Department is conducted, knowing as I do, that it is the most efficient society in the
country.
THE CHAIRMAN: If there are any honours, they should go to Mr. Mayes and the
Staff, as they alone do the work.
All those in favour of the adoption of the Insurance R port and Mr. Chester's recom-
mendation please say "Aye."
The Resolution was unanimously endorsed, after which Mr. R. D. Mayes retired.
Arbroath Delegate's Dismissal.
At this stage the Chairman asked Mr. Bordoli to read the reply from Messrs. S.
Fairweather & Sons, of Arbroath, respecting the matter raised earlier in the week.
The letter was read as follows :-
(COPY.)
S. FAIRWEATHER & SONS LTD.,
GENERAL SECRETARY,
ABBEY WORKS, ARBROATH.
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
34, Guilford Street, W.C. 1.
DEAR SIR,
23rd May, 1923.
We have yours of the 22nd re our employee, J. P. Reid.
We may say at the outset that we have no objection to Reid attending any
Conferences when it is convenient for us.
As we were placed this week we were left with no one to take Reid's place, and
it was only with the greatest difficulty that we were able to get the services of one of
the British United operators from Glasgow.
We hardly think it fair that 150 of your Members should have their employment
jeopardised because one employee must go to a Conference. We do not suppose for
a moment that Reid put this point of view before your Conference! However,
we are willing to withdraw any discharge given to Reid.
Yours faithfully,
S. FAIRWEATHER & SONS LTD.,
(Signed) A. S. FAIRWEATHER, Director.
(Applause.)
THE CHAIRMAN: The whole of the delegates will be pleased with the result.
I hope in future delegates will see that proper arrangements are made for them to attend
these conferences. Even with a great firm like the C.W.S. we never have any trouble.
Mr. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member): It is because we have a big Union at the
back of us that we have been able to do this thing. I am delighted to hear the reply to
the letter sent.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath) asked the Chairman, the Council and the Conference
to accept his personal thanks for the successful efforts made upon his behalf.
More Political Matters.
THE CHAIRMAN called upon the Leicester delegates twice to move the resolution
No. 43 standing in their name, and as there was no response
Mr. T. ADNITT (Leicester) asked leave to withdraw the same :-
43 Leicester No. 1.-Rule 60, Line 9.—After "circumstances," insert: "and
if elected to Parliament shall be granted the same allowances as the elected
Parliamentary Agents."
It was then agreed to proceed with the next proposed alteration.
Mr. T. H. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2) proposed Item 44 :-
44 Leicester No. 2.-Rule 60, Line 11.—After word "conditions," insert " and
being successful shall be deemed to be one of the Official Parliamentary
Agents." Delete remainder of Rule.
Our reason for moving this resolution arises out of the fact that Alderman Hill was
elected to Parliament. The conditions under which Mr. Hill was selected and elected are
well known to you. The present rule lays down the position only for the member being
---

---
135
elected; what happens if he is not successful next time? What provision is there for this
stating that the most the Council could do was to grant Mr. Hill his railway pass. We,
unsuccessful candidate? It was a shock for us to receive a letter from the Head Office
in Leicester, felt the least that Mr. Hill should receive was the same as the other candidates
received, and that some recompense should be given to Mr. Hill for having to keep two
homes, one in Leicester and the other in London. We could not dream of influencing
another member of the Union to take up a parliamentary job unless some provision is
made for him. At present 4400 per annum is paid from the State, but at the next election
difficulty in the Leicester No. 2 Branch, but we have had much bitterness in the Leicester
he may be thrown on to the pebbles. This should be altered. We have got over the
Nos. 1 and 2 Branches.

Mr. G. SMITH (Leicester No. 2) seconded the resolution. The Council took the
full responsibility in regard to the candidature. They sent two of their members down
to Leicester to investigate and report, and upon their report Mr. Hill was adopted, and we
feel Mr. Hill should be treated in the same way as the other parliamentary representatives.

Mr. D. McCARTHY (Organiser): What would be the position after this morning's
vote? I claim it would put friend Hill out of his position altogether. You have a
arrangement in Leicester, but if you pass this resolution that would have to cease.
are times when you have to take risks like firemen do. Labour people take these risks.
Leicester No. 2 Branch as an official: he has done splendid work. His seat was not won
but it is not a regular thing. I worked with Mr. Hill years ago; then he went to the
on oratory, but on his past work. I appeal to our Leicester friends to withdraw this
onolution and not press it to a division. I think you will all agree that the Council could
not break the rule.

Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester): Seeing Mr. Buckle is recognised by the Council,
why is not Mr. Hill's position made commensurate with Mr. Buckle's?
THE CHAIRMAN: You should have a little thought for the people who make
these decisions. Why do you want to break the rules. Why do you make the rules,
and then not expect us to carry them out? Rule 60 says:-

RULE 60. Should exceptional circumstances arise in a constituency whereby
it is apparent that a member of the Union might be returned to Parliament,
it shall be within the power of the Counil to support a member or members
even though not one of the Union's Official Agents; it being understood
that this power shall only be put into operation after full inquiry by the
Council as to the real position and also being satisfied that the circumstances
fully warrant giving such support. Not more than two candidates shall be
given support to under the above-named circumstances. Any member
being supported at an election under these conditions shall not be deemed
to be one of the Official Parliamentary Agents. If therefore at an election
the member was not successful, it must be understood that he would not be
put upon the-Union Official List of Parliamentary Agents.
We have administered the rule according to the spirit in which it was passed. We
have no power to make favourites of anyone. We pointed out the position to Mr. Hill
long before he was nominated for the position, and he agreed to accept the situation, and
expressed the hope that his people would stand by him. Mr. Hill undoubtedly feels his
position is strengthened by his retaining the position of secretary to the Branch. I went
down to two of their branch meetings, and Mr. Hill made it very clear that he had no
intention of resigning from the secretaryship of the Leicester No. 2 Branch. You will
make positions less secure in the future if you pass this resolution.

Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester): It appears to me we are imbued with the idea
that to better the conditions of the workers we must see what we shall get out of it first.
I don't think that should be the policy, but be prepared to give our experience for the
movement.

Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P.: I should like to ask whether Mr. Greaves gets any pay
for his public duties? I never got a penny for any of mine.

Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): Yes, he gets paid from the political fund.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): This is a new spirit. When men lose time to attend
the Board of Guardians they ought to be paid, as it is too much of a sacrifice to make without
some recompense.

Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): The matter raised by our friend Wheeler has no bearing
upon the subject before the Conference. What our friend McCarthy also said has no
bearing. (Laughter.) It is a rule to try and get equity. The Union has quite properly
with a chance of success, and once having done so, they should all be treated alike, even the
made all arrangements for men to stand as candidates on the official list. They go in
unofficial candidates should have the same treatment as those on the list. The life of a
Member of Parliament is very strenuous, and we ought not to harass that life by financial
embarrassments. We ought to make provision for such a case as this. It would harmonise
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
136
with th position the Conference discussed this morning. I fully appreciate the statement
made by our President, but I should like to call attention to the fact that neither the
providing 1 was returned to Parliament and was cut off from my union duties. I feel the
Council nor the Conference has any power to say that Norwich must pay me a salary.
time has arrived when we should make some provision and have sufficient confidence in
our Executive Council to feel they will see that justice is done as these men come along.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: What does Mr. Vallance mean if this alteration
is carried. Does he want to put these men in the same position as the other Agents of the
not gather from Mr. Vallance's statement exactly what he wishes us to do. I think the
Union? I don't want any of us to go away with any doubt in our minds, because I did
arrangement made in Leicester is an admirable one, because they are retaining Mr. Hill's
most valuable services. Suppose this resolution was carried, and the member felt his
position would be safer to be a branch officer, would it not preclude that sort of business
being adopted as has been done in Leicester ?
THE CHAIRMAN: I think we all agree that if men become official candidates
they would have to sever their connection even with a local branch. I told the Leicester
No. 2 Branch that if we paid Mr. Hill we should command all his services. We could not
have allowed him that latitude which he at present enjoys. At times I know Mr. Hill
gives the Leicester No. 2 Branch considerable help, whilst if this rule is carried that would
be precluded.
Mr. W. KENDALL (Leicester): Supposing the members change their minds
and do not re-elect Mr. Hill, what would be his position then?
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester) : The same as every other Branch Secretary.
Mr. T. H. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): The Leicester No. 2 delegates were sorry
the Leicester No. 1 Branch withdrew their resolution, and I now ask to be allowed to with-
draw Item 44.
Mr. G. SMITH (Leicester No. 2) the seconder of the resolution refused to give his
permission for the same to be withdrawn, and the question was put to the vote.
Only 22 delegates voted in favour of the same, and the Chairman declared the reso-
lution lost.
Mr. A. PEAT (Leeds) proposed Item 45:-
45 Leeds. Rule 61. -Delete.
This is absolutely obsolete, and we suggest the position be abolished.
Mr. J. WALSH (Leeds) seconded, and the resolution was carried.
Items 46 and 47 were endorsed without discussion.
46 The Council. - Rule 64.-Delete, and insert: "One delegate shall be elected
annually by a vote of the financial members of the Union to represent the
Union at the Annual Council Meeting of the General Federation of Trade
Unions with the General President and General Secretary to attend by
virtue of their office."
47 The Council. - Rule 66, Line 2. - Delete "November and December," and
insert "February and March."
Item 48-Agreed.
District Advisory Committees.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath) proposed Item 49:-
49 Arbroath." That Rule 68 be extended to include provision of expenses
of such meetings from the Union Funds."
I don't suppose this will be carried having regard to all we have heard about what
benefits the Union is paying. We contend that Rule 68 is a good one, but it would be
more valuable if branches could put it into operation. At the Edinburgh Conference
we felt the Council would pay for these meetings, but found that was not so.
be a considerable help to Scotland if you passed this resolution as it would bring the repre-
sentatives of the branches into touch with one another and so help to bear one another's
burdens.
Mr. J. ROBERTSON (Glasgow) formally seconded the resolution.
It would
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): It might be a good plan if in a place like Scot
land they had a meeting occasionally and compared notes. If the Advisory Council
could meet that position it would be a good thing. In Northamptonshire they have been
pretty active, but they are the only people who have taken it up. I think other districts
might follow the example of Northants and start a Council as it would be for the benefit


---
137
Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering): The officials of the Northants District Council.
It only means a small financial burden on the branches. I do not want the branches in
and also the members will give praise to the benefits accruing from the work of the Council.
Northants to waive their present position, as I know the advantages which such a Com-
should back this recommendation and make some allowance if possible to the Scottish
mittee gives. It has also stimulated political activity, and I suggest that the Conference
branches to enable them to organise a District Committee for Scotland, and if they do,
I feel sure they will never regret it.
Mr. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member): If the delegates will pass this resolution
it will be of considerable advantage to the Scottish branches, especially those with out-.
lying districts.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I rise to oppose the resolution, not because
they are District Councils, but because I agree with what Mr. Chester has said. Mr.
Reid has put up a case that because the branches cannot meet it hampers their work.
and so he suggests it should be added as a Central Office liability. I venture to say it
would be found that the amount of money required would be a considerable amount
throughout the country. On the other hand I feel the money could quite easily be found
by continuing our present policy. Mr. Reid left out a very important part of the Chair-
man's statement which was made at Edinburgh. It was clearly laid down there by the
General President that if the Central Office was called upon to pay, then the Council
would say how many delegates would attend. The funds of the Scottish branches at the
last half-year was :-
Aberdeen
Arbroath
Ayr
Dundee
Edinburgh
£
66
854
59
3
99
Glasgow
Glasgow No. 2
Kilmarnock
Maybole
219
232
226
76
I suggest that our Scottish branches can meet the liability. A lot of additional
expenditure has been added to the Central Funds during the past ten years, and we are
very near to the "bone." The aggregate amount required to meet this request would
be considerable, and I hope you will not pass the resolution.
Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P.: I have always had a sneaking regard for these District
Councils. We have had read out a list of the funds of the Scottish branches. I contend
that these Committees only overlap, and it is quite evident that no district but Northants
having set up a committee, the others do not think they are necessary. You will put a
big financial liability on the Central Fund if this is passed, and I do not think the work is
necessary at the present time, so I hope you will turn the resolution down.
Mr. E. TEBBUTT (Wellingborough): I don't agree with what Mr. Buckle says.
The word advisory means that it has no official standing. The expenses compared with
the benefit are quite justified. Very often members will take information from their
shop mates when they will not so willingly accept it from the officials. Many times we
have in Northants been able to influence people, and I should be sorry to see our Committee
in Northants withdrawn.
Mr. A. W. LYNE (Council Member) opposed the resolution. I am not doing so
because of the reasons put forward by Mr. Buckle, but because I do not think it is fair
for the Union to pay this expense, especially when there are a number of branches up and
down the country who could afford to do this work. After having given the system a
trial the Arbroath Branch might come forward later on and say what it has cost them.
Until then I do not think our Scottish branches should have the expenses paid. Those
branches who belong to the Northants District Council are the best judges of its utility.
Mr. R. WHITE (Edinburgh): It has been stated the Scottish branches are very
rich. Take Arbroath, they are rich because the ex-Secretary worked for 10s. per week
for a membership of 400. Then Edinburgh was mentioned; it should be remembered
we had to pay our next month's returns out of the sum in hand. We want some assurance
that before we try the scheme that we shall get the money. Edinburgh has called the
other branches together to discuss matters affecting the boot repairers, but the rail fares
are very heavy. From Arbroath it is 14s. and Aberdeen £1, and I want you to seriously
consider these things. We want to do the work, but we want to be paid for it.
THE CHAIRMAN: I don't think there should be any mistake over this thing.
When the Scottish branches want to consult one another it is very expensive. You would
have to limit the number of members who attend these Committees, especially when that
district does not cover a very large membership. I do not regret the setting up of the
Northants District Council. Once we thought they were going to do our work, but we
have lived long enough to find out that was not their intention. They have made good
progress. There is always a good attendance. In fact, I believe some of their meetings
have bigger attendances than they get at branch meetings. In any case if this thing is
going to have a trial it will mean an added liability. You never get your money until
you have done your work.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
138
Mr. W. TOWNLEY (Northampton) asked for the resolution to be withdrawn.
Mr. A. STOTT (Heckmondwike): I represent a small branch which has not a
District Council. I think it is overlapping of the work. We realise the necessity of
evidence we have had from the Organisers emphasises the necessity for such meetings.
It might be that the delegates to the Board of Arbitration meetings might have additional
astic about these District Councils although we fully appreciate the necessity of a stimulus
so vital to the workers.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): When one considers the amount read out by the
General Secretary, I suggest their funds are not sufficient to meet the position. This is
expensive thing and should be borne by the Union funds. Mr. Townley thinks it
would be better to refer the matter back for the Council to consider. I think it would
be better for this Conference to decide. We are looking at the expense every time, and I
ask the delegates to pass this resoluton.
Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow): I did not intend to speak upon this resolution
until our General Secretary read out the branch funds. Arbitration has undoubtedly
been a good paying thing for our Union. Mr. Poulton knows that we were nearly bankrupt
a fortnight ago, and the Central Office sent us £39. We did have two or three meetings at
Edinburgh. It was not a large sum because we met on a Saturday afternoon and evening
to allow working men to attend. Once we had eight representatives there and six another
time. I feel very keenly about this matter. In Scotland we are handicapped because
of the distance between the branches, but we are told every time the Union cannot afford
to pay. If this resolution was passed I believe we could make headway. Mr. Townley
suggests we make a compromise, and I agree that if payment is made to the smaller
branches, then the larger ones will also want it. The General Secretary has always said
we believe in equal treatment, but the smaller branches may suffer as a consequence.
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester) expressed his sympathy with the Scottish branches
and said he should support the Arbroath resolution.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): It was hardly fair for the General Secretary to raise
the question of branch funds. I hope it will never be understood that we must be in rags
and tatters before we get anything from the Council. I could not anticipate your willingness
to make any allowance to help the Scottish branches run these committees, and if you
agree to do so I shall be very happy. I think we might go back and say you have decided
to let us have a trial, and then give us something to meet the expenditure. If so we could
not allow more than one delegate to go, but I think we should have two or three members
from each branch attend these meetings.
The resolution was then voted upon by the delegates, and there voted-
For the Resolution 57
Against the Resolution 44
Public Auditors.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY proposed Item 50:-
50 The Council.- Rule 69, Line 5.- To read " Public Auditors shall be appointed
where possible."
The Council feel that as far as possible branches should engage public auditors. If
we put this in the rule in this form it will be a great inducement for branches to engage
public auditors as soon as possible.
Mr. T. PENDRED (Northampton No. 2): What was behind the Council's mind
by passing this resolution ? What advantage should we get ?
THE CHAIRMAN: You must allow the expert to know his job. Sometimes we
have found it convenient to select rather than to elect men for a particular job. If a man
is elected from the branch he may not be as careful as a public auditor, as the latter has a
name to keep. It gives you more security. Leicester did not want to have the rule
altered years ago, but later they felt a public auditor would be best and we bring forward
this resolution based upon experience.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): We have a public auditor and have had for years.
When you get these professional men in they are the best men, and know how to set about
the work. If you have branch auditors it may be the most popular man gets the job,
although he is not competent to audit accounts. I know I am safe with a professional
auditor. I am pulled up in a minute if anything goes wrong. With branches on the small
side it may not pay them, but the larger branches should have a public auditor. You only
have to ask these men about the books and they will teach you book-keeping. We had


---
Here's the extracted text from the image, formatted for readability:

**139**

to pay dearly for our experience, and I daresay some of our London friends would have
wished they had public auditors in before their last trouble. You have to be straight
with those men, and I feel sure it will be beneficial to our branches.

Mr. G. CAMPBELL (Kettering): Will it still be in the power of branches to appoint
their own auditors?
THE CHAIRMAN: Yes; but we think it advisable to have a public accountant.
Mr. A. BIRT (Northampton): When we had a public man it helped our Secretary
considerably, and he was also able to get us relief from Income Tax.

Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): We are quite pleased with our public accountant.
He will insist upon all things being carried out, and will not sign your books unless they
are to his satisfaction. If he does he loses his reputation, and does not care to do that
for the sake of a few pounds. During the war our local auditors did not want the job
because they could earn more in the factory than they could doing a branch audit. Having
a public auditor has been of considerable benefit to us, and every branch that can afford
it should engage one.

Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): I should like to know when you have a public auditor
if you have the contribution cards audited.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): Not every one of them, but the auditors select
packs of them indiscriminately.

Mr. W. PAIN (Kingswood) supported the resolution of the Council. I don't think
Branch Secretaries have anything to fear by having a public auditor. It will not be
obligatory but should be adopted where possible. I proposed some time ago that we
should have a public auditor to audit our local accounts. That was agreed to, and Mr.
Parbury has put the case in a nutshell. It is a step in the right direction, and all branches
should try and put it into operation and they would find it more beneficial and cheaper
in the long run.

Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden): I hope the Conference will pass this
resolution. Our branch is most difficult to have to be worked from one centre. We have
two excellent auditors, one secretary of the Foresters and the other the Oddfellows, but
speaking generally I am in favour of a public man. I don't believe these men let anything
escape their attention, but in my own safety I think it would be better to have public
accountants. I make no reflection upon our present men, but should prefer public men.

Mr. A. H. FOLKARD (Norwich No. 2): Perhaps I am the oldest secretary in
years in this Conference hall. If public men were infallible we should not have had cases
like the Liberator, Charing Cross Bank, Farrow's Bank, all of whom had public auditors.
We have always been satisfied with our local auditors, and we have not public auditors
to check our accounts. I hope you will not go to the extreme.

Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): Could our General Secretary tell us how much it
would cost?
THE CHAIRMAN: The Leicester Women's Branch pay £4 4s. quarterly, and the
auditor comes in every six weeks.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The Central Office accounts are audited for about
£2 2s. per day, and we have saved money on this system. There is a special rate of charges
for public auditors.
The Resolution was unanimously endorsed.
The Conference adjourned at 5.8 p.m.

**FRIDAY.**

**Morning Session.**

The Conference commenced its fifth days' proceedings at 9.30 a.m., Mr. T. F. Richards,
General President of the Union, presiding.
The Roll having been called, it was reported that Mr. M. A. Parker (Leicester) was
absent. Mr. Parker reported later.
The Minutes of the proceedings for Thursday were read, confirmed and signed as
correct.

**Amalgamation.**

Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath) proposed Item 51:—
51
Arbroath. Rule 18 to read as follows:—(a) To assist in federating all
Leather Trade Workers in Great Britain; (b) To seek the Federation of
all Unions or Groups of Unions in Great Britain.
I think for us to be excluded from the leather trades and put under clothing trades
with the leather trades. In Arbroath we had curriers going through the same gate, and
Government documents is not the proper thing. We should do all we can to amalgamate


---
working alongside us earning from 10s. to 15s. per week more. The rest of us were not given
an opportunity to receive more than the bare minimum. We don't think the boot and shoe
trades, as we ought to have some closer arrangements. If this is carried it would bring
unions together, if we can have a form of federation for all leather workers. Solidarity
should be at the back of our minds in all parts, and so work to uplift the workers of the
country.

Mr. R. WHITE (Edinburgh) seconded the resolution.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY : I don't think this resolution will take a lot of
time, because in spirit we agree with it. Just because they had a few cases in Arbroath
where certain curriers earn more than our men does not prove that we should alter our
rules. Our people in that part of the country were against piecework, and the majority
of them did not get more than the minimum. As a matter of fact the Leather Workers'
Federation was brought into existence owing to the goodwill of the Council, at meetings
held in my office in Leicester, which was offered to them gladly, and without charge.
Judging from reports I am afraid that Federation is not so active as we could wish for.
We have attempted to come to an understanding with other unions. We thought we had
accomplished it with the Amalgamated Society of Boot and Shoe Makers, but their
members voted against it. We opened up negotiations with the Rossendale Valley Union,
but here again it was refused. At the moment we are about half way with the negotiations
with a Union in London, and I am hoping we shall be successful.

THE CHAIRMAN : Mr. Reid need not have quoted the curriers, as our boot repairers
to-day have a minimum wage of 72s. We made an attempt to get several unions to
amalgamate. I personally tried several years ago, but without success. A Union with
200 members wants the same representation as a Union 50,000 strong. That was some
of the trouble we had with the Amalgamated Society. They wanted us to take over
1,800 members with two permanent officials, but eventually we split upon the question
of superannuation. Whilst amalgamation may be a good thing, you must not forget
that it will bring about additional work for your present officials. The people who amal-
gamate ought only to want the same amount of attention as our present members, and not
demand sole attention. We have tried all and sundry, including leather workers and
saddlers, and I don't think it ought to be us every time that should make the overtures,
although we should not put any obstacles in the way of amalgamation.

The Resolution was lost.

Mr. W. R. TOWNLEY (Northampton) proposed Item 52:--
52 Northampton. - Rule 18. Add after "Federate," " or Amalgamate."
with a view to the Conference reviewing the whole movement from the point of view of
reconstruction of the trade union movement. We should amalgamate and get together
into one big Union and work from one centre. In a boot and shoe factory in Northampton
they had a capital of £90,000, but after reconstruction they had £1,000,000. They are
eating up the smaller businesses and by so doing try to prevent opposition to capitalism.
In many instances attempts have been made to link up one union with another. The
General Trades Union Congress has given a lead and many unions have followed, and I
suggest that it is in the interests of the trade union movement that we should try and
develop upon these lines. If we accept this resolution there is an open door to give unions
a chance to discuss amalgamation. We ought to go with an open mind and give everyone
a chance, and so make the work of trade unions more effective than it has been in the past.

Mr. LEN. SMITH (Council Member) having formally seconded, the resolution
was agreed to.

Union to Leave the General Federation of
Trade Unions.

Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) proposed Item 53:--
53 Norwich No. 1. New Rule. -“ That this Conference is of the opinion that
the affiliation of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives with the
General Federation of Trade Unions should be terminated."
I feel the time has arrived when we must make up our minds as to whether we are
extracting the full benefit from the trade union movement. One is bound to deal with
this question from the domestic standpoint.
Labour movement can proceed along two lines, both vitally necessary, the political and
industrial lines. Taking that to be the case, I have often wondered why we need the
be true to say that there is no one in this country who is satisfied with the results achieved
by the General Federation of Trade Unions. Cannot we extract just as much benefit by
centrating on the Trades Union Congress ? The General Federation of Trade Unions has
our membership with the General Federation of Trade Unions and con-
---

---
141
not moved along lines to help forward the trade union movement, and they have not been
so effective as to combat the forces of capitalism. They have merely become an insurance
agency. Feeling concentration is necessary, we have to back up a loosely-framed machine
for an organisation to win through. We find the General Federation of Trade Unions is
provides a splendid area for the political side, and the Trades Union Congress, when re-
a back number, and one is bound to think that the Labour Party, upon reconstructed lines.
constructed, can become a great industrial bulwark in our movement. We want to be able
to concentrate with the Trades Union Congress. Seeing there has been so much said of
what our Union is unable to do, although very willing, because of the financial embarrass-
ment, it would follow they might be better off if we withdrew our weight of duplication of
policy. I have always said our Union always meets its obligations, and nothing gives
since our beginning with the Federation, and I think you will agree matters cannot be
me more pride to speak of. I have extracted the following figures from the 1914 report,
considered to be satisfactory. So much so, that in 1919 the delegates decided to pay on.
135,086 16s. Od., and received in benefits £9,947, leaving a balance against us of £25,139
the lower scale of fees. Up to 1914 we had paid to the General Federation of Trade Unions
Even on the lower scale, which
lonsiderably helped, I find we paid from 1914 to the end of December, 1922, £23,368,
and only received £755. I quite understand that if we have no disputes, that we are not
antitled to any benefits. If that was the case I should not complain, so I troubled to look
through the reports to see if any dispute benefit had been paid. During this period of
time I find we actually paid out £21,074 in dispute pay. Reviewing these figures I think
resolution. Many of us have asked for special consideration this week. The advice of
you will all agree that it is an unnecessary duplication. I think you should pasthink
our General President and General Secretary has been in the direction of telling the Con-
ference we are carrying as much as we can afford. I quite agree with them. With a
saving of this money we might be able to do many of the things a good many of the branches
desire. I think I have made out a good case on behalf of the Norwich Branch, and I hope
this Conference will pass the resolution with the full knowledge of what it is doing.
Mr. W. HINDES (Norwich) seconded. I think the figures which have been sub-
mitted to the Conference showing the difference between the benefits received and the
contributions paid are sufficient to enable us to carry this resolution. When you consider
that we only get the small amount of 2s. 6d. per week per operative, I think all will agree
that it is time that we could do without it. To-day that only applies for eight weeks.
Mr. Appleton has already warned us through the Press that we do not want to look upon
strikes in the future to any general extent. I feel this Conference will do well to pass this
resolution, and so relieve us of a big responsibility on the one hand, and enable us to help
the smaller branches up and down the country.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): In view of the statements made regarding the
amount of benefit paid out, can we know why there is such a difference?
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The answer is that members must be out on
dispute at least a full week before claims can be sent to the Federation. During the time
Mr. Jex refers to when we transferred to the lower scale from the higher, we gave an under-
taking to the members that we would still pay the 5s. from the Union funds, although we
only received 2s. 6d. from the Federation, to make the Strike Pay £1 weekly.
Mr. A. MASON (London Metro.): Is it at all possible to know what benefit we
received from the Federation in 1895?
THE CHAIRMAN: It was not founded until 1899. If you as trade unionists are
prepared to back a policy that for every shilling you pay you expect 11½d. back, then
you are on the right line. That is the general principle underlying this resolution. I have
told the General Federation of Trade Unions ever since I have been a member of the
Management Committee that we are the only Union in the World which has a policy
governing strikes as we do; there is no other Union in the world which has a monetary
guarantee for good behaviour, therefore when we joined the Federation it was not with any
idea of what we were going to get out of it, but to throw in our lot with the one union idea.
As having a hand in going to get cement of the General Federation of Trade Unions, it
in some respects that it
It should have been a sub-committee and that will have to come yet. The Trades Union
mind to have a strike fund, then you will have to let the General Federation of Trade Unions
Congress turned down any interference of this kind, and unless Congress makes up its
do you think that sufficient reason for them to withdraw? That is the non-unionist
continue. As soon as you find our Union has paid in more than you have drawn out,
attitude: it is also the attitude of the competent operative who says he can get his price
it should not be forgotten that out of the 21,000 dispute benefit, nearly 15,000 of it was
so need not belong to a trade union. The figures Mr. Jex has put forward are correct, but
reason why we only get 2s. 6d. benefit is because that is all we pay for. Mr. P. J. King
advocated twenty-five years ago that 6d. per head of trade union membership should be
paid into a fund for political and industrial purposes, whilst our old friend, George Barnes,
Spent at Chesham on a strike which we won.
We have received all we paid for and the


---
142
Lancashire would tell you that the Federation is no good. It has been their greatest
moved a resolution at Leicester to prevent it being introduced. No man or woman in
The major portion of the Federation's funds have gone in that direction. I
don't like to hear this idea put forward too much. Some of our members will tell you
bulwark.
If all take that view
Is that going to be your policy for life.
membership of thirty years and never had a penny.
then you could find a better use for your money.
they have a
joined it, there would have been only one organisation in this country to-day. As soon as
Trade Unions been supported as they should have been, and had the Miners' Federation
because if so the monetary idea is not the proper idea. Had the General Federation of
they refused to come in it split coal and cotton. From the money side of the business
settling disputes. Is it worth your while to leave simply because you have paid more in
we are the milch cow of the General Federation of Trade Unions, owing to our policy of
It has 142 unions including cotton, boilermakers and ourselves. I am not going to plead
than you have drawn out? It is still the biggest Federation in the United Kingdom.
simply because I happen to be a member of the Management Committee, but I think
every delegate should seriously consider the matter before voting for or against.
Mr. D. McCARTHY (Organiser): If the General Federation of Trade Unions is
to go along as it has done in the past, I don't see much for its future. No one is satisfied
anyone here to try
twith altogether. The present Management are not entirely to blame. I don't think
thiner our General President or the Management Committee are satisfied with the present
pitition. The contributions at the commencement were not high enough to meet the
position. There was no one who did more 25 years' ago to kill King's scheme than the
Daily News. If we decide to keep in it we should try our best to improve it. Even if
we postpone the matter for another two years I see no hope of it becoming more effective.
I remember the big strike at Belfast where they had some influence. In Staffordshire
its influence was felt. I had the pleasure last year of going to the General Federation of
Trade Union's annual conference, and but for one or two questions asked, the Conference
would have been a lifeless affair.
THE CHAIRMAN: In the early stages the General Federation of Trade Unions
exercises authority. When we had Turners' on strike in Leicester for eighteen months,
the Federation sent several men down. I have been up and down the country to make
enquiries into disputes on their behalf, but as soon as any official of a union tells you to
get off the grass, what can we do? We have been able to exercise authority in some quar-
ters when a firm would not see the local officers. You all know the trouble over
Black Friday, where the unions were pulling different ways.
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): I have read that approachment has been
made recently for the General Federation of Trade Unions and the Trades Union Congess.
to amalgamate, and should like to know if there is any truth in the report.
THE CHAIRMAN: The General Secretary and I should have attended a meeting
in this connection on Wednesday of this week. Meetings are taking place because of a
resolution passed at last year's annual meeting, in the presence of Mr. McCarthy, that there
should be an effort made for greater unity.
Mr. A. W. LYNE (Council Member): Too much has been made of the financial
side of this business. If we judge merely from the return we get financially from any
branch of the movement we can easily use some argument that we should not belong to
anything. I am not concerned how much money we spend, even if we get no financial
return, providing we get value for our affiliation fees and good work on behalf of the move-
ment. To me it does not look as if the trade union movement receives much benefit from
the Federation, because it is not progressive enough. Whatever may have been the object
of forming the General Federation of Trade Unions in the first place, it seems to have
exhausted the functions for which it was created. We have got beyond the period of
pooling funds to help in the time of dispute. We must remember the Trades Union
Congress stands for that purpose, and whilst we have two organisations having the same
Trades Congress have differed from time to time.
end in view, it seems that there is a good deal of overlapping. The Federation and the
THE CHAIRMAN: Only once.
Mr. A. W. LYNE (Council Member): It is not a good thing for there to be differ-
ences inside the trade union movement. I feel this Conference would be taking a wise
step in withdrawing from the General Federation of Conference would be taking think it
You can seriously inconvenience to those Untade Unions still remain in it
I believe it would compel the Trades Union Congress to take over its activities.
its own rules.
of Trade Unions, do their rules apply to every affiliated society or does each Union have
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester) : Seeing we are members of the General Federation
have our own
policy. I
THE CHAIRMAN: Each union has its own rules and regulations the same as we
in the same way as we do, and we must not impose our conditions on other people.
I will repeat that no other Union in the world goes to arbitration


---
143
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): I do not accept the financial arguments put forward,
but I think the real obiection lies in the conduct of the Federation as such. It has been
conducted by officials who have taken a reactionary tendency for some time. I hope,
however, that this Conference will agree that we should continue our membership with
the Federation, and try to get it taken over by the Trades Union Congress, and so get the
movement welded together.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I hope the remarks of Mr. Reid will have their
full effect when the vote is taken. It is a serious thing to withdraw at the present time
just because we may not agree with part of that organisation's policy. With the General
President I regret at the time the General Federation of Trade Unions was formed that
it was not taken under the wing of the Trades Union Congress. The vote of the majority
decided otherwise. Upon the point of finance I believe I was largely responsible in inducing
the delegates in 1914 to reduce the rate of contribution from 6d. to 3d. per member per
quarter. I think it is a very grave mistake to be looking at this matter to see how much
we have got out of it, although we ought to have a statement of that position. On the
we have got out of it, although we ought to have a statement of that position. On the
The Conference endorsed
amount of money which was to be returned to us.
sibility when he says we have paid over £23,000, and only drawn out £800, but I hope you
in their struggles. Mr. Astley asked if the General Federation of Trade Unions unions
The figures recited by Mr. Jex proves that we have taken our full share of financial attitude.
paying an undue proportion why the
will not let that unduly weigh with you. We ought to gladly help unfortunate trade unions
upon one method of administration. They could not do that, they have to administer
their funds according to the rules of the Federation. Whilst that is the basic idea, the
phase of our work was to try and settle our disputes without resort to strikes or force, and
in that respect the Federation, with all its shortcomings, has done very good work indeed.
Even now with its depleted membership I know it exerts considerable influence in some
parts of the country in helping to bring disputes to a successful issue, which disputes
might have ended otherwise if the Federation had not been in existence. I want you all to
remember too, that it is to the
Everlasting Credit of the Federation
that for eighteen years it carried on the work on the international side of the movement.
The Trade Congress was content for the General Federation of Trade Unions to carry on that
side of the work, and for eighteen years carried on the work without interference on behalf
of the trade union movement. For some years the Trades Union Congress refused to take
on this international work, but you all know they have now taken up that work, and at the
moment it is one of the strongest factors in determining the International situation. A
meeting has been held between the General Federation of Trade Unions and the Trades
Union Congress to try and bring about a working arrangement, and the report was to be
presented on Wednesday last. You will see that the door is not shut so far as talking matters
over to see if we cannot remedy what, in our judgment, was a mistake when the Federation
was formed. I think you should all know this before recording your vote for or against.
If you sever your connection, you will not be able to influence opinion at the General
Federation of Trade Union meetings, and I suggest that we should continue and try to
make it part and parcel of one organisation. If you decide to leave the Federation,
then in my opinion it will be taking a backward step.
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood): The powerful arguments put forth by the
Norwich people must be considered, and also the remarks of the opponents to the resolution.
I think it would be a great pity if we leave the Federation. I am old enough to ren.ember
the articles in the Clarion twenty-five years' ago, when the Federation was set up. At
the present time when the trade union movement is threatened all along the line I do not
think we ought to leave the Federation. I believe the General Council of the Trades Union
Congress will take the supreme lead in the country, but we have not reached that position
done. I ask the Conference to seriously consider the matter before deciding to leave the
Federation.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): Is the present position worth considering
whilst the position of the General Federation of Trade Unions is as it is? The danger to
me is the difference in the policies between the Federation and the Labour movement
generally. So far as I know there is no sort of consultation taking place between the
Federation and the Labour Party. I believe I am right in saying that the representatives
of the General Federation of Trade Unions even now have a Bill before the House of
Commons which is contrary to the ideals of the Labour Party. I think we should consider
in conflict with the Labour Party. It is absolutely necessary for the solidarity of the
whether it is a wise thing to continue our membership with the Federation whilst they are
movement, and nothing but solidarity should be shown throughout the movement. The
national situation in keeping that phase of the work alive. If there is anyone who can tell
General Secretary pointed out that it had done useful work in connection with the inter-


---
144
clear and definite policy for which it was created. Conflicts may be necessary before
us where we are on the international situation as between industry, I should be glad to
be made clear. It is nothing but overlapping, and the Federation has not reached the
be taken into consideration, and so far as I am concerned I see no hope for the future of
that if we thought the wisest thing to do was not to belong to the Federation should also
clarity is achieved. I am bound to agree with Mr. Jex. The General President told us
intelligence shown upon the subject, and I do not mind if you turn our resolution down.
I do not mind whether we receive anything in cash or not providing we are getting full
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): I would like to congratulate the Conference upon the
not to continue membership with the Federation it will not hurt any of the other Unions
benefit for the money spent. I say the movement is not getting full value. If we decide
the Citizen, the Herald, the Miners, Agricultural Labourers, or anything else, and no one
which may be left in. The National Union has always been to the front whether it was
the Federation.
can reproach the Union for not taking its corner.
At this stage the vote upon the resolution was taken and there voted_
For the Resolution
Against the Resolution
::
::
58
54
THE CHAIRMAN declaring the Norwich resolution carried by four votes.
It was then decided that the Chairman should put the rule into operation dealing
with the Limitation of Speeches. The Chairman read rule 88, as follows:-
RULE 88. - Every latitude is to be allowed the delegates for giving expression
ference; but in the event of the Chairman seeing that the business is not
to their views on the various subjects that may be brought before Con-
feaking satisfactory progress, he shall have power to appeal to the Con-
ference to limit the time allowed to movers of resolutions to ten minutes,
a seconder to seven minutes, and any subsequent speaker to five minutes.
No one shall speak more than once on a question, except the mover of
an original resolution. Should the President be of opinion that there is no
practical difference among the delegates, he shall have power to stop the
discussion.
Item 54 was proposed by the GENERAL SECRETARY and agreed to.
54 The Council. - Rule 23. After word " Congress" add "and National
Labour Party."
Item 55 was proposed by the GENERAL SECRETARY.
55 The Council. - Rule 25.-Delete, and insert: "To administer the National
Unemployment and Health Insurance Acts and amendments thereto."
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): I feel the administration of the Unemployment Insurance
Act is still in a changing form. There are regulations governing it which we may not be
able to accept, and I suggest that the words " if necessary" be added to the clause, having
regard to the fact that the Government has no settled policy as to the administration of
the Unemployment Act.
THE CHAIRMAN: We have been administering the Act without it being in the
rules. We only ask the Conference to endorse that attitude. To guard against any
emergency, however, I do not think there is any objection to the words "if necessary"
being added.
Mr. ALEX. SMITH (Council Member): Whilst Rule 311 is on the books there
is no necessity for any extra words to be added.
The paragraph was then endorsed with the addition of the two words " if necessary."
Item 56 was withdrawn.
Item 57.
56 Edinburgh. - Rule 48, Line 2. - After " society," add " in the Shoe Trade.”
57 Leicester No. 2.-- Rule 55. - To ask question.
we desire to know if it is true that the General President has removed his home outside
Mr. T. H. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): On behalf of the Leicester No. 2 Branch
this Conference decide the meaning of the word " residence."
the fifteen mile radius, and if so, did he obtain the consent of the Council so to do, and will
a flat there, it is their business to find out. You cannot have a house in London under
London. I do not intend to go into my domestic affairs. If someone thinks I have not
THE CHAIRMAN: This is very personal. My residence is 7, Mecklenburgh Street,
30s. per week rent. Unless you are going to clock me in and out. I can do no more than
say my residence is No. 7, Mecklenburgh Street, London, W.C.
The Next Business having been moved and seconded, the GENERAL SECRETARY
put the same to the vote, and declared Next Business carried without a dissentient voice.
---

---
145
Organisers.
Mr. R. WHITE (Edinburgh) proposed Item 58.
58 Edinburgh.—Rule 57.—Delete "two organisers," and substitute "three
organisers, one to be mainly employed in District 9."
The members in Scotland feel the time has arrived when we should have an organiser
Member for twelve years, but for some time past he has not been able to get work. He
for District No. 9 which includes Scotland and Ireland. Mr. Bleakley has been the Council
had a shop for a time, but for three years now he has not done a day's work outside the
Council meetings. I hope this will be carried, and I have much pleasure in moving the
same.
If he was sent to Ireland he may get shot.
THE CHAIRMAN: Have you any friends you want to send there?
Mr. R. WHITE (Edinburgh): I do not wish to send my friends nor my worst
enemy.
Mr. W. JONES (Kingswood) seconded. Scotland has asked for so little during
the Conference that I am backing this. I think Scotland should have a member to look
after their affairs.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): Does Mr. White persist in pushing Item 58?
I am in favour of another organiser, but against him being mainly employed in one district.
The suggestion was then withdrawn, and Item 59 proceeded with.
59 Kettering Nos. 1 and 2.— Rule 57.—Delete "two," and insert "three
organisers shall be appointed."
Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering) proposed the alteration to the present rule. I want
to say in all seriousness to this question that most of us have been emphatic during the
week as to how the trade union movement should be developed. The trade union move-
ment in the past has been somewhat different from what it is at present. In future we
must prepare to educate the members. We have so far specialised upon industrial matters.
I want this Conference to feel, if possible, the necessity of having organisers to help forward
the political objects of the Union. If the trade union movement is the real live body
that it pretends to be, then we must have someone amongst us constantly who will be able
to educate our members. This kind of work has been attended to by most branch officials.
I think all branch officials will agree with me that when an outside official is billed to attend
our meetings there is a much larger meeting than when it is just the ordinary n onthly
meeting. The attendances usually are very poor and yet we nearly always get a good
response if an outside official of the Union comes along. We realise our present organisers
are engaged upon industrial matters, and also our head officials in the main dealing with the
present-day position. We realise the industrial activity of this Union is their chief aim,
but we suggest that an additional crganiser be elected who will deal with the political side
of the Union's work. We want someone—perhaps a woman could deal with the question
better than a man—who has had some experience in the work so that our members may be
educated to take an interest in all matters affecting the movement. I appeal to you,
therefore, to pass this rule.
Mr. C. MAYES (Council Member) seconded. At present you have one of your
organisers tied up in one district and he may be for some time to come. The other organiser
will have more than enough to go about the country. In London alone you have a problem,
and if you could put a man there for any time he would be able to get thousands of new
members.
Mr. E. LAW (Northampton): I believe it is necessary for us to have three organisers.
I realise good work has been done by our past and present organisers, second to none
throughout the country. I suggest that the country should be divided into three parts
and that organisers should be put, one in each particular district. At the Council meeting
each month, practically the last thing the General President says is, what is to be the work
of the organisers for the next month. One man might be sent to Manchester, another to
Bristol, say for a week; then they are sent to Scotland and then he may be recalled to the
Midlands. Each organiser should have allotted to him one district. Take the branches
who have not a permanent official, like Scotland, an organiser could be of considerable
help to them. It is necessary to have an organiser in a place like Leicestershire where there
are no permanent officials, and I hope the Conference will decide to appoint another
organiser.
Mr. T. PENDRED (Northampton No. 2) supported the resolution for three
organisers. So far as the rough-stuff men are concerned and the question of massed
production, one might be sent to watch the menace with which they will be faced. This
kind of work is being done all over the country in the same way as it is being done in
America. If we do not tackle the matter it will get a hold on the trade. Although we
collated details and figures in Northants I am sorry to say that nothing appears to have
been done. Nothing should be allowed to be cut only under the conditions laid down


---
Here is the extracted text:
146
in the Terms of Settlement. This massed production is a question which will have to be
tackled and so tackled as not to jeopardise our members. I appeal to the Council members
and organisers not to overlook this question or it will be a bad day for the rough-stuff men.
Mr. A. HILL, M.P. (Leicester No. 2) : This question has been debated many times.
I have always held that two organisers, with the help they get from the Central Office.
is sufficient having regard to the fact that we have so many permanent officials. I am of
the same opinion this morning, and the present rule meets the position. Our friends who
have just spoken for the pressmen talk as if massed production was a new feature. Surely
if this takes place in Northampton they have officials with enough ability to deal with the
question, men who are quite equal to the task. Why talk about sectional details. I am
keeping my eye on Item 64. It has been argued that we want a third organiser to meet
the political and educational situation. This resolution says nothing about that. It
in Item 64 that we must have another organiser who will act as schoolmaster. Our
butter questions. It is difficult to get anything like an attendance commensurate with
difficulty is to get a great number of members to the branch meetings to talk bread and
the membership. We should soon come up to a great deal of friction if 64 was carried.
As advanced as our Leicester membership is, we are told pretty quickly if we begin to talk
about politics, that the members have not come to hear that. It would be no better
even if we had three organisers unless you give our Scottish friends an organiser all to
themselves. I am against any alteration in the rule at present.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester) : I believe in three organisers, but when we come
to Item 64, then I am against an organiser coming from the tutorial classes, who will act
as supervisor over branch officers. What branch official will stand that? If it was carried
and he came to my office I should soon show him out. Mr. Mayes did not mention any-
thing about it when he seconded the resolution. Two organisers will be on the industrial
two will be on the industrial
believe in that. I am in favour of three organisers. We have not had much of the organi-
sers in Leicester nor Northampton. I do not know what an organiser might do in Scotland,
but I do not think you ever lose money in having good organisers.
Mr. A. MASON (London Metro.): Anyone who has had the experience of London
will agree that we could do with more organisers. We could do with one for more
than one month. I wish to thank the Council for the help they have given us in sending
the organisers; Mr. Buckle and Mr. McCarthy have helped us considerably. We meet
the men out of the factories. I am in favour of three organisers, as organising is still required
to be done in London.
Mr. W. HINDES (Council Member) : I am opposed to three organisers. I would
like to call your attention to the fact that in the Council's report it stated that the General
President, General Secretary and two organisers have helped in the work. You have
therefore at least four organisers. Ever since Norwich was well established, thanks to the
help given by Mr. Walter Smith, we have not troubled the Central Office for the help
of the organisers. If organisers are not obtainable at a given moment, the General Presi-
dent and General Secretary are always available to go to any part of the country. As a
Council we have an opportunity of seeing their reports of the work done month by month,
and surely we know the position. I don't think London has any cause for complaint
against the Council. We have given them good consideration, but I would not be a branch
official in the East End of London for £10 per week.
Mr. A. MASON (London Metro.): I'll stick it for £10.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I oppose the resolution, not because of financial
questions this time. Whilst congratulating Mr. Chester upon the way he put the case,
I do not see any necessity for appointing another official. I want to call the attention of the
Conference to the different methods we have of doing our business compared with other
unions. I know of a union which has eighteen organisers, but they have no permanent
officials, so there is more necessity for organisers than there is in our Union. I am not at
all concerned over the cost, but I should like to remind the delegates that we have forty-
nine permanent officials, in addition to about eighteen clerks. Apart from this forty-
nine and their staff, I would also call your attention to the fact that we have a Council of
twelve persons. In my judgment we can use our colleagues more than has been done
during the past, and with great effectiveness. At the present time we do not use the Council
members as much as we did before the organisers were appointed. In some parts of the
country we have utilised them for two or three days at a time, but in a place like
Northants, where you have four Council members, that is not necessary, seeing they have
well-equipped offices and a number of permanent officers. I have told our Scottish
branches from time to time that if they feel Mr. Bleakley can help them in organising
matters, they need not hesitate to write to the Central Office and so help to perfect their
organisation. Taking all these factors into consideration, I oppose the resolution on
of the principle involved.
Mr. A. BIRT (Northampton) : I think it would be wise to have three organisers
having regard to what has been said I think there are still a lot of people outside the
boot and shoe union, and they could do with a lecture sometimes. Then there is the


---
difficulty of the women inside our factories. They do not always stop at the trade, and
with another organiser we should have a better opportunity of getting at them and making
them class-conscious trade unionists. We want three organisers and even in a place like
Northampton where we claim we can hold our own when an organiser is sent down the
members rally round him and it does good.
Mr. W. TOWNLEY (Northampton): Since 1914 it has been proved to be a paying
proposition in having organisers. There are seventy-one branches represented here to-day,
of organising still to be done, and we adopted this policy in 1914 when we decided to have
twenty-four of them have permanent officials. You will see, therefore, that there is a lot
with an additional organiser. Much of the work done to-day by part-time secretaries
are constant changes in the factories to-day which must be watched, and this could be done
ought to be added to by the aid of an organiser. I support the resolution.
supporting three organisers, not so much for those women who are not organised as for
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's): We, from Leicester, are
those who already are organised. I am speaking for a branch which has well-equipped
offices and with statements up to date, a branch which, through its officers, follows up every
reduction, large or small, which is reported to us. It is the conditions and wages which
we must look after. We are suffering from those who try to push us under. I want
another organiser simply to protect ourselves. In our offices in Leicester we have a case
proper wage, and their conditions are rotten. I want an organiser to go into those districts
of letters from women in different parts of the country where they are not getting the
and bring their wages up to our level. I know the Council members are at the disposal
are not asked for in districts where they are most wanted, and I want an organiser to go
of branches for the asking, and as Mr. Hindes says, no one is refused. The Council members
the Council and investigate these matters. My friends, you would have some
eye openers, not only amongst women, but men also. We can afford to send a woman
down ourselves, but if we did you would all be up against us, although we should like to
know what is going off. In the early part of the organising discussion a suggestion was
made that we should have three districts for the organisers to work in; I agree with that
as it would enable the man to get home. We hear a good deal of an organiser's life being a
dog's life. It is also a dog's life for the woman who is left at home. We want our men
to be somewhere near so that when they have done their day's work-if they are straight
men-their mind turns to home. All men don't want to go home when they have done
their work. We want our officials and organisers and Members of Parliament to turn
home when their work is done. Every good man turns home for rest and comfort when
he has had a tiring day. I hope this resolution will be carried even if only for the sake
of the organised women.
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): The most miserable time of an organiser is.
when he has nothing to do. He is never so happy as when there is plenty to do.
There voted
For the Resolution
Against the Resolution
and THE CHAIRMAN declared the same carried.
Item 60 was only consequential and carried.
66
43
60 The Council. - Rule 58, Line 3. - Add "financial members."
Item 61 was withdrawn.
61 The Council. - Rule 99, Line 20. - After word "Congress," add "and the
Annual Council Meeting of the General Federation of Trade Unions."
General President's Duties.
Mr. G. FAREY (Northampton No. 2) proposed Item 62.
62 Northampton No. 2. - Rule 99. - Add "That the General President shall
attend all Branch Monthly Meetings periodically."
We have heard it said, and quite truly so that when a head official comes along we get
good meetings. I hope this will be carried and trust our General President will agree with it.
our worthy General President down to our meetings as it would create a stimulus and give
Mr. E. BROWN (Northampton No. 2): We feel that it would be helpful to have
and they would like to, and I suggest this resolution be carried so that the General President
new life to our meetings. No doubt many people have never seen our General President.
can give us all more information along the lines we desire.
THE CHAIRMAN: I offer no objection to this, and have always obeyed any request
made for my services. At present I owe a visit to Aberdeen. Mr. Buckle and I paid a
flying visit to Glasgow at the beginning of this month, and met the major portion of the


---
Here is the extracted text:
148
members. It is sometimes difficult to fit visits in, and I have no desire to impose my
way, but it must be left to the branch to send the invitation.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): If it is your intention to add this to the
General President's duties I don't see how it can be done. I understand our Chairman
has always tried to meet the wishes of any branch. We have never sent for him to come
to Bristol because we may not get a meeting commensurate with the trouble he would
have to take.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath) thought the present position would meet the case.
Mr. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member): Surely when the General President tells
you he always attends a branch when he is asked to go that should be sufficient
With that understanding the matter was dropped.
Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering) proposed Item 64.
64 Kettering Nos. 1 and 2.- Rule 106.- Delete Rule and insert :
(a) The duties of two of the Organisers shall be to act as Organising
Agents, Investigators and Dispute Managers, if necessary, when called
upon to do so by the Council. They shall give full particulars in writing
to the General Secretary. They shall also be at the service of the Council
for any other duties to which they may think fit to appoint them. They
shall be in attendance at the Council Meetings. They may take part
in the discussions upon matters relating to organising, disputes and
investigating, but shall have no vote at the Council Meetings. They
shall, by virtue of their office, attend the Conferences of the Union. They
shall report to the General Secretary, daily, where they may be found.
They shall do their best to organise all working at the trade, including
repairers, and shall also push the Trade Union Stamp by attending all
meetings and gatherings where such advertisement would be likely to help.
(b) The duties of the third Organiser shall be, as far as possible, specially
confined to visiting branches in a general supervising capacity. He shall
lecture at Branch and specially convened meetings on Educational and
Political matters. He shall seek the general establishment of Rules
68 and 156 in all centres, and strive for the fulfilment of Rule 155. He
shall be subject to the same general conditions as applied to the other
Organisers.
I feel that there is sufficient scope for the additional organiser who will now be appointed
to be put to this position in the Union. The Conference seems to be up against it, but I
feel there is an absolute necessity for this class of work to be done, and we find the necessity
for such work more and more.
Mr. J. E. CHAPMAN (Kettering No. 2) seconded, and suggested that the new
organiser should be invited to watch the political and educational side of the Union's
work. Mr. Chapman urged the Conference to pass the resolution.
The Conference then adjourned at 12.30 p.m.
Afternoon Session.
The delegates reassembled at 2 p.m., the General President of the Union (Mr. T. F.
Richards) presiding.
Upon the Roll being called it was reported that all the delegates were present.
Renewed Discussion on Organising.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): In view of the decision arrived at this morning,
I do not think it is necessary for this question to be put to the vote. To bring forward
such a resolution and state the duties of a new man is altogether wrong, and the suggestions
of Mr. Chester are unthinkable. Undoubtedly there is plenty of work to do on the educa-
tional side, but where will the advantage come to the Union, if this man only looks after
the educational side. If members desire to improve their educational facilities then ther
can get to know all they want from the public libraries. To carry this resolution will
stultify the hands of the Council, and will not help forward the principles laid down this
morning.
Mr. G. CAMPBELL (Kettering): If there is any need for such a man as this,
time shall be taken up teaching, but simply states that he shall work in a certain capacity.


---
149
treading upon what they think are their preserves. During this week we have had many
To many branch secretaries it would be a very strong stick. They don't like anyone
examples of the need for more education in our ranks, and I venture to say if 90 per cent.
of the older members admitted the truth they would say they desired a better education.
ahead. No new proposal has ever been made unless it was received with a spirit of sym-
This is a new idea. The Boot and Shoe Operatives are considered democratic and g()
pathy, but this seems to be received with derision judging by some of the remarks of the
delegates to Conference.
THE CHAIRMAN: With all due deference to the promoters of this resolution
they should have some idea as to the organisation, and of the people at present in office.
What becomes of the work I have to perform if this is carried?
Mr. G. CAMPBELL (Kettering): It does not touch your work at all.
THE CHAIRMAN: That is my own particular work, and I try to go about it in a
as delicate a way as possible. Some of our members think the General President has not
the power, but I have the power to be present at any branch without invitation. The
past and present organisers are quite capable of doing the work you suggest and they do
only error you are making is in trying to make a distinction between the organisers. Our
it now.
past experience. Does the ballot always give you the best man ?
to pick out a man to specialise would not be good for the organisation. Remember your
Mr. G. CAMPBELL (Kettering): We admit all that.
for another man to specialise on.
THE CHAIRMAN: All our organisers are interested in the work you are asking
present, and work both on the industrial and political side of the Union.
I prefer that we should allow them to continue as at
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Leeds): The difficulty will be in getting the right man by
election, and it would be almost an
impossibility. It may be all right if you got the
qualified man, but the chances are you would not do so. It is impossible for the organisers
to go about their work properly unless they are subject to the control of the Council, for
the Council to send them where they think best, and I hope the resolution will be lost.
Upon being put to the vote THE CHAIRMAN declared the same lost.
Item 65 was agreed to without discussion.
65 The Council. - Rule 108, Line 13.- Add after word "conference," " by virtue
of their office."
Item 66 The Council. - Rule 108, Line 13-Delete word "Annual" was deferred
until the vote on 67 was known.
Union Conferences.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I propose Item 67.
67 The Council. - Rule 70-Delete and insert: "A national conference of delegates
from each and every district of the Union shall meet biennially for six days at
Whitsuntide to discuss matters of policy connected with the Union and to deal
with suggested alterations, amendments and additions to rules, the expense to be
borne by the Union. The place of meeting to be fixed by the Council."
We feel our
The Council feel after the short experience we have had of the annual conferences
that they are justified in asking for a non-continuance of the same.
method of meeting biennially is the best method, and judging by the number of
resolutions sent in by the Branches they are thinking along the same lines. I don't
think you need any elaborate statement from me upon the matter. It is not a
matter of finance, because if the Council felt the circumstances were such as to
warrant the calling of a conference say in six months' time, I am sure the Council would
At present, however, they feel we should revert back to the old
not hesitate to do so.
position. It is of course a compliment to the Union that we are prepared to try these
experiments. The Council have further considered the matter, and owing to the enlarged
conferences they ask if you will agree to the withdrawal of the words relative to the delegates
fixing the next place of meeting, and also the reference to the half day off. That will be
understood. The Council feel that future conferences need not necessarily be in a shoe
might try
of leather. We thoroughly enjoyed ourselves on Wednesday, and appreciated the delight-
ful country, and so, although we are asking for the deletion of the reference to the half
day. you may depend upon it that we shall still make such arrangements similar to the one
we had on
Wednesday.
Mr. T. ADNITT (Council Member) seconded the proposition.
---

---
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) supported the resolution. In 1918 the Norwich Branch
suggested that we should meet for three days instead of six, and that was beaten. Finally,
in 1920, the Conference accepted the position. I am bound to confess that I am dis-
appointed with the change, and think the proposal of the Council would meet the position
better. I hope the Conference will accept the position whatever may be the outcome,
ALD. A. HILL, M.P. (Leicester No. 2) opposed the resolution. Our Norwich
friends made a mistake in trying to crush into three days what it has usually taken six.
I tried to discover from the General Secretary in what way the experiment had failed
He simply said it had failed, but that is quite a different thing from bringing the evidence
to prove his case. There was a feeling, very widespread, in our Union, that as things were
moving rapidly it was necessary for the Executive Council to meet the rank and file more
frequently, so that they could get into closer touch than had been the case. I agree that
every two years is too frequent to upset the rules. No sooner have you one set of rules
from the printer than you begin to revise them. I question whether any evidence can be
brought of any other Union altering its administrative rules so often as we do, although
they may meet annually. I differ with the General Secretary ard think the experience
has been justified. We shall come up to the situation when our members will be wanting
to get into definite touch with the policy of the Union as expressed by the Council. Surely
we shall not be in the position we are to-day for ever. Some day the clouds must break
and give us a vision of progress. I hope the majority of the Conference will adhere to the
present position.
THE CHAIRMAN: Higham and Rushden moved that we should have Annual
Conferences and that was accepted at Edinburgh.
Upon the vote being taken upon the resolution THE CHAIRMAN declared the same
carried, the voting being:-
For the Resolution 69
Against the Resolution 25
Item 66 was then endorsed as a result of the vote on 67.
Mr. J. FOUNTAINE (Northampton No. 2) then proposed Item 74.
74 Northampton No. 2.- Rule 70, Line 2.-Delete "annually," and substitute
"every two years." Also Delete (Line 4) "third year the" and sub-
stitute "alternate."
I am glad the Council's resolution has been carried. This resolution, like others
from Northampton No. 2, comes out of a decision made at the monthly meeting. The
result was that we felt we were not justified in spending the amount of money that we do
on these Conferences. We onght to be out for economy. The delegates who work in the
factory and come to these conferences are twitted with the fact that they come out for a
week's holiday. This is the second conference I have attended, and I am not only out for
economy, but for keeping up the reputation of the Union. I propose that at one biennial
meeting we should have a meeting for three days, and the next one to alter the rules.
Last year was my first experience and I was told we should have the slaughter of the
innocents at the end of the Conference. If we can have the slaughter of the innocents
on Friday, let us slaughter them on Monday. (Laughter.) I am not out to take away
the efficiency of the Conference, but if you can alter your rules in five days, then three
days should be sufficient to discuss policy. These are the views of the most active members
in one of the most active branches in the country, and I hope you will all support it.
Mr. T. PENDRED (Northampton No. 2) seconded the resolution.
Upon the same being put to the vote, only seven delegates voted in its favour, THE
CHAIRMAN declaring the same lost.
Items 68 to 73 were withdrawn.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath) proposed Item 75.
75 Arbroath.-Rule 71. To delete the second sentence.
Now we have come to the real slaughter of the innocents. Our people in Arbroath
feel that the permanent officers should not come here with their weight and so turn the
scales against the delegates. I am not saying I am in favour of this resolution. Last year
we had a case before us of the Leicester women condemning the male officials; then in
turn the male officials said what they had done to get better conditions for the women
members whilst the ordinary delegate was practically outside.
Mr. T. PENDRED (Northampton No. 2) seconded the resolution in order to reduce
the expenses of the Union. The Edinburgh Conference cost the Union nearly £2,000
and our people think something should be done to reduce that if at all possible. We
realise if this is carried then possibly two or three of the rank and file will be pushed out,
but we should achieve our object. It is just as well for the permanent officials to go through
the ballot box occasionally along with the rank and file.


---
Mr. H. G. DAVIES (Street): Throughout this Conference I have sat very quiet
and listened to the discussions, and feel we should do our best for the small branches.
They are the only branches who will be affected, because a branch to-day with a permanent
official and one thousand members has two delegates, whilst if this is carried they would
only have one delegate.
Mr. H. ATTEWELL (Northampton): If the permanent officials go to the ballot
agreement that it would be a wise thing to do away with the rank and file part of the
they would clear the board, and the rank and file would lose representation. I am not in
business, nor the official part either. Both types are essential at a Conference like this,
rules should be administered. I heartily support our existing rules.
and I think it is better to have the permanent officials so that they get to know how the
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's) opposed the resolution.
Is it not this lack of class-consciousness which is affecting us to-day? We have our
conferences for educational purposes. It is always better for the rank and file to go to
our conferences so that they can report back to the ordinary members. We in the Leicester
Women's Branch would have a depleted representation if this was carried, and it has been
said the innocents were very few. The monetary question should not be allowed to come
in here. The ordinary member knows more of our work if they come to these conferences.
I think we should have a detailed report of the work of every
Council member go through the reports, although I don't suppose it will be allowed.
I wish they knew more.
Mr. J. FOUNTAINE (Northampton No. 2): At present the smaller branches
are getting preferential treatment. (Cries of "No.") We had other points in view
beside the money side. So far as Mrs. Richards is concerned and the Council minutes, they
could have a representative on the Council if they wished.
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's) : That has nothing to do.
with it.
Mr. W. TOWNLEY (Northampton): Why should the General President and
General Secretary be allowed to go to national annual conferences by virtue of their office,
and the branch officials be prevented from coming here? That is the most sensible
No one objects to the rank and file coming here, but I do not think
argument to use.
they should peck at the officials.
Mr. W. KENDALL (Leicester): For administration purposes the officials of the
branches should be present, and I claim it is imperative for them to attend.
Mrs. E. SMITH (Northampton No. 2): On behalf of the women of Northampton
I wish to oppose the resolution.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): I think the permanent officials might be allowed to
come to the Conferences, but not have a vote. They would get an educational knowledge
of what is going on, and also appreciate the spirit with which the rules were framed.
THE CHAIRMAN declared the resolution lost, only eleven delegates voting
for the same.
As a consequence of the previous vote Item 76 falls.
76 Northampton No. 2.-Rule 71, Line 3.- Delete "All permanent Officials
shall attend the Conference by virtue of their office, over and above the
maximum of representation."
Item 77 was withdrawn.
77 Edinburgh.-Rule 72.- Delete "Council," and substitute "members."
Item 78.-Agreed.
78 The Council. - Rule 76.-After word "Organisers," add "Parliamentary
Agents who are Members of Parliament.'
Items 79 and 80 agreed to without discussion.
79 The Council.- Rule 77, Line 2.-Delete "January," and insert "February."
Line 4.-Delete "January," and insert "February."
80 The Council. - Rule 80.- Delete "Annual," and insert "Biennial."
Item 81.
81 The Council. Rule 81, Line 2.-Delete "Ten o'clock a.m.," and insert
"Eleven o'clock a.m."
the first day from ten to eleven o'clock. Ten o'clock seems too early as our staff have a lot
to do in arranging the Conference papers. Some of them had to leave home soon after
THE CHAIRMAN: We wish to alter the time of commencing the Conference on
Six o'clock in the morning on Monday, in order to get to the Central Office and arrange
Your papers.
The resolution was endorsed.
---

---
Item 82.

Mr. E. LAW (Northampton No. 2) in a jocular manner intimated that as George
82 Northampton No. 2. - Rule 84, Line 6. - Delete words after "Conference".
Parbury was not on the Standing Orders Committee this year he would move the resolu-
tion. (Laughter.)
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): Should you have moved it if Sammy Thompson
had not been there? (Renewed laughter.)
The resolution numbered 82 was withdrawn.
Item 83 was moved by the General Secretary.
83 The Council. - Rule 86. - Delete after the words "General Secretary."
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The Council wish to be quite frank with you,
and we might go to some place other than where we have a branch, so we propose to make
arrangements for a member of the Central Office Staff to attend to this business.
Unanimously agreed.

Voting.

Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood) moved Item 84.
84 Kingswood and District. - Rule 91. - Delete, and insert: "All Union
Elections shall be by ballot, but in all cases the Voting Papers and the
names of all candidates shall be uniform. No votes will be counted at
any time unless given by the members in person, at such places as the
Branch may appoint for voting. Voting shall take place on one and the
same day, except in the case of Branches having Sections. Members
shall be supplied with a Ballot Paper after the Branch Officers or others
appointed for the purpose have satisfied themselves that the member is
financial and registered, and being not more than 8 weeks in arrears,
the member's card shall be date stamped when ballot paper is issued.
After members have recorded their vote, they shall deposit their paper in
a box provided to receive it, or return the paper to the person appointed
to receive it, who shall be responsible, and shall see the papers deposited
in the Ballot Box. Such Ballot Box shall be sealed after the votes have
been recorded, and not opened until the day of counting, and then only
in the presence of the elected scrutineers. All votes to be counted on one
and the same day in each District, the Council to fix the same in the
Monthly Report. Council be asked to suggest amendment to induce
larger numbers of members to vote."
Our members feel that the present position is not a satisfactory one.
If delegates
will consult the figures recently issued in connection with the position of Insurance Manager,
they are very disconcerting to see such a small number have taken any interest in the
vote. Our members in Kingswood think this can be improved by adopting the method
in our resolution, so as to get to the bulk of the rank and file to enable them to record their
vote. It is done in some unions, and we think if the ballot papers were left with the mem-
bers and returned to a responsible official later in an envelope for the purpose, the result
of the ballot would be much better. We do not think the present position a good one.

Mr. W. PAIN (Kingswood) seconded. As one who has cast the votes occasionally
I think our present system of voting is not a favourable one. When we go into the polling
station we are faced with a ballot paper not knowing any of the qualifications of the
nominees. The more conscientious members will not vote because they do not know the
men whose names appear on the ballot paper. It is our endeavour to try and create a
new system so as to give every one a chance to vote. When we had to take the voting
for the national officers last year, the ballot paper had twenty-eight names on it. No
one had seen the names until they came along to vote. If the ballot paper had been given
out two or three days before the vote had been taken, we should have had a much better
ballot. Take the ballot for this Conference. We were grouped with one of the Norwich
branches. No one in Norwich knows me, and so nearly all the Norwich members voted
for their nominees. The same thing obtained in Kingswood. If this Conference will
improve our system of balloting it will be a good thing.

THE CHAIRMAN: I think the delegates should be very careful in their state-
ments. You say our members do not know whose names will appear on the ballot papers.
Monthly Report. You don't want your branch officers to give you the pedigree of every
That is not our fault. Members have facilities and opportunity of seeing them in the
individual, surely. We have had to investigate a few cases and you cannot be too careful.
I have known branches poll more votes than they had members. We should be very
careful. This proposal will allow any particular individual to get votes for his pals,
and put a premium on the ballot box. A vote has been taken quite recently: how is it
that all the interest seems to be in one quarter of the globe? I don't want us to send an
electioneering agent into every factory.


---
153
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester): We can quite understand why they want the organisers
for so long if Kingswood do their business in this kind of way.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): You are asking for the deletion of the paragraph
"it must be apart from the factories." If you only had the experience of local council
secret. I have been in at nearly every count that has taken place in Leicester either
for the City Council or Parliamentary elections for a good many years and everything is
would vote against you if they felt like it. Our votes are taken honest. In some instances
papers have been sent into the factories, but the Council have got to know and ordered
a fresh ballot.
Mr. W. JONES (Kingswood): We look upon this as a national question and we
think the votes recorded are inadequate. Other unions have different methods from
ourselves and we ought to be able to do something different.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): This rule should not be altered. Years ago
there was any amount of canvassing, and once in Northampton one of the shop presidents
voted for every man in the factory.
Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden) : I have been on the Branch Committee
for twenty years. I have never asked anyone to vote for me, and my own shopmates
did not know I was coming here until last Friday. If members will not take any interest
in their own Union, ought not to be to vote.
Mr. T. H. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): If this is passed we shall have more
corruption than we have ever seen. If you do not get a big vote at present, you do get a
Conscientious vote. At four cross roads in Leicester we have a ballot box. The clickers'
shop president brings in from a shop near by 35s. per week, so it is safe to say there are
between 35 and 40 clickers in the shop. We pay 5s. for the rent of a room; 5s. for poll
clerk, and for the last few votings we have not averaged five votes. We have been down
to as low as three, and one of those three was the polling agent, so the two votes cost us 5s.
each. If you passed this resolution you would get more votes, but if people are not interested
enough at present to enable them just to cross the road to vote, then we ought to do
nothing to bring about what I think would amount to corruption.
The Resolution was lost, only six delegates voting in its favour.
Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden) proposed Item 85.
85 Higham and Rushden. - Rule 96, Line 6.-Delete whole of words from "is
not financial."
This resolution was brought forward by certain members who were trade and funeral
members. In some cases it is not their own fault. We have already heard this week of a
number of members having to leave the Union through no fault of their own, and then when
they rejoin only can do so for trade benefits. A number of men in our district went to work
as railwaymen and blastfurnacemen, and had to join those unions. They felt they could
not pay to two unions and so left us. but when they rejoined came back as trade only.
We have had a number of men nominated for the branch executive, but have had to refuse
them because they were not full members. If this rule is passed it will enable them to
come on the committee
THE CHAIRMAN : I wish Mr. Langley had let us know about this matter so that
we could have dealt with it from the Head Office.
Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden): I wrote to the local secretary of the
society, and he replied to say that our men must join his Union as they were the controlling
union in the particular works where our men were working.
THE CHAIRMAN: That does not help me at all. A lot of my time has recently
been taken up with another organisation who have been pinching our members, and we
ought not to allow it. What is the use of the trade union world if someone else comes
and takes our members when we have done all the organising work? This matter should
have been reported to us.
Mr. A. H. FOLKARD (Norwich No. 2): This trying to steal one another's members
is becoming somewhat general. We have had two members who went to work as electrical
engineers, and they were told they must join that particular union. The General Workers'
Union have adopted a high-handed policy and try to get our members to join them and
leave us.
THE CHAIRMAN: Please send all such cases along to the Central Office so that
we can deal with them. If local officers have any cases of this kind, the Central Office
should be informed at once, so that we can deal with the matter.
Mr. E. BATCHELOR (Higham and Rushden) seconded the resolution. We have
Several active members who feel they ought not to be prevented from taking office. These
members joined us late in life when Mr. Buckle came to Raunds, as there were a number


---
Here is the extracted text:
154
of slate clubs, and they did not join as full members. Some of the younger members
join us for trade and funeral only, and it is some of those members who feel the position
is unfair.
The Resolution was defeated.
Item 86 was agreed to without discussion.
86 The Council.-New Rule.-" Five women members shall be elected annually
to attend the Annual Advisory Conference of Women in connection with
the Labour Party (Women's Section). Voting to be confined to the
British Trade Union Congress districts."
Piecework v. Daywork.
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath) proposed Item 87.
87 Arbroath.-New Rule.-" That the Industrial Policy of the Union be to
establish daywork regulated by quantity statements, as against piece-
work with unlimited output, and that a new rule be framed to emphasise
the principle."
In formally moving this resolution I wish to say that we discussed it two years ago
when it was passed by a narrow majority. I should like to see it added to our rules.
Mr. J. T. OSBORNE (Bristol) seconded. We have discussed this matter several
times at our branch meeting. We have some factories in Bristol where men have to produce
a certain number of boots for a given wage. There are others working piecework pure and
simple. Our branch feels that more operatives would be employed if this resolution was
carried. I don't suggest it will be carried, and some of my members have told me they
do not agree with it. In fact I think we shall be up against something if it is carried.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): I consider there is a great deal to be said upon
this resolution. Many of our members, and some of the delegates present do not under-
stand what is meant by daywork regulated by quantity statements. Assuming a firm
give notice to go on daywork, after they have been working piecework, then we should
say the men must earn their wages according to statement. Jus: prior to coming to this
Conference a firm reported such a thing had happened, but we gave them the advice I have
just given. I am convinced something will have to be done in the way suggested by this
resolution. We have a firm in Leicester working on the Conveyor system. I don't think
there is another firm in England working like it.
THE CHAIRMAN: Nor in Europe.
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's): And we don't want it
either.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): I should like the delegates to visit that factory
and see how it is worked. They have a trolley system each operator working on six-pair
lots. The man releases the lever and sends it on to the next man.
Those men were earning
anything from £5 to £8 per week. The most extraordinary thing about it is the firm
select the best type of young man for the purpose, because they must be active. Recently
they wanted an edge setter and the Manager said he did not want a man who could only
do from 12 to 14 dozen per day, but he wanted a man who could do 20 dozen, so you will
understand that man could earn from £1 to 30s. daily. I suggest the Council should try
and make some arrangements to try and prevent this thing happening. As far as the
factors are concerned, if they could not get their work as quickly as they desired, then the
men would be able to work slower
after the busy time the men are put off. Piecework lends itself to unemployment, because
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's) opposed the resolution.
When we were compiling our piecework statements they were based on the large quantities
done by low-paid day labour. Can you control all your operatives and get them to work
according to statement. I know some districts are organised to quantities. In Leicester
recently one or two firms have gone on daywork, but we have been watching them. The
young flapper on daywork cannot go slowly. As a result the pieceworker has to suffer.
We have a good deal healthier membership to-day on piecework than we had on daywork.
The unlimited output may be a danger. Piecework pure and simple is the thing. We
know that some time ago the operative worked very quickly and arranged with manu-
facturers to work three days and have three days off, and when men earned £5 in three
days and women from 12 to 13 in the same period, they came on our Suspension Fund
spread it over the operatives all well and good, but you will not do it by passing this
for out-of-work pay.
Mr. T. RABBITT (Wellingborough): The Council will have to concentrate
upon this subject. Piecework is all right if you can control the operatives not to earn
two men's wages. In our district men were put on piecework and they speeded up, and
---

---
supply of work, with a limited wage. One young man cut ten dozen box calf Derby at
Rs. 42d. per dozen. He was of course paid for it, but he should have been stopped. Some-
thing must be done for the boot operative to try and prevent this. Our County Board
on the Manufacturers' side have asked for 25 per cent. off the clickers' statement, so you
will all see what it has let us in for.
THE CHAIRMAN: Their argument for a reduction is because you had a better
award than Leicestershire.
Mr. A. W. LYNE (Council Member): Most of the delegates are agreed to-day,
although they were not two years ago. Two years ago I suggested that we should go
back to daywork regulated by quantity statements, but in the light of recent experience
cue is bound to admit that to go back to daywork without any variations in the wages
is too dangerous. If we could deal with the whole of our members who are receiving less
than they earned there would not be a dissentient voice. We should have this question
before us as something to aim for. Realisation has become effective if those who take an
active interest in the work tackle their own members. It is easy when you get your mem-
bers together to be able to prove the disadvantages of doing more work than they are paid
for. The manufacturers would not have approached our men in Northampton were it
not for the fact that they could earn big wages. Our men are using this resolution for
propaganda. We must compel the manufacturers to reckon the work done at not less
than the minimum wage rates, and not more than a maximum wage. No fixed wage,
important that the quantity statements should be worked to.
Mr. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member): I don't think there is anyone in this
Conference who agrees with the conditions under which our people have been working.
None of us want to go back to the old daywork system. Men have been trained to a posing
to-day and they have to keep pace with the machinery. Our funds have suffered on accounn
of the pace with which they had to work. If we could convert our members to workout
reasonable pace we should be justified in doing so. We should continue our propaganda.
Mr. Buckle has told us before that he has visited factories where men have earned 30s.
a week more than they have drawn; that must be stopped. We think men ought not
to work at top speed. If the price per operation is fair then our men should receive the
full benefit.
Mr. A. BIRT (Northampton): I don't think Mrs. Richards is right in stating
people are healthier on piecework. Still, the fact remains that it does not pay an operative
to be on the sick. He loses too much money because he has been drawing £4 or £5 a week,
which is considerable compared with his sick benefit.
Mr. W. KENDALL (Leicester): What are those people doing to allow a man to
do 15 worth of work and only get £3 for it? The manufacturer has the right to say
whether men shall work day or piecework. We ought to be the people to say whether
they shall do so or not. The men where I work are very fair. If anyone is away ill the
others try to pull his work in. Our lasters in their own interests thought it better to have
a limited amount, and agreed to do so. One man, however, still went the pace, although
at that time we agreed to fix the amount at 11d. per hour. The Branch meeting fined
this man f1 and when the man wanted sick pay, Mr. Poulton had to tell the branch that he
was legally entitled to it. I think the time has arrived when we should say whether we
will work day or piecework.
Mr. W. MAYER (Leicester No. 2): When the minimum was 32s. we found men
giving anything from 10s. to 15s. per week more work than they received. Under the
I have never worked so comfortable as I do to-day,
present system we get what we earn.
and I think this is the finest system we have ever had. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. W. TOWNLEY (Northampton): Since this resolution was discussed in 1921
the trade has undergone a trying period. Experience has been given of the changed
conditions. The resolution says the men should go back to daywork, but to be governed
by piecework statements. It is very nice to look at, and might settle many
problems. So far as the Terms of Settlement are concerned there is nothing to stop
officers know. The employer knows the strength of his men on piecework, and to some
a firm from going on piecework or daywork.
extent wants that quantity for a day wage.
It may take place before the branch
We must bear this in mind. We cannot
town will later on happen in another. I suggest to the Council that we have a clause in
future agreements which states that if the manufacturers desire a change of system, they
must notify the local officials, and the Central Office as well, as it would give both the
Central Office and the local officials time to review the position. Let us try to do the best
We can for our members. You will not do it by passing this resolution.
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): I am delighted to see the change of front
of our Northampton delegates. I would like to direct the attention of the Conference
this. The Council have just as much control as they had over the weather on Wednesday
---

---
156
afternoon. The only place where you will stop this extraordinary output is in the factory.
The members will have to deal with it. It is a splendid ideal and a thing we must work
for. It is useless appealing to the Council to do it. What can the Council do in a case
instanced by Mr. Rabbitt ? It must be dealt with by the members of the branch.
Although it may benefit the members temporary to earn £5, £6 or £7 per week, it will
eventually make their position wors.. It is like trying to make men good by passing an
Act of Parliament. It is impossible. The Council can assist you, but no action they may
take by putting this in the rules will stop it.

Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P.: I am delighted to se, the change of front upon this import-
ant matter. Knocking up and down the country you immediately become convinced
upon the point. I have always felt payment by results the best thing, otherwise the
employer handles your money. As trade union officers, it is our duty to assess the opera-
tions correctly. Some of you must have assessed them decently. When you speak
on the platform you are abused if you say anything about what men get above the minimum.
Employers are finding it very convenient to put operatives on daywork because they will
give up talking about daywork, because the moment you begin to do so there is another
kind of opposition comes up because you have some expert men whom you cannot control.
Don't let us try to encourage a reduction in the standard of a man, and I hope you will
talk as little as possible about daywork conditio.is. I found in one district that men
were earning from thirty to fifty shillings per week for the employers over the statement and
above the wage they received. They are the people who persecute the piecework method
We shall hav: to be very careful about this matter. The sign of the times is to broaden
out, and we should be prepared to take the point of view that payment by results is the
best method. Look at the money the men in the Press department can earn to-day since
statements have been fixed up, and I suggest to you that that would have not been possible
but for the piecework system.

Mr. A. STOTT (Heckmondwike) asked if a firm could change from daywork to
piecework without notice.
THE CHAIRMAN: That is clearly laid down in the Agreement that proper notice
must be given.

The Resolution was not carried.

Mr. E. LAW (Northampton No. 2) proposed Item 88.

88 Northampton No. 2.-New Rule." The abolition of all Minute Notice
Contracts, and that the term of en ployment shall be a week's notice on
either side."

Practically all the factories in Northampton work to a week's notice principle. Three
or four factories do not and we do not want our men sent out of the factory at the will
of the employer. The manufacturers claim they should have uniformity, and so we claim
a member should be given a week's notice when the employer wants him to leave.
Mr. E. BROWN (Northampton No. 2) seconded. There should be one rule only,
and that to apply to all boot and shoe operatives throughout the country, and we think
a week's notice should always be given.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): I agree with the principle of the week's notice. It
would be true to say that 800 operatives in Norwich are working by hand each relying
upon his own labour. As a result of the custom which has been in operation from 50 to 80
years, freedom has been maintained whereby an operative leaves a factory without objec-
tion. As his contract is finished with any firm, he leaves. If the manufacturers still
insist in these cases upon a minute notice, what would be our position ?
THE CHAIRMAN: The manufacturer is protected by the law of the land. Our
arrangement is against the law. The Terms of Settlement do not apply to the old hands
at all. So far as Norwich is concerned we should have to support the attitude of the men
if at all possible.

The Resolution was carried.

Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath) proposed Item 89, and expressed the hope that the
Conference would unanimously endorse the same.
89 Arbroath. New Rule." That full reports be published of the proceedings
of conferences with Employers when the Council are negotiating new
Terms of Settlement."
Mr. H. FRASER (Norwich) seconded the resolution.
THE CHAIRMAN: If this is carried then we should have to ask the employers
to agree first, because it would shut the employers' mouths. You cannot always say


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**thing.**

**157**

everything you know, even to your own members. The employers sometimes take us into
their confidence, and with others I agree that "too much knowledge may be a dangerous
Mr. J. P. REID (Arbroath): I am not asking for verbatim reports; only a full
report.

**THE CHAIRMAN:** We have had reports which have been found that they do more
harm than good. Very often even our statements are not accepted.
The Resolution was declared lost.

Item 90 falls as a consequence of the clause passed in the Council's Address to Con-
ference.

**Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden) proposed Item 91.**
**91 Higham and Rushden.—New Rule.—" Contributions to be paid by Union
for members with no income."**

**Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member):** The Council agreed to this some time ago
as a temporary matter, and whilst I don't want it to be dropped I hope the delegates
will reject this resolution and leave the matter with the Council.
for members, and not for "financial members."

**Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden):** Do you ever give benefits but to
financial members?

**THE GENERAL SECRETARY:** If we did we might be landed into thousands of
pounds expenditure for people who have only belonged to us three or four weeks. So far
is the Central Office is concerned we are not honouring claims sent in except those who are
financial members. Clearly the intention was for financial benefits only. I quite agree with
what Mr. Len. Smith has said, and hope you will bear that in mind, as it is very important.

**THE CHAIRMAN:** We already have information that some branches are com-
mitting this offence. I hope it is not the Higham and Rushden Branch. My information
is that in one branch it has been paying this benefit for its members, and I shall have to
investigate the matter.
The Resolution was ultimately withdrawn.

**Education.**

**Item 92.**
**92 Kettering Nos. 1 and 2.-Workers' Educational Trade Union Committee.—**
"This Conference presses on the Executive Committee the necessity of
at once considering the desirability of linking up with the Workers'
Educational Trade Union Committee, and thus affording to the members
of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives similar educational
facilities as are enjoyed by the Iron and Steel Trades Federation, the
Union of Post Office Workers and other organisations."

**THE CHAIRMAN:** I suggest that you should leave this matter at present because
Gar General Secretary is on a committee dealing with the matter, and we are at present
Faiting for their report.

**Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering):** In bringing forward this resolution I only ask
The Executive Council to at once consider the desirability of linking up with the Workers'
ucational Trade Union Committee. On this committee the Trades Congress have
epresentation. The Congress has accepted its findings and endorsed the activities of the
Committee. I want our Council to consider the advantages and bring it into operation
as soon as possible.

**THE GENERAL SECRETARY:** One very important report upon this particular
matter was to be presented to the General Council yesterday. I know the purport of
the report is to try and link up these bodies to try and prevent overlapping, and then the
whole matter will be explained to the Congress in September next. If that falls through
We might consider this scheme.

**Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering):** Our recommendation does not bind the Con-
lerence to anything.
The Resolution was endorsed.

**Item 93.**

**93 Kettering Nos. 1 and 2.-Hours of Labour." This Conference urges the
Executive Council, in its negotiations with the Employers' Associations,
to continuously and strenuously press for the realisation of Object 11
in the Rules of the Union, feeling that the fulfilment of such rule will go
far to absorb the unemployed in the Boot and Shoe Industry."


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
158
Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering) begged leave to formally move this resolution.
which was formally seconded by Mr. J. E. CHAPMAN (Kettering No. 2).
THE CHAIRMAN said the matter would not be lost sight of.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): I should just like to say, Mr. Chairman, that in
all our negotiations we have pressed this point, and although upon the last occasion we
were unable to get any alteration, nevertheless the employers know we shall concentrate
upon it.
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Leicester Women's) proposed Item 94.
94 The following Resolution to be passed at the Conference held in London
during Whit-week, May 21st to 26th, 1923 :-
"That the Council take the necessary steps to amend the Rules in
accordance with the various resolutions passed to register the
same with the Registrar under the necessary Acts of Parliament,
and that the new Rules should come into force on and from Saturday,
September 1st, 1923."
Mr. L. SHAW (London Metro.) seconded the resolution, and upon being put to
the vote of the delegates, THE CHAIRMAN announced it was carried unanimously.
The Union's Jubilee.
THE CHAIRMAN : As we said in our Address, next year will be the Union's Jubilee.
It is our intention to hold a three days' Conference at Stafford where the Union was formed,
and from 1924 to commence our Biennial Conferences, the first of which will then be held
in 1926. For historical purposes we shall call that the first Biennial Conference of the
future, and three years will have to elapse before our rules can be altered. We ask for
your endorsement upon this matter.
The proposal of the CHAIRMAN was unanimously endorsed.
Thanks to the Central Office Staff.
THE CHAIRMAN: Votes of thanks have been dispensed with, because we are only
here to do our duty. There is one matter to which I especially wish to draw your attention.
Mr. Buckle, during the week, made the remark that we had a most efficient and reliable
staff, a staff which is capable of doing our work, and despite all the ills to which the flesh
is heir, they have, during the absence of our General Secretary upon International affairs-
and even during his trip to America last year-carried on the work of the office in a most
satisfactory and efficient manner, without any hitch, and I feel it is my duty to pay a tribute
to them. (Applause.). Perhaps Mr. Bordoli will say a word in reply.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY expressed his entire agreement with the remarks
of the Chairman.
Mr. ERNEST BORDOLI, on behalf of the Staff, in a few words, expressed
to the Chairman and to the Delegates, his appreciation of the kindly references which
had been made to himself and the Staff for the work they had performed, and said
nothing gave him, nor the Staff, greater pleasure than to put forth their best efforts on
behalf of the officials and members of the Union generally.
The business of the Conference having been concluded, the delegates rose at 5.25 p.m.
E.B


---
Here is the extracted text:
Telephone No.:
4438 Museum, London.
Telegraphic Address:
"Natunishop, Holb., London."
NATIONAL UNION OF
BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES
(Registered under the Trade Union Acts, No. 432; Affiliated to the Trades Union
Congress, the General Federation of Trade Unions and the Labour Party).
Monthly Report for June, 1923.
Seat of Government and General Secretary's Office:
34, GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1.
WHERE ALL BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS MUST BE ADDRESSED.
PRICE ONE PENNY.

---
Here is the extracted text:
These Reports are Printed for
the Use of Members only.
SPECIAL NOTICES.
ALL RETURNS TO BE SENT IN TIME TO REACH THE
OFFICE BY THE 15th OF EACH MONTH, OTHERWISE A FINE
OF 2s. 6d. WILL BE ENFORCED.
It is particularly requested that Branch Secretaries should send
Cash WITH the Returns, and not send Stamps in Payment.
The following Goods can be had at the Office :-
Branch Contribution Books in various sizes.
Shops Clerks' Books, ruled and well bound.
Receipt Books.
Large and Small Envelopes, with General Secretary's Name and
Address printed on.
Contribution Cards, with Secretary's Name and Address printed
on front, and also without name. 1s. 10d. dozen up to 20 dozen,
1s. 7d. dozen over 20 dozen.
Official Note Paper, with Printed Heading and Names and
Addresses of Secretaries.
Sick Certificate Books.
Books of Rules are supplied to Branches at 1d. each.
Return Sheets, Out-of-Work Benefit Sheets, Out-of-Work
Contribution Sheets, Out-of-Work Insurance Contribution Sheets,
Victimisation Sheets, Compensation Sheets, Travelling Sheets,
Dispute Sheets, Arbitration Forms, Funeral Forms, and Bail Notes
in Books are supplied Free.
All Claims to be sent in on the forms provided for that purpose.
ORGANISING BILLS will be supplied FREE to Branches upon
application to the General Secretary.


---
Boots, Shoes and Slippers
Insist upon your Footwear
bearing this Stamp.
With the Union Stamp on are
supplied by the following firms :
Manufacturers of
Stamp No.
Men's & Youths'
1
All kinds
2
Women's & Girls'
3
Women's & Girls'
4
All kinds
5
Boys', Youths' & Men's 6
Boys', Youths' & Men's 7
Boys', Youths' & Men's 8
All kinds
9
Women's & Girls'
10
Men's & Boys' Strong
Nailed Work
11
Ladies', Girls' & Boys' 12
All kinds
13
All kinds of Children's 14
All kinds..
15
All kinds
17
All kinds..
18
Strong & Half Strong 21
Men's, Youths' & Boys'
Nailed and Bradded 23
Boots and Shoes
All kinds
24
25
26
27
28
29
A List of Retail Shops where Union Stamped Footwear can be obtained may be had
on application to Mr. E. L. POULTON, J.P., 34, Guilford Street, London W.C. 1.
PUSH THE UNION STAMPED GOODS.
June.
A

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
TRADE UNION STAMP FOR
BOOT & SHOE REPAIRERS.
The following Firms use the " STAMP " :-
Stamp No.
BROCKLEY, Surrey
Mr. F. Jeffery, 1, Merritt Road, Crofton
Park
16
CHESHAM
Mr. J. Mead, 150, High Street
14
CHESTERFIELD
J. W. Booth, Eyre Street, Hasland
7
DARTFORD
Industrial Co-op. Society, 73, Kent Road
17
DUNDEE
T. Malone, Mid Street
4
DUBLIN
Arnold Lowe, 31½, Upper Kevin Street
10
GRANTHAM
F. Lewin, 6 and 7, Chapel Street
19
LEEDS
J. Chapman, 5, Bulmer Street,
Meanwood Road
21
LEICESTER
J. Smith, 30, Eldon Street
9
Ralph Wood, 47, Cottesmore Road
15
Messrs. J. T. Marriott & Co.,
74, St. Nicholas Square
20
"
Edward Gee, 51, Wolverton Road
22
LEIGH
Co-operative Society Ltd., Leigh
13
MANCHESTER
J. Mason, 15, Oakhill Street, Heath
Street, Cheetham Hill
1
Messrs. Roberts & Son, 98, Fairfield
Street, London Road
2
NORTHAMPTON
Society, Downing Street
Manchester and Salford Equitable Co-op.
8
NOTTINGHAM
T. W. Lewis, 72, Ethel Street
3
PLYMOUTH
J. Seymour, 79, Woodborough Road
12
Messrs. Petitt & Co., 105, Tavistock Road
11
All Trade Unionists should have their Repairs done
by Repairers who use the TRADE UNION STAMP.
Full particulars from General Secretary :-
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 34, Guilford Street, LONDON, W.C. 1.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
NAT TELI 4438 MUSEUN, LONDON
National Union
Tel Address: NATUNISHOP, HOLB., LONDON
of
all Boot & Shoe Operatives
Affed
the Trades Union Congrass, the General Federation of
Trade Uncens and National Labow Party
Approved under the State Nobonal Health Insurance Acta Approval No. 281
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
General President
T. F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
EL POULTON J.P.
SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
34, GUILFORD STREET
LONDON. W.CI.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
MONTHLY REPORT.
25TH JUNE, 1923.
THE STATE OF TRADE
continues about the same as last month. The figures given by the Ministry
of Labour in the Gazette are as follow:-
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
There was a temporary slight improvement in the state of employment at most
centres of the boot and shoe trade in the middle of May owing to pressure of orders for
Whitsuntide; but this was not maintained, except to a small extent at some centres,
and employment at the end of the month was slack on the whole, with short time working
still very prevalent. The Whitsuntide holidays were extended at many centres.
Employment at Leicester continued fair, only a small amount of short time being
worked. There was a further slight improvement at Northampton, but short time was
still worked and about half the factories closed for a whole week at Whitsuntide. At
Wellingborough employment was still bad. Apart from a temporary improvement
before the holidays, employment at Kettering continued poor; there was much unemploy-
ment, and those who remained in employment were working only about three-quarter
time, on the average. Employment at Stafford continued fair, full time being worked.
There was no marked change at Norwich. In the Bristol and Kingswood district employ-
ment remained poor, though there was a temporary improvement before the Whitsuntide
holidays in the light footwear trade. At Leeds employment continued very quiet in the
heavy boot trade; in the light footwear trade it was fair. Employment in the slipper
trade in the Rossendale Valley continued fair.
In Scotland employment was bad at all the principal centres.
and repairing trades, as indicated by the unemployment books lodged at Employment
The percentage of workpeople unemployed in the boot, shoe, and slipper making
Exchanges, was 7.9 on the 21st May, as compared with 8.5 on the 23rd April.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
348
The following table summarises the information received from those employers who
furnished returns for the three periods under review:
Number of Workpeople
Week
ended
19th May,
1923
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a
Month ago Year ago
Per
cent.
Per
cent.
Total Wages paid to all
Workpeople
Week
ended
19th May,
1923
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a
Month ago Year ago*
Per
Per
cent.
cent.
ENGLAND AND WALES
2,113
2.3
5.8
5,194
+ 0.6
4.5
London
9,146
- 0.0
+ 5.5
24,566
- 0.9
+ 4.3
Leicester
2,677
0.1
4.5
6,362
+ 2.8
- 5.6
Leicester Country District
6,836
+ 0.4
- 2.6
17,343
+ 2.1
- 6.0
Northampton
District
Northampton Country
7,822
+ 0.6
+ 1.9
18,579
+ 4.8
+ 4.4
Northampton
3,344
0.3
- 4.5
9,015
+ 7.7
+12.3
Kettering
2,573
- 0.1
+ 5.8
6,450
+ 0.6
+ 6.7
Stafford and District
4,402
- 1.6
- 4.9
9,294
+ 1.7
- 9.1
Norwich and District
Bristol, Kingswood and
District
2,102
+ 4.0
+11.6
4,379
+12.1
+22.6
Leeds and District
1,871
- 1.7
+ 0.6
4,068
+ 8.9
- 1.5
Lancashire (mainly
Rossendale Valley)
4,488
+ 0.7
+17.5
10,271
+ 1.0
+11.2
Birmingham and District
1,002
- 0.4
+ 1.2
1,908
- 0.8
- 6.5
Other parts of England and
Wales
1,404
- 1.0
+ 7.8
2,687
+ 0.7
+ 4.3
ENGLAND AND WALES
49,780
- 0.0
+ 2.6
120,116
+ 2.5
+ 1.9
SCOTLAND
2,545
+ 0.9
5,464
+ 3.1
+ 9.2
GREAT BRITAIN
52,325
+ 0.0
+ 2.4
125,580
+ 2.5
+ 2.2
* Comparison of earnings is affected by reductions in rates of wages.
Returns received from firms employing 40,949 workpeople in the week ended the 19th
May showed that about 24 per cent. of these workpeople were on short time in that week,
to the extent of 12 hours a week on the average.
The exports of boots and shoes in May, 1923, amounted to 87,523 dozen pairs, or 23,016
dozen pairs more than in April, 1923, and 27,679 dozen pairs more than in May, 1922.
DISPUTES.
A strike occurred at the factory of Messrs. R. E. Tricker & Co.,
Northampton, on the 19th inst., some 43 operatives being affected. The
dispute arose upon questions affecting wages and piecework statements. The
firm refused to negotiate with the local officials. As a result the operatives
ceased work upon instructions of the local officers. The following day the
head of the firm, Mr. E. Barltrop, called at the Central Office, and had a long
interview with the General Secretary, who made suggestions with a view to
an early settlement by the local officers. As a result of the efforts of the
General Secretary, the local branch officers met the principals of the firm, and
conceded a 4s. weekly increase to male operatives, and 2s. to 6s. to the women
operatives, over and above the minimum rate of wages. In addition quantity
statements are to be prepared; these to come into operation during the early
part of August.
the dispute was amicably settled on Friday last, the 22nd inst. The firm has
---

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**349**

**POLITICAL MATTERS.**

The position still remains, as we stated last month, in a very unsatisfactory
state. The Government, in its method of dealing with national and inter-
national affairs, would seem to be constantly in a very timid frame of mind.
We do not pretend to agree with the Russian method of government so far as
any attempt to apply it to this country is concerned, that being the business of
the Russian people. That is no reason why we should not try to come to some
agreement so that trade can begin to move without hindrance between the two
countries, and points of differences between England and Russia could surely
be settled at this time of day by having a conference of representatives of the
two Governments.

Then there is the matter of the Deportees and Ireland. The members
who have followed this question, and we hope all of them have, will have
noticed the attempts of the Government to widen the scope of their Bill which
would have had the effect of narrowing, if anything, the liberties of the freedom
of the subject, and giving greater power to the Officials. Thanks, however, to
the strenuous fight put up by the Opposition, especially the Labour Party,
very considerable improvements were made in the Bill during its passage through
the House of Commons.

We regret we cannot report any progress in connection with the Housing
question, or the further fulfilment of the Government's obligation regarding
international affairs.

At the risk of being told we are constantly harping upon these things,
we again repeat the necessity for a strong and ever-growing opposition in the
House of Commons to fight the Government's policy. This can most effectively
be brought about by constant interest in matters political and creating a healthy
atmosphere in all parts of the country, so that whenever the opportunity pre-
sents itself we may increase the number of those who are determined to bring
about so far as it lies within their power, such a reorganisation of society as
will give opportunity to the people as a whole to be free from cares, anxieties
and worries which the present system inflicts upon multitudes day by day.

We would particularly call attention to the constant attempts being
made to undermine the method by which funds are raised for political matters.
This is done, we know, under the guise of the great concern that certain indi-
viduals have for the welfare and liberty of the members of a union. We trust
no members will be misled by this camouflage, especially having regard to the
small amount of contribution paid by the members to the political fund. There
are also regulations for those members conscientiously opposed to this payment
for them to contract out, and we have never put any pressure upon a member
who so desires to contract out.

These attempts at trying to restrict the workers in their corporate capacity
from political work, which in reality is behind the whole business, is such as
calls for our whole-hearted opposition, and we feel confident the members will
B


---
Here is the extracted text:
350
behalf of the Labour Party, which Party will work not for the interests of one
interest themselves, and in their several districts take up political work on
section of the community, but in the interests of the nation as a whole.
ATTEMPTS TO PAY LESS THAN THE MINIMUM RATES.
By reference to page 250 of the April report it will be seen the peculiar
to pay the minimum rates of pay agreed to between the Manufacturers' Federa-
views that are held by certain people in KINGSWOOD as to their obligations
tion and the Union on the one hand, and the prices fixed by the Boards of
Arbitration for the district on the other. The dangerous policy that was
pursued in this case of subsidising a man's wages from the local rates, and thus
enable the employer to escape his responsibilities, will be seen by all.
We have had our attention called to another case from IPSWICH, where
a boot operative drowned himself in consequence of certain work being offered
to him below the proper rate, which he refused, presumably because of the
offer made to him, and for the time being, the local Employment Exchange
withheld his State benefit. At the inquest the son of the deceased said his
father's money had been stopped by the local Exchange because he had refused
a job of making canvas shoes at the rate of 2s. 6d. per dozen. A juryman,
who had knowledge of the trade, told the Coroner that a good workman could
earn 7s. 6d. daily at the work offered to the deceased, whilst the representative
from the Employment Exchange intimated that the deceased was interviewed
in respect of a vacancy for a boot laster, but did not think he could do the
particular work offered. The suspension of his benefit was only temporary,
and due to a discrepancy in the statements filed at the local Exchange.
It should be noted that this person was not a member of the Union, but
the case proved once more the necessity for belonging to a Union, and thereby
be enabled to have these matters attended to by the local officials. We felt
that the matter was such as to ask our Mr. W. Hindes, J.P., to make enquiries
into the whole affair, and we trust good results will follow.
FIVE-WEEK ΜΟΝΤΗ.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEEΝΤΗ!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach, the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same.
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
Returns

---
352
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
UNION'S CONFERENCE.-The most interesting event during the month has been
the Whitsuntide Conference, where the delegates took very seriously into consideration
the untold suffering that falls upon the more unfortunate members of our Union, through
no fault of their own, nor yet their employer, the members often having to "stand off"
through lack of employment. The Union's attitude has been all along to endeavour, to
the best of their ability, to save the distress amongst its members, and for this purpose
granted, after placing the facts before the members, some very large sums of money.
They have now come to the conclusion that with our method of settling disputes without
resorting, only in very extreme cases, to the weapon of strike, that the accumulated funds
could be better utilised by stretching the benevolent side of our Union to such an extent
that we may be more generous with the Unemployment Benefit than has hitherto been the
case. Although this new regulation cannot become operative until September, we feel
that we may be more generous with the Unemployment Benefit than has hitherto been the
sure the members will appreciate the wisdom prevailing whereby members without income
case. Although this new regulation cannot become operative until September, we feel
members will not feel that we are asking too much if we ask for an additional contribution
for this particular purpose. One is convinced that it would be a very good thing had we
work, and if at the end of two years we find that we are spending too fast, perhaps the
at the end of two or three years we might be in a position to make more definite and more
got a larger and more permanent scheme than the one already in existence. Perhaps
drastic proposals: for the time being we must await the turn of events.
Personally, I am very sorry to see the Conference decided to withdraw from the
General Federation of Trade Unions, although that organisation appears to be likely to
join up with the Trades Union Congress. Personally, I hope the time is not far distant
when there will be one organisation for all workers.
The Conference also came to the conclusion that Annual Conferences were not as good
as Biennial ones held in previous years. They have therefore changed to the old position
which worked so well. It might be interesting just to mention that next year the Conference
will be held at Stafford, where we hope to celebrate the jubilee of the Union's existence
of 50 years. It is too early yet for any of us to say what form this will take, but we think
it will be made a very memorable occasion.
Speaking of the Conference generally, discussions were very good, debates ran rather
high, and voting on some matters very close. Everything considered, a very good Con-
ference indeed.
BACK TO THE UNIONS CAMPAIGN. In addition to the above we have spent a whole
week in Leicester and Leicestershire, where a Trade Union Week has been held on the
suggestion of the General Council of the Trades Union Congress. Dinner-hour meetings,
evening meetings, or open-air meetings were addressed by numerous speakers, including
myself and our Mr. McCarthy. At the end of the week the officials of the Leicester Branch,
with Mr. McCarthy and myself, held Sunday morning meetings at Anstey, Rothley and
Mountsorrel, all well attended, and in the evening a demonstration-one of the best ever
held in the City of Leicester-took place in the Market Place, in which we played a part.
We are fully persuaded that good will result, as Trade Unionism has had a fillip by the
work put in.
MANSFIELD, DERBY AND NOTTINGHAM BOARD OF ARBITRATION has again taken up
our time, and we have held several meetings of employers and operatives in obtaining
information for the drafting of Statements for this part of the district. There is a variety
of work, Children's, Women's, Canvas and Fabric, all of which have to be provided for.
We are meeting the employers again this week with one or two of the several sub-committees,
for the purpose of considering the type of statement which will be most applicable for this
work. Whilst in some districts employers are endeavouring to introduce Day Labour,
yet in other districts employers are doing their utmost to adopt Payment by Results,
but as the employer has the choice of working either daywork or piece, we maintain our
right to advise all operatives whether on one system or the other, to work strictly to state-
ment, and we fully believe this will be carried out. We have been invited to meet some
employers who feel that competition in other parts of the country are pressing upon them
to such an extent that they claim that they cannot get into the market. We have pointed
work, they are likely to be much more successful than those firms who make a variety of
goods. We are of the opinion that specialisation seems to be more and more the order of
the day, and it is only by acute organisation that employers in the future will be able to
maintain the position that they have held in the past.


---
Here is the extracted text:
353
firms are bound to adopt up-to-date methods if they are going to maintain their position
A visit to HUCKNALL, in Nottinghamshire, convinced us that even old-fashioned
in the commercial world. We should very much like, when we come into contact with
these outlying factories, to find that the operatives have been loval to the Union, who can
do so much for them if they will only continue their membership and confidence in the
organisation.
complaint of the firms, and another regarding one of the branches. In both instances
It has been my lot to pay a visit to KETTERING for two reasons: one owing to the
I am pleased to report the fact that our Kettering colleagues' activities are bearing good
tightening up its membership. In fact we are of the opinion that the best of employers
fruit, and there was no need for the employers to be frightened because the Union is
conference, where it is advised in the interest of the whole trade that it is beneficial for
everywhere will do their utmost to help us to carry out the resolution agreed to at the last
both employer and employed to be well organised. We have learnt recently how unfor-
tunate it is that some employers are not organised in some districts, where sooner or later
we are likely to have to spend our members' hard-earned money to maintain what ought
to be maintained without any trouble.
"DAILY HERALD." - At this juncture I should like to once more make an appeal to
all our members to continue their support of the Daily Herald. The equal of such a paper
is not in existence in this country, and it behoves every worker of whatever political colour,
to take this paper, and I hope as many as possible will fill up their pledge cards and become
regular adherents to the movement, which has done so much for all of us.
who wear
boots made only by Trade Unionists, and for preference those bearing the Trade Union
wearing stamped boots denotes
MECKLENBURGH STREET.
LONDON, W.C. 1.
18th June, 1923.
ihards
General President.
UNIONS AND POLITICS.
"Is the trade union movement superior or subordinate to party politics?" asks
M. Edwards, 90, St. Paul's Road, Kennington, referring to the discussion at last week's
conference of the Boot and Shoe Operatives on the subject of affiliation to the Federation
of Trades Unions.
"The G.F.T.U.," he adds, " is the Help One Another' society in industrial welfare.
Its active operations must be less spectacular than political controversies and elections,
but is it not the best conception of trade-union brotherhood to which membership can be
had irrespective of political opinion?"-Daily Herald, 5th June, 1923.
£53,000,000 PAID TO UNEMPLOYED.
Big Increase on 1920-21 Figures.
in the report of the Comptroller and Auditor-General on the accounts of the Fund for
A big increase both in Unemployment Fund contributions and benefits are reported
1921-22, issued as a White Paper on Irth June, 1923.
Contributions Trebled.
Contributions during 1921-22 showed an increase on the previous year from £13,483,118
1,42,431,769, and payments of benefit from £34,126,201 to 153,060,622.
This increase was due mainly to the further extension of unemployment insurance
under the Acts of 1921 and 1922.
Over 15 Millions Deficiency.
The report states that after the realisation of the investments remaining with the
National Debt Commissioners at the close of the 1920-21 account, it became necessary
to obtain from the Treasury advances out of the Consolidated Fund for the purpose of
discharging the liabilities of the Unemployment Fund. At the close of 1921-22 the total
deficiency on the fund was 15,386,188 15. 7d.


---
354
ORGANISERS' MONTHLY REPORTS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
After our Conference I went to Leicester with the General President, Mr. Richards.
to take
perature, and it was surprising how people stood for hours listening to the speakers. There
were no indoor meetings. On our platforms we had Engineers, Bakers, Brass Workers,
Hosiery, General Workers and Shoe Workers represented. There was an eagerness on
the part of all to put in as much effort as possible that week for our common cause.
I went to
just outside. The Council member and local Secretary, Mr. Alex. Smith, and I, seemed
the girls when apparently
Inside set in motion to counteract our efforts. For the time being this
counter move has checked our work. We have placed the details before the local Board
of Arbitration for the matter to be judged on rules governing both sides.
I spent a few days at Manchester and helped the local Secretary in organising a shop
where things were getting loose owing to the want of a collector. At another firm where
some new work was introduced the women could not earn the proper wages. We got a
promise that the Manager would go into the prices with the operatives concerned, and try
to adjust them. This firm is well organised and the representatives of the Union are always
well received by the management.
I spent two days at Stafford. The males are highly organised here, and we are
hopeful of getting the females up to the same standard. When visiting a shop here with
Mr. Dunn, I was pleased to hear the head of the firm say that he would not think of sus-
pending or discharging a Shop President because of his position as such. He looked
bound up in the whole procedure governing the Federation and the Union. Much un-
upon the Shop Presidents as a necessary part of the machinery of our Union and as generally
pleasantness would be avoided if all manufacturers in the industry took this statesman-
like view of things.
23rd June, 1923.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
D. MCCARTHY.
The past month has been divided with the Union Conference, Kingswood, and a visit
to Frankfort to attend a meeting of the E.C. of the International Shoe and Leather Workers.
The Conferences of the Union that have been held in London, have been rather
unfortunate in regard to the places in which we have met. The one this year, at least so
far as the morning sessions were concerned, being the worst of all. It will be worth while
getting away from London, if only to have a decent hall in which to meet.
The impression left on one's mind is that on the whole the Conference was an improve-
ment on the two previous ones.
interesting, while of course the amending of rules gives added scope for debate. There
It may be that a longer agenda helps to make it more
was no outstanding feature this year, largely due perhaps to the fact that the working
conditions have been more or less stabilised by the last two agreements. The first one
met with some keen criticism, and perhaps rightly so, as it contained a new principle in
regard to wages, and any change should be carefully examined, but there are few to-day
who would argue that experience has not justified the step taken. If only there could be
a development of trade, and full time become the order of the day, our members would be
able to appreciate even more the merits of the new order of things.
The position at Kingswood does not show great improvement. Trade picks up very
slowly. Usually when Whitsun has turned the busy season commences, but this year
no perceptible change has taken place. The depression in wages, especially among the
workers who need heavy footwear, is having its effect on Kingswood boot operatives.
It demonstrates the folly, when a nation has nothing left but its home market, of curtailing
the purchasing power of those who would make that market a good one, had they but the
means to do so.
that many firms at Whitsun met their obligations to their operatives under the Holiday
Still, notwithstanding these adverse cicrumstances, it is pleasing to be able to report
Provision Scheme, who had previously declared they would have nothing further to do
with it. One regrets the position is still far from satisfactory, and it is to be hoped the
Federation will see to it that those who claim to be its members shall honourably meet the
obligations that are attached to the agreement which bear the signatures of its chief
representatives.
desired direction. In the meantime it is up to the operatives to maintain a solid organisa
Perhaps an influx of trade, with the factories in better running order will help in the
tion, so as to be ready, should action be needed to compel the proper observation of mutual
obligations. One incident in the district recently proves the value of united action. An


---
Here's the extracted text from the image, organized for readability:

**355**

employer wanted to withhold that which was due to his workpeople. It was the last
straw, so to speak, and they told him they were stopping work. He tried a little bluff,
but when he saw he was up against it, to use his own words, he meekly submitted. More
of this spirit by the workers would help enormously. The absence of it gives to the un-
scrupulous employer the encouragement to further infringe upon the rights of his work-
people, and one success leads him to further effort. There is nothing in our National
Agreement or local statements that the operatives can afford to give up. The situation
for the time being may be difficult, but a little courage now will save a deal of trouble
later on.

Let the officials help, and when they have taken up a grievance see that they have the
backing of those for whom they are acting. There is nothing worse in Trade Union
activity for an officer, local or national, to be let down by the members. In the meantime,
so far as Kingswood is concerned, our policy is to go steadily forward.

The visit to Frankfort was in many ways interesting. It is evident that the workers
generally place great value on the eight-hour day or 48-hour working week, and it was
with pleasure one learned that its application is general on the Continent; in Germany the
hours are 47, and that in several countries it has been given the force of law. It is also
of interest that in Germany the legal enforcement of agreements, which we are seeking,
is in operation. Instead of being a pious opinion at the end of an agreement, it is an
established fact.

There were many evidences as to the effect on the working class in Germany of the
Ruhr occupation. When I was in Munich last year the reports from Austria and Germany
showed almost a complete absence of unemployment. Now, some factories are closed and
the remainder almost entirely on short time. It was stated that over 90 per cent. of the
boot operatives of Germany were either out of work or on short time. With industry
depressed like that, how absurd it is to speak of getting reparations.

Further results of the occupation are shown in the rapid falling of the Mark, and when
it is understood that the price of bread and other foodstuffs follow the Mark, the position
of the workers can readily be understood. A wages agreement loses its value before a
week has passed, in fact a day may be sufficient, so much does the situation change.

When will Europe return to sanity? The question that one is continually being asked
is, “When is trade going to improve?” To which I have always replied, "Not until
Europe becomes settled, and most people agree." And yet so far as Government policy
is concerned, how slowly we move in that direction.

It is pleasing to know that organised labour in practically every country is against
this imperialistic militarist policy that holds Europe in its grip; and it is encouraging
when one finds a resolution condemning the occupation of the Ruhr drafted and moved by
a French comrade, which was the case at Frankfort. Once again it may well be that it
is from the working-class movement a solution of the problem will come.

During the visit one had the opportunity of looking over a boot factory and also of
addressing a meeting of shoe operatives. I will endeavour to write about those experiences
next month.

18th June, 1923.
WALTER R. SMITH.

**BENEFITS.**

Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-

**SICK BENEFIT.**

£  s. d.
To December, 1922 598,886 9 3
January, 1923 2,872 12 4
February 2,399 13 0
March 3,050 12 2
April 3,902 6 2
May 2,669 1 4
£613,780 14 3

**OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.**

£ s. d.
To December, 1922 270,614 8 4
January, 1923 4,768 13 9
February 3,992 5 9
March 3,621 8 9
April 4,427 12 3
May 3,410 18 0
£290,835 6 10


---
ARBROATH. We end the month with trade as bad as ever, and at the
time this is written, with an intimation of a further cut on the wages. That
puts the lid on with a bang, and the majority of our members will now receive,
after all the deductions, less than £1 per week short-time wages. Truly a
"It never rains but it pours " is an old
axiom, and we are feeling uncomfortable about its truth. We have frequently
noted the fact that one of our group of factories is on full time, and at the
moment it appears we may be in trouble with the management of this firm.
In common with other factories in Scotland, after Basic Statements were
compiled, the finishers and clickers of this place fixed up prices, mutually
agreed upon, and have been working to them for nearly three years. Instead
of posting notice of the " cut " in wages this firm adopted the idea of telling
the pieceworkers they would have to go back to set-wages, but that the best
workers would get 25 per cent. over the minimum rates. Naturally the
members are resenting this departure as they apparently are not to be allowed
any voice in the arrangement, other than being given the privilege of sending
a deputation to hear the decision of the firm. Nor do they feel the complaints
made by the firm about the unsatisfactory results of piecework to be well
founded seeing it has taken such a long time for this to be discovered. A
plentiful supply of orders and a retrospect of twenty months' full time, hardly
support the assertion that the clicking and finishing have been suffering in
quality as the outcome of piecework. But then Scotland produces a distinct
type of employer who usually makes rules or processes, even of logic, obey his
desire rather than their own course. Another factor which weighs with the
operatives is the partial and practical compulsion which made them yield to
the demand for payment by results. On the East Coast of Scotland the men
were unanimously against it, but events in which the employers forced the
pace overcame that opposition. "To be driven out of" what they had to be
"driven into," as one member put it, is just what human nature does not like.
However, we are doing everything possible to prevent a rupture, and our
Carnoustie shopmates may reach a settlement without serious difficulties.
Our branch was fortunate in getting an early report of the Annual Conference
from the Secretary, who was one of the delegates. The Council did well in
putting forward their proposal re Suspension Benefit, but we wish they had a
bigger contribution to work on, so that the waiting period could be eliminated.
All our suspensions are within the limits of the waiting period, and so we can
never expect to get the benefit, even although our suspensions, though short,
come so frequently as to make us lose more time perhaps than those who may
get it. In closing we give our thanks to Conference for their decision re District
Advisory Councils, as we are convinced the Scotland District will derive great
benefit from the activities of this method of uniting and co-ordinating the
work, the thoughts, the aspirations and ideals of the sons of St. Crispin.
BELFAST.-Trade still continues to remain very bad, both in the manu-
facturing and repairing. Again we would remind members that Union benefits
can only be paid in strict accordance with the rules.
CHESHAM.-Trade very bad.
CHESTERFIELD.-Trade is bad, but some of our members have been
sent for and are working four days per week.
CORK.-Trade improving owing to Army Contract for the Free State
Government. Also we secured 58s. minimum for males and 36s. for females.
EDINBURGH.-Pleased to report the repairing trade fairly busy this
month. We, along with other unions. have been busy during our "Back to the


---
```text
357
Union "Campaign. Let us hope that this will result in lapsed members again
joining up in their respective unions. One of our oldest members has passed
away, having met with an accident on the street. Our sympathy is extended
to his wife and family in their sad bereavement.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.-Trade remains poor. There was a spurt
working overtime, but take the whole of the branch trade is about the same
in some factories before Whitsun. Some (particularly Irthlingborough), were
as previous month.
numbers in next month's Report.
as last month.
KILMARNOCK. - Prize Draw postponed until 22nd June, 1923. Winning
KINGSWOOD-Trade in this centre shows slight improvement.
LEICESTER No. 1. - We are sorry to report that trade is not so good
LIVERPOOL. - From reports to hand trade with repairers is about up
to the average for this time of the year, although some firms say they could
do more if they could afford to do the work at a cheaper rate. We note a
report in the Trade Press of the Trade Board meeting at the end of the month,
and that the motion to reduce rates was adjourned, the next meeting of the
Board being fixed for 18th July. We note the delegates at the Union Conference
in their wisdom or otherwise, have decided to withdraw from the General
Federation of Trade Unions, after being affiliated for so many years. Wonders
will never cease!
MAYBOLE. - Trade is a little better and we are hopeful that in a month
and reductions in wages. We here, in Maybole, fail to see how the cost of living
or so will be in full swing, which is much needed in these times of bad work
is only 70 per cent. above 1914, but we suppose as we have to be ruled by the
Board of Trade figures we must grin and bear it.
NORWICH No. 1.-Trade in Norwich continued to improve during May,
the end of the month seeing fewer numbers signing the unemployed book
than has been the case for many months. The slight improvement was of
brief duration, and we regret having to report a sudden lapse in the early days
of June which is fairly general throughout the City. We sincerely hope this
bad patch will be a short one, although the outlook seems to point to 1923
being generally an unsatisfactory year.
PLYMOUTH.-Plymouth has been favoured with a visit from the Labour
Minister, and a speech explaining the policy of the Government with reference
to Trade Boards. We understood the Minister to say that the effect of the
new Trade Board Bill now before Parliament was mainly to carry out the
recommendations of Lord Cave's Committee, and to get back to the position
of the 1909 Act. This apparently means scrapping the Trade Board Act
of 1918, which, it is argued, was introduced during the war to meet abnormal
" What were these abnormal circumstances?"
We think not, because
circumstances, but we ask,
And further, "Have they completely disappeared?"
the main factor in the situation was the high cost of living, and this is still
with us, and a casual glance at the Ministry of Labour Gazette will soon convince
us that the situation is not changed in anything like its entirety since the passing
of the 1918 Act, for we find the cost of living figure from January to August,
1918, 85 to 105 above pre-war, and from January to May, 1923, 80 to 70 above
pre-war; surely this is sufficient to show that abnormal circumstances are
still with us, and any weakening of our protective powers, or the abolition of
their necks, struggling and fighting for the necessities of life which are not even
denied to our dumb animals. Further, we must point out that the new Bill
fails to carry out some of the Cave Committee's recommendations, and recom-
mendations which are vital to the workers and the effective working of the
C
```

---
```text
358
"
guar-
anteed time-rates for pieceworkers," and "overtime rates," these to be backed
Trade Board machinery. The Committee recommended the fixing of
of only a bare-bone minimum. The Trade Board, said Sir Montague Barlow.
will somewhat lose its character of a compulsory wage-fixing instrument, and
by criminal enforcement, but the new Bill provides for the criminal enforcement
voluntary Whitley Council. We like Sir Montague all the more
fade away into a
for telling us the truth, but why he used the word "somewhat" we fail to
understand.
SOUTHAMPTON.-Trade slack with tendency to improvement.
and Turnshoe goods being particularly slack. We are proud to report that
STREET.-There is no general improvement in the state of trade, Welted
Mr. C. Sanger, one of the oldest members of the Street Branch, has been unani-
mously appointed by the members of the Street Urban District Council as its
chairman for ensuing year. This is a fitting recognition of the many public
offices Mr. Sanger has filled with credit to himself and honour to our branch.
By virtue of this office he also becomes a Justice of the Peace.
GREAT YARMOUTH.-Trade bad.
CHANGES IN MINIMUM RATES OF WAGES DUE TO AN ALTERATION
IN THE "COST OF LIVING" FIGURE.
The cost of living " index figure having fallen to 70, as recorded in the May issue of
this Gazette, the minimum rates of wages effective from 1st June, 1923, are those applicable
during the period when the " cost of living" figure falls within the limits specified by the
respective undermentioned Trade Boards.
These rates will remain in operation so long as the "cost of living" figure remains
within the limits so specified.
Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board (Great Britain).
The rates applicable are those set out in the Board's Notices D. (19), (20) and (21)
for the period when the " cost of living" figure is 70 or below. The principal rates operative
during the period are as follow:-
General minimum time-rates :-
(A) Male Workers.
(i.) Surgical bootmakers, 1s. 7d. per hour; (ii.) male workers of 21 and over with at
least three months' experience in operating (a) power sole stitchers or both power sole
stitchers and Blake (or Richardson) machines, and employed whole time in operating
such machines, 72s. per week; (b) Blake or Richardson machines, and employed whole
time in operating such machines, 67s. per week; (iii.) pressmen responsible for cutting
and costing, 67s. per week; (iv.) foremen and managers, 72s. per week; (v.) male workers
other than those specified above, 57s. per week; (vi.) learners and apprentices: Lower
rates operate for these younger workers, providing conditions laid down by the Trade
Board are complied with.
(B) Female Workers.
week,
(i.) Surgical bootmakers, Is. 7d. per hour; (ii.) foremen and managers, 72s. per
(iii) workers (other than learners) employed on benching and/or finishing, 57s. per week;
(iv.) all other workers of 21 and over, 40s. per week; (v.) learners and other younger
workers: Lower rates are in operation.
A guaranteed time-rate of 72s. per week is effective for foremen and managers, and
for female workers employed as foremen and managers a guaranteed time-rate of 67s.
work set out in the Board's notice D. (21) must be reduced by 12 per cent., and the rates
must be reduced by 5 per cent.
for making (except the items of surgical work referred to above) set out in the same notice
NOTE.-A week means a week of 48 hours.-Labour Gazette, June, 1923.
[These deductions were operative from 1st June, 1923.-E.L.P., G.S.]
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
359
Five Million
Trade Unionists
Own a Daily Paper.
Most of them don't read it.
They don't see what good there is in
having their own newspaper.
They don't know the enlarged “Daily
Herald" gives more of the news they want
than any other paper.
They buy Employers' Newspapers before
they are loyal to their own.
They are the victims of Habit. A bad
habit. An out-of-date habit. An expensive
habit.
SHAKE THEM OUT OF IT.
A friendly word, a quiet reproach. By
such means you, and only you, can win
your friend or workmate to “Take the
Labour Daily First.”


---
premiums
which sub
Act now
or conditions of rent.
361
ately for increased rents, and they will be very soon recouped for what they have lost by
will be liberated 48,000 houses the owners of which will be able to negotiate almost immedi-
holding up, notwithstanding the fact that the holding up has involved a penalty on the
community. Houses which are empty will not be restricted in any way as regards rents,
which an owner is able to exact further rent from a tenant who may have sub-lut to other
tenants. As I understand such a tenant may be asked for an increased rent of to per cent.
on every sub-tenant in the building. I quite agree that there have been grievances under
I should like to refer to that portion of the Bill which relates to sub-letting, and under
sub-tenants have suffered, and I hold no brief for one working man who has exploited
the necessities of his fellow working men by insisting on extortionate rents, any more than
I hold a brief for the landlord who would have made extortions from the working man
had he not been prevented by legislation. My complaint is that the Bill does not help
is the landlord or the owner, and it would have been much better had the tenant been
considered, rather than the own r, in dealing with this grievance. Another complaint
the tenant or the sub-tenant. They will still suffer. The only person helped by the Bill
especially are at a very great disadvantage under the Bill before the House and under the
which I have to make is with regard to service houses. I feel that the agricultural workers
now in operation. I listened last evening to the right hon. Member for Chelmsford
Mr. Pretyman) in that picturesque speech of his about the wonderful houses in which
which farm labourers are housed. I know from experience, having been born in a country
farm labourers live. While it may be perfectly true that there are some good cottages in
received, to live, not in the best class houses built for the artisan, but in the meanest
village, that farm labourers years ago were called upon, because of the awful wages they
and poorest houses to be found in those villages. (An hon. Member
house has, at least, to prove that he requires a house for an employee, but under this Bill
Under the Act which will shortly expire the farmer or the owner of the farm labourer's
can easily imagine what is going to happen to hundreds of thousands of farm labourers if
he has not to prove that. He has only to say that he may want it for an employee and we
the Bill is allowed to pass in its present form.
can leave it to the supporters of the Minister of Health to make all the capital that need
There are a few good points in the Bill, undoubtedly, but I think we of the Opposition,
be made out of its few good points. So far as I am concerned, its many disadvantages
outweigh its advantages. It does not help the tenant to any great extent if at all. It
lessens his security and, after all, that is one of the great sources of worry to the average
exchange for the house in which he lived. We are not complaining about that. I under-
working man to-day. In the past his security was purchased by constant payments in
stand that if I live in a house belonging to another man it is my duty to pay rent, but the
great shortage of houses to-day has meant extra security for the landlord, and I object to
tenant to disturbance by speculators. These speculators are not dead; they are merely
the fact that the insecurity should now be placed on the tenant. The Bill exposes the
as an hon. Member opposite
"and are so to-day.")
for the opportunity to do what they have done in previous years but with added interest
and profit This Bill opens up a way for bringing the tenant into their power as regards
rent, terms and conditions, and I feel I shall have to support the Amendment. Extracts
from Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons, Vol. 164, Thursday, 7th June, 1923.
LEGAL CASES AFFECTING LABOUR.
Workmen's Compensation.
AWARD FOR TOTAL INCAPACITY-WORKMAN UNABLE TO STAND FOR MORE THAN TWO
HOURS CAPACITY TO DO LIGHT WORK.
The appellant in this case was a painter who fell from a ladder and suffered a fracture
of the left ankle in February, 1920, as the result of which three operations became necessary.
He remained in hospital until the middle of 1922, when an agreement was entered into to
pay him ₤1 155. a week. He received this weekly payment until October, 1922, when the
respondents made an application to the County Court Judge to review this amount. An
award was made by the Judge of f1 a week for partial incapacity, finding that the only
incapacity at that time was the workman's inability to stand on a ladder, and that he
tras capable of doing any form of light work. The appellant appealed from this decision
on the ground that he was totally incapacitated and that there was no evidence that be
could do any fohat heigas totally incapacitance was that the appellant was incapablert
Working for more than two hours while standing. Held, that on the evidence the Court
of Appeal could not say that the County Court Judge was bound in law to say that the
appellant was totally incapacitated. The appeal was therefore dismissed.-(Court of
Appeal. Fowler v. Minter.) -Labour Gazette, June, 1923.
---

---
363
CONSUMPTION CURE.
Hope for Cases not too far Advanced. Discovery Explained.
Successful War on Microbes.
which was previously lacking.
"It will be understood that as a general rule when bacteria are inoculated under the
skin of a rabbit, for instance, this animal will develop in itself a power to destroy them,
"The immunity may be produced by the inoculation of dead bacteria, as well as of
living bacteria, and in man the former method is always used, owing to the danger of
producing serious illness with living bacteria.
Destroying of Bacteria.
or to a diseased person to cure it.
"This method of immunising may be applied to a healthy person to prevent disease,
"The smart manner in which immunised persons are enabled to destroy bacteria is
not known. In some cases the microbes are dissolved, and disappear from the blood.
while in others they are eaten up, and destroyed by phagocytic cells in the blood.
Harmless Process.
constitutes the well-known 'opsonic' theory.
"This latest method of defence has been familiarised by Sir Almroth Wright, and
"Its application takes the form of inoculating into an infected patient a dose of the
infecting microbe previously killed.
"This killing process makes the method harmless, and it is the process used by the
Inoculation Department for the last eighteen years with a variable degree of success.
Coating of Fat.
"To be successful, the microbes have to be digestible by the tissue of the patient.
In 1921 Captain Douglas showed that the indigestibility of some microbes was due to a
coating of fat which surrounded them.
"Unfortunately he found that with most bacteria the coat of fat was stuck so hard,
that he could not dissolve it off. and so he was not able to apply his new idea to the treat-
ment.
Dr. Dreyer's Work.
bacillus.
"At this point Professor Dreyer came upon the scene, and began work on the tubercle
"He took a culture, pickled it with formalin, and found he could defat the bacillus
and make it digestible.
"He tried this defatted bacilli upon the treatment of disease in animals, and used four
guinea-pigs for the purpose. Three he treated, and one he left alone. All were diseased.
"The three gradually improved to normal, but the fourth got gradually worse. One
of the three was killed, and it was found that all the tuberculosis inside it had disappeared.
Test on a Man.
"A test on a man was then made in conjunction with Dr. Western. After three
weeks of his treatment the benefit from the tubercle inoculations was greater than from
other forms of treatment.
"We can say that we believe that such cases of phthisis, if not too acute and advanced,
will become normal in temperature, put on weight, and improve in health, and finally
become arrested and cured as a result of the treatment." - Pall Mall Gazette, 15th June,
1923.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
ADMIRALTY.
BOOTS FOR BOYS: R. Coggins & Sons Ltd., Raunds.
BOOTS, HALF: St. Crispin Productive Society Ltd., Raunds; Owens, Smith,
Raunds.
CROWN AGENTS FOR THE COLONIES.
BOOTS: S. Walker, Walgrave, Northants; R. Coggins & Sons Ltd., Raunds,
Wellingborough.-Labour Gazette, June, 1923.


---
366
Housing-A Labour Protest.
WHAT THE NEW RENT BILL WILL DO.
Measure of Protection to Tenants against Ejectment until 1930.
1920 Act until 24th June, 1925, will not remove all the anomalies of the law in regard
Mr. Neville Chamberlain's Bill continuing control of all houses coming under the
to rents.
The tenants' protective clause against immediate ejectment after that date till June.
1930, is carefully protected by the enactment that it can be repealed at an earlier date if
rent, character, and condition of houses may be referred by the court as it thinks fit.
of Health is empowered to establish reference committees, to whom questions relating to
Possible difficulties are met in somewhat airy fashion by the provision that the Minister
Parliament calls for such repeal.
The Bill's second reading-for the text of which see Page Five-will be moved on
Wednesday next.
Confusion on the Rent Law.
Mr. Neville Chamberlain's new Rent Bill-the text of which was issued vyesterday-
contains the following as its main proposals :----
Rent restriction is to continue in force until 24th June, 1925.
restriction then ceases to apply, and the landlord can fix the rent at whatever figure he
There are two exceptions to this. If before that date a house becomes vacant the
may choose.
The second exception is that if a landlord grants a lease or makes an agreement for
a fix the rent without
Acts will no longer apply to that case. If the Bill passes, long-term agreements the
suddenly boom!
Nor is restriction to apply to licensed premises.
A clause has been inserted making it illegal for landlords to sell furniture to a tenant
at more than the value of the furniture, and no one will regret that that form of trickery
is scotched.
The provisions dealing with repairs and sub-letting are also important.
The sanitary authority's certificate that the house is not in a reasonable condition
will be a good defence to a claim by the landlord for rent or proceedings for eviction.
Where, on the contrary side, a house is sublet at a profit rental, an amount not exceed.
ing to per cent. of the net rental may be charged by the landlord.
New Reign of Terror-How Bill Provides Opportunities for Speculators.
"The general principle of the measure is very bad," said Mr. Dan Rider, secretary
of the War Rents League, interviewed last night. "It does not preserve control for two
years."
By decontrolling every house that became empty after the Bill was passed owners
and speculators were encouraged more than ever to obtain possession of such houses,
because they could charge any rents and premiums and throw any burdens upon the
tenants.
"The Bill will open up a reign of terror," he said.
Agents would be able to exercise their well-known coercive powers of persuasion to
get tenants to contract out of the benefit of the Act. So that in two years time there
would be very few houses under the Act.
The whole trend of the Bill was to enable landlords to force their tenants to buy
their worn-out houses at inflated prices.
As to the provision that any new buyer of a house could claim possession, not only
for himself, but for his children, and even his employees, or those who were going to be
his employees, that meant that no one but a relative or a workman of the owner's would
have a chance of any home under the Bill.
Houses must be Home-Children no Longer to be Reared in Stables.
Housing Bill yesterday.
There was a lively interlude to the deliberations of Standing Committee A on the
whole policy of the measure was proceeding on the assumption that the working class
Mr. Wheatley (Labour, Shettleston), speaking with some warmth, declared that the
were different beings to themselves, and that they did not have the same love for their


---
Here there were cries of dissent, but Mr. Wheatley persisted in his protest. He said
that they thought that they could convert stables which they had used for their horses
into homes for the working class.
Now that the rich had motor-cars they had no use for the old stables, so they took
advantage of the poverty-stricken state of the working class.
Mr. Rhys Davies (Labour, Westhoughton), said he was bred and born in an old tithe
barn, without windows, and with a floor of soil. They must provide better homes for the
children of the future.
Mr. Chamberlain agreed to an amendment that before old houses were converted the
local authorities should ascertain if they were fit for human habitation.
The committee adjourned until Tuesday. - Daily Herald, 1st June, 1923.

LABOUR WOMEN'S CONFERENCE AT YORK.

DELEGATE'S REPORT.
The Annual Conference of Labour Women was held at the Festival Concert Rooms,
York, on 8th and 9th May, 1923, Mrs. Harrison Bell being in the chair. There were five
hundred delegates present, a large increase upon the previous years.
The Lord Mayor of York gave us all a very hearty welcome, and said he felt it an
honour to do so. No doubt there was a great many differences of opinion there, and
although he did not agree on all their points, a great lot of good often arose from these
different opinions, because the power of the women was very important and they should
use their influence for the good of the country. Mr. Hartley, Chairman of the York Labour
Party, and Mrs. Mackereth, President of the Women's Section, also gave a hearty welcome
to all.
Mrs. Harrison Bell suitably replied and thanked them on behalf of the delegates.
She also stated in her address that there was two thousand more members who had joined
us since last year.
An emergency resolution was sent to the C.W.S. in regard to their workers, that they
should submit all their questions to the Joint Committee of Trade Unions and Co-operators
for arbitration. The question of Married Teachers proved very interesting discussion,
opinions being well divided; also the giving of the vote to women at 21 years of age.
It was impressed upon all delegates to urge all the Labour Members in the House to strongly
support any resolutions in favour of the vote as it would prove a great interest and support
to the Labour Party of this country. That there should be a Women's Labour Day as
well as a May Day. That Municipal Elections should be held in May instead of November,
and that voting should take place on Saturdays. There was a good discussion on the
Agricultural question. and many points were brought forward which were very interesting
and of an educational character. The debate on Irish Deportation brought forward
statements of how the deportees were treated. Then International Peace. There would
be no question of Peace while the country was ruled by the economic war makers. That
the Labour Party try to abolish the two-shift system amongst girls, as being detrimental
to their health. That until the unemployed can find a suitable job the Labour Members
should fight for full maintenance for the same. That Continuation Classes should be
formed for the younger people to prevent so much juvenile unemployment amongst those
who have left school. That there should be Trade Boards for Domestic Servants and not
district wages. That the trade unions organise their women to safeguard them, as that
is the only barrier between the worker and employer. There was a good discussion on
the Housing question. It was stated that it was a most shameful fact that large houses
were only occupied for three months of the year, and allowed to stand empty for the rest
part of the year, while the poorer class were housed together in the condition that they
are to-day. The question that there should be more women serving on the benches of
our children's courts, and more women police caused a deal of discussion, and that Capital
Punishment should be abolished.
The report of the year's work was taken paragraph by paragraph. Proposals 9, 10,
and 11 were left for Standing Orders Committee to deal with. The Conference finished
at six o'clock Wednesday evening, Mrs. Harrison Bell thanking all delegates for their
attendance. The York Section presented Dr. Marion Phillips and Mrs. Harrison Bell
with a large bouquet of flowers.
ANNIE BILLINGTON,
Wellingborough.


---
Here is the extracted text:
369
With regard to Russia, the Congress believed that " in the last resort, the working
pression of the essential rights of democracy as a danger not only to the Russian workers,
condemned the "continued use of terrorism by the Russian Government, and the sup-
class of every land must fight its own battle for political and industrial liberation." It
against Russia. This resolution was unanimously accepted by the Congress.
but also to the vital interests of the international proletariat." At the same time, it called
upon the Labour movement to resist every form of intervention by capitalist governments
In every proceeding of the Congress there was manifest a consciousness of a new
welfare, not only of the Labour and Socialist movement of to-day, but of the posterity
foundation for those ideals of working-class internationalism in which are bound up the
for whom the fight is being ever more and more victoriously waged.
OUR OVERSEAS TRADE.
Supplementary Details of Exports and Imports.
that as from 1st April the expression
The particulars given hereunder supplement the information printed in the Record
a fortnight since dealing with the Board of Trade Returns for April. It should be noted
"United Kingdom" does not include the Irish
Free State.
Our exports of boots and shoes (of leather) from the United Kingdom during the
month of April last to "Other Countries" were as follow:-
Country of Destination.
Doz.
Pairs.
Value.
Country of Destination.
Doz.
Pairs.
Value.
Russia
117
£
995
Finland
2
Costa Rica
Colombia
£
6
Norway
2,623
8,691
Chile
57
112
Iceland
152
629
Uruguay
9
28
Denmark (including
Bolivia
19
97
Faroe Islands)
341
2,483
Channel Islands
11
75
Poland (including
Gibraltar
748
4,733
Dantzig)
50
480
Malta and Gozo
48
237
Java
204
1,263
Cyprus
143
381
Other Dutch Possessions
Palestine
48
267
in the Indian Seas
11
103
Gambia
294
1,090
Dutch Guiana
6
30
Sierra Leone
5
32
Belgian Congo (including
Gold Coast (including
Belgian Ruanda and
British Togoland)
119
386
Belgian Urundi)
24
187
Nigeria (including
Tunis
3
10
British Cameroons)
121
883
French West Africa
18
116
St. Helena
12
42
Syria
110
575
Zanzibar and Pemba.
3
38
Switzerland
12
70
Kenya
43
339
Portuguese West Africa
18
48
Mauritius & Depend-
Portuguese East Africa
20
244
encies
140
1,170
Spain
1
4
Seychelles
4
13
Canary Islands
15
89
Aden & Dependencies
19
105
Spanish West Africa
Iraq
118
516
(incl. Fernando Po)
I
.4
Sarawak
2
12
Serb-Croat-Slovene
Hong Kong
61
573
State
150
864
Naura & British Samoa
I
Turkey, European
16
69
Fiji Islands
32
153
Liberia
57
293
Canada
1,423
12,351
Siam
23
251
Newfoundland and
China (excl. of Hong
Coast of Labrador
146
732
Kong, Macao, and
Bermudas
17
111
leased territories)
177
1,117
Japan (incl. Formosa
Falkland Islands
British Honduras
161
664
28
199
and Japanese leased
Irish Free State
2,024
12,709
territories in China)..
13
124
U.S. of America
329
4,206
Total
10,381 £61,280


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```
370
The imports of dressed leather into Great Britain and Northern Ireland from "Other
Countries" during the month of April last were as follow:-

Country whence Quantity. Value. Country whence Quantity. Value.
Consigned. Cwt. £ Consigned. Cwt. £
GLACE KID- ALL OTHER SORTS-
Netherlands 43 2,164 Sweden 7 373
Switzerland 85 5,087 Denmark (including 1 41
Spain 30 1,270 Faroe Islands)
British India 20 840 Netherlands 395 17,238
Total 178 9,361 Belgium 161 4,198
Luxemburg 83 2,859
Switzerland 118 5,264
Austria 204 5,541
Czecho-Slovakia 19 791
PATENT, VARNISHED, Irish Free State 6 305
JAPANNED AND EN- Canada 105 4,612
AMELLED- Poland (including 
Sweden 2 102 Dantzig) 11 450
Netherlands 203 13,151 Spain 96 4,815
Belgium 2 180 Italy 62 1,827
Switzerland 31 2,900 Japan (inc. Formosa
Austria 41 and Japanese leased
Canada 20 1,831 territories in China) 2 105
Victoria 9 250
Total 258 £18,205 Total 1,279 £48,669
-Shoe and Leather Record, Ist June, 1923.

HEARD IN THE HOUSE.
On this side of the House we all want the Irish Free State and the Irish people to
have a real chance of settling down to peace and quietness, but I do not believe that this
can be done merely by coercion. -Mr. Lansbury.
When I was a member of the 1914 Parliament, and was opposing the Conscription
Bill, I received a number of anonymous letters. One of them included a German cheque,
and thanks for the service I was rendering the German cause! -Mr. J. H. Thomas.
The Home Secretary will get off very cheaply if he is rendered immune from criminal
action, but I do not see why it should not be open to any of the deportees to bring a civil
action against him.-Captain Hay.
I congratulate the new Prime Minister, but I shall do my best to "frustrate his politics"
and to "confound his knavish tricks." -Mr. Ramsay MacDonald.
This Parliament will go down to history as the Parliament in which the Tory Party
wished to free the workers in order to impose more slavery upon them. -Mr. Neil McLean.
Suppose there were a Labour Government in this country, and some of these Fascistical
gentlemen opposite saw fit to engage in a conspiracy against the State, and suppose that
we were so foolish-which is incredible-as to arrest and intern these people without
trial, what would hon. members opposite say?-Mr. Arthur Greenwood.

A CAPITAL LEVY POINT.
Replying to a question in the House of Commons on 23rd May, 1923, the Chancellor
of the Exchequer gave the following comparison of incomes before and after the war:-
Number of persons with incomes between £5,000 1913-14 1920-21
and £20,000 12,415 24,320
Between £20,000 and £100,000 1,513 3,010
Over £100,000 80 169
This means that the number of people with incomes of £5,000 and over was practically
doubled during the war.
14,008 27,499
```

---
IMDUP KINGDOM.
372
In the United Kingdom the gradual improvement in trade and
top which has been noticed for some months still continues, though very slowly
Though this figure is still high-representing a million and a quarter
1 los ment has changed little, and now stands at 11 per cent. of the insured population
ed io much lower than a year ago, when it amounted to one and three-quarter
Tis decline of half a million is really greater than it appears, when it is remem-
wool that the number of workers has probably risen by 200,000 to 250,000 Owing to the
natural mcrease of population. The coal and steel industries have been stimulated by
the crewed demands from Germany and France, the output of coal having now reached
construction shows an increase, as compared with the previous quarter.
Pre war level. Except in the cotton industry, short time has diminished. The amount
A 1. tathon...
of shipping under constr
for the first time since the beginning of 1921.
negligible in extent.
FRANCE. Little information is available for France, but what there is points to a
slackening of production since the beginning of the year. Unemployment remains almost
ment have been published later than those for January, which have just been issued.
ITALY. - The situation in Italy remains almost stationary. No statistics of unemploy-
increase is almost entirely due to the building trades' winter slackness. One of the chief
These show an increase of about 10,000 on the figure of 382,000 for December, but the
the Netherlands, Switzerland and the Scandinavian countries the situation in March
factors affecting the situation at the present time is the decline in emigration, as before
the war large numbers of Italians regularly sought employment abroad. In Belgium.
remains almost unchanged as compared with that of the previous month, with signs.
however, of a slight improvement.
the situation appears to be gradually getting worse.
rapidly inc
Unemployment in Germany is
GERMANY. -In Central and Eastern Europe, however, conditions are different, and
increasing, and at Ist March stood at 5.7 per cent of the six million organised
workers, as compared with 4.4 per cent. a month earlier and 1.1 per cent, a year earlier:
the number of persons drawing unemployment donations increased by about 30 per cent.
between 1st February and ist March. Unemployment is most acute in the textile and
tobacco industries, but elsewhere short-time working on a considerable scale has enabled
many manufacturers to retain the greater part of their staffs. The percentage of organised
workers on short time rose from 13 per cent. on 1st February to 16.5 per cent. on ist March
difficult period. Unemployment increased rapidly during the winter of 1922; a special
return made by Austrian trade unions showed that 22.3 per cent. of a membership of
In the building
improved slightly. The position in Czecho-Slovakia is still very bad and has so far shown
were unemployed and 44.3 per cent. in the boot and shoe trade. In April the situation
no sign of improving. The number of unemployed persons which was given as 128,336
in March, 1922, rose by October, 1922, to 316,532, and in January last was 441,075.
NEW BUILDING FOR WORLD LABOUR OFFICE.
Plan Judging by International Jury.
About 70 plans have been received in the competition among Swiss architects for
plans for the new building to be erected at Geneva as a permanent home for the Inter-
national Labour Office of the League of Nations, and these are being judged during this
week by an international jury of architects.
The decision to build an office was taken at the Assembly of the League of Nations
last year when many strong comments were made by members of a committee of inquiry
on the unsuitability of the present accommodation-a building outside the town of Geneva
which was originally a school and not easily or completely adaptable to the work of the
Office. Such a decision, however, was rendered more easy to take by the generous offer
of the Swiss Federal Council to present a site for this purpose, situated a short distance
from the office of the League with a frontage on the edge of the lake.
Mr. E. P. Warren, F.S.A., F.R.I.B.A., is serving on the jury of architects, the other
members being M. Maurice Brincourt (France), M. Piacentini (Italy), and M. A. Guyonnet
(Switzerland). Their work of selection began at Geneva on Monday, 28th May, and they
hope to make known the result of their deliberations in about a week.
received.
International Labour Organisation to contribute to the afort to make this building the
The Assembly also invited each of the fifty-three States which are members of the
and decorative materials and artistic products, and many promises have already been
highest example of international achievement by sending of its best in the way of building


---
```text
s
21
eas
ents
more
. In
rkers.
manual
on with
Republic
n, up to
have been
and com-
tees shall be
certain other
The works
to the follow-
of work; (2)
```

---
Here's the extracted text from the image, with some slight formatting for readability:

**376**

minary wages regulations, fixed piecework, hours of work, overtime, the plan of work
ditions; (3) workshop rules; (4) the establishment or management of welfare arrange-
to be adopted in the case of restriction of operations, holidays and other working con.
the Act is, according to official estimates, about 800, but only 160 to 170 of these have
The total number of concerns in which a works committee could be established under
ments for the benefit of the workers.
of the right to establish such committees.
wailed themselves of
A Norwegian Royal Commission has recently been considering means of amending
this Act. The Commission came to the conclusion that one reason why the Act had not
ingly drafted a Bill embodying the principle that on these committees capital and labour
been more successful was that the committees consisted only of workers. They accord-
By the terms of this Bill, according to an article by Mr. K. F. Dahl, Judge of the
handicraft, commercial and transport undertakings which regularly employ at least 20
Supreme Court, Christiania, in the Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly publica-
tion of the International Labour Office, a works council must be established in industrial,
The Council shall as a rule be composed of representatives of the employer
should meet on an equal footing.
and of both manual and non-manual workers.
wage-carners.
out legislative and administrative regulations and the provisions of collective agreements,
The Council is to take part in the control of the concern to the extent of carrying
and regulating the training and conditions of work of apprentices and young workers.
non-manual workers should be given the opportunity to exercise a certain influence on
The majority of the Commission also consider it desirable that both manual and
Council of Industry and Commerce " of 125
members-31 representatives each of employers, non-manual workers, manual workers
the general direction of the economic activity of the nation. They therefore recommend
and consumers respectively, with an independent chairman. This body would represent
the industrial and economic interests of the community and its functions would be to
opportunity of expressing its opinion on legislative proposals of an industrial and economic
the establishment on national lines of a
"
submit reports and make recommendations.
character.
It would also in general be granted an

**Amending the United States Constitution.**

sake
of the children? This question has been repeatedly before Congress in the last Session.
In 1920, out of a total of 12,502,582 persons in the United States engaged in gainful
occupations, 1,061,858, or 8.5 per cent., were children from 10 to 15 years of age inclusive.
is in large measure illusory, being partly accounted for by the change in the date of the
While this represents a decrease of 46.7 per cent. as compared with 1910, this decrease
In 1910, the census was taken on 15th April: in 1920 on 1st January, when em-
ployment in many occupations, especially agriculture, is at a low ebb. The decrease was
almost wholly in the agricultural sections of the United States, in which the largest pro-
census.
portion of children are employed.

The lack of uniformity in the labour regulations of the various States, and particularly
those relating to child labour, led as early as 1906 to attempts to control child labour by
Federal legislation. In 1916 and 1919 Federal Acts were passed which attempted to secure
this control, but in both cases they were declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court.

The question is therefore being discussed in the United States of passing an amendment
to the Constitution which would give immediate and direct power to Congress to legislate
on the subject of the protection of child labour.

The present situation with regard to legislation for regulating the employment of
children in the various States is as follows :-

MINIMUM AGE OF ADMISSION TO INDUSTRY. -In all except three States, the minimum
age of admission to industry is 14 years or over, but many exceptions are permitted.

and for certain ages.
LENGTH OF WORKING DAY. -31 States and the District of Columbia have recognised
the principle of an 8-hour day for children by fixing this standard for at least one industry
prohibit children up to 16 years of age from engaging in night work.
PROHIBITON OF NIGHT WORK. -Thirty-four States and the District of Columbia
of children before entering employment.
District of Columbia there has been general provision for requiring the physical examination
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION BEFORE ENTERING EMPLOYMENT.-In 30 States and the
engaging in such work.
States and the District of Columbia requiring the securing of permits or badges before
REGULATION OF STREET TRADES. - Special regulations apply to street trades, fourteen


---
```text
379
WOODEN HOUSES.
Would it Pay to Build them in England?
Interest in the question whether wooden houses should be erected to overcome the
present shortage of working-class dwellings in the city continues. The Mail has gathered
two other representative opinions, and they will be read with interest.
Councillor H. C. Snow, in an interview, said: "To your question, Why not build
wooden houses in this country? I will put another: 'Why build wooden houses in this
country?'
"Your question seems to be re-opened owing to the visit of certain Canadian gentle-
men to Leicester. Now, I have lived in Canada for several years in and amongst wooden
houses, and my reply is: 'Why build houses of wood-which is not a local material in this
country-when our local material is of a better and more substantial character?'
Wooden houses are not built in new countries necessarily from choice, but because
wood is the cheapest, and because it is sometimes the only local material available. In
urban districts, where these wooden houses are put up in quantities, there are generally
no proper roads, no proper sanitation, or other services, and the conditions of the people
in those areas become appalling.
"Now, when I went to Winnipeg in 1889 nearly all the houses and buildings, and even
the hotels, were constructed of wood. There was no drainage to the houses, no street
drainage; middens were in the backyards, and the principal products were diphtheria and
typhoid fever.
Not a Paying Proposition.
"Coming home to our own conditions, our first needs when laying out a building
estate for numerous people to live on are proper roads and access, proper drainage, water
supply, and other public services which should be brought into the homes of the people.
"When you have got these main factors of civilisation, which are the primary cost
of the development of the estate, it would not pay either individuals or Corporations to
attach them to wooden shanties of a temporary character, because the whole question
of producing houses for the working classes is based upon the principle of cheap finance.
This character of building is no asset, no security as an erection, and cannot be financed
on sound lines either privately by long mortgages or publicly by proper loans.
"Furthermore, it is well-known that in new countries where these buildings are
temporarily erected, they generally become infested by vermin, and it is impossible to get
rid of the vermin without destroying the buildings.
"So that for a country like our own, where the prevailing building material is of a
substantial character (brick or stone), having gone to the expense of the necessary pre-
liminary services and development, it is a sounder and better-paying proposition to proceed
on substantial lines and build not for a few years but for generations.
"I will say nothing about the risks of fire. They are apparent to all, and the frequent
disasters which one reads of as occurring in Western towns, they being burnt out, are mainly
owing to the inflammable character of the wooden buildings.'"
Mr. W. Keay's Views.
Mr. William Keay, president of the Leicester and Leicestershire Society of Architects,
invited to give his opinion as to the advisability or otherwise of building wooden houses
in Leicester to meet the shortage of dwellings, in an interview with a representative of the
Leicester Mail, said: "I agree with Councillor H. W. Hallam absolutely. There is nothing
from an economic or hygienic point of view better than a brick wall. Wooden houses
are not to be compared with brick.
"Here in Leicestershire you have a clay that makes excellent bricks and you can put
up a brick building almost as quickly as a wooden one.
"I should not recommend the building of wooden houses for one moment." -Leicester
Mail, 2nd June, 1923.
A man sent his Irish servant with a present of a live hare to a friend. The hare
managed to escape, but the servant made no effort to catch it; all he did was stand and
gaze after it with a satisfied grin on his face. "You may run, and run, and run, you
blubbering beast," he shouted, "but it's no use, for you haven't got the address." -Shoe
Workers' Journal, June, 1923.
```

---
330
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
International Trade Secretariats.
FOOD AND DRINK INDUSTRY.-At a meeting of the Executive of the International
Union of Federations of Workers in the Food and Drink Trades, held at Basel, on 22nd
and 23rd April, it was resolved that the decisions of the Union Executive must, if in accord
with Congress resolutions, be binding upon the affiliated organisations. It was also
decided to submit to the next Congress of the International Trade Unions proposals for
the declaration and practical realisation of international boycotts. Another resolution
embodied a refusal to admit to affiliation unions who are already affiliated with Moscow,
although working alliances may be concluded with such unions.
TRANSPORT WORKERS. - The International Transport Workers' Federation numbered
on 1st January, 1923, 2,217,972 members, 80,000 of whom are women. The respective
numbers of the different sections are :- Railwaymen, 1,225,000; seamen, 50,000, and other
workers, 942,972.
National Federations.
DENMARK.- The Danish Federation of Trade Unions numbered on 31st March,
They belong to 52 different unions.
232,574 members, of whom 38,056 are women. During the past year the membership has declined by 72,796.
FINLAND. - The Finnish Federation of Trade Unions numbered on 1st January,
48,176 members, of whom 8,714 are women. During the preceding year the membership
decreased by 413. The average wage of the male worker in Finland has risen from 5.63
to 5.94 Finnish marks, and that of the female worker from 3.15 to 3.19 marks. The
Trade Union Congress is now being held.
General.
HOTEL AND RESTAURANT WORKERS. - The Executive of the German Union proposes
to convene an international congress next Autumn of the International Union of Hotel,
Restaurant and Bar Employees.
POTTERY WORKERS. - The International Federation of Pottery Workers will hold an
international conference in Berlin on 4th June. This will be the first since the outbreak
of war.
DOMESTIC EMPLOYEES. - Two Austrian unions of domestic employees decided in
March last to amalgamate under the title of "Union of Persons Employed in Domestic
Work, and of all Cleaners and Domestic Workers."
Italy.
THE CAUSES OF THE ITALIAN TRADE UNION DEBACLE. - An honest critic, writing of
the disasters of the Italian Trade Union Movement, attributes them to the lack of courage
of the leaders, who allowed themselves to be led instead of leading, and to their failure to
keep in touch with the rank and file of the movement. He points out that trade unionists
have accustomed themselves to take much and give little; they need to build up a "trade
union conscience." Great numbers flocked to the trade unions after the war: the member-
ship of the General Confederation of Labour rose from 350,000 to two millions; but
there was a shortage of experienced leaders, and those improvised to meet the pressing
need of the moment have in many cases proved inadequate. Many of these have now
abandoned the movement and those that remain must now seek to educate themselves.
FASCIST TRADE UNIONS AMONG ITALIAN EMIGRANTS. - The Fascist Corporations
are initiating a campaign for the formation of Fascist trade unions among Italian workers
who have emigrated to foreign countries. Suckert, the director of this propaganda,
urges that Fascist trade union nuclei must be created, with bourgeois secretaries, to protect
the interests of the workers, see that their wages are not below those current in the country
of immigration, encourage further immigration, prove that fascism is not anti-proletarian,
and facilitate the political action of Italian Fascists in foreign countries.
HUNGARY. -The Hungarian Government has introduced a very reactionary Bill
regulating trade unions and strikes. Even passive resistance is regarded as an aggression
on the freedom of labour. In many branches of industry, such as the railways and shipping,
the water, gas and electricity supplies, and hospitals, strikes are prohibited absolutely:
in others, compulsory arbitration must precede a strike. Trade Unions may only deal
with purely economic matters; and they may not publish any journals, nor give lectures
on any but purely technical subjects. No contributions may be levied beyond those
prescribed in the rules, and all accounts must be annually submitted to official inspection.
Lists of members of the executives, and, if desired, of all members must similarly be sub-
mitted. In case of any breach of the law, the trade union may be suspended; and respons-
ible leaders are liable to heavy punishment.


---
International Trade Secretariats.
382
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF FEDERATIONS OF WORKERS IN THE FOOD AND DRINK
TRADES. On 26th March the Executive of the American Bakers' and Confectioners'
Union decided to affiliate with the above international. The American Union has a
membership of 35,000, and is in favour of the legal prohibition of night-work and Sunday
work in bakeries and confectionery factories.
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF BUILDING GUILDS. The Third International Congress
of Building Guilds met at Hamburg on 28th May. Representatives were present from
Germany, Palestine, Spain, Holland, Sweden, Czecho-Slovakia, Austria, and Hungary;
Italy, France and England being prevented from sending delegates. The reports showed
that German guilds are well organised, and have not yet suffered from the economic
depression which has hit especially hard those of Holland, England, Czecho-Slovakia,
and, since its currency recovery, Austria. Italy's once flourishing guilds are almost
impotent, and some have removed to France. Hungary has been unable to begin practical
work. As for Spain, although she was represented at the Congress, nothing has as yet
been done in that country; at a National Building Conference, which has just been held,
it was, however, proposed that building guilds should be founded, and that they should
be financed from a fund drawn from banking sources. The International Congress resolved
to interchange information of experience, establish economic inter-relations and set up
an international credit depot.
National Federations.
THE CZECHO-SLOVAKIAN FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.-The annual report of the
Federation for the year 1922 shows that it suffered much from economic conflicts and
communist rivalry. At the beginning of the year, it comprised 55 unions, with a total
membership of 650,000; at the end it had only 49 unions, with 400,000 members. Seven
new unions affiliated with it during the course of the year and eight seceded. Owing to
heavy disbursements to the unemployed, the balance sheet of the federation shows a deficit
of 800,000 kronen.
FINLAND. The Congress of the Finnish Federation of Trade Unions which took
place at the end of May was attended by 77 delegates, of whom 47 were Communists and
20 Social Democrats. The report showed that wages have been raised to the level of the
index.
GERMAN TRADE UNIONS AFFILIATED WITH THE I.F.T.U. At the end of March, 1923,
the membership of the German trade unions affiliated with Amsterdam was 7,863,961,
of whom 1,646,338 were women. At the end of June, 1922, it totalled 8,150,862. The
largest of the constituent unions are (1) the Metal Workers, numbering 1,585,276 at the
end of March; (2) the Factory Workers; (3) the Textile Workers, numbering at the same
date, 719,743 and 713,321 members respectively.
THE GERMAN WOOD WORKERS' UNION.-This Union holds its Annual Congress at
Cassel in the middle of June.
THE GERMAN FIREMEN'S UNION is convening for 6th July a meeting of its district
representatives to discuss reorganisation, and to consider what measures can be taken
to prevent the threatened lengthening of the working day.
SWITZERLAND. The Swiss Federation of Salaried Employees' Unions, which has
existed for five years, numbers 50,000 members.
CANADA.- The trade unions of Canada number 276,521 members, of whom 206,150
are "international," or linked up with the trade unions of the U.S.A.
General.
WOMEN'S WORK IN GERMANY SINCE THE WAR. In general, the industrial work of
women in Germany is more extensive than before the war. Women are retaining the
cigar-making which they first took over during the war; and also in some districts, the
tending of the semi-automatic machines used in making small hardware goods. They
also hold their ground in all those branches of industry in which they have always been
dominant, namely, the textile industry, cleaning, laundry work and typing.
INCREASE OF UNEMPLOYMENT IN GERMANY. The official figures for persons in receipt
of unemployment benefit on 1st May, 1923, was 321,638. On October 1st, 1922, the
number was only 21,028.
VARIETY IN WORKING HOURS IN U.S.A. There is in the U.S.A. great variety in the
length of working hours. In most of the steel concerns, two shifts only, of 12 hours each,
are worked. The pottery industry is in a transition stage from the two to the three-shift
system; the chemical industry, with the exception of the sugar refineries, has adopted
the eight-hours' shift, as have also paper mills and rubber works. The public utility
services are also moving towards the eight-hours' day.
INDIA. The first "all-women strike" was announced as having broken out in some
Madras spinning mills at the beginning of May.


---
Here is the extracted text:
:
384
masses had not the faintest
recently stated in private conversation that armies of aeroplanes would in the next war
sank the Dreadnought in 22 minutes. Fokker, the well-known Dutch aeroplane-builder.
conception of the horrors of the next war, and concluded by confirming the views and
fears expressed by Fimmen in his speech on the subject at the World Peace Congress of
be sent to murder the civil population he thought that the ma
December last.
Women.
THE INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF WORKING WOMEN. - The International Federa.
tion of Working Women will hold its biennial conference this year from 14th to 18th
August, at Schönbrunn Castle, near Vienna. This congress is being held during the time
school (the latter opens on 11th August). On 16th August the I.F.T.U. will have a private
consultation with the delegates to discuss "How women can best be won over to take a
of the Summer School of the I.F.T.U.. so that delegates may attend both congress and
greater share in Trade Union Activities." Other subjects to be discussed are: "The
Regulation of the Wages of Home Workers," and "The Payment of Family Allowances
Women's Sections of the Party have increased from 800 to 1,000, and the total membership
is now over 120,000. The largest section is that of Woolwich, which numbers over 1,000,
THE BRITISH LABOUR PARTY'S WORK FOR WOMEN, APRIL-MAY, 1922-1923.-The
The Labour Women's Advisory Councils have also increased in number. Thirty speakers'
classes have been held and the circulation of the Labour Woman has increased. The
Standing Joint Committee of Industrial Women's Organisations was reorganised in July,
many protests on abuses especially affecting women, and has prepared information on
1922. It has representatives on national organisations concerned with health, overseas
settlement, the unmarried mother, garden cities, and labour-saving devices. It has made
in addition to Wages."
various Bills before Parliament.
resolutions condemning the two-shift system for girls, the dismissal of married women
teachers, the deplorable scale of agricultural wages, &c. It also discussed reports on
British Labour Women held a Conference at York on 8th and oth May. It passed
Committee of Industrial Women's Organisations expressed to the Organisations Com-
&c. The
mittee of the Labour Party their feeling that the organisation of young people within
each local Labour Party was to be encouraged. A small sub-committee has accordingly
been appointed to inquire into what is being done in this respect.
Federation of Working Women). -Canada, Australia and New Zealand are all willing to
EMIGRATION OF WOMEN FROM GREAT BRITAIN (received from the International
assist (in varying degress) in contributing to the costs of emigration of British women
domestic workers under 25 years of age. There are no openings for other work for women.
Most of the unemployed women in Great Britain are, however, neither willing nor suitable
to enter domestic service, and if they are, they can find plenty of work at home.
AUSTRIAN REGULATION OF WOMEN'S HOME-WORK WAGES.-A home-work commission
has recently been appointed to regulate the wages of the women engaged in making cotton
goods at home in the villages of Upper and Lower Austria. A minimum wage per hour
has been fixed.
U.S.A. SUPREME COURT DECISION ON WOMEN'S MINIMUM WAGE. The Supreme
Court of the U.S.A. recently declared that the decisions of the State of Columbia in respect
of a law determining the minimum wage for women were contrary to the constitution.
(A similar decision dealing with children's wages has shared the same fate). Upon the
issue of this decision women's wages were immediately lowered in many localities. The
National Women's Trade Union League has protested and has also emphasised the necessity
for women to join trade unions.
JAPAN. The latest available statistics show that the number of working women in
Japan totals 3,000,000. The largest proportion of these work on the land: the next
largest number in private factories. - Press Service, I.F.T.U., 15th June, 1923.
PRESS POWER.
Associated Newspapers Ltd., the company which owns the Daily Mail and its stable
ratapanion has been paying quarterly dividenichons Mail art at the
of 40 per
in this period.
The company boasts that its income from advertisements alone was over £3,000,000
and other Labour papers, the immense sums now flowing into the coffers of the Rothermere
If every worker and his wife, particularly the latter, decided to buy the Daily Herald
Press could be used for the advancement of democracy, and not for its undoing, as at
present.-Labour Press Service, 14th June, 1923.


---
385
MIDDLEMEN MAKE FOOD DEAR.
Striking Report on Garden Produce. Six Stages of Profit and
High Rail Rates.
Before the consumer gets his fruit and vegetables it may have had as many as 16
to 20 different handlings, and have had the attentions of six intermediaries.
Middlemen are essential, but to-day there are too many of them. Railway freight
charges in this particular industry are too high, and the retailer does not adjust prices to
conform with big reductions in the wholesale prices.
This state of affairs in the fruit and vegetable markets is revealed in a second interim
report issued yesterday by Lord Linlithgow's Departmental Committee. The first report
dealt with milk and milk products.
The main points of the report are:—
(1) Unless the fruit and vegetable industry in many districts is to perish the railway
rates cannot be maintained even at 50 per cent. above 1914 rates.
(2) Retailers as a whole are not profiteering, but there are cases of such profits (gross)
as 331 per cent.
(3) The chief complaint against the retailer is that he does not adjust prices to conform
with big reductions in wholesale prices, preferring restricted demand and a large margin
to a large turnover and a small margin.
Growers' Profits Low.
86 per cent.
(4) Growers' percentage of profit in the most favourable circumstances did not exceed
(5) Middlemen are essential. Direct consignment from grower to consumer can never
develop on a large scale.
(6) Covent Garden is wholly inadequate as a central wholesale market.
(7) Producers are urged to consider the possibilities of co-operative marketing, and
the Government is asked to devise credit facilities.
(8) Well-packed and well-graded supplies are the most effective form of advertise-
ment. Marketing is "the other half of production."
Less Jam being made.
(9) The sugar duty should be reduced as soon as the market's condition ensures the
fall to the consumer, so that surplus fruit can be more largely used in jam-making. The
canning of fruit by home manufacturers should be extended.
The Committee recommend: Quicker handling on rail of soft fruits; installation of
Post Office telephones in railway station offices for use of growers; railway companies
should adopt cash-on-delivery system for suitable consignments; fixed local market
porterage charges; licensing of commission salesmen.
They state that street vendors are a safeguard to the consumer, and that owing to
high prices the consumption of jam per head has greatly declined.-Leicester Daily Mercury,
22nd June, 1923.
SUCCESSFUL MUNICIPAL BANKING.
Despite a year of serious depression, Birmingham's municipal bank has had remarkable
success, according to the recent annual report.
After making ample provision for depreciation, the bank has a surplus on the year's
working of £9,692, which has been placed to the reserve fund.
In the twelve months the total sum taken by deposits was £1,950,916, and the deposi-
tors' balances, rising from £746,984 in 1920 to £2,883,942 last year, place the bank amongst
the six largest savings banks in the country.
The amount per depositor in the bank averages £28, and it is stated that there are
many evidences of care being taken in making withdrawals by depositors who have become
unemployed or are working short time.
The report states that the bank is reaching a class of depositor for whom no provision
had previously been made, and it has been found that 99 per cent. of the depositors have
less than £300 standing to their credit.


---
387
THE LABOUR OFFICE.
More Conciliatory Attitude of British Government.
The decisions of the Governing Body of the International Labour Office, which has
been sitting in Geneva for the last two days, have been awaited with some anxiety by the
staff of the International Labour Office and all those interested in its future.
The attitude of the British Government and employers' delegates at the last session
in April and the attacks on the office which have since been made in certain English papers
have caused considerable unrest and apprehension.
It was feared, and everything pointed in that direction, that the criticisms levelled
against the organisation were politically inspired. Many of them could equally well have
been applied to the Secretariat of the League of Nations, but in no case was this done.
The decision of the Governing Body of the International Labour Office to budget
for a figure £4,000 less than that provisionally adopted at the April meeting disposes of
the rumours set on foot from the first sitting that no further economies would be agreed to.
The attitude of the British Government delegate from the beginning was also more
conciliatory. He stated, to everybody's relief, that the Government disclaimed any
responsibility for the recent attacks on the Labour Office in the British Press, although
rumours had reached me in Geneva that the Ministry of Labour had had a share in pro-
voking them. He declared that the Government would continue to support the office.
This declaration should hardly be necessary when one considers Great Britain's
share in the foundation of the League of Nations and its Labour branch.
The results of this session of the Governing Body are more satisfactory, in the opinion
of Mr. Poulton, the British Workers' delegate, than those of the last session. It remains
to be seen, however, if the organisation will be allowed to continue its activities in peace.—
Daily Herald, 19th June, 1923.
EXPERT WORKMAN'S THREE "WIVES."
18 Months for Man who Earned £20 a Week.
“You are an excellent workman, but in regard to your treatment of women no words
can describe it. Men like you must learn by bitter experience that they cannot play fast
and loose with women in this way.”
With this comment the Recorder at the Old Bailey to-day passed sentence of 18
months' hard labour on Alfred Frederick Spinks, aged 49, for bigamy.
Mr. J. F. Eastwood, prosecuting, said prisoner lived with his wife for nine years.
Owing to his brutal treatment she left him.
In 1920 he " married" another woman, and two years afterwards deserted her for a
third woman.
Counsel added that Spinks was one of the most expert boot-cutters in England and
earned from £17 to £20 a week. He was the inventor of the block toe, which made his
services in great demand.
A detective said the legal wife stated that two of her children died of semi-starvation
owing to the man's neglect. - The Star, 30th May, 1923.
PAPERS THAT PLAY THE LANDLORDS GAME.
The Press these days is all-powerful. By eliminating the opposite point of view, by
over-suggestion and under-suggestion, it is moulding the minds of millions of people
day by day.
See how it works.
Yesterday Mr. Sidney Webb, for the Labour Party, stated an overwhelming case
against the Government's new Rents Bill, or, in other words, the Bill for the Protection
of Landlords. How much space did the Press devote to a report of his attack?
The Times gave it 222 words.
The Morning Post 422
The Daily Express 56
The Manchester Guardian 152 The Daily Mail 148
The Daily News 105 The Westminster Gazette 204
The Daily Chronicle 116 The Daily Telegraph 658
THE DAILY HERALD GAVE IT 1,057 WORDS.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
388
OUR OVERSEAS TRADE.
Big Increase in Exports of Boots and Shoes to South Africa, East Indies,
Australia and New Zealand.
We give below an abstract of the Board of Trade Returns for May, so far as the shoe
trade is concerned.
It should be noted that as from 1st April, these accounts include the trade of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland with the Irish Free State. From the same date the direct
foreign trade of the Irish Free State has been excluded from the accounts.
Exports of Boots and Shoes.
Month ended 31st May.
Quantities.
1921.
Doz.
Pairs.
1922.
Doz.
Pairs.
1923.
Doz.
Pairs.
1921.
Value.
1922.
1923.
£
£
£
Of Leather-
To Sweden
740
156
3,122
1,502
3,723
542
2,512
19,384
6,356
6,546
3,153
13,522
1,096
11,202
2,477
7,156
2,931
3,403
9,346
33,707
40,489
60,705
6,808
1,489
413
10,640
2,703
41,152
47
6,206
British East Indies
Australia
New Zealand
British West India
Islands (including
Bahamas) and
British Guiana
Other Countries
Total (of leather)
Of other materials (ex-
cept rubber)
Of rubber
Grand Total
* Egypt and Anglo-Egyptian Sudan are now shown separately.
For the five months ended 31st May, 1921, 1922, and 1923, the exports of British
boots and shoes of leather, rubber, and other materials were valued at £1,363,233,
£1,207,772 and £1,516,565 respectively.
Imports and Re-exports of Boots and Shoes.
Month ended 31st May.
Value.
Quantities.
1921.
1922.
1923.
1921.
1922.
1923.
Doz.
Pairs.
Doz.
Pairs.
Doz.
Pairs.
£
Of leather
Of other materials (ex-
cept rubber)
Of rubber
Gross imports
Re-exports
Net imports
For the five months ended 31st May, 1921, 1922, and 1923, our imports of boots and
shoes of leather, rubber, and other materials were valued at £614,328, £669,106, and
£777.970 respectively. Our re-exports were valued at £74,431, £34,046 and £39,683
respectively. —The Shoe and Leather Record, 22nd June, 1923.
---

---
```text
389
Joined by Book Debts or Clearance.
Bristol.
J. Duggan
Bristol No. 2.
.16984
Now becomes full member
E. Mundy
144546
B. Hall
W. Inyon
J. Althorpe
W. Sadler
W. F. Potts
A. Boon
Kettering-Con.
..131621
..125759
..106906
.134913
140720
..104358
Manchester.
E. Jarman
Northampton.
.129743
Bromsgrove.
Now becomes full member
F. Thompson
..145548
Kettering No. 2.
A. Noble
C. Clarke
E. Pell
..119019
51892
.50217
Females
REINSTATED
Chesham.
I. Waller
123705
K. Blunt
E. Young
L. Barton
..108720
..14949
HM..148724
L. Wright
E. Jones
W. King
.48809
TF.. 81214
..13943
Glasgow.
Now become full members
J. Pauley
..146283
Now become full members
J. T. Bridgstock ..110425
Glasgow No. 2.
Now become full members
D. Dunkley
141928
G. Wright
G. Chillingworth ..142928
.147869
Females
S. French
A. Woods
.148960
H. Wills
E. Phillips
..115563
..148233
C. Gordon
..141349
T. Smith
..138062
J. Mason
..149557
W. Watts
A. Hamilton
.142117
..142541
Leicester.
Northampton No. 2.
.142120
W. J. Shrive
C. Smith
.135460
.108550
J. Smith
F. Amos
S. Scott
.49057
T.. 57231
32040
.46123
REINSTATED
G. Blane
T. Ette
.145936
S.. 51136
T. Gartland
H. G. Carvell
H. G. Carvell
C. May
V. Hopkins
J. Garner
W. Townsend
E. Buncher
A. Francks
A. West
J. Pollard
W. Simpson
H. Fray
Now become full members
W. Lawrence
W. H. Herbert
W. Hartshorn
B. E. Boulter
E. Adcock
A. E. Moore
W. T. Staines
Leicester No. 2.
.66918
TF.. 79307
.127617
.31693
TF.. 32349
TF..118175
.142805
..149320
Females
L. Tompkins
H. Adkins
E. Barratt
K. Bliss
M. Westley
G. Wingrove
L. Smith
R. Coleman
F. Mineards
A. Abbott
E. Morris
L. Smart
B. Line
D. Norman
55064
55229
69666
76404
.80472
..100755
..102023
.119401
.129787
.147920
.147921
.142615
52354
.HM..131254
Now become full members
G. Richards
A. Tandy
W. Haselwood
.137368
.141003
..134518
..134011
.141526
.141555
.141558
..142402
..144766
.145746
Ipswich.
Now pays to trade and funeral
W. Nears
Kettering.
T. W. Dicks
A. Saddington
G. Allport
V. Law
H. Bailey
F. Dickerson
..150430
15621
95996
99080
T..147606
.46730
3694
Leicester Women's.
ENDERBY
P. Wilbur
London Metro.
REINSTATED
J. Isaacs
C. Linstead
A. King
34057
Τ.. 38896
ST..100006
..124707
Females
F. Bird
P. Busby
A. Pollard
E. Liggins
D. Spokes
I. Gibbons
K. Jeffs
M. Goodchild
W. Bennett
V. Amos
E. Wood
E. Jones
..144374
..141752
..133960
.141755
.144940
..147944
.141750
..143007
..142996
.141765
..142171
..141046
Now become full members
F. Thurland
F. Hawthorn
F. Lane
..135886
..110400
..73906


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
MONTHLY SUMMARY
Of Cash and Set-off Paid by each Branch, also Amounts to Credit or Arrears (if any) for the Month ending 26th May, 1923.
Financial Members.
Proba-
Date of
Males. Females. tionary
Members.
TOTAL.
NAME OF BRANCH.
Receiving
Returns,
Cash
June, 1923.
Paid.
Sick and
Funeral
Set-off.
£ s. d.
107
1
114
232
16
405
157
71
17
92
10
4
12
151
20
216
Belfast
460
22
2
24
519
28
527
435
40
1002
102
63
7
172
56
2
2
58
299
71
6
370
32
6
38
28
7
116
52
168
267
155
434
109
96
51
256
531
172
13
716
160
24
6
190
300
41
19
360
12
3
15
695
36
15
746
186
277
22
485
21
145
53
14
212
5016
2416
248
7680
484
132
27
643
28
1
29
88
24
11
123
284
182
15
481
2679
35
163
2877
888
1421
191
2500
392
Total to
Credit.
Total
Arrears.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
0 15 10
0 6 4 0
24 2 7
0 3 2
0
0 1
10 12 4
8 16 6
35 8 2
7 10
8 7
35 10 4
49 11 8
15 17 10
0 8 1
0 4 8
199 10 0
0 5 4
12 4 5
0 4 1
0
3044
8
61
2167
213
1200
168
7
10
134
80
26
82
131
27
204
78
288
62
5
3
70
160
4
8
172
2836
1581
420
4837
1118
501
232
1851
5299
350
5649
2336
4122
550
7008
70
15
3
88
87
4
1
92
6
18
38
59
201
996
358
190
1544
220
147
48
415
799
421
91
1311
15
1605
868
130
2603
14
12
20
623
401
202
148
298
144
17
23
48908
19495
6772
75175
TOTALS
68403


---
Names of Branches, Secretaries' Addresses and Places of Meeting.

BRANCH.
Aberdeen
Arbroath
Ayr
Barnsley
Belfast
Sections
Bishop Auckland...
Brighton
Bristol
Sections
Bristol No. 2
Bromsgrove
Burnley
Chesham
Chesterfield
Colchester
Cork
Daventry
Derby
Desborough
Dundee
Edinburgh
Eyam
Glasgow
Glasgow No. 2
Halesworth
Halifax
Heckmondwike
Hereford
Higham & Rushden
Hinckley
Hull
Ipswich
Kendal
Kettering
Kettering No. 2
Kilmarnock

SEORETARY'S ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER.
J. Anderson, 38, Bedford Road
J. P. Reid, 21, Lordburn, Arbroath
Section Carnoustie
A. McQuaker, 4, West Sanquhar Road, Ayr
William Bowler, 37, Taylor Row, Barnsley
G. White, 220, Cupar Street, Belfast
Sections Jas. McCloskey, 3, Nassau St., Londonderry
Andw. Conway, 140, Queen Street, Ballymena
Jas. Kenning, Circular Road, Castlewellan
Joseph Best, 140, Park Road, Portadown
Joseph McAnespey, 33, Oldtown St., Cookstown
W. Crowther, 2, Seymour St., Bishop Auckland
C. W. Giles, 534, Richmond Buildings
J. Osborne, 172, Newfoundland Road, Bristol
Tom Durban, 89, Worcester Street, Brynmawr
R. Baker, 13, Sandford Street, Bath Road,
Cheltenham
J. Manners, 19, Downend Road, Fishponds,
Bristol
Section Clevedon, Paulton, Street
A. Mole, 2, Rose Terrace, Brook, Road,
Bromsgrove
Jas. Taylor, 45, Hammerton Street, Burnley
F. Goodger, 139, Bellingdon Rd., Chesham, Bucks
F. Rodgers, 3, Whitehouses, Hasland Road
H. Proctor, 8, Lisle Road, Colchester...
M. Cotter, 6, Crotomore Square, Cork
I. H. Johnson, J.P., West View, Warwick Road
W. N. Blissett, 101, Leman Street, Derby
S. Barnes, J.P., 141, Union Street, Desborough
Alex. Brown, 10, Pitkerro Road, Dundee
Sections W. Walker, Stirling Street, Blackford
Wm. Connon, 256, High Street, Perth
Robert White, 28, Rodney Street, Edinburgh
Sections J. Scobbie Spion Kop, East Bridge St., Falkirk
J. Hutchieson, 157, High Street, Kirkcaldy
W. Ferguson, 128, Albany Street, Dunfermline
J. Stewart, 154, Charlotte Place, Bathgate
S. Nicholson, 52, Toulford Road, Cowdenbeath
E. Hall, 134, Ludgate, Alloa
F. Kearsley, Holy Bank Learmouth Crescent,
West Calder
R. Potter, Burnbank Cottage, Uphall, Phum-pherston
Alex. Ross, 12, Lemon Terrace, Leven
G. Hunter, 16, Dundas Street, Lochgelly
A. Dickson, Co-op. Society, Tranent
W. Slater, Townhead, Eyam, Derbyshire
M. Gamble, 75, South Portland Street, Glasgow
A. Kelman, 9, Grace Drive, Govan, Glasgow
J. Parker, 29, Chediston Street, Halesworth,
S. A. Halliday, 21, West Mount Strect, Pillon
Lane, Halifax
A. Stott, J.P., 8, Melbourne Street, Union Road
W. H. Bishop, 42, Berrington Street, Hereford
W. Langley, J.P., Trade Union Office, Higham
Road, Rushden.
Sections Higham Ferrers, Rushden, Irthlingborough,
Finedon, Raunds, Ringstead, Stanwick,
Irchester, Wollaston, and Bozeat
W. Warner, 59, Stockwell Head, Hinckley
C. W. Glover, 4, Park Avenue, Perry Street
F. Edwards, 192, Cemetery Road, Ipswich
J. B. Ellison, 31, Park Avenue, Kendal.
Section J. Prickett, Rayrigg Road. Bowness-on-Windermere
C. Mayes, Trade Union Offices, Club Street,
Kettering.
Sections J. Taylor, William Street, Burton Latimer
J. Rowlett, 12, Gordon Street, Rothwell
C. C. Smith, Kettering Road, Walgrave
J. E. Chapman, Trade Union Offices.
Sections J. Taylor, William Street, Burton Latimer
J. Rowlett, 12, Gordon Street, Rothwell
A. Flanagan, 24, Fleming Street, Riccarton

PLACE OF MRATING.
[Trades Council Buildings, 47, Belmont Sy
Shakespeare Hall, High Street
Free Church Hall
Newton Council Rooms
Industry Inn, Baker Street 17.30
Typographical Hall, Frederick 3
Labour Room, Kingsley Chamber.
Star Coffee House, Old Market St
St. Clement's School
Oddfellows' Hall, High Street
Central Club, Bank Parade
Crown Hotel, Lordsmill Stre
Trade Hall
Unity Hall, Burton Road
Co-operative Hall
Gilfillan Memorial
Temperance Hall, High Street
Brass Finishers' Hall, 36, Main
Masonic Hall, Rutland Crescent
[Street, St. Gorbala
Suffolk
Friendly and Trades Club, St
James Road
Socialists' Room, Back Lane
Trade Union Club and Institute,
Rushden
Castle Tavern
Metropole, West Street
Labour Institute, Silent Street
Working Men's Institute, Market
[Place
Trade Union Offices, Club Street
T. 141
T. 374
Trade Union Offices, Club Street
Temperance Halls
Names of Branches, Secretaries' Addresses and Places of Meeting-(continued).
BRANCH.
Kingswood
Leeds
SEORETARY'S ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER. |
A. Randall. J. P., 17. High St., Kingswood, Bristol T. 116
Section G. Brent, Bristol Road, Paulton, Somerset
Joseph Wescoe, 14, Upper Fountaine Street,
PLACE OF MEETING.
Moravian School Room,
[Kingswood
Trades Hall, Upper Fountaine St.
Leeds.
J. Speight, 68, Cobourg Street, Leeds...
T. 23422 Trades Hall, Upper Fountaine St.
Boot and Shoe Trade Hall, St.
James Street
Leeds No. 2
G. Farbury, Boot and Shoe Trade Hall, Earl
Street, Leicester.
H. W. Widdowson, "Glencoe," Church Lane.
Leicester
т. 439
Sections
Anstey
A. Needham, 48, Mill Street, Barwell...
B. Bruin, Park Road, Blaby
E. Starmer, Countesthorpe Road, Cosby
Leicester No. 2 B. Astley, 126, Wood Street, Earl Shilton
F. W. Burchnall, High Street, Enderby
W. Elliott, London Road, Oadby
H. W. Taylor, 57, Bull's Head Street, Wigston
Magna
J. Boulter, 3, Turn Street, Syston
A. Hill, M.P., J.P.. Boot and Shoe Trade Boot and Shoe Trade Hall, St.
Hall, Leicester
T. 1120
Sections T. Jackson, Hope Cottage, Cropstone Rd., Anstey
James Street
A. Needham, 48, Mill Street, Barwell
T. Selvidge, 108, Countesthorpe Road, South
Leicester Women's Miss A. Muir, Boot and Shoe Trade Hall Boot and Shoe Trade Hall, St.
Wigston
Leicester.
T. 2507
Lane...
Section F. W. Burchnall, High Street, Enderby
G. Brumpton, 71, Winn Street, Lincoln
G. George Bishop, 59, Tagus Street, Lodge Lane
London Metro.
Sections
Liverpool
Lincoln
London South
Manchester
Mansfield
Maybole
James Street
Socialist Club
[ment Stree
I.L.P. Rooms, 264, Upper Parlia
New Lansdowne Club, 195, Mare
Street, Hackney
Royal Oak Inn, Culvert Street
Abbey Institute, Romeland Hill,
St. George's Stores, Newington
Causeway, S. E. 1
Land o' Cakes, Great Anconta St.
Woodward, 365, Hackney Road, Bethnal
Green, London, E. 2 Tel. Dalston 1842
F. Stanford, 13, Pageant Road, St. Albans
G. Standeven, 67, Scovell Road, Boro' Road,
London, S.E. 1
J. Mason, 15, Oakhill Street, Heath Street,
Cheetham Hill, Manchester
Wm. Bramley, 7, Furniss Row Nursery
Jas. McCulloch, 6, Society Street, Maybole
Melton Mowbray... G. A. Wainer, 35, Norman St., Melton Mowbray
Midsomer Norton F. Gould, 6, Rackfernal Road, Midsomer Norton
Newcastle-on-Tyne W. H. Lodge, 16, Coquet Street, Newcastle
Norwich
Norwich No. 2
Northampton
F. C. Jex, 51, St. George's Street, Norwich. T. 465
A. H. Folkard, J.P., 51, St. George's St., Norwich
W. Pitts, 107, Overstone Road
T. 265 Trades Hall, 107, Overstone Road
Northampton No. 2 S. Thompson, J.P., 97, Charles Street. T. 634 Trades Hall, 107, Overstone Road
Nottingham
Oldham
Plymouth
Reading
Sheffield...
Sileby
F. Whiteman, 74, Waterway St. West, Nottingham
W. Bottomley, Bridge End, Delph, nr. Oldham
J. Gay, 5, Albert Road, Plymouth
Section J. H. Tithecott, 48, Lime Road, Bideford,
N. Devon
A. W. Panting, 14, Edghill Street, Reading
B. Knight, Montague, North Country, Redruth
T. B. Robinson, 242, Main Road, Darnall
E. Peberdy, Forest Street, Shepshed
F. Leader, 39, Swan Street, Sileby
Section S. E. Eason, Vine Cottages, Rothley
Southampton
... A. W. Murray, 70, Northam Bridge Road,
Stafford
Bitterne Manor, Southampton
R. Dunn, 152, Marston Road, Stafford
Sections G. Shenton, Stoke-on-Trent
Stone
Richard Glover, 5, Edward Street, Stone, Staffs.
Street
J. H. Hooper, J. P., 56, High St., Street, Somerset
Waterford
Wellingborough
W. Nicholson, 9, Castle Terrace, Waterford
... W. Wyman, 28, Silver St., Wellingboro'. T. 206
Sections F. Curzon, Doddington Road, Earls Barton
F. Mynard, High Street, Olney, Northants.
Whitwick
F. Berrington, 78, Leicester Road, Whitwick
Wolverhampton
Worcester
Alex. Smith, 187, North St., Wolverhampton
Section T. Worrall, 40, Dean Street, Birmingham
G. Rose, 45, Blakefield Road, Worcester
Plymouth Chambers, Drake's Circus
East Dereham
T. 265
Trades Hall, 107, Overstone Road
Trade Union Club, Oxford Street
Old's Restaurant, Fore Street
Trade Hall, Charles Street
Britannia Hotel
Liberal Club, Sileby
Branch Office, Marston Road
Reform Club
Bridge Inn
Committee Roon, Crispin Hall
Assembly Room, Silver Street
[Whitwick
The Church Schools, Market Place,
White Rose, Powlett Steet.
Bridge Inn, Bridge St. Worcester
Yarmouth (Great) W. Nash, 9, Row 61, Hall Quay, Gt. Yarmouth
Section F. Cocker, Swallow Terrace, Nerwick Road,
York
J. Rafton, 20, Ratcliffe St. Burton Stone Lane No. 2 Committee Room, Co-op.
Buildings, Railway Street


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF UNION OFFICERS.**

Tel. No.: 4438 Museum, London. Tel. Address: "Natunishop, Holb., London."

GENERAL PRESIDENT.
T. F. RICHARDS, Business Address-34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
Private Address - 7, Mecklenburg Street, London, W.C. 1. No business communications to this Address.

GENERAL SECRETARY.
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 69, Freegrove Road, Holloway, London, N. 7.

ORGANISERS.
D. MCCARTHY, 23, Avenue Road Extension, Leicester.
W. R. SMITH, J.P., "Belle Vue," Old Catton, Norwich.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
District No. 1-T. ADNITT, 65, Marfitt Street, Leicester.
2-C. BATES, 8, Denmark Road, Rushden.
3-A. W. LYNE, 21, Cranstoun Street, Northampton.
4-L. SMITH, 26, Semilong Road, Northampton.
5-C. MAYES, 25, Pollard Street, Kettering.
6-Vacant.
7-W. WARNER, 59, Stockwell Head, Hinckley.
8-W. HINDES, J.P., 9, Tillett Road, North Walsham Road, Norwich.
9-C. BLEAKLEY, 1, Drum Terrace, Edinburgh.
10-A. J. DOBBS, 6, Bramley Avenue, Bramley, Leeds.
11-ALEX. SMITH, 187, North Street, Wolverhampton.
12-J. MANNERS, 19, Downend Road, Fishponds, Bristol.

DISTRICT AGENTS.
District No.
1-M. A. PARKER, Leicester.
2-E. BATCHELOR, Rushden.
3-E. LAW, Northampton No. 2.
4-I. H. JOHNSON, J.P., Daventry.
5-G. CHESTER, Kettering.
6-Miss E. SHERWIN, Leicester
(Women's).

District No.
7-J. H. BAUM, Leicester No. 2.
8-F. C. JEX, Norwich.
9-G. WEIR, Edinburgh.
10-G. ABBOTT, Leeds.
11-C. HARPER, Wolverhampton.
12-J. T. OSBORNE, Bristol.

UNION TRUSTEES.
S. THOMPSON, J.P., 97, Charles Street, Northampton.
L. E. BRADLEY, J.P., "Flossleys," Barton Seagrave, Kettering.
GEO. PARBURY, 118, Harrison Road, Leicester.
Miss E. A. TIMMS, 6, Scott Street, Leicester.
H. H. WOOLLEY, J.P., 124, Narborough Road, Leicester.

PARLIAMENTARY AGENTS.
T. F. RICHARDS, 34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
J. BUCKLE, M.P., J.P., 13, Eighteenth Avenue, New Wortley, Leeds.
W. R. SMITH, J.P., "Belle Vue," Old Catton, Norwich.
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 69, Freegrove Road, Holloway, London, N. 7.
L. SMITH, 16, Northcote Street, Semilong, Northampton.

AUDITOR.
J. B. B. ROBERTSON, F.R.C.A., 241, Uppingham Road, Leicester.

BANKERS.
CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LTD., London.

NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT. - Approved No. 281.
Manager: R. D. MAYES, Business Address - 34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
TEL.: 5168 MUSEUM.
Printed by Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Limited, 99, Church Gate, for
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

Telephone No.:
4458 Museum, London.
Telegraphic Address:
"Natunishop, Holb., London."
NATIONAL UNION OF
BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES
(Registered under the Trade Union Acts, No. 432; Affiliated to the Trades Union
Congress, the General Federation of Trade Unions and the Labour Party).
Half-Yearly Financial Statement and
Monthly Report for July, 1923.
Seat of Government and General Secretary's Office :
34, GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1.
WHERE ALL BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS MUST BE ADDRESSED.
PRICE TWOPENCE.


---
Here is the extracted text:
TRADE UNION STAMP FOR
BOOT & SHOE REPAIRERS.
The following Firms use the " STAMP ":-
Stamp No.
BROCKLEY, Surrey
Mr. F. Jeffery, 1, Merritt Road, Crofton
Park
Mr. J. Mead, 150, High Street
16
CHESHAM
14
CHESTERFIELD
J. W. Booth, Eyre Street, Hasland
7
Industrial Co-op. Society, 73, Kent Road
17
DARTFORD
T. Malone, Mid Street
4
DUNDEE
Arnold Lowe, 311, Upper Kevin Street
10
DUBLIN
F. Lewin, 6 and 7, Chapel Street
19
GRANTHAM
J. Chapman, 5, Bulmer Street,
LEEDS
Meanwood Road
21
J. Smith, 30, Eldon Street
LEICESTER
9
Ralph Wood, 47, Cottesmore Road
15
"
Messrs. J. T. Marriott & Co.,
74, St. Nicholas Square
20
LEIGH
MANCHESTER
Edward Gee, 51, Wolverton Road
Co-operative Society Ltd., Leigh
J. Mason, 15, Oakhill Street, Heath
22
13
Street, Cheetham Hill
Messrs. Roberts & Son, 98, Fairfield
1
Street, London Road
NORTHAMPTON
Society, Downing Street
Manchester and Salford Equitable Co-op.
2
NOTTINGHAM
T. W. Lewis, 72, Ethel Street
8
PLYMOUTH
J. Seymour, 79, Woodborough Road
3
Messrs. Petitt & Co., 105, Tavistock Road
12
11
All Trade Unionists should have their Repairs done
by Repairers who use the TRADE UNION STAMP.
Full particulars from General Secretary :-
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 34, Guilford Street, LONDON, W.C. 1.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

Tel Address:NATUNISHOP, HOLB, LONDON
National Union
Boot & Shoe
Affiliated to the Trades Union Congress, the General Federation of
Trade Unions and National Labour Party
Approved under the State National Health Insurance Acts. Approval No. 181
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
General President
T.F. RICHARDS,
General Secretary
E.L. POULTON J.P.
SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
34, GUILFORD STREET
LONDON. W.C.I.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.

23RD JULY, 1923.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE
continues about the same as last month, the details reported in the Ministry of
Labour Gazette being set out hereunder :-

BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.

During June employment remained slack on the whole, with much short time working.
In the industry as a whole there was a slight decline as compared with May.
Employment at Leicester declined, and only a few firms were well employed at the
end of the month. There was no marked change at Northampton, where employment
was quiet. At Wellingborough it continued bad. At Higham and Rushden it was fair;
some short time was worked, but it was not general. Apart from a slight improvement in
the middle of the month, employment at Kettering remained poor. At Stafford it was
again fair, full time being worked. At Norwich there was a decline; there was much
short time and unemployment, and employment was not nearly so good as in June of last
Year. In the Bristol and Kingswood district employment was still quiet, but there was a
marked improvement during the month. Employment at Leeds was bad. In the slipper
trade in the Rossendale Valley employment remained fair.
In Scotland employment was bad at Arbroath, Dundee, and Maybole, but fair at the
other principal centres.
Returns from firms employing 41,807 workpeople in the week ended 23rd June showed
that about 40 per cent. of these workpeople were on short time in that week, to the extent
of 12 hours a week on the average.
The exports of boots and shoes in June, 1923, amounted to 90,425 dozen pairs, or
2,002 dozen pairs more than in May, 1923, and 37,179 dozen pairs more than in June, 1922.


---
Here is the extracted text:
405
The contention of the Union is that Clause 13 is limited in its operation to Time Rates,
and does not include freedom of contract to fix Piecework Rates for such operatives
different from those authorised by the Local Board of Arbitration.
interpretation which ought properly to be placed on Clause 13, having regard to the other
I have carefully considered the evidence and contentions submitted to me, and the
provisions of the Agreement, and I adjudge and determine as follows:-
1. That Clause 13 does not confer upon employers freedom of contract with operatives
2. That the firm in question are not entitled, without the sanction of the Leicester
under 16 years of age who are employed by them on Piecework.
Roard of Arbitration, to employ operatives under 16 years of age at Piecework
rates which are lower than those fixed for similar work by the Statement of Prices
authorised by the said Board.
Dated 9th July, 1923.
W. ADDINGTON WILLIS.
NATIONAL CONFERENCE (DECEMBER, 1922) AGREEMENT.
(The Northamptonshire County Boot Manufacturers' Federation).
Re The Interpretation of Clause 19 relating to Overtime.
AWARD.
A difference relating to a claim for overtime rate of pay was submitted under Clause
23 Standingsted under Clause
considered the matter on 15th May and 6th June, 1923. The representative members of
con Committee were unable to agree upon a decision and, acting upon the instructions of
their Federation and Union respectively, submitted the difference to me, the Chaim of
of the Committee, for my determination as Umpire.
The difference arises upon the claim that if an operative is prevented by genuine
illness from working a full normal week of 48 hours, he is still entitled to demand overtime
rate of pay for time worked on any day during that week beyond the usual daily hours.
The question to be determined is not whether it would be right, proper or equitable
that in such circumstances an operative should be allowed overtime rate, but whether he
is entitled to it under the terms of the Agreement which the parties have made.
Overtime shall only be paid to an
Clause 19 (a) says (so far as now material):
operative who has worked the full period of a normal week of 48 hours, unless an inter-
ruption in the normal week has occurred for which the operative is not responsible.
Does this mean every interruption for which the operative is not responsible, so as to
include all interruptions personal to the operative or caused by his domestic, private or
public affairs, of which illness is but one of many instances? There can be no justification
for saying that it applies to only one or some of these instances.
Or does it mean some interruption for which the operative is not responsible which
occurs in or in connection with the working of the factory whereby the operative is pre-
vented from working a full week?
After very careful consideration of the case and of the contentions submitted to me
and of the terms of the Agreement, including a comparison of the overtime clause in the
1914 Agreement, as requested by one of the representatives of the Union, I have come to
the conclusion that the second interpretation is the only reasonable one.
I therefore adjudge and determine:
That the expression
"unless an interruption in the normal week has occurred
for which the operative is not responsible," as used in Clause 19, paragraph (a) of the
National Conference (December 1922) Agreement, does not apply to an operative
whose failure to work a full working week has been due to his illness, and that such
operative is not entitled to claim overtime rate during that week unless and until he
has worked a full period of 48 hours.
Dated the 11th day of July, 1923.
(Signed) W. ADDINGTON WILLIS.
VOTING.
are shown on page 414. Voting must be taken at the August meeting nights,
The list of names of members nominated for the position of Organiser
and the Votes are not to be counted before the 15th inst. The results posted


---
406
wise they will be disqualified. This extension of date is only altered on
to twach the Central Office NOT LATER THAN the 17TH AUGUST, other.
account of the Bank Holiday intervening.
THE LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE
has been held during the month, and it was a very successful one, there being
stances by which they found themselves surrounded, and to deal with the very
an evident desire and determination amongst the delegates to face the circum-
and broad manner. It is quite clear to us that the increasing number of members
returned to the House of Commons and to local authorities, bringing with it
great problems by which humanity finds itself confronted, in a statesmanlike
responsibility, has found the Labour Party quite fitted to take up the duties
attaching to a Party when they find themselves in a majority. Further
references to the Conference will be found on pages 454-457.
Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., we are
the Labour Party Executive.
pleased to report, secured election on
HALF-YEARLY STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS.
The statement of accounts for the half-year are published herewith, details
of which appear in a later section of this report. Upon the whole, having
regard to the abnormal conditions of the world's trade, this having its effect
on the boot and shoe industry, as well as other trades, we think we may con-
gratulate ourselves upon having passed through another half-year so success-
fully as we have done. It is true that upon the Trade Fund there is a loss of
£2,297 IOS. IId. This, however, is fully accounted for owing to the large
amount of money we are constantly paying out for unemployment benefit,
which amounted to £23,144 15s. 9d., or £4,610 35. 5d. more than was paid
out for the half-year ending December, 1922. It will therefore be seen that
had it not been for this, we should have been enabled to have reported a saving
on the Trade Fund.
The Sick Fund has considerably increased, and upon the whole the funds
at the Central Office are larger than in the previous half-year.
It may appear to some of the members that the aggregate amount of money
we have in hand is rather large. What should be remembered is that we
have a large membership too, and having regard to the financial obligations
to the members, the Central Fund is not yet in a fully satisfactory state.
We would further remind the members of the fact that our present financial
position is due very largely to the methods by which the industry is governed in
settling its business by arbitration methods, thus enabling us so successfully
to meet our financial obligations. Those methods of arbitration have brought
many benefits in the way of obtaining conditions in the industry, and rates of
wages.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

TRADE DEPARTMENT.

For the
half-year ending
30th June, 1923.
For the
half-year ending
30th June, 1922.
£ s. d.
31543 17 0
33841 7 11
158050
£ s. d.
33917 10
4
42429 19
6
0
6
12 10
Increase on the
corresponding
half-year.
£ s. d.
Decrease on the
corresponding
half-year.
£
s. d.
2373 13 4
8588 11
4922
7
4
Total Trade Income
Trade Expenditure
Funds, Trade Dept... 162972
The Detailed Items of Trade Expenditure are as follow:
Travelling Assistance
Investigating
Loss of Tools by Fire
Victimisation
Dispute Benefit
Arbitration
Out-of-Work Benefit
Five-ninths Share Out-of-
Work Contributions
Three-fourths Share of
Organising
Three-fourths Share of
Printing and Stationery
Legal Expenses
Grants
General Federation of Trade
Unions
Political Fund
General Officers' Expenses
British Trade Union Congress
Scottish
Delegations and Conferences
Upkeep of Central Office
Trade Union Stamp
Miscellaneous
Management Expenses
7 13 9
66 19 10
17 19 3
37
4
446 13 8
204 9 0
23144 15 9
512 3 4
629 18
1368 18
94 5
8
0
8
4
1546 18 3
1078 15 5
12 18 6
713 16
29 3 4
1601 9
259 6 10
1 17 6
182 5 1
1683 6 4
9
8
4
1564 3
128 7
3489 1 0
433
7 15
280 16
3
370 17 8
8
3
SICK AND FUNERAL DEPARTMENT.
Total Sick Income
Sick Expenditure
Funds, Sick Dept.
29564 19
19058
118905 10
1
I
5
30391 8
23294 12
93546 19
The Detailed Items of Sick and Funeral Expenditure are as follow:
Sickness Benefit
Funera! Benefit
Four-ninths Share of Out-
of-Work Contributions
One-fourth Share of
Organising
One-fourth Share Printing
and Stationery
Management Expenses
Consumptive Cases
15760
1745
408 14
210
0
0
4
5
3
9
456
477 19
0
18994 16 10
2205
465 13 4
244 10
520 16 0
493 15 10
370 0
FIDELITY DEPARTMENT.
Total Income
Expenditure
Funds in hand
37
0
5
534 10
0
0
0
7
45 15
502
0
7
1 10
4
112
159 11 2
66 18 11
102 12
195 5
2
3288 10
47 8 9
24 18
24 9 4
37 16
826
4236 10
3234 15 10
460 0
56 19 0
34 8 7
64 10
15 16 10
370 0
8 15
5
32 10 0
POLITICAL DEPARTMENT.
Total Income
Expenditure
Funds, Political Dept. 5000
1640 12
2264 12
1
2
1676 3
2770 11
7581 14
5
35 11
505 19
2581 4


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
408
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE SECTION (STATE).
Total Income
Cash in hand
Expenditure
For the
half-year ending
30th June, 1923.
£
s. d.
32536 1 3.
34635 17 7..
3663 1 2.
For the
half-year ending
30th June, 1922.
£
s. d.
26950 8 9.
25047 8 7.
6825 10 7
Increase on the
corresponding
half-year.
£ s. d.
5585 12 6
9588 17 0.
Decrease on the
corresponding
half-year.
£ s. d.
3162 9 5
The Detailed Items of Unemployment Insurance Section are as follow:
Unemployment Benefit
Branch Administration
Printing
Office Supplies, Salaries, and
Miscellaneous
Repaid to Trade Fund
31068 5 7.. 24212 8 2..
507 4 3.. 569 0 0.
16 1 .. 6 15 8.
44 6 1..
3000 0 0 ..
6855 17 5 ..
256 6 5
61 15 9
212 0 4
Total Cost of Management
2161 5 4
2214 18 2.
53 12 10
Total Amount of Interest
Received
5379 6 0.
5634 11 3.
255 5 3
TOTAL INTEREST.
TOTAL FUNDS OF THE UNION.
Funds in hand of Trade Department..
Sick
Political
Fidelity
TOTAL FUNDS AT CENTRAL OFFICE
BRANCHES
GRAND TOTAL
158050 8 6
118905 10 5
5000 9 8
534 10 7
282490 19 2
99309 10 0
£381800 9 2
HOW AND WHERE THE FUNDS ARE INVESTED.
Cash in C.W.S. Bank, London-
Trustees' Account--Special Deposit at 44%
Deposit at 3%
Political Account-Special Deposit at 44%
Council's Account
General Secretary's Account
Cash in hands of General Secretary
Loan to Unemployment Insurance Section
Investments-
C.W.S. Development Bonds bearing Interest at 51%
bearing Interest at 5%
6%
94245 16 2
23244 5 3
3344 16 0
1655 13 8
8475 17 6
687 6 9
131653 15 4
24 19 6
2000 0 0
Hinckley
bearing Interest at 5%
20000 0 0
Leeds
5%
20000 0 0
Norwich
5%
3200 0 0
Northampton
5%
10000 0 0
Rushden
5%
20000 0 0
Rotherham
5%
39816 13 4
Kettering
5%
8249 4 8
Kingswood
6%
10000 0 0
Kingswood
51/4%
8336 3 9
Leicester Co-op. Printing Soc. Ltd. 5%
5043 9 7
Guarantee Fund, bearing Interest at 5%
1971 0 0
Victoria House Printing Co. Ltd.
3%
1000 0 0
1095 13 0
100 0 0
TOTAL FUNDS AT CENTRAL OFFICE
BRANCHES
148812 4 4
GRAND TOTAL
282490 19 2
99309 10 0
£381800 9 2
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
409
GAINS AND LOSSES ON THE HALF-YEAR.
Total Funds at Central Office now
£ s. d.
282490 19 2
last Half-year.. 274873 12 7
Net Increase on Half-year 7617 6 7
Total Funds at Branches, now
99309 10 0
last Half-year 93979 6 10
Net Increase on Half-year 5330 3 2
Total Gain 12947 9 9
GAINS AND LOSSES (CENTRAL FUNDS).
en Sick Fund
10506 17 7
Loss on Trade Fund 32 0 0
Fidelity Fund
2297 10 11
Political Fund 624 0 1
Net Increase on Central Office Funds 2921 11 0
£7617 6 7
MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNION.
Financial Members-
Males 48908
Females.. 19495
Probationary 68403
6772
GRAND TOTAL. 75175
1923. 1922. 1922. 1921. 1920. 1919. 1918. 1917. 1916.
JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. DEC. DEC. DEC. DEC. DEC.
68403 68787 69174 71224 81874 84949 72668 64915 56325
6772 6310 7019 5986 6986 12748 10433 8440 8025
Totals 75175 75097 76193 77210 88860 97697 83101 73355 64350
THE LABOUR PARTY IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.
The Labour Party is continuing its strenuous fight in the House of
Commons, meeting, it is true, with constant defeats in the Lobby Divisions;
revertheless, the case of Labour is day by day not only kept to the front, but
it is more and more apparent that if we are to be delivered from the present
ieplorable conditions whether in this country or abroad, and to put matters
more humanitarian lines, then we must see that the Labour Party is returned
power.
The position internationally is indeed a serious one, France still standing
hat for her full pound of flesh in regard to reparations. One cannot help but
fed that her method of dealing with the matter is one, which instead of being
in the best interests of the people, will cause irritation, distrust and ill will.
it is also very significant that the British Government, despite the poverty
they never tire in telling us) to which the country has come, have decided

---
410
the past month they have decided to have a tremendous air fleet in addition
to spend more on armaments than they did before the Great War. During
to a naval base at Singapore. This surely is not the way to bring about
countries. Once more we appeal for the support of the members to help the
fraternity and goodwill, which should be the aim of all those in civilised
a state of opinion whereby we can pass
resolutions in favour of peace, but that the will of the people should be ever
Labour Party to bring about not only
set towards peace.
As showing the strong feeling upon the position of France and the Ruhr
appeared in the Pall Mall Gazette for the 6th inst. This paper cannot be said
Crisis, we beg to call the attention of the members to the following article which
to support the policy of the Labour Party, but the article in most unmistakable
terms clearly points out the unreasonable attitude the French Government
are taking up, as will be seen from the following:-
"The days are slipping by and there is no indication that France is prepared
On the contrary, there is every
to accommodate her European policy to ours.
evidence that her statesmen are as stiff-necked as ever, and as determined on
going their own way regardless of the economic needs of their friends and
neighbours. Such an association as France proposes is not an Entente, it is
a humiliation, and opinion in this country is rising strongly against her.
"We are tired of waiting for our Allies to see reason, for it may well be
contended that if they cannot understand by now that their policy in the Ruhr
is doomed to failure, how can they be expected to understand it in time to save
the whole of Europe from economic chaos ?
"The French Government and people must be warned that if our Govern-
ment decides that we have waited long enough for that fertile co-operation
which is denied us, and determines upon an independent policy of our own,
it will have the country solidly at its back. Loath as we shall be to see the
Entente which promised so much for civilisation broken and ended, we all
recognise that even the warmest friendship may be pressed too far.
"This country wants peace, and is determined to have it. A distracted
Europe at our door is an intolerable nuisance, and if France will not assist us
to put things straight then we must act alone, considering only our own interests,
which are bound up in a rehabilitated Europe."
GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
The Annual General Council Meeting of the General Federation of Trade
Unions has been held at Bridlington during the month. The business was
largely formal, but in addition, resolutions were passed dealing with questions
"Stabilising Measures of Value,” “Unemployment
affecting the "
Unemployment Insurance Benefits" and "
at Insurance,"
"Depreciation of Real Wages.
Mr. A. Short, M.P., was the Chairman and delivered a very interesting and


---
Here is the extracted text:
411
valuable speech, extracts from which, and also the reports of the delegates,
will be found in another part of this report.
We are pleased to report that the General President secured re-election
upon the Management Committee of the General Federation of Trade Unions,
a position he has held since 1905.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
make a success.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only
Footwear."
"Union Stamped
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.
We remain,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
A. W. LYNE.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES IN GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPERS AND CLOG TRADES.—Men, 9,874; Women, 2,435; Juveniles,
511; Total, 12,820. - Labour Gazette, July, 1923.


---
412
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Conference held in London, whereat the delegates
LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE. The great event has been the Labour Party
es decided by overwhelming numbers
not to permit the Communists to join up as part and parcel of the Party. Dictatorship
is mean and vile whoever practises it, and the conduct of this body has been such as to
oppose Labour Candidates. Socialists though these may be, their attitude in the Woolwich
Armaments, but for this country to disarm was defeated by an overwhelming majority.
Bye-Election drove them into the wilderness for many years.
We who had already in 1906 been able to persuade the then Government to decrease the
naval programme by 50 per cent., and to lower the standing army by 10,000 officers and
the progress of death dealing instruments of war_after such an experience no thoroughly
men, and afterwards to have to regret that Mr. Keir Hardie and others failed to persuade
the German Socialists to support the policy of a Naval holiday, and by this means check
are those in our own movement, irrespective of ability, who, because you differ as to
conversant student of Great Britain is likely to lay himself open by inviting attack. There
methods, would, had they the power, be quite as vile as the biggest tyrants, hence the
need for caution.
Islands. Mr. G. Lansbury was very properly chosen to put the Executive's point of
Another resolution tabled by an important body dealt with the Kingship of these
We have at present many more
at
view in a word. Is this important? No. certainly not.
in the King as
present the general thing is for both the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition
noso amend their differences that there is Mr. Asquith, Mr. Bonar Law or Mr. Lloyd George,
ahavid liked to see either Mr. Balfou but the present arrangement works so well that we
tane well wait and allow the Leader compelled to choose its course by one unlooked for
can resident, all powerful in the land of the Opposition to go on unembarrassed until the
event comes when the movement steadily onward with that persistency, so well known on
the Continent as the great persistency of the British Labour movement.
It is a strange thing that although the Socialist movement has been in existence, as
such, in its present understood form since the year 1882, viz., 41 years, yet the paying
members to the S.D.F., B.S.P., I.L.P., Fabian Society, and others, all claiming to be
members and bodies to some of which the writer has been attached since 1889, yet the
whole of the membership of all these organisations does not amount to much more than
30,000 members, whilst the Trade Union membership is over five and a half millions. If
we cannot get virile and vigorous reformers to make converts and members, and teach
them to pay for their politics, we cannot claim to have converted them permanently.
If we could only get those
The Daily Herald is still without sufficient support.
persons in official positions in various Unions and who have the power to show the
inclination to assist and push the paper, it would soon be a paying proposition.
MANSFIELD, DERBY AND NOTTINGHAM Clicking and Closing Committees have met
several times both at Derby and Mansfield for the purpose of formulating Statements for
that area, and have apparently made headway, and after examining the products we are
aware of the differences in that area and some others, a matter that requires some con-
sideration.
TRADE UNION WEEK. - We have also taken a part in the Northampton Trade Union
Week on the Market Square, on Sunday, 9th, when a good meeting was held. We hope
that the outcome of the extensive programme of meetings to be held as arranged, some
134 in all, will meet with the success expected. I also assisted in Wellingborough, where
meetings were held during the same week and they were fairly good meetings, and hope
during the week to register advances made. Such a revival is bound to make for unity.
MOUNTSORREL.-Dinner-hour activities and open-air meetings have been held again
during the month at both Mountsorrel and Sileby, and one always feels a little disappointed
when we call a meeting and at least 90 per cent. of the operatives do not turn up; 10 per
cent. often being the most we get, and it passes our comprehension why this is, especially
when we invite the men to show to us how much, if anything, they have paid to the Union.
When we remember all that the Union has accomplished and compare the work as done
by a non-unionist, as against the quantity done by a Trade Unionist, and then substitute
say in our country, "If tha' does owt for nowt, do it for tha' sen." Compare this spirit
the high morality of helping others instead of accepting the new, yet old, doctrine as they
with those who never lectured for payment, and often no expenses, who know what it is
to do as Dean Halford would have us do, "Be true to every inmost thought, be as thy
thought, thy speech; What thou hast not by suffering bought, presume thou not to teach."
not know, cannot feel?
How many are there who have not had that experience, to those who have not, do
I was accompanied by Mr. Adnitt.
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
414
National Union of Boot & Shoe Operatives,
34, GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1.
NOMINATION PAPER
FOR
:: UNION ORGANISER. : :
Name of Member
Branch to which
Member belongs
Branches Nominating
Baum, Mr. J. H. ... Leicester No. 2 ... Kettering No. 2
*Bell-Richards, Mrs. M. J. Leicester Women's... Northampton No. 2.
Bleakley, Mr. C. ... Edinburgh ... Aberdeen, Arbroath, Dundee, [Edin-
burgh, Glasgow Nos. 1 & 2, Hinckley,
Kilmarnock, Leicester No. 1, May-
bole, Newcastle, Northampton No.2,
Stafford, Wellingborough, Wolver-
hampton.
*Chester, Mr. G. ... Kettering ... Wellingborough, Kettering No. 2.
Dobbs, Mr. A. J. ... Leeds ... Higham & Rushden, Kettering, Leeds,
Manchester, Norwich.
Gould, Mr. F. ... Midsomer Norton ... Bristol, Higham & Rushden.
Harris, Mr. R. ... Leicester No. 2 ... Leicester No. 2.
Hilliard, Mr. H. ... London Metro. ... London Metro.
*Hindes, Mr. W. ... Norwich ... London Metro.
*Lyne, Mr. A. W. ... Northampton No. 2 Northampton No. 2.
*Manners, Mr. J. ... Bristol No. 2... Bristol No. 2.
Martin, Mr. A. ... Leicester No. 2 ... Leicester No. 2.
Randall, Mr. A. ... Kingswood ... Kingswood, Leicester No. 1.
Simpson, Mr. A. ... Chesterfield ... Chesterfield.
Smith, Mr. L. ... Northampton ... Daventry, Higham and Rushden,
Northampton Nos. 1 and 2, Stafford,
Wellingborough, Wolverhampton.
Taylor, Mr. J. ... Burnley ... Kendal
As Mr. D. McCarthy and Mr. W. R. Smith are already Union Organisers it is not
necessary to nominate them in connection with the appointment of the Third organiser.
*Retired.

---
Here is the extracted text:
es,

415

REPORT OF THE AUDITOR.

241, Uppingham Road,
Leicester,
18th July, 1923.

the Members of the Executive Council of the Union.

Gentlemen,

In presenting my Report for the Half-Year ending 30th June,
1923, I beg to report that I have examined all the Account Books,
Receipts, Vouchers and Bank Pass Books.

The Deeds of Investment have also been examined, including
the two new investments made during the half-year with the Kingswood
han District Council and the Corporation of Northampton, the
rested funds-apart from the balances at the bank-now standing
at £148,812 4s. 4d.

The Total Funds standing to the credit of the Union amount
£282,490 19s. 2d., or an increase of £7,617 6s. 7d. over the previous
talf-year. This is very favourable having regard to the increased
count of Unemployment Benefit paid during the six months under
cview.

My thanks are due to the General Secretary and the Central
lilice Staff for the explicit answers given to any queries raised, and
wish to testify to the excellent manner in which the books are kept.

I certify the Accounts to be correct and according to Law.

JAS. B. B. ROBERTSON,
Certified Accountant and Public Auditor


---
Here is the extracted text:
416
HALF-YEARLY STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS,
For period ending 30th June, 1923.
TRADE DEPARTMENT.
INCOME.
BRANCH
Aberdeen
Arbroath
Ayr
Barnsley
Belfast
Bishop Auckland
Bristol
Bristol No. 2
Bromsgrove
Burnley
Chesham
Chesterfield
Colchester
Cork
Daventry
Derby
Desborough
Dundee
Edinburgh
Eyam
Glasgow
Glasgow No. 2
Hereford
Halifax
Heckmondwike
Higham and Rushden
Hinckley
Hull
Ipswich
Kendal
Kettering
Kettering No. 2
Kilmarnock
Kingswood
Trade
Contributions.
£ s. d.
59 18 4
168 7 0
76 19 0
5 12 8
93 9 7
2 11 0
268 18 6
382 10 11
64 15 9
21 2 8
214 16 11
21 19 8
13 17 2
51 7 5
180 15 7
109 8 6
287 10 6
112 9 4
164 2 7
398 3 8
193 15 8
0 10 0
94 7 10
3471 13 10
233 12 0
15 5 2
53 14 10
212 5 8
1418 15 5
784 5 1
172 11 8
703 5 0
Entrance Fees.
£ s. d.
0 0 6
0 1 6
0 18 6
0 6 6
0 0 6
0 7 10
0 11 9
0 2 9
0 2 9
0 0 3
0 0 6
0 6 9
0 0 3
0 4 9
0 1 3
0 2 6
0 5 9
0 1 6
0 3 0
2 14 0
0 7 0
0 0 6
0 0 9
0 14 3
0 9 6
0
1 6
Books.
£ s. d.
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
1
2
0
I
I
3
1
I
1
1
0
6 11
6
5
18
2
4
10
10
0
0
0
4
8
6
6
0
9
0
2
3
9
6
2
4
6
9
4
6
8
Total
£ s. d.
61 5 4
77 17 6
5 13 10
95 10 10
270 0 4
384 3 6
67 19 0
21 6 8
14 4 2
51 13 11
182 3 10
110 18 9
289 3 3
116 0 3
166 18 7
404 10 1
195 6 4
7 16 10
96 18 1
3478 2 7
234 6 6
705 7 6
417
TRADE INCOME Continued.
Trade
Contributions
£ s. d.
647 13 6
177 0 5
4956 8 11
2215 4 3
558 10 8
4 8 0
33 15 9
1241 3 0
94 13 5
89 0 0
85 1 10
123 19 11
29 0 7
109 0 11
1997 3 3
729 19 6
2763 18 3
2167 3 3
40 15 0
0 1 0
48 3 6
3 7 8
18 18 2
16 14 5
41 6 10
91 2 7
577 18 2
168 13 9
504 0 3
7 19 2
738 18 7
9 9 4
189 8 8
Entrance
Books.
£ s. d.
0
1
0
6
0
3
8
0
0
2
0
0
5
7
2
4
2
6
2
4
9
0
5
2
6
0
4
8
6
9
9
3
0
5
19
0
0
0
3
0
8
3
0
2
0
9
1
0
4
2
0
1
3
111 15 11
3
9
2
8
111
3
4
0
6
11
4
2
2
8
3
Total
£ s. d.
650 17 0
178 1
1972 18
2224 18
301 10
4 10
37 1
1250 14
95 5
90 19
86 2
125 17
29 8
42 13 10
0 6
49 2
3 12
19 3
17 3
43 10
91 11
579 13
170 1
507 2
7 19
744 3
10 4
191 4
4
2
3
7
3
8
7
5
8
2
3
1
0
1
0
1
0
26 3
Carried forward
10060 12 9
8 17 0
46 15 4
10116 5 1
..£30673 1 0
.. £44 14 1
.£114 8 8
..£30832 3 9
TOTALS..
---

---
ARBROATH. - Our trade barometer still points to "bad, no-change."
It often happens that a busy period is experienced in Scotland before the mid-
summer holidays, but here we are on the brink of the annual vacation without
trade showing any temporary spurt. One could moralise over the change
which has come over the fortunes of Scotland's workers in recent years. Our
national prosperity rests on the conditions of industrialism in Glasgow, and as
these continue to be very bad, the rest of Northern Britain reflects the same
results. If the huge population of the second city could only get full employ-
ment, in a short time the outlying towns and cities would soon show increased
industrial and commercial brightness. It also has a marked effect when the
mid-summer stop is reached. Visitors reach to every part of Scotland when the
West is busy, and so money circulates in all directions, but this year again it is
only the fortunates who can find enough in their purses to change from the
daily round. The sad shrinkage in the purchasing power of the common
people over such an extended period tells emphatically of the failure of Capital-
ism to meet the elementary needs of life, and everybody should give attention
to the programme of the Labour Party which outlines a more natural, a more
humane, and a more sensible industrial system for our nation to base its social
welfare on. Last month we wrote of an employer in our district who wished
to take clicking and finishing departments off payment by results, and put
them back on fixed wages conditions. Despite several visits of our Council
Member to this firm, and despite the Managing Director having had an inter-
view with our General President and Parliamentary Representative along
with our Council Member, in London, the day following the last Council meeting,
the firm persist in rejecting the piecework system, and our members in that
factory can only protect their interests now by doing the quantity which earns
the wages paid. Loyalty to the Union is the strongest factor in an emergency
of this kind. All sorts of influences can be used to seduce the members, and
threats can be sometimes employed to intimidate them, when they follow a
course alleged to be not favourable to an employer. In the above case they
may be made to feel that large orders will be lost, and short time result, or that
dismissals will take place as plenty of labour is available when a factory is on
full time, &c., &c., but if the members adopt a resolute attitude in defence of
their undoubted rights, the National Union will see them safely through their
trial. Apart from our continued activities in Carnoustie we have made good
use of Mr. Bleakley's services in Arbroath, and we know that amongst the
girls and men here, the branch has shown that trade-unionism means far more
than benevolent provision for sickness and distress, and does when given the
chance, stand forth as the true protector of the workers' interests, rights and
privileges in the workshop, and the only real sanctuary in days of stress and
trouble.
BARNSLEY. We are sorry to report that two of our oldest members
have been on the sick list; one from influenza, Mr. Wm. White, who has
recovered and is off the funds; the other our Secretary, Mr. W. Bowler, who
started with influenza, but developed into a serious attack of inflammation
in the legs. We trust Mr. Bowler will speedily be restored to health and
strength again.
BELFAST. - We are still unable to report any improvement in trade.
We also very much regret to report the lapsing of the Ballymena Section.
Everything possible was done to influence them to retain their connection
with the Union, but the employer had issued a threat and the men had not


---
```text
451
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. — Our trade barometer still points to “bad, no-change.”
It often happens that a busy period is experienced in Scotland before the mid-
summer holidays. but here we are on the brink of the annual vacation without
trade showing any temporary spurt. One could moralise over the change
which has come over the fortunes of Scotland's workers in recent years. Our
national prosperity rests on the conditions of industrialism in Glasgow, and as
results. If the huge population of the second city could only get full employ-
these continue to be very bad, the rest of Northern Britain reflects the same
ment, in a short time the outlying towns and cities would soon show increased
industrial and commercial brightness. It also has a marked effect when the
mid-summer stop is reached. Visitors reach to every part of Scotland when the
West is busyv, and so money circulates in all directions, but this year again it is
only the fortunates who can find enough in their purses to change from the
daily round. The sad shrinkage in the purchasing power of the common
people over such an extended period tells emphatically of the failure of Capital-
ism to meet the elementary needs of life, and everybody should give attention
to the programme of the Labour Party which outlines a more natural, a more
humane, and a more sensible industrial system for our nation to base its social
welfare on. Last month we wrote of an employer in our district who wished
to take clicking and finishing departments off payment by results, and put
them back on fixed wages conditions. Despite several visits of our Council
Member to this firm, and despite the Managing Director having had an inter-
view with our General President and Parliamentary Representative along
with our Council Member, in London, the day following the last Council meeting,
the firm persist in rejecting the piecework system, and our members in that
factory can only protect their interests now by doing the quantity which earns
the wages paid. Loyalty to the Union is the strongest factor in an emergency
of this kind. All sorts of influences can be used to seduce the members, and
threats can be sometimes employed to intimidate them, when they follow a
course alleged to be not favourable to an employer. In the above case they
may be made to feel that large orders will be lost, and short time result, or that
dismissals will take place as plenty of labour is available when a factory is on
full time, &c., &c., but if the members adopt a resolute attitude in defence of
their undoubted rights, the National Union will see them safely through their
trial. Apart from our continued activities in Carnoustie we have made good
use of Mr. Bleakley's services in Arbroath, and we know that amongst the
girls and men here, the branch has shown that trade-unionism means far more
than benevolent provision for sickness and distress, and does when given the
chance, stand forth as the true protector of the workers' interests, rights and
privileges in the workshop, and the only real sanctuary in days of stress and
trouble.
BARNSLEY. We are sorry to report that two of our oldest members
have been on the sick list; one from influenza, Mr. Wm. White, who has
recovered and is off the funds; the other our Secretary, Mr. W. Bowler, who
started with influenza, but developed into a serious attack of inflammation
in the legs. We trust Mr. Bowler will speedily be restored to health and
strength again.
BELFAST. — We are still unable to report any improvement in trade.
Everything possible was done to influence them to retain their connection
with the Union, but the employer had issued a threat and the men had not
We also very much regret to report the lapsing of the Ballymena Section.
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
452
the spirit to contest it. We are confident that before long these men will have
every reason to regret in failing to assert their manhood by refusing to maintain
their right to organise for self-protection.
CHESHAM. - Trade here has improved since our last report. One firm
which has been closed for a considerable period has recommenced business
again, and although at the time of writing only a few of the old hands are
engaged, we are hopeful that shortly some more of our unemployed members
will be at work again.
CHESTERFIELD. We have again to state trade as bad.
EDINBURGH. - Trade still keeping quiet. At our monthly meeting we
had another discussion regarding the reduction and the Cost-of-Living figures
as per Labour Gazette. The members think the time opportune for a thorough
investigation by Council into the accuracy of same, and should press for the
report to be published of the Committee which was set up to go into this matter.
Other Unions are protesting, some in rather a forcible manner, but our's could
be in a constitutional way. Re the Repairers' reduction some firms are not
making this operative meantime, which proves that employers are of same
opinion regarding prices charged for the necessities of a working-class family.
GLASGOW. - Trade with us is bad although some of the factories have
had a short spurt of trade before the holiday. We have a large number of
members walking the streets with no prospects of employment, and even a
firm closed down since February and no apparent sign of restarting. The
Repairing trade has also been very casual. The only business that is brisk
here are the Atlantic Liners at week-ends leaving the Clyde with full com
plements of passengers of thousands of highly-skilled workmen, and draining
the country of its young and vigorous manhood.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. -No improvement in trade in the district
during the month.
KILMARNOCK.-Winning numbers in the Prize Draw :-19481, 21631,
22079, 17829, 18886, 18360, 15072, 12265, 1995, 18509.
KINGSWOOD.-The slight improvement of trade in this district is
maintained, and in many instances delivery is not required until September.
The slow recovery hinders our efforts to increase the membership which has
been reduced owing to the long periods of unemployment experienced by many
of the operatives. We shall use every opportunity that presents itself to join
them up again as soon as circumstances permit.
LEICESTER No. 1.-Trade is much worse than last month.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S.-The Leicester Women's Branch wish to
report that the following resolution has been forwarded to the Council :-
"This Branch of women registers its protest at the indifferent and
prejudiced way the National Council of the Boot and Shoe Union dealt
with the application from the Labour Movement for a delegate to attend
the International Working Women's Conference in Vienna, and feel justified
in asking why this privilege of education and wider knowledge should be
withheld from women."
The International referred to is a Women's Congress, the first held in
Washington some four years ago. The American women, with the late Mary
MacArthur and Margaret Bondfield, were the chief movers. The Labour
Party and General Council of the Trades Union Congress are sending six women,
also financing the Congress to the extent of sixty pounds. We feel that as
women who pay their full share to the Labour Movement, and to our Central
Office (some forty pounds a week clear gain from this Branch), we should be
able to claim for some women in our Union (from which Branch we are not
concerned) the advantages of the spirit and broader outlook one gets in an


---
453
Branch are sending women to the International Summer School, also the open
Conference in Vienna, but the National Executive are the only body who can
international gathering of women from all countries. The Leicester Women's
give credentials for the International Working Women's Congress.
The question of payment to the Central Funds does not enter into the
question at all, because the Leicester Women's Branch only pay their proportion
forgotten that the Central Funds are called upon to meet benefits in accordance
to the Central Fund the same as all other branches, and it must not be
with the rules.
The Council did not deal with the matter in either "an indifferent or
prejudiced" way, but, as stated under a letter received from Miss Timms of
the above-named branch, was dealt with in quite a constitutional manner.
[E.L.P., G.S.]
LIVERPOOL.-Trade with boot repairers in this district generally is
fairly good. We have nothing particularly to report because we never get
more than about half dozen members turn up at our monthly meetings lately.
This may be a good sign that "everything in the garden is lovely." We
certainly do not get many complaints as to hours and wages thanks to the
existence of the Trade Board, which has certainly relieved the local officials
of a lot of drudgery work in the matter of compiling wages statements and fixing
rates of wages, and the fact that it is national and uniform in operation removes
the old bogey of competition with other districts.
MAYBOLE.-We are pleased to report trade is a good bit better than
for the past six months, and hope it may continue. All the places are closed
for ten or twelve days holidays.
NORWICH.-Trade bad, slight signs of improvement.
NORTHAMPTON No. 1.-Trade remains quiet here but a slight improve-
ment on previous month, but it seems we shall never have the continuous run
of good trade we used to have at this time of the year. We must hope for a
better winter trade, but that seems rather doubtful in view of the enormous
reductions in wages that have taken place in all industries, which kills the home
market which is much more important than the export trade. We are busy
at the time of sending off our returns with the special Trade Union effort,
and meetings are being held all over Northampton and county, outside factories
and all kinds of works, including breweries. We don't know what our Pro-
hibitionist friends will think of the idea, but we hope the various organisations
will have an increase of members as a result. We have had a dispute at a small
firm which thought it could ignore the Trade Union officials and make their
own terms with their workpeople because it employed a number of outworkers.
After they definitely refused to see the local officials, we had no alternative
but to call upon all the men and women to cease work. This quickly brought
the employer to a reasonable frame of mind, and the matter was settled within
2 week much to the advantage of the workpeople.
NOTTINGHAM.-Trade has fallen off considerably around here. Most
of our members are only working three days a week on new work, and in the
repairing shops short time each day is general. We have rather heavy sickness
for the time of the year, but this has been mainly due to the weather which
has been so changeable.
PLYMOUTH. The decision to terminate our affiliation to the General
Federation of Trade Unions has come with not a little surprise to some of our
elder members who can remember when the Union decided to affiliate, and we
think that such an important matter should have been more definitely placed
before the members, and a vote taken before the point of secession had been
reached. Certainly the figures placed before the Conference were very impressive,


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

454

but it is not always wise in the Trade Union movement to value the benefits
received in £ s. d., the general standard of life maintained by the whole of the
workers is the main thing. Apparently the General Federation of Trade Unions
with the policy of arbitration, unlimited output, and unlimited wages, so why
has not been militant enough, but our Conference in general seemed fairly satisfied
grumble if other unions have done the fighting, and we have been fortunate
enough to come along and pick up the prize-money?
SOUTHAMPTON. — Trade slow, but with an upward tendency.

LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE.

Delegates' Report.
The Labour Party Conference was held this year in the Queen's Hall, London, from
June 26th to the 29th inclusive, and was attended by about 900 delegates. Mr. Sidney
Webb presiding.

Apart from many resolutions dealing with the internal work of the Party and the more
effective machinery to deal with the ever-increasing influence of the Labour Party, we think
it may fairly be said that the outstanding feature of the Conference, apart from the very
decisive vote rejecting the resolution proposing to admit the Communist to the Party,
and also the equally emphatic vote against the Party Whips being sent to Mr. J. T. Newbold,
M.P., were the increasing appreciation of the fact that more and more regard must be paid
to the practical side of the work, and the policy that must be pursued, when it is borne in
mind that the Labour Party has now become the official Opposition in Parliament, and
might within the very near future be called upon to assume the position of forming a
Government.

Whilst in no way abating or dropping the ideal for which the Party stands, there
certainly was shown a determination to appreciate its proper value and the responsibility
which attaches to a Party holding the position in the country now held by the Labour
Party.
Amongst the more important resolutions passed were the following: —
Foreign Policy.
This Conference welcomed the establishment of the new Socialist and Labour
International, renewed the protests of the Party against the Ruhr occupation, expressed
the opinion that the last offer of the German Government should be taken as a basis
for negotiation, renewed the repeated declarations of the Party on the reparations
question — including inter-Allied debts and withdrawal of the armies of occupation —
called for a world conference to revise the peace treaties, expressed alarm at the
possibility of a division between the French and British peoples — especially at a new
race in air armaments — and advocated full recognition of the Soviet Government.

Education.
The Conference specially condemned in a lengthy resolution
(a) The discontinuance of the reduction of the size of classes, and, in many cases,
the actual increase of the numbers under each teacher.
(b) The failure to overtake the arrears of school building.
(c) The arrest of the development of Special Schools.
(d) The severe limitation in the provision of meals for children found hungry
at school or suffering from lack of food.
(e) The reductions in the number of free places at the Secondary Schools, and the
allowing and even encouraging of an onerous increase in the fees.
(f) The continued suspension of the National Scholarships to the Universities.
(g) The continued and even increasing employment of untrained and unqualified
teachers.
(h) The penalising of the entire teaching staff, first by the unwarranted deduction
of 5 per cent. towards the cost of superannuation; and, secondly, by permitting
Local Education Authorities to press for substantial reductions below the agreed
Burnham scales.
(i) The failure to organise a national system for the training of teachers, they
heavily penalising those Local Education Authorities whom it encouraged to
Training Colleges.


---
456
THE LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE.
The Twenty-Third Annual Conference of the Labour Party opened at the Queen's
Hall, London, on Tuesday, 26th June, and continued for the three following days. There
were approximately 900 delegates present. Mr. Sidney Webb, M.P., presided.
In the Chairman's address Mr. Webb claimed that the problems of the day could be
satisfactorily solved on the principles put forth by the Labour Party. Whatever might
or suffered from lack of education would not now be made by any person of candour
have been the case in past years the accusation that the Labour Party was inexperienced
At the root of all our present troubles was the state of warlike tension from one end of
failure as that of the statesmen to whom the world of 1919 entrusted the task of making
Europe to the other. Never, perhaps, in all history had there been so impressive a
a real peace. The Labour Party held that the treaties failed because, almost from end to
end, they ignored economics and morality.
pursuit of profit for self, whether individually or nationally. Such a foreign policy would
The Labour Party stood for a policy of mutual service, as contrasted with the deliberate
promptly assert for this country that leading position in the concert of Europe which the
present Government had abandoned.
claims to extravagant war indemnities were withdrawn, to make good, up to the limit
It would accept with cordiality the willingness of the German people, provided the
of economic capacity, the material damage inflicted on the mines and buildings of France
convert the League of Nations into an organisation absolutely world-wide, seeking to make
and Belgium, and to compensate the civilian victims of bomb or torpedo. It would
by owning or those who lived by working. It was this that was at the back of the almost
The struggle was as to who should be financially losers by the war—those who lived
nearly twice the produce of this year's income tax. The Labour Party must go on asserting
that there can be no financial security, and, indeed, no complete restoration of industrial
prosperity in this country, so long as one million pounds has to be taken out of the product
of labour each working day, before either wages are paid or profit is made, merely to defray
the interest on the war debt.
A War Debt Redemption Levy, on fortunes exceeding £5,000 in graduated
proportion to the ability to pay, sufficient to redeem the main bulk of the debt, stood
as the indispensable step to any stable economic order in this country.
When the Labour Party was entrusted with power it would not even want to do every-
thing at once.
Then Mr. Webb denounced violence, which " is, and must be, always accursed, injuring
both him who does and him who suffers it, and futile to both." Violence persuaded no
one, convinced no one, satisfied no one. It might destroy, but it could never construct.
A resolution was then taken, brought forward by the Executive Committee, that the
position taken up by the Annual Conference in Edinburgh in June, 1922, rejecting the
application of the Communist Party for affiliation be endorsed. After discussion a card
vote was taken with the following result :-
For affiliating the Communist Party 366,000
Against . . . 2,880,000
Majority against 2,514,000
A further vote was taken upon a recommendation that the Labour Party Whip be
sent to Mr. Walter Newbold, M.P., with the result that by an overwhelming majority
the same was defeated.
Other important matters dealt with during the week was the question of Foreign
Policy which was proposed by Mr. J. Ramsay MacDonald, M.P., who begged the Conference
to entertain no illusions about the difficulty of the task of achieving international peace.
" Do not let us live in a fool's paradise," he exclaimed. "Given a war situation,
you will be in it whether you want to or not." Unless the policy of stifling armaments
prevailed, the harvest of armaments would be reaped.
Therefore, he desired the Conference to send to the French workers a hearty resolu-
tion of friendship and fraternity, and an appeal for joint action to suppress militarism
and imperialism.
The maintenance of the Capital Levy as the centre stone of the whole fabric of the
Labour Party's financial policy was reaffirmed, the resolution endorsed calling for a reduc-
tion of armaments, the Taxation of Land Values, the Abolition of Food Taxes, and the
Entertainment and Corporation Profits Taxes.


---
457
Meaningless Heroics.
The Barrow Labour Party submitted a resolution calling for protests against the
"crimes committed by the British Government against subject races in the interests of
the expansion of the Empire and for Imperialistic and capitalistic ambitions."
The delegate who moved the resolution denounced those Labour leaders who were
"always supporting the British Empire."
Mr. Ramsay MacDonald trounced the speaker for this attack, declaring the resolution
to be meaningless heroics. On every conceivable occasion, he said, Labour had taken
its stand against Imperialism, militarism, and oppression of the subject, and here was
Barrow, of all places in the world, decrying its efforts though it did nothing to help. Mr.
MacDonald asked why did not Barrow send a Labour Member to the House?
The resolution was carried.
Other resolutions of importance passed during the week dealt with matters affecting
Rating, Emigration, Milk, Unemployment, Housing, and the New Trades Board Bill.
Some of the resolutions affecting these matters appear on the report of the delegates to
Conference appearing on pages 454-455.
During the week the delegates were entertained at a Garden Party at the offices of
the Workers' Union, Golders Green, whilst on another occasion the London Labour Party
invited the delegates to pay a visit to the County Hall, which is the new Headquarters
of the London County Council, which is claimed to be the finest building of its kind in the
world.
WHAT THE "NEW LEADER" THINKS OF MR. SIDNEY WEBB'S
ADDRESS TO THE LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE.
Mr. Sidney Webb's opening address was filled with close reasoning, with quiet
yet memorable phrases and with the spirit of service and hope. He spoke before the
fateful decision to double the air force was known, but his broad survey is the best com-
mentary upon it. From that " factory of inefficiency " in Versailles came the rivalries
no less than the oppressions of the victors. While he stated firmly the duty of resistance
to this Allied policy, he carried us forward into a wide positive programme of international
organisation, in which every item calls for thought and action. The main emphasis in
the address was laid upon the fundamental ideal of democracy. VIOLENCE IS TWICE
ACCURSED, TO HIM THAT USES AND TO HIM THAT SUFFERS IT. Moreover, as he shrewdly
reminded us, with the Italian precedent before us, the violence of angry property is apt
to be more efficient than that of a revolutionary mob. Here lies our chief difference with
the Communists. WE CAN GO NO FASTER THAN WE CAN CARRY A MAJORITY OF THE
ELECTORATE WITH US BY PERSUASION It must, we would add, be not only a genuine
numerical majority; it must also have within it powerful elements of intelligent con-
viction. SNATCHED MAJORITIES ARE NOT ENOUGH, AND THE BEST SIGN OF THE PARTY'S
GROWTH is that in the Whitechapel and Morpeth by-elections, Mr. Gosling and Mr. Smillie
achieved absolute majorities where their predecessors had won only by the splitting of the
opposition vote. A PARTY WHICH AIMS AT FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE MUST HAVE BEHIND IT,
IN QUALITY AND EVEN IN NUMBERS A FAR GREATER MEASURE OF SUPPORT THAN AVAILS
FOR A PARTY WHICH MERELY DEFENDS AND ADAPTS THINGS AS THEY ARE. We shall have
against us, when we make our first essay in Government and attempt any fundamental
change, not the Lords alone, but in the main the Civil Service also, AND THE VAST POWERS
OF FINANCE AND THE PRESS, with their infinite scope for sabotage. THE ANSWER TO SUCH
FORCES MUST BE NOT NUMBERS ONLY, BUT ORGANISED INTELLIGENCE, AND A DEMOCRACY
WHICH CAN USE THE INDUSTRIAL AS WELL AS THE POLITICAL WEAPON.
CANADA AND SHOE WORKERS.
We have received a letter from the Secretary of the Boot and Shoe Workers' Union
of America, Mr. N. L. Phillips, of the Labour Temple, Toronto, Ontario, that some firms
in Canada are hiring shoemakers from Leicester to whom they have promised steady work
at good pay and advancing cost of transportation, and that this was brought to the notice
of that Union by an operative who was brought over under these conditions last February.
The firms are only paying 40 cents per hour, which is not one half of that Union's minimum
rate and he is finding it next to impossible to live and is enduring a great deal of hardship.
They are going to take his case up and help him all they can, and ask that this shall be given
as much publicity as possible. They urge all English shoeworkers to view with suspicion
all advertisements for Shoeworkers in Canada, and that all those who contemplate going
to Canada should write to the Boot and Shoe Workers' Union at Toronto, who will be glad
to give the facts of the Shoemaking business in Canada and also help them all it can.


---
458
Report of Executive Council Meeting of International Shoe and
Leather Workers, held at Frankfort, 6th June, 1923.
All the members were present except Mr. Poulton, Mr. Smith, the reserve member,
attending in his place. Herr Simon presided and Lex acted as Secretary.
The first business was the Secretary's report for period from 1st July, 1922, to 30th
April, 1923. It dealt very largely with the position of the German workers resulting
from the occupation of the Ruhr. The rapid falling of the Mark, which is shown by the
fact that prior to the occupation they were 45,000 to the £, while to-day they are 480,000
to the £, is a serious matter for the workers, as the price of bread and other foodstuffs
largely follow the Mark, and this makes changes in wages necessary almost every week.
Unemployment has greatly increased, some factories had closed down, while of those
that were open at least 75 per cent. of the operatives were on short time. It was stated
that over 90 per cent. of the shoe workers in Germany were either out of work or on short
time.
The following two paragraphs are worth quoting from Simon's report.
" I will not enter into details about the excesses of the French and Belgian soldiers.
I will not enumerate the verdicts of murders that have been committed against German
workers and citizens in a time of peace, all these lamentable facts are sufficiently well
known. I only want to point out that these conditions will contribute to aggravate the
world's crises, and that not only the workers of Germany, but of the entire world, will be
doomed to misery and privation."
"The German workers know that the damages of the war in France and Belgium
have to be made good again. They have always fought with all their forces for the fulfil-
ment of the reparations of these damages. But these reparations can only be paid, if the
economic life can come to a peaceful evolution."
The report further dealt with the activities of the International in regard to reports
issued, and the work of the Secretary in connection with various International gatherings.
Arising out of the report a resolution was passed unanimously condemning the Ruhr
occupation, the terms of the resolution being drafted by Comrade Roux, of France.
A financial statement covering the period since the last Conference held in August,
1921, was presented. It is difficult to explain same, as the figures being in marks, and
received at different periods, the value of the contributions varied considerably from the
time they were sent. There was a balance of 7,326,843 marks, while other fairly substantial
assets exist in other currencies, including 1,545 in American dollars, and £376 in English
notes. The expenses of the meeting would be about six million marks.
The agenda for the Congress to be held in Dresden on 16th September was dealt with.
Reports from the various countries were asked for, to be sent in by 1st August, so they
may be translated for the Congress.
It was agreed that a separate discussion should take place on the question of the
eight-hour day. Mr. Smith was asked to undertake the introduction of same, but owing
to our delegates not having been appointed, Mahler, of the German Leather Workers,
was given the task.
A letter was read from Moscow asking for the affiliation of the Russian workers in
the leather industry, and failing affiliation that they be permitted to attend as guests.
Simon added that he had seen a representative of the Russian Union in Berlin, and also
Yusefowitsch in Hamburg. He informed them the matter was one to be decided by the
E.C. It was also suggested by the Russians, that there should be consultation in regard to
future wars.
After some discussion it was decided not to accept their affiliation, nor to permit
them to attend as guests. Only Vesely, of Czecho-Slovakia, spoke in favour of affiliation,
but he did not vote for it. It was mentioned that negotiations were taking place between
Amsterdam and Moscow, and it was felt that any decision as to the merging of forces
should be left to them.
Simon stated that the position in Russia was changing, and that the workers were
struggling to maintain the eight-hour day, but some were working 10 hours. There were
at that time strikes at Odessa. The workers were strongly criticising their leaders.
A resolution was passed protesting against the dissolution of the Shoe Workers' Union
by the Government in Czecho-Slovakia. This, it was understood, had taken place because


---
Here is the extracted text:
459
On Thursday the Conference of the German Saddlers was opened at Offenbach, which
is really a suburb of Frankfort. The morning session was chiefly given over to reports
and appointment of Conference Officials, followed by the report of the President, which
lasted nearly three hours. It may be interesting to mention that the roll call of the delegates
is answered by each one rising in his place.
In the afternoon a visit was made to a shoe factory. It was not seen at its best as
work was slow. The methods and procedure were very similar to our own. B.U. machines
and Ladies', was of good class, the upper leather being of excellent quality. The work-
are used, though a good number are of German make. The work, which consisted of Men's
manship was good and comparable to that of the British operative.
some 2,500 operatives present of both sexes. As there are about 3,500 in the district it
A meeting of shoe workers followed. It was a fine gathering; there must have been
them together. Mr. Smith spoke for England, and Roux for France. Both were well
was a good attendance. One wished our own people would turn up as well when we call
by Miss Freundlich. All the workers in the factory visited were members of the Union.
received, the audience listening very patiently throughout. The speeches were translated
17th June, 1923.
W. R. SMITH.
A. J. DOBBS.

A VISIT TO A SHOE FACTORY IN GERMANY AND A MEETING
WITH GERMAN SHOE WORKERS.

I stated in my report last month that I would give our members an account of a visit
to a German Shoe Factory, and a description of one's experiences in addressing a meeting
of German shoe workers.
In its general features a German factory differs little from our own. The sub-division
level. The machines used are practically the same, and when I say that the British United
of labour, with the various mechanical devices, bring things down largely to a common
Puller-over and Consol were in use it will be evident to all how true this is. The idea
governing in this factory was to get the best machine no matter where it was made.
The firm whose factory we visited was one of the best in the country, both from the
standpoint of class of trade, and in the relationship that existed between the firm and its
workpeople. Let me say here, that every operative was a member of the Union. They
had achieved what the Americans call 100 per cent. efficiency.
The factory without being in any way elaborate, was well built (it was nearly new)
and spacious. In its general arrangements it was well planned, the operatives having
plenty of room in which to work. Due regard seems to be given to the health of the workers.
There was a large dining room below, with a stove in which food could be kept or made
hot. The operatives are allowed to put their food in the oven half an hour before meal
time so that when it is required it is just right for eating. Evidently many take their food
at the factory, and in some cases the wives bring the food and place it in the stove or oven
and take away the empty vessels of the day before. A long double wash basin is provided
so that the workers can wash before leaving the factory, while ample provision is made for
clothes without hanging over one another or even touching.
The trade is purely retail, consisting of ladies' and men's goods, a large quantity
being welted, which by the way were made on the bed-laster. They run about 450 samples,
and have just over 400 customers. The styles generally were unsuited to British trade.
Goods are exported; we were shown some that were for Switzerland, and some golf boots
for England. A good number were substitutes for turnshoes, made on the tackless principle,
the uppers being solutioned down; they looked exceedingly well, and we were told the
wearing qualities were good.
The methods of handling work were well thought out, and all work has to be com-
pleted in 32 days, that is, from the time the order is issued from the office to readiness for
dispatch. The instock system is only in use in connection with a few of the cheaper
lines. In every room there are fixed in several places five coloured electric bulbs, and
each of the managerial staff has a colour or colours allotted to him. Should he be required
at the office, a bell rings and his coloured light comes on, and he at once goes to the telephone
and ascertains what is wanted. If it is an urgent matter such as a trunk call then the
bell rings twice.
I have stated the class of work was good. Never have I seen finer upper leather
dose that difficulty would be had in getting sufficient for shoe tongues. One cannot
imagine the clickers claiming for faulty material.


---
The method of cutting is somewhat strange to us. The knife used by the clicker looks to be some 9 or 10 inches long when new and has no handle. It is bound round with leather, and when used is held as we should a pen. I never saw a single operative holding as we should. On stout material and linings it is held butcher fashion. How strong the knife proper is.
Another interesting feature was in regard to the press knives. The knife proper is of the same depth as those in ordinary use here, but there is a sort of bridge constructed over them, with a short stem leading up to a plate on top. The operative holds the knife by the bridge or stem, and the plate forms a complete protection to the hand. This is looked upon with so much importance that a law has been passed making their use compulsory. The knives on revolution presses are constructed the same, though of greater depth. The idea seems to be that prevention is better than cure.
The hours worked are 47. This obtained throughout Germany in the Shoe trade. I may perhaps add that the 48-hour week is enforced by law in the country generally. The hours were worked so as to give one and half hours to dinner. It is interesting to note that the German workers refuse to work longer hours on the five days so as to have a short Saturday. Evidently sport has not got them in its grip yet, nor allotments.
The rapid falling of the Mark makes it difficult to speak about wages. At the time I was there the rate was 2,500 marks per hour, which in our values is very low, though in pre-war terms it would be £125. Changes in wage rates have to be made very frequently under present conditions, and it must be exceedingly difficult to keep pace with the changing rates of exchange, and as the price of food largely follow the mark the position is bad indeed.
One has often wondered how business is possible with this changing of values, but I ascertained that when any material is bought, it is entered up on terms of the dollar, so that the change in the value of the mark is easily met, the dollar being the basic rate of value to-day. By this means leather or any material purchased some time ago can easily be measured in present day prices.
Another illustration can be given of the effect of the exchange rates. Before the war the cost of lasts was 2 ¾ marks, at the time of my visit it was 32,000 marks. The manager informed me that a new style for the season required 7,000 pairs of lasts, which at present prices meant a capital outlay of 224,000,000 marks. They were meeting this position by grinding or scouring down old lasts, which besides effecting an economy, also provided work for some who otherwise would have been displaced. I may here say that the factory had little more trade than represented half their capacity. As the firm had last-making machinery this economy could be better and more easily effected.
A practical illustration of the effect of the Ruhr occupation was given to me. Some of the machinery used was manufactured in the occupied area. This applies to a number of machines that were used for lift cutting, and one of these had been standing idle for four months because a part that was broken could not be replaced. Nothing could be obtained from these areas, and one can only conclude that had it been a pivot machine, there would have been a danger of the whole factory being stopped. The thought that naturally arises is, how can any reparations be paid while industry is paralysed in this fashion.
One other incident is worth recording. When we entered the lasting room a number of the men were standing together arguing in an excited manner. As the manager was with us we wondered what would happen. He took little notice of them, but said to me that it was very disturbing to him when trade was such that he could not give the men a full week's work, and being on piecework their earnings were small. I suppose he thought I was still puzzled about something, for he turned and said, you know what they were arguing about, don't you? I said I did not. Oh, he said, one of them has had more than his share of the work and the others are after him about it.
After we had looked round the factory we wended our way to the hall where a meeting was to be held. It was a building that appeared to be quite 100 yards long, and from 30 to 40 wide. It was largely built of wood, one side being entirely of glass looking out on to what seemed to be pleasure gardens with fields beyond.
The appearance upon our arrival just before five o'clock was not very encouraging. There were only a few people present of both sexes, some of whom were enjoying a meal in which a dark-coloured bread seemed to loom somewhat largely. I thought to myself the workers here are like those at home and bother little about the affairs of their Union. But we had not been seated on the platform very long when workers of all ages and either sex poured into the hall, which was soon full to overflowing. The seating was not sufficient, and a raid was made upon the spare chairs upon the platform, and also upon those in the gardens outside.
Order was soon obtained, and the chairman opened the meeting. He had not got very far when from different parts of the hall men rose and spoke with evident heat. As I had already been called upon and was on my feet for the purpose of speaking, I thought


---
it was some kind of protest against me addressing them. I soon found such was not the
case, but due to some of those holding Communist views wanting to have the meeting
run according to their ideas. Herr Simon soon obtained order again, and I proceeded to
speak. I was limited to ten minutes so had to condense what I wished to say. I was
listened to with great respect, and received with great enthusiasm. I was followed by
Comrade Roux, of the French Union, who also had a splendid reception. The speeches
were interpreted, and the audience cheered us both, Roux especially so.
It was a manifestation of the fact that the workers have no quarrel with each other.
Our Governments may fall out, the big financial interests may manœuvre and scheme in
the interests of their class, but the workers the world over have more to gain by friendship
and goodwill than by hatred that must ultimately lead to war.
The meeting was an interesting experience, the German workers take more interest
in the affairs of their Union than do our members at home. There must have been at
least 2,500 persons present at this meeting, the number employed in the district is 3,500
not a bad proportion. It was at a place called Offenbach, which is a continuation of
in 1912 when the Union Conference was held there. Herr Simon was present, and the
Frankfort. While at the meeting my mind went back to the one we held in Norwich in
form, the meeting had been well advertised, and yet only 400 thought it worth while to
attendance was not more than 400. All the leading officials of the Union were on the plat-
It must be encouraging to us to know that the workers of other countries take such
interest in their Trade Union, the world is becoming more and more of a unit so far as
commerce is concerned. The working class must move together in the schemes for the
hinder one another, we must seek to understand each other and so avoid the mistakes
betterment of the people, there must be co-operation between us, we must help and not
of the past so far as the future is concerned. We must work for the time-
come along.
When the War drum throbs no longer,
When the battle flags are furled,
In the Parliament of man,
In the federation of the world.
15th July, 1923.
WALTER R. SMITH.
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Council do not hold themselves responsible for the views expressed by Correspondents.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
The Vienna Women's Conference.
It has come to my knowledge that the Council of our Union have not considered
it worth their while to send a delegate (from our many thousands of women members) to
the working Women's Conference in Vienna, the only International Working Women's
Conference of Labour Women. I wish to say how disappointed I am that our Union
should be so blind to the interests, not only of our women in this country, but to the help
and inspiration we may be able to give to the working women in other countries who are
worse off than ourselves. When I call to mind that our President, Mrs. Bell-Richards,
was the means of getting a ten minutes' rest pause for all workers embodied in a Convention
at Geneva, in 1921, I feel we should not hesitate to get the real working women's opinion,
whoever it may be, on the things that vitally affect us as workers-ills that from experience
we are able to talk about and remedy. Once again let me say how sorry I am that our
Executive of Labour men should not have considered the question more fully.
Yours, a Fellow Member,
E. A. TIMMS,
Leicester Women's Branch.
17th July, 1923.
NOTE: The Union, as is generally known, are affiliated with the Joint Standing
Committee of Working Women, the executive of which elect or select representatives to
the International Conference of Working Women. In this connection the General Council
of the Trades Union Congress have selected Miss M. Bondfield, Miss Irene Cowell and Miss
Julia Varley. whilst the Labour Party Executive have selected Mrs. Harrison Bell, Dr.
Marion Phillips and Miss Madeline Symons, these women being elected to represent the
movement generally. The Council feel that it is quite unnecessary to have overlapping
by appointing delegates after the National organisations to which the Union is affiliated
have elected six representatives.
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.


---
workers.
463
special educational experiments designed to satisfy the interests and desires of the younger
and much of it will have to take the form not of classes such as appeal to adults, but of
Agencies wholly outside the Labour movement have not been blind to the possibilitics
provision for stimulating, by junior fellowships, clubs, and entertainments, the loyalty
of young workers to the firm. Social and religious agencies run countless boys' clubs and
of work on these lines. Apart from workers' schools, many employers make special
like the Boy Scouts, the Girl Guides, and their numerous imitators exercise a very wide
ic' clubs, and endeavour to devise special attractions for young people. Movements
the right to criticise when we have failed to make any provision of our own. But we hold
social influence. We say nothing against many of these developments, for we have not
that, under present conditions, the effect of these agencies, instead of arousing loyalty
to the working-class movement and to workers' ideals of citizenship, is often to create
hostility to them, and to instil ideas which do not
experience of industrial conditions and Trade Union action.
work among adolescents to remain almost wholly under the influence of bodies wholly
The Trade Unions, therefore, cannot, in our opinion, afford to allow the educational
formative years of adolescence in order to make the workers, when they come to manhood
unconnected with, and often hostile to the working-class movement. We must use the
or womanhood, at once better citizens and better Trade Unionists, more fully equipped
to face life's problems with a good heart, and less divorced from the habit of study and
hard thinking than is now usually the case.
ot readily yield even to the practical
How is this to be accomplished? It is not, as we have indicated, simply a question
For the adolescents, save in an insignificant number of cases, simply would not come to
of starting classes for adolescents on the model of those already catering for adult workers.
deeper, and raises the general question of the methods to be adopted by Trade Unions in
such classes, which would not give them what they want. The whole problem goes far
providing for their adolescent members.
"or" junior" branches,
Unionists have realised already that it is not enough mainly to give their young members
the opportunity-which is usually not taken of attendance at the ordinary branch
There is here a certain small basis of experience to go upon. Some active Trade
meetings. Experiments have been made in separate" apprentice
or in sub-branches, meeting at a different time, which discuss the agenda of the ordinary
branch meeting, and so ensure that the young members, with the help of a few of their
seniors, take an interest in, and get an understanding of the affairs of the union. There
have been a few cases in which the young members themselves, with or without help from
their seniors have organised an Apprentices' Association or Fellowship, and have so
endeavoured to play their distinct part in the work of their unions. Various experiments
enve been tried, but all, so far as we know, have been on a very small scale, and none has
heally touched the bulk of the unions affiliated to Congress. Perhaps as a result of this
report the existence of many experiments unknown to us all will come to light. We hope
this may be so, and endeavour to provide for it in our recommendations. There is every
thing to be gained by a pooling of past experiences if advantage is to be taken of oppor-
tunities in the future.
Distinct juvenile organisation within the unions offer, we think, considerable oppor-
tunities; and we urge the affiliated societies to consider the expediency of taking action
on these lines. We hold, however, that no adaptation of the machinery of each union
separately would do more than provide a ground work on which more general and ambitious
developments must be based. We want to see the young workers not only getting a fuller
understanding of the affairs of their respective unions and taking a greater part in their
work, but also securing wider opportunities for education in the broadest sense. It would
be bad economy for schemes with this object to be established by each union separately,
just as it would be bad economy for each union to establish its own separate educational
machinery for its adult members. Nor would it produce the right results, for we want our
young members to acquire a breadth of outlook and an understanding not of their own
unions alone, but of the whole working-class movement, and indeed of all society and its
problems.
The task, therefore, calls for collaboration of union with union, and for co-ordinated
action by the Trade Union movement as a whole. It is clear that the existing working-
class educational agencies cannot, with their present resources, make any real attempt
to cover the field. A real scheme of educational provision for our adolescent members
will cost money, but in our view it will be money well spent, money which will return to us
through the higher standard of Trade Union intelligence and loyalty which it will help to
foster.
that the
Broadest sense, for the adolescent members of Trade Unions should be accepted by the
Trades Union Congress as one of the principal aims of the educational scheme which it has
adopted, and that the devising of means for its execution should be referred to the General
Council, in accordance with the terms of the resolution passed at the Cardiff Congress, as a
---

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
465
GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS,
We attended the Annual Meeting of the General Federation of Trade Unione, held
in the Parish Hall. Bridlington, on the 12th and 13th July, 1923
Mr. A. Short, M.P., presided, and amongst other things said:
"The cataclysm of war compelled nations to resort to all forms of artificiality foreign
and exchange, became dislocated. The free flow of trade betwe
of currency
to their normal everyday life. The finely balanced mechanism of international finance,
our working people have been reduced to seeking the aid of Poor Law relief their humilia-
was arrested. The capitalist system as such became a morass engulfing the working
of the system, became more manifest; penury and want, more widespread. Masses
classes of most countries and particularly of our own. Poverty, the inevitable concomitant
tion has known no equal in the annals of our times.
nations
of
To alleviate the sufferings we had hoped for a rapid restoration of the economic life
of Europe, the reconstruction of nations once powerful and strong, the encouragement of
trade relations, and the creation of confidence at home and abroad, for we cannot ignore
the importance of the recovery of our foreign trade. This importance was indicated in
the census of production of 1907 which showed that:-
The Cotton Trade to the extent of three-fourths,
The Machinery Trade to the extent of three-fifths,
The Wool Trade to the extent of one-half
were working for foreign markets. It might well be said one worker out of every three
remember that the trade which certain foreign countries did with our Dominions and
was engaged exclusively upon products for export. In this connection we have also to
Colonies frequently resulted in extensive trade between the latter and ourselves. This
the breakdown of the economic life of Europe our overseas trade has materially suffered.
was particularly so in the case of German trade with India. Therefore, in consequence of
The restoration of our foreign trade is bound up with our international relationships
which depend largely upon the foreign policy of the existing Government. The workers
have little or no influence in shaping that policy, and I must confess that when contending
the statesmen of the day display greater ineptitude, less insight and a more callous disregard
with these immense issues, fraught with so much danger to our working people, never did
of those very obvious interests.
Civil disorder in Russia has been deliberately encouraged. Europe is a human
cauldron of conflicting forces.
The collapse of Germany is daily feared. Hate, suspicion and fear are not the con-
comitants which make for that security essential to trade and commerce. Force was
never a regenerating influence: nothing of permanent value follows in the wake of war,
Knowing we were a great manufacturing nation, so much depending upon foreign trade,
I should have thought statesmen would have strained every nerve and exploited every
reasonable policy to have secured a settled Europe. SUCH, HOWEVER, WAS NOT THE CASE.
economic and spiritual
International policies were embarked upon which have seriously jeopardised our
interests, retarded the restoration of our foreign trade, and thereby increased unemploy-
ment, with its attendant evils.
Though five years have elapsed since the armistice, strife and insecurity prevail.
Animosities are rife. Armies are scattered over Europe; peace, the condition precedent
to material prosperity is absent.
The position has not been improved by the attitude of France, whose occupation of
the Ruhr is unworthy of her great name and traditions.
We see behind French policy the imperialist mind of a governing class anxious to
destroy the industrial and political power of Germany, and to dominate with Napoleonic
vigour the continent of Europe.
With foreign trade at a minimum and the home market seriously hit, the plight of
the workers can be imagined. The entire incidence of unemployment is being borne by
the workers. Their sacrifice is out of all proportion to their means or their status within
industry. They are the first victims industrially and suffer equally, socially and politically,
for they have not escaped the evil effects of the demand of economy. Economy at their
expense is expressed in arresting the building of working class houses, in the increasing of
rates and rents; the non-repair of insanitary dwellings; the reduction of expenditure;
the limitation upon the provision of milk for expectant mothers and children; the inadequate
Tax no corresponding relief is given in indirect taxation upon those commodities so ex-
adulterated food. While undue relief is given to the wealthy by means of reduced Income
Lensively purchased by the workers. WHEN AND WHERE IS THIS DEGRADATION ECONOMIс-
ALLY AND SOCIALLY TO END?
C


---
" This Conference therefore instructs the Management Committee to take such steps
early as possible the regulations which disqualify certain sections of contributors from
receiving Uncovenanted Benefits."
467
as they may deem necessary to bring pressure upon the Minister of Labour to remove as
to adjourn the resolution pending the matter being discussed at the forthcoming General
So far as the resolution numbered 5 is concerned, after some discussion it was decided
We are pleased to report that our General President, Mr. T. F. Richards, was re-
Trade Union Congress.
clected to the Management Committee.
T. F. RICHARDS,
W. R. SMITH,
E. L. POULTON,
}
Delegates.
THE WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION BILL.
The Government's Scheme.
The introduction of the Workmen's Compensation Bill into the House of Commons
is an event of some importance to all Approved Societies, as well as to the employed clasess
committee stage, but in general it should be able to secure a speedy passage, seeing that
throughout the Kingdom. The Bill in its details has been exciting some criticism in the
it is founded on the recommendations of the Holman Gregory Committee, to which reference
differs from that Committee's scheme, since the Government did not find themselves
obliged to adopt every recommendation blindly and abdicate their own responsibilities,
has frequently been made in these pages. There are certain points, of course, on which it
On the second reading debate, Mr. G. Locker-Lampson, Under-Secretary for the
insurance. I do not say for a moment that the principle of compulsory insurance is
" In the first place, one of the recommendations was that there should be compulsory
machinery and additional cost, and I think at present it would be inopportune to introduce
wrong, or that it is impracticable, but it involves the creation of a great deal of additional
it. It also means a very radical alteration at a time when reconstruction is going on in
Home Office, stated :-
industry as a whole.
"As to State supervision of rates of premium, the object, of course, was to secure
that a reasonable proportion of the premiums paid should go in respect of compensation.
The Bill proposes that this should be very largely carried out by voluntary agreement
with the Accident Offices Association. The loss ratio which the total amount paid by the
companies under the association in any year in respect of compensation, including reason-
the companies in that year is to be not less than 60 per cent. during each of the next three
years. After those three years it is to be 62 per cent, or such other proportion, not less
compensation falls short of or exceeds the above loss ratio, the companies will be bound
than 60 per cent., as may be agreed upon, and further, if the amou amount paid in respect
to make a corresponding rebate or will be entitled to make an additional charge, as the
case may be, to the employers before the next premium is paid. The Committee recome
mended that 70 per cent. should be paid in compensation, but circumstances have very
largely changed since the Holman Gregory Committee reported. In the first place, there
has been a very large fall in the premiums owing to the immense quantity of unemployment,
and secondly, we are not adopting compulsory insurance. Thus, in future, the percentage
payable in compensation will, after three years, be not less than 624 per cent. instead of,
as I believe it was in 1921, no more than about 37 per cent. of the whole of the premiums
received.
"In regard to total and partial incapacity, the Committee recommended a figure of
628 per cent. in all cases up to a maximum of £3 a week. The Bill adheres to the original
50 per cent. under the Act of 1906 as regards the higher-paid workmen, but it raises the
maximum to 30s. a week instead of £1, and in regard to the lower-paid workers who earn
a weekly wage under 50s., it fixes the proportion on a varying scale between 50 per cent.
and 75 per cent. In regard to partial incapacity there is a similar scale adopted for the
lower-paid workmen. So that in all these cases the lower the wage the better the benefit."
Every Approved Society worker has an interest in this Bill, for no one can have failed
to experience doubts, or proofs, that National Health Insurance has borne burdens which
employers should bear in respect of Workmen's Compensation. Piecemeal legislation
has touched National Health Insurance rather severely, and a reform of Workmen's
Compensation and its administration was long overdue when the present Bill was framed.
The decision to throw over the experience gained in the health scheme and reject the idea
of compulsory insurance of Workmen's Compensation risks may have been a sound one as
regards the practical difficulties, but it is to be hoped that the inequities as between Sickness
Benefit and Workmen's Compensation will nevertheless be redressed.—The Insurance
Magazine, July, 1923.
CC
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
470
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
CROWN LANDS.
MR. LOUTH asked the Minister of Agriculture if he will inform the House of the acreage
of land owned by the Crown, showing the acreage in each county of this country?
SIR R. SANDERS: As the reply includes a statistical statement, I propose, with the
hon. Member's permission, to circulate it in the Official Report.
The following is the statement :
I presume the hon. Member refers solely to the Crown lands in the charge of the
Commissioner of Works. Excluding purely urban property, foreshore and lands (other
than those in the New and Dean Forests) subject to common rights, the approximate
total area of Crown lands in Great Britain is 245,093 acres, made up as follows:--
ENGLAND.
ACREAGE.
COUNTY.
ACREAGE.
COUNTY.
Bedford
Berks.
14,741
Lincs.
21,734
493
London
2,023
Bucks
969
Norfolk
21
Cambs.
4,549
Northants.
2,209
Chester
29
Notts.
32
Devon
239
Oxford
2,445
Dorset
839
Surrey
4,586
Durham
3,476
Sussex
3,856
Essex
26,340
Wilts.
9,038
Gloucester
72,872
Worcester
I
Hants
288
Yorks.
19,653
Hunts.
7,280
Kent
1,511
Total for England
199,657
Lancaster
WALES AND MONMOUTH.
Anglesey
Carmarthen
I
Merioneth
856
109
Monmouth
5,055
Carnarvon
486
Denbigh
161
Total for Wales
6,680
Flint
12
SCOTLAND.
Argyll
12,683
Stirling
345
Caithness
25,578
Linlithgow
150
Total for Scotland
38,756
-Extracts from Parliamentary Debates, 25th June, 1923, Vol. 165, No. 82, Col. 1938.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH.
Vote on Supply. Vaccination.
MR. A. HILL (Leicester West) : The subject we have been discussing to-day is one on
which, on a number of points, we see, perhaps, almost unanimous agreement. Had it
not been that the Minister made some reference to the question of vaccination, I do not
know that I should have attempted to get the attention of the House. But as I come
from the City of Leicester, I feel that I must say something on this question in the interests
of my constituents. I do not know whether I misunderstood the right hon. Gentleman,
but the impression was certainly conveyed to me that the Ministry were at least con-
sidering the advisability of revising their policy. I can assure the right hon. Gentleman
that the people of Leicester are as emphatic in their opposition to vaccination to-day as
ever they were. If there be any departure from the present situation with a view to doing
away with the privilege of exemption, and with the idea of making vaccination once again
compulsory, then I can assure the Ministry that there will be united opposition. The
Minister will discover that among his strongest opponents will be found some of the most
ardent supporters of the Government as a whole. This question, in past years, has been
looked upon as vital in our city of Leicester, and for many years it was the deciding factor
in regard to the personnel of the board of guardians. We have long ago discarded vaccina-
tion, and we feel as safe as any city in the land. (An Hon. Member: “What of
Gloucester ?") I did not know that Gloucester was an unvaccinated city. My impression
is that Gloucester believes in vaccination to a much greater extent than does Leicester.
We, in Leicester, have always "banked" on good sanitation. We have been ably led


---


---
all, may be worked only for purposes of emergency or breakdown, or for purposes of an exceptional character within a fixed limit of hours per week, and, if worked, it must be worked in accordance with an agreement made between employers and workers, and it must be paid for at a rate at least 25 per cent. above the normal time rate. With regard course, the important exception of the mining industry, which has its own Statute on the to the workers included in the Bill, all workers are in the first instance included, with, of the Bill for any industry, where the employers and workers agree that the limitations of the Bill cannot be applied to that industry, to make application for an exemption. subject of the limitation of hours; but, of course, time and opportunity are allowed by whether partial or total, from the provisions of the Bill. But the onus of proving that an following the recommendations of the National Industrial Conference, which met in 1919. I should like to point out, what many hon. Members will realise, that this Bill is broadly well known in connection with the engineering industry, so that they do not represent and were signed by, among others, the hon. Member for South Croydon (Sir Allan Smith). the conclusions of one side alone. Those recommendations were embodied shortly after- Those recommendations were made by employers' as well as by workers' representatives. wards in a Bill which was introduced by the then Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Coalition Government. That Bill was accorded a First Reading by this House on 18th August, 1919. The provisions of this Measure are also on the lines of the Washington First Conference of the International Labour Organisation established under the Treaty Convention on the question of the hours of employment-the Convention agreed to at the of Versailles. This Convention has already been ratified by a considerable number of The Washington countries, though not yet, I regret to say, by this country. The question is of something Conference was merely one part of a very great movement of immense social importance which took place for the shortening of the working hours in 1919-20. The movement is one in which we think this country ought to take the lead instead of lagging behind and the vention.

I need not say much about the reasons that render such a Measure as this necessary. Most hon. Members will agree that there are few darker and blacker pages in our industrial history than the hardship, exhaustion, ill-health, irritation, ruin of family life, and denial hours-the unnecessarily and scandalously long hours to which generation after genera- in times past. And even if some economic loss were to follow, we might fairly say that we are prepared to put up with some diminution of production, and compensate for it by a better distribution, rather than permit injurious from a human and social point of view. As a matter of fact, we are not faced with that alternative. We have official and unofficial the continuance of a system so injurious from a human evidence, evidence of the employers themselves and the most enlightened employers at that-to prove that the shortening of the hours need not necessarily be followed, and has not in fact been followed, by a diminution of output. In many cases quite the con- trary. It is quite true that there has been some advance in this matter. Something has been gained. I think it is hardly an exaggeration to say that the gain in the case of their working hours is almost the one and only gain that has been secured by the working classes since the war. There are about 2,000,000 of the workers of the country who are working 48 hours or less per week. That, however, does not alter the position of the millions who are still working more than 48 hours per week, particularly in the unorganised trades, and among the women workers. And it does not alter the fact that though the situation is not so difficult at the moment, it is highly probable that when trade improves the conditions will become much more serious, and that attacks upon the hours of labour, of which there are already sinister signs, will become much more determined and much more widespread than now. In my constituency, with the textile workers especially, the danger is felt to be a very real danger indeed. The thought of returning to the old working hours of 55 and 56 per week is one that haunts their minds like an evil dream. It brings back what, to them, is a vivid and hateful memory. It is against such evil possibilities that I propose, by this Bill, to erect a legal barrier which will not easily be broken down.

Question, "That leave be given to introduce a Bill to limit the hours of employment," put, and agreed to.

Bill ordered to be brought in by Mr. Charles Buxton, Mr. Clynes, Mr. Duncan, Mr. Greenwood, Mr. John Hodge, Mr. William Robinson, Mr. Thomas Shaw, Mr. James Henry Thomas, Mr. William Thorne, Mr. Tout, Mr. Turner, and Mr. Robert Young.
HOURS OF EMPLOYMENT BILL, to limit the hours of employment," presented accordingly, and read the First time; to be read a Second time upon Monday next, and to be printed. [Bill 184.] -Extract from Official Report, House of Commons, Tuesday, 3rd July, 1923.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

"Daily Herald."

¶ How may the workers capture the Press,
this greatest instrument of the old order,
the means by which it controls the mind
and so the policy of the nation?

¶ It is not by bloodshed that victory will be
won. No hired assassins have to be over-
come. No artillery is needed. Only this:
a little resolute act of daily discipline. Let
the worker as he goes to work in the
morning take one newspaper instead of
another, and this immense victory is his.

ALL WHO CARE TO BE ABREAST OF WHAT IS BEING THOUGHT AS WELL AS
DONE FROM DAY TO DAY, HAVE TO READ :-

LABOUR'S OWN NEWSPAPER,
THE NEW ENLARGED
"DAILY HERALD."

Among distinguished men of letters, who have either
contributed to the HERALD or promised to do so in future,
may be mentioned :-

Mr. J. D. BERESFORD.
Mr. ROBERT BRIDGES.
Mr. EDWARD CARPENTER.
Mr. EDWARD CLODD.
Mr. G. LOWES DICKINSON.
Mr. JOHN DRINKWATER.
Mr. ST. JOHN ERVINE.
Mr. STEPHEN GRAHAM.
Mr. MAURICE HEWLETT.
Mr. OSCAR LEVY.
Mr. H. W. MASSINGHAM.
Mr. SIEGFRIED SASSOON.
Mr. G. BERNARD SHAW.
Mr. J. C. SQUIRE.
Mr. H. M. TOMLINSON.
Mr. H. G. WELLS.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
476
The indemnity shall be paid for the days during which the seaman remains
unemployed at the same rate as the wages payable under the contract but the
total indemnity payable under this Convention to pay any one seaman may be limited
to two months’ wages.
Though this Draft Convention has so far been ratified only by two States Bulgaria
and Estonia, its ratification has been recommended to Parliament by the Governments
of Belgium, Chili, Denmark, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland and Spain, while
Bills to give effect to it are before the Argentine and French Parliaments.
The British Government has not yet ratified the Convention, but in the House of Com-
mons on 8th November, 1921, the then Minister of Labour (Dr. Macnamara) stated that
they were prepared to accept it, postponing formal ratification until it had been carried
into effect by an amendment of the existing legislation. He quoted the Merchant Shipping
Act, 1894, which provides:—
“Where the services of a seaman terminate before the date contemplated in the
agreement by reason of the wreck or loss of the ship… he shall be entitled to
wages up to the time of such termination, but not for any longer period.”
Dr. Macnamara added that the President of the Board of Trade proposed to introduce
a Merchant Shipping Bill when the pressure of Parliamentary business permitted, which
would, among other provisions, bring the law in this country into line with the Convention
of the International Labour Conference.
WORLD STUDY OF INDUSTRY.
Some Statistical Problems.
The work of the International Labour Office of the League of Nations in collecting
and distributing information on world labour problems will be carried a step forward
by the decision of its Governing Body to call a conference of representatives of official
labour statistical services at Geneva on 29th October, 1923.
One of the first problems before the International Labour Office has been to overcome
the lack of uniformity in the information supplied to it by the different countries on
industrial and labour questions which makes effective comparison from the international
point of view difficult and sometimes impossible. The exact idea of what is an unemployed
person, for example, varies from State to State. Figures produced with regard to wages
are based on different standards in different countries.
Last year the Chief of the Research Division of the Office visited the labour ministries
at Berne, Berlin, Warsaw and Prague, with the object of discussing the greater standardisa-
tion of information. The compilation of statistics on every aspect of labour and industrial
problems was studied—unemployment, hours of work, wages, cost of living, retail and
wholesale prices, industrial fatigue, industrial hygiene, housing, welfare work and the like.
The conference of statisticians in October is expected to facilitate this movement
towards standardisation by discussing:—
(1) Classification of industries and occupations for the purpose of labour statistics;
(2) Statistics of wages and hours of labour;
(3) Statistics of industrial accidents.
WORLD EMPLOYMENT POSITION.
General Situation Improves.
“The improvement in the general industrial situation which was noticed last month
still continues, according to the latest information received,” states the International
Labour Review, the monthly publication of the International Labour Office of the League
of Nations, in its general survey of the employment situation.
UNITED STATES.—A heightened industrial activity still continues in the United States,
with a few indications that in certain quarters the limit of expansion has been reached,
especially in the iron and steel trade. The volume of employment based on returns from
some 5,000 establishments increased by 2 per cent. in the month of March and the aggregate
wages bill by 5 per cent. Wages are still rising and workers in the steel trades received
a general rise of 10 per cent. in April.
CANADA.—In Canada the situation has improved in certain trades, owing largely
to better weather conditions. The lumber, pulp, and paper trades, for instance, are
particularly active. A shortage of labour exists in some trades due to the continual
exodus to the United States. In the manufacturing trades a slight decline in employment
has been experienced.
UNITED KINGDOM.—In the United Kingdom the number of unemployed, though
high (11 per cent.), is lower than at any point during the last two years. Employment
was good in mining, and in the tinplate, carpet, and worsted trades, but bad in the cotton
---

---
478
and fainting is a matter of almost daily occurrence. In the absence of any legislative
regulation or recognised custom the women rush back after childbirth in order not to run
the risk of losing their employment.
Small children are employed in the textile mills and work equal hours with the adults,
usually 12-hour shifts. They get very tired, and accidents frequently happen because
visiting a hospital in an industrial district in Shanghai found three children all under
little is done in most factories to guard the machinery. An expert lady welfare worker
ten years old, one of whom had been scalped, another whose foot and leg had been severely
injured, and one whose arm had been mangled from wrist to elbow by the machinery.
they work just as long hours as the adults, and unfortunately they are put to some of the
they go, in other words, as soon as they are more use than nuisance. As already mentioned,
The children employed are often very young, only eight years of age or even younger
most injurious forms of work.
In machine industries the hours are still frequently as much as 14 to 17 per day.
though it is becoming usual in the large factories to work 12-hour shifts, generally with no
fixed or regular break. Where, however, only one is worked per day it is frequently more
than 12 hours. Thus in the silk filatures in Shanghai a working day of 14 hours is quite
common and knitting machinery is often run 14, 16 and even 17 hours a day.
In actual practice the men
because of the difficulty of entering and leaving the mines. In one district in Shantung,
a curious arrangement of 24 hours underground followed by 12 hours above ground has
In the old-fashioned small-scale mines the tendency has been to work long hours
been adopted, but this system has been followed only in name.
work, the time varying with the speed at which the miner can accomplish the task set him.
have been down for about 20 hours, of which anything from 16 to 20 have been spent in
arrangements in the mine are based on an 8-hour shift. It was found in the case of one
Owing to the smallness of wages the men work long hours even where the technical
large mining corporation that the miners were working on an average 45 8-hour shifts
in a month.
82 hours a week in alternate weeks.
In the Hongkong investigations it was found that some girls were working 964 and
Steel workers are employed for from 12 to 18 hours, and other engineering work runs
from 10 to 14 hours a day. But overtime may bring this up to 15 or 16.
The evils of long hours are intensified by the fact of night shifts. The textile workers
in recent busy years have been called upon to work at night every other week, and this
applies to the women and even to the children. Some match factories work their employees
from 4 a.m. until 8 p.m. including the young children.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR LEGISLATION.
Annual Reports to be made.
By Article 408 of the Treaty of Versailles, each State which is a Member of the Inter-
national Labour Organisation agrees to make an annual report to the International Labour
Office on the measures it has taken to give effect to those Conventions of the International
Labour Conference to which it is a party.
In the case of four of the Draft Conventions adopted at the Washington (1919) Session
of the Conference, and three of those adopted at the Genoa (1920) Session, the latest date
for their enforcement by States which ratified them was 1st July, 1922. Annual reports
for these Conventions are thus due for the period ended 30th June, 1923. The Director
of the International Labour Office has accordingly issued to the various Governments
copies of the prescribed forms for their reports, with a request that these may be in the
hands of the Office by the end of next month.
The Draft Conventions concerned deal with: -
(1) The employment of women before and after childbirth;
(2) Night work of women;
(3) Juvenile employment in industry;
(4) Night work of young persons ;
(5) Juvenile employment at sea;
(6) Unemployment indemnity for shipwrecked seamen; and
(7) Employment agencies for seamen.
Of the above Conventions those relating to night work of women, juvenile employment
in industry, night work of young persons, and juvenile employment at sea, have been
ratified by Great Britain, and the necessary reports will therefore be due to Geneva from
the British Government.


---
480
credits in acordance with the budget estimates.
posesion.
than so per cent. lower than the pre-war average.
All other industrial undertakings
The average for the provincial govern.
obtain the sums necessary for the payment of wages from the working capital in their
improvement, but by comparison with pre-war wages their present level is extremely low.
The average rate of wages for 20 provincial governments at the end of 1922 was more
Compared with the wages previously paid, wages in 1922 certainly show an appreciable
ment of Petrograd was slightly more than 50 per cent., and that for the city of Moscow
Statistics show morcover that wages more rapidly approach their pre-war level in the
industries in constant contact with the free market and depending less on the State, such
industries are able to dispose of their products and consequently possess more workng
as the food industry and printing, in contrast to the metal industry, for example. These
more than 75 per cent of the pre-war average.
capital.
DECISIONS OF THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE.
at Geneva on 12th and 13th June.
The Governing Body of the International Labour Office held its Nineteenth Session
adopted at the various sessions of the International Labour Conference. In all, 73 Draft
An exchange of views took place concerning the ratifications of the Draft Conventions
Conventions have been formally ratified by the States' Members of the Organisation.
An agreement was reached concerning the preliminary arrangements for the next
session of the International Labour Conference, which is to be held at Geneva in October
1923.
FORTHCOMING MEETING OF THE MIXED AGRICULTURAL COMMITTEE - The Mixed
Agricultural Committee, consisting of members of the Governing Body of the International
Labour Office and members of the International Institute of Agriculture at Rome, which
desirable to submit to it with a view to co-ordinating the work of the two organisations.
was set up to examine questions which one or other of these organisations might think
is to meet in August next. It was decided to submit the following questions to the Com-
prevention of anthrax among flocks and to bring before the Committee the questions on
mittee: vocational education of agricultural workers, co-operation in agriculture, the
affect agriculture, in order to give the members an opportunity of submitting their observa-
the agendas of the fifth and sixth sessions of the Conference which may directly or indirectly
tions.
CONFERENCE OF LABOUR STATISTICIANS. At the Eighteenth Session of the Governing
Body it had been decided to convene a conference of representatives of official labour
statistical services, with the object of facilitating the scientific study of labour problems
comparable. It was decided that the agenda of this conference, which is to meet on 29th
and securing the uniformity in labour statistics necessary to render them internationally
October, 1923, at Geneva, should be as follows:-
(1) Classification of industries and occupations for the purpose of labour statistics;
(2) Statistics of wages and hours of labour;
(3) Statistics of industrial accidents.
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE. - The Governing Body authorised
the Director to convene the Advisory Committee on Industrial Hygiene to consider, from
the scientific point of view, certain aspects of the problem of anthrax infection and to
obtain authoritative opinion, before publication, on studies undertaken by the Inter-
national Labour Office with regard to unhealthy occupations.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR CONVENTIONS AND JAPAN.
Considerable progress has been made in Japan in the sphere of labour legislation
as a result of the adoption of Draft Conventions by the various sessions of the International
Labour Conferences.
By an Act of 8th April, 1921, Japan gave effect to the Unemployment Convention
which includes provisions for the establishment of free public employment exchanges.
By the Employment of Seamen Act, 1922, Japan gave effect to the Convention which
provided for the abolition of private fee-charging agencies for finding employment for
seamen and the substitution of public employment offices.
In virtue of the Japanese Act respecting the prohibition of the use of white phosphorus
in the manufacture of matches, promulgated in April, 1921, the Japanese Government,
in accordance with a Recommendation adopted by the Washington Conference, has
adhered to the International Convention adopted at Berne in 1906 on the prohibition of
the use of white phosphorus in the manufacture of matches.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

481
According to information recently received by the International Labour Office, the
last session of the Japanese Parliament has passed three important measures on labour
legislation. These are the following:-
1. An Act amending the Factory Act.
2. An Act concerning the minimum age of industrial workers.
3. An Act regarding the minimum age and health certificate of seamen.
The Act concerning the minimum age of industrial workers embodies exactly the
provisions contained in the Washington Draft Convention fixing the minimum
and health certificate of seamen also embodies exactly the provisions of the Genoa Draft
admission of children to industrial employment, and the Act regarding the minimum age
Convention fixing the minimum age for the admission of children to employment at sea
and the Geneva Draft Convention concerning the compulsory medical examination of
it does not exactly conform to the Washington Conventions shows considerable progress
as compared with the former Factory Act. It is especially noteworthy that this Act,
together with the Health Insurance Act promulgated in April, 1922, provides general
principles for the protection of women before and after childbirth, and also provides that
night work of women and young persons should be absolutely prohibited after three years
from the date of the enforcement of the Act. Details with regard to the provisions of this
Act are given in Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly publication of the Inter-
national Labour Office.
The Act amending the Factory Act, though
children and young persons employed at sea.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES FOR THE ORGANISATION OF FACTORY
INSPECTION: THE FORTHCOMING INTERNATIONAL
LABOUR CONFERENCE.
The Governing Body of the International Labour Office has decided to place only
one question on the agenda of the next Conference, which will be held in Geneva in October,
1923. This question is "General Principles for the Organisation of Factory Inspection."
In deciding to place this question on the agenda, the Governing Body, was guided by
Article 427 of the Treaty of Versailles, which lays down the following principle as one of
the questions of special and urgent importance for the regulation of conditions of labour:
"Each State should make provision for a system of inspection, in which women should
take part, in order to ensure the enforcement of the laws and regulations for the protection
of the employed."
In the last paragraph of the Article the High Contracting Parties declare that in their
opinion the principles mentioned in Article 427 are well fitted to guide the policy of the
League of Nations, and that "if adopted by the industrial communities who are Members
and safeguarded in practice by an adequate system of such inspection,
they will confer lasting benefits upon the wage earners of the world." It will thus be
seen that the Treaty of Versailles does not merely propose the institution of a system of
factory inspection in every country as one of the most important and urgent measures
for the regulation of conditions of labour, but actually regards such a system as a necessary
condition for the successful application of all the other principles laid down in Part XIII.
As the Treaty itself proposed the question of factory inspection as one of those to be dealt
with by the International Labour Organisation, it was inevitable, as the Director pointed
out in his report to the Third Session of the Conference, that the Organisation should at
some time or other discuss it.
The importance of instituting organisations for enforcement and supervision which
are approximately equal in effectiveness in all countries is increasingly felt as a larger
number of the International Labour Conventions are ratified. Such an organisation
would remove one of the most serious objections which have been made to the system of
international legislation set up by the Peace Treaty, namely, that the international Con-
ventions do not in practice have the same effect in the different countries which ratify
them because they are not observed to an equal extent. If the Conference were to lay
down definite principles as regards this question, the Conventions would be more com-
pletely and effectively enforced, and increased validity would be given to one of the most
important arguments in favour of international legislation, namely that it prevents unfair
competition.
The International Labour Office has now sent to all the Governments a questionnaire
dealing with the general principles for the organisation of factory inspection. The ques-
tionnaire is preceded by a detailed account of the purpose of factory inspection, the duties
and powers of factory inspectors, and the system of organisation in the majority of
countries. The report states that the Governing Body does not desire to ask the Con-
ference to lay down strict regulations for the organisation and work of the factory inspection
system in all countries. It is rather proposed to study the lines on which the system has
Leen instituted and the actual daily work of the inspectors in each country, with a view
to ascertaining the fundamental principles for the satisfactory organisation of a system
for supervising the enforcement of labour legislation.


---
```text
483
PAYMENT OF WAGES FOR HOLIDAYS.
Since the war, the practice of granting holidays with pay to manual workers, particularly in a considerable number of countries.
Labour Office of the League of Nations.
into operation, at least in certain industries, in a considerable number of countries.
ticulars of legislative measures already in operation, or proposed and of collective agreements in force in certain countries, providing for annual holidays with pay, are published
in the Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly publication of the International
Ministry of Labour. The majority of the formal agreements provide that payment shall
providing that certain holidays with pay should be granted annually are known to the
In Great Britain, over 100 cases of collective agreements or less formal arrangements
be made for statutory public holidays and, in addition, for a certain period varying in a
large number of cases from 3 to 12 days in each year. Payments shall be
conditional on the employee having completed 6 or 12 months' service, while in some cases
the amount of holiday allowed varies according to the length of service.
In Germany, 72 per cent. of the total number of agreements, covering 86 per cent.
average length of the holiday was three working days in 50 per cent. of the agreements
of the total number of workers, contained clauses providing for holidays in 1921. The
and from three to six days in 41 per cent.
In Austria, under the Workers' Holiday Act, certain classes of workers are allowed
every year an uninterrupted period of one week's leave after one year's continuous service,
and two weeks' leave after five years' service.
In Italy, the system of holidays with pay is now in force in most of the main branches
metal and textile industries, to twelve or fifteen in gas and electricity undertakings and the
of industry. The length of the holiday granted varies from six days in the chemical,
printing trades. In most cases, workers become entitled to a holiday after one year's
service, in one or two instances after six months' service.
to come up for discussion shortly in the National Assembly. The Bill provides for an
annual holiday with pay for industrial workers, domestic servants and apprentices after
In the Czecho-Slovak Republic, a Government Bill concerning workers' holidays is
workers with not less than one year's service, and twelve working days for workers with
one year's uninterrupted service. The length of the holiday is to be six working days for
more than ten years' service.
THE REVIVAL OF APPRENTICESHIP,
The decline of apprenticeship in recent times has been observed in almost every
country as large-scale industry has developed. This has resulted in a shortage of highly-
skilled workers, while the workers now produced as skilled are often inadequately trained.
In some countries it is thought that this situation is partly due to the fact that modern
systems of apprenticeship are a survival of the older systems, but do not offer the same
guarantees for supervision, thorough training, and opportunities for employment at the
termination of the contract. Attempts are therefore being made to revive apprenticeship
and to adapt it to the large-scale production which appears to be an essential character-
istic of modern industry.
The International Labour Review publishes an article giving an account of the various
attempts of this kind which have been made in the United States, Canada, South Africa
and Australia, principally in the printing, railway and building industries. The Appren-
ticeship Act of Wisconsin, for example, lays down that the State is to be a third party to
the apprenticeship contract in order to secure its observance and protect the interests of
the apprentices. The form of the indenture is laid down in detail by the Act and the
regulations issued under it. Copies of each indenture must be sent to the Industrial
Commission, which is an official body entrusted with the preparation and application of
labour legislation. The Commission keeps in touch with employers and apprentices.
All trade agreements affecting apprenticeship require its approval. It also supervises
the execution of the standard schedules of instruction which have been drawn up for the
principal trades by joint committees of employers and workers. It is the sole authority
which may permit the annulment of an indenture. The Act further lays down on the
basis of statistical investigation the number of apprentices to be admitted to each industry.
Previously the only limitation was on the number of apprentices to be engaged by each
employer. The rates of pay are also fixed on a statistical basis.
An interesting innovation has been introduced in New South Wales. Boys can be
apprenticed to a group of employers, as well as to an individual. In this case the members
of the Employers' Association are jointly, but not severally, liable for the performance of
the contract, and the apprentice may work for any member of the Association. This
helps to ensure that the apprentice receives as thorough a training as possible, and, especially
in a highly-organised trade, largely overcomes the difficulty caused by the apprentice's
desire to move from one establishment to another.
In addition to the action taken by the public authorities, the article also mentions
some interesting attempts made by certain large undertakings, particularly the railway
```

---
484
In many mes a complete system of technical education. both theoretical and
United States and Canada, to improve and modernise apprenticeship
The training is generally given in special workshops or institutions:
motinction is given during working hours, and the apprentice is paid at the ordinary
of the Un
compame
method
pre tival, is organised.
In some cases the problem is being
rates for the time occupied by classes.
do e co-operation between employers and workers.
dealt
with by
In the New York building industry,
for example, a general Board, consisting of equal numbers of employers'
and
workers'
There are similar general Boards for each trade in the
industry. Each Board is to draw up complete regulations for apprenticeship, and to find
representatives, has been set up.
employment for apprentices.
STRAIGHT TALK.
Workers' Right to a Decent Living. Shoe Trade President's Declaration.
conditions prevailing throughout the world, was made by Alderman H. I. Bostock, president
of the Federated Associations of Boot and Shoe Manufacturers of Great Britain and Ireland.
A striking speech on the settlement of industrial disputes, and the question of economic
He said he thought they should bear in mind that the separation of production from
ownership that was to say, the separation from employer and employee-was not of
such recent growth or of such an old date after all. Perhaps 150 years ago would have
tools, the owners of their businesses. Large scale production had come to stay because
seen most of the people then producing goods for the community, and also owning their
it was cheap, and cheapness served the ends of the community. But it was accompanied
by many serious and grave difficulties.
Job for Captains of Industry.
One of them was that of unemployment. They were apt to talk of unemployment
as if it was as uncontrollable as the vagaries of the weather. Civilisation and industry
had got to study this question. They had got to find some way of regulating the trade,
and of lessening the burden of uncertainty.
If they were to be captains of industry, and to do their job, they had got to do some-
with motor cars, with shoots, and with the amenities of life. They had also to see that
thing more than run their business in such a way as to provide themselves with houses.
THE PEOPLE WHOSE INDUSTRY THEY WERE LARGELY REGULATING WERE GIVEN A DECENT
LIVING, AND A PROGRESSIVE PARTICIPATION IN THE GOOD THINGS OF LIFE, AND THAT MADE
decently in the service of the community, but there was a great deal to be ashamed of in the
bad and improper use of money. They had got to remember that industry was a forme
of public service, and the nearer they could approach to that ideal in the conduct of their
business the better they were justifying their position and the work that was performed
by associations of that kind.
Absence of Disputes.
When submitting the toast, Mr. F. E. Lloyd, J.P., said when they remembered that
for the last 28 years there had practically been no serious trouble in their industry, it was
obvious that the wisdom of forming the federation was fully justified, and spoke volumes
for the able way in which the various committees and councils of the federation, guided
and supported by a long line of able presidents, had settled their affairs in such a satisfactory
manner,
Mr. Owen Parker, M.P., gave the toast of "The Town and Trade of Stafford," and
spoke of the peculiar pleasure it was to them to be associated with a president whose name
was indelibly associated with so great a public spirit and so great a public enterprise in
the town of Stafford. Next year, he added, Stafford would also have the distinction of
welcoming the Shoe Operatives' Union to the town for their annual conference.
Mr. W. H. Riley responded, and expressed the opinion that Stafford had not gone
ahead in the matter of population because they stuck to the old hand-sewn trade too long.
Tribute to Men's Leaders.
Mr. W. G. Hunt (president of the Leicester Association) submitted the toast of "The
Stafford and District Association of Boot and Shoe Manufacturers," and Mr. W. H. J.
Baker (vice-president), in acknowledging, paid tribute to the fact that in negotiations
they had met on the other side men with a broad outlook, and with whom it was possible
to negotiate. What would have happened if such had not been the case? However
good the men might be on the manufacturers' side there would have been constant bickering,
strife, and lock-outs. As it was the manufacturer had been able to go about his business
and perfect his factory and designs with calmness and confidence. - Wolverhampton Express,
12th July, 1923.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
June Report the men are well organised here. The Council sent me to Stafford to see if
Since my last report I have been organising at Stafford principally. As I said in the
we could not get the women's position up to the same standard of organisation. It seems
strange that in the great "Lotus" works, where all are secure in trade union conditions,
and more that any should be outside our union. Yet there are many
this firm who do not realise what the union has done for them. We asked for permission
to speak to them in the machine room after work this was granted. The evening we
to hear us. In this department there are a hundred good members. We expect more than
selected was as Hades is reputed to be-hot. The meeting was not a success. We got
further permission and that was a quarter of an hour in the firm's time. On July 20th,
Mr. Dunn and myself were given this privilege, when all in the Closing Room assembled
joined about 50 members. Trade is slack here as in other centres. When trade is slow
another hundred as a result of our efforts. From the "Lotus" and other firms we have
debility or flabbiness. Some employers under these circumstances want more than they
employers generally are troubled with liver complaints and the workers with general
are entitled to, and the operatives in many cases silently accept less than their due.
trouble at some shop. I went with the Secretary in every instance and we settled in favour
Stafford is no exception in these matters. Hence there has been almost a daily minor
of the operatives.
and factory workers of this district were well organised. The repairers are weak to-day
I paid a visit to Manchester and had a meeting of repairers. In 1920 the repairers
in the private shops where only one or two men are employed. In the Co-operative works
the men have changed from one union to another and there is little genuine trade unionism
in them. With the exception of two factories, in face of the fact that the conditions in
the union and have left themselves open to attack. The women up to this time had to
1920 were greatly improved at Manchester, the men and women have drifted away from
buv cotton, and this was a big item during the Great War. The union has been a good
friend to them, and they have thoughtlessly given it up.
When we tried to organise the women at this firm a wholesale attack was made on our
At the firm of Messrs. Edge, Bilston, near Wolverhampton, we have had some trouble.
men members in discharging. The object was to create fear all round. Although the firm
was federated the conditions of the union were not observed scarcely in any department.
from the Federation rather than face the judgment of the Board. The position lies with
We took the case to the Stafford Board and the firm refused to attend. They have resigned
the men themselves and the union is prepared to back them if they will act as men should do.
24th July, 1923.
D. MCCARTHY.

LABOUR-OWNED BAKERY.
Experiment Proves a Success.
In Bermondsey there is a bakery which serves more than 50,000 houses each day.
In this bakery the turn-over is more than £150,0oo a year, the hundred-odd employees.
get 12s. 6d. above trade union wages, for a 44-hour week, and three weeks' holiday in the
vear.
It is run by the Bermondsey branch of the Independent Labour Party, Dr. Alfred
Salter, Labour M.P. for Bermondsey, being the founder and secretary of the concern.
When he was asked by the Westminster Gazette what was the customers' side of the
picture he said emphatically: "We give them the best bread on the market at about a
penny less than anybody else, besides is. discount in the pound."
Start Without Capital.
The Labour bakery was started in the summer of 1914 without a penny of capital,
on borrowed money. To-day it has paid off nearly all its mortgages, has buildings worth
13,000, and has been visited by a deputation from the local Master Bakers asking it to
raise its prices.
Dr. Salter declares that the great lesson this concern teaches is that vital distributive
services can be run at enormously decreased cost if they are properly organised in areas.
He holds that bread, milk, and similar commodities ought to be supplied in the same way
es letters are distributed by the Government.
"We have whole streets," he said, " where practically every house is supplied by us;
mother borough you would find five or six distributors' vans in each street."-West-
sch Gazette, 25th June, 1923.


---
"AMBIGUOUS LANGUAGE."
Alderman Hill, M.P., and Decisions on Ex-Service Men's Pensions.
Alderman A. Hill, M.P., asked the Minister of Pensions in the House of Commons
yesterday if he was aware that dissatisfaction existed amongst ex-Service men owing to
decisions given by the assessment tribunal committee: seeing that the papers declaring
such decisions are worded in language which is ambiguous, would he take measures to so
consider the reversing of the regulations which set aside the final awards, so that the men
might receive the amounts due to them after winning the appeal, and so do away with the
periods of waiting which take place under the present system.
Major Tryon replied that steps had been already taken to make clear the meaning of
a decision by a tribunal setting aside a final award by incorporating an explanatory note
in the official forms on which those decisions were announced.
The Minister added: I should like to take this opportunity of again explaining that a
final award is simply a final decision by the Ministry as to a man's degree of disablement.
If the tribunal set aside a final award, their action merely implies that, in their opinion,
the case is not, at the time, suitable for a final decision. It does not necessarily mean
that the tribunal disagree with the rate at which disablement has been assessed, nor does
it imply that any further compensation is immediately payable. In such cases the effect
of the tribunal's decision is merely to restore the man to the position he was in before a
final award was declared.

COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914: All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923
January 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92
February 15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88 78
March 15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 86 77
April 15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 82 76
May 20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 81 74
June 25 45 75-80 100 105 150 119 80 70
July 25 45-50 80 100-105 105-110 152 119 80 69
August 25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 69
September 25 50 80-85 110 115 161 120 --
October 30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 110 --
November 30-35 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 80 --
December 35 65 85 120 125 169 99 80 --
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement,
1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922)
Agreement, and present date.

TRADE BOARD PROSECUTION.
Breach of Regulations Costs £58.
At Old Street Police Court, on Wednesday last week, Abraham Smith, of 36, Brushfield
Street, Spitalfields, was summoned that on 17th March he unlawfully failed to pay wages
at not less than the minimum rate fixed by the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board
(Great Britain) in pursuance of the Trade Boards Act, 1909 and 1918, to Frederick Henry
White, being one of the said workers. There were further summonses for furnishing to
William Jackson, an officer appointed under the provisions of the Trades Boards Act,
information in respect to the payment of certain wages due to White, knowing the same
to be false, and for producing a record of wages with respect to the payment of White
which was false in a material particular.
Hyman Smith, of 36, Brushfield Street, was summoned for causing to be produced
to Mr. Jackson a record of wages due to White, knowing the same to be false.
Mr. Kemp, barrister, who prosecuted, said the Act only applied to certain scheduled
trades, and the summonses had regard to the boot and shoe trade.
Mr. Clarke Hall: It is apparently a recent addition to the schedule ?


---
Here is the extracted text:
487
Mr. Kemp: 1919. He added with regard to the first summons that the one observa-
tion he had to make was that there was a slightly wider issue than the breaking of the law.
It made an employer able to compete unfairly with other employers. As to the summons
for furnishing false information, the arrears were agreed at £7 17s., and Smiths agreed to
pay this, and shortly afterwards were asked to say whether the deficit had been paid.
a receipt, signed by White, was received to the effect that he had received £7 17s. 4d.
by White.
Mr. Clarke Hall: But that is not signed by White? - Mr. Kemp said it was signed
In reply to Mr. Hornby, who defended, Mr. Kemp said the whole of the document
was in the writing of White.
Counsel added that on being further questioned by Mr. Jackson the defendant, Abraham
Smith, said he had not paid the £7 17s. 4d. With respect to the summons for causing
prices paid to White, and these were over those prices.
Mr. Clarke Hall: The £7 odd deficit must have been over a considerable time?
Mr. Hornby: 13th August, 1921, to 5th March, 1923.
Mr. Kemp: Yes.
Mr. Kemp said that on the second occasion that Mr. Jackson went down to try to
elucidate the mystery, Abraham Smith produced a false book. There was one other thing
that he should mention. The employee was a deaf and dumb man, and, being hardly
articulate, could hardly stand up for his rights.
Mr. Hornby said in dealing with that deaf and dumb man his friend would agree
that he could write in a legible way, or obviously he could not carry on his work. On
first blush it appeared to be a particularly bad case. His clients were not able to dispute
the facts. They agreed to take on the man, who was originally a boot operative, but
prior to entering their service had been a tramway washer. A tramway washer who was
also deaf and dumb would hardly suggest himself to his Worship as being worth Trade
Board wages, and defendant had to teach him to a certain extent. That was not an
enormous business. but a business having one employee, and the man came in to work
in the afternoon from two o'clock until six.
Mr. Clarke Hall said he had listened carefully, and given every consideration to
everything Mr. Hornby had said, but at the same time he regarded it as a very bad case.
He imposed a fine of £7 and £5 5s. costs on the first summons, penalties of £10 and £2 2s.
costs each on the second and third summonses, and a fine of £20 and £2 2s. costs on the
fourth summons. Time in which to pay was allowed.—Shoe and Leather News, 12th
July, 1923.
SHOE TRADE CUSTOM DISPUTE.
Foreman Gets Damages Against Employer.
At Leicester County Court, to-day, judgment was given for £9 19s. in a case in which
Albert Feddament, 4, Harvey Lane, claimed for damages in lieu of notice from Bert
Gamble, boot manufacturer, 3, Elton Street.
Plaintiff contended that he was a staff man, and should have a month's and not a week's
notice.
Claimant said he was engaged in March, 1918, as an operator, at £4 10s. a week.
Shoe operatives' wages were afterwards reduced and witness was only paid £4 6s. Sub-
sequently defendant asked him if he would take charge of the room, and he agreed to do
so, but not officially. At the beginning of this year defendant called him to the office
and said he could not pay for a foreman, trade being bad, and witness agreed to act as
working foreman at £4 4s. a week, a month's notice to be given on either side. On May
th witness asked for an increase in wages but, the following day, defendant not only
fused the increase, but gave witness a week's notice.
Replying to Mr. H. G. Bennett, for the defence, witness agreed that notices were
hibited stating that all employees were subject to a week's notice, but he contended
t he was a staff man, and should have a month's notice.
For the defence Mr. Gamble gave evidence that plaintiff was only entitled to a week's
A foreman clicker, employed by defendant, said that he considered he would
be entitled to a week's notice.
is Honour gave judgment in claimant's favour of £9 19s. and costs.—Leicester
th, 26th June, 1923.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
R OFFICE. BOOTS: Lewis Morrison Ltd., Aberdeen; St. Crispin Productive
Ltd., Raunds; Stephen Walker, Northampton.—Labour Gazette, July, 1923.


---
Here is the extracted text:
EE NEW RULES IN ITALICS.
ALL COPIES OF PREVIOUS PULES RECINDED.
UNION ESTABLISHED 1874.
RULES
OF THE
National Union of
Boot & Shoe Operatives
"Vis Unita Fortior."
AS AMENDED AT THE CONFERENCE HELD AT LONDON,
MAY 21st TO 26th, 1923, INCLUSIVE.
PART I GENERAL RULES
PART II {NATIONAL HEALTH
Į INSURANCE RULES
Registered under the Trade Union Acts, 1871 to 1917;
National Health Insurance Acts, 1911 to 1920.
PRICE TWOPENCE
Printed by Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Ltd., 99 Church Gate,
Leicester, for National Union of Boot & Shoe Operatives,
34 Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

INDEX NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE RULES.

Manager for National Health Insurance
Office
Objects
Remuneration of Officers
Membership
Sick Stewards
Sickness or Disablement Benefit
Insured Members in England, Scotland and Wales
Members in Ireland
Medical Examination
Offences and Penalties
Suspension of Benefit
Finance
Accounts and Administration Expenses
Inspection of Books
Audit
Returns
Valuation
Surplus
Deficiency
Inspection of Affairs
Members Going Abroad
Differences or Disputes
Trustees
Voluntary Dissolution
Amendments to Rules
Interpretation of Rules
Transfer of Engagements
Copies of Summary of Acts

T is particularly requested that
when a Member receives a copy
of these Rules, he will read them
attentively, and act in conformity
therewith, as the Council will not be
responsible for the payment of the
Union's Benefits unless the con-
ditions of Membership are fully
complied with.


---
Here is the extracted text:
INSIST
upon your Footwear
bearing this Stamp:
UNION OF BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES
NATIONAL
Copyright.
Telephone No.:
4438 Museum, London.
Telegraphic Address:
“Munishop, Holb., London."
NATIONAL UNION OF
BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES
(Registered under the Trade Union Acts, No. 432; Affiliated to the Trade Union
Congress, the General Federation of Trade Unions and the Labour Party).
Monthly Report for August, 1923.
Seat of Government and General Secretary's Office:
34, GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1.
WHERE ALL BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS MUST BE ADDRESSED.
PRICE ONE PENNY.


---
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.

27TH AUGUST, 1923
FELLOW MEMBERS,
STATE OF TRADE.
The state of Trade during the past month has upon the whole been quiet,
the figures extracted from the Gazette issued by the Ministry of Labour
being as follow :-

BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.

There was a slight improvement at some centres in the middle and at the end of July,
principally with firms which had received urgent orders in preparation for the holiday
season. The improvement, however, was not general : on the contrary, the net effect
of the changes at the different centres was a slight further decline; and short time was
worked to a considerable extent in nearly all districts. There was much variation as
between one firm and another; some firms, even in centres where work was generally
slack, being temporarily busy on urgent orders.
Among workpeople covered by the Unemployment Insurance Acts, the number
registered as unemployed (including a due proportion of those working systematic short
time in such a manner as to qualify for benefit) was 15,047 at 23rd July, 1923, compared
with 12,820 at 25th June, 1923.
Employment in London was very bad, and worse than in June. At Leicester and at
Hinckley it was slack, and worse than in June; short time was general. At Northampton
some firms were busy while others were suspending workpeople; on the whole there was
not much change. Employment was very bad at Wellingborough; very few firms were
working full time. In the Higham, Rushden and Irthlingborough district employment
was better than a year ago; but short time was worked by some firms. Employment
remained slack at Kettering, though there was an improvement at the end of the month :
the average time worked was reported to be not more than three-quarters of full time.
At Stafford employment declined, and was rather slack; at Norwich a further decline
was reported, and employment was bad. There was a further improvement in the Bristol


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

504

and Kingswood district, but some firms were still not fully employed. At Leeds employ-
ment was very bad, and short time was general.
In Scotland an improvement was reported at Maybole, Ayr and Aberdeen; but
employment remained quiet at Glasgow and bad at Dundee and at Arbroath.
The following Table summarises the information received from those employers
who furnished returns for the three periods under review:--
Number of Workpeople
Inc. (+) or
Total Wages paid to all
Workpeople
Week
ended
Inc. (+) or
Doc. (--) on a
Month ago
Week
ended
Dec. (-) on a
28th July,
28th July,
1923
1923
Month ago
Year ago
Year ago
Per
Per
Per
Per
cent.
ENGLAND AND WALES.-
cent.
cent.
cent.
London
2,001
4.8
-10.7
4.438
3.8
-18.0
Leicester
8,220
3.1
0.3
17,118
7.4
- 14.0
Leicester Country District
2,074
1.7
4.1
4,288
4.3
-13.5
Northampton
6,573
1.7
5.2
15,986
0.7
7.6
Northampton Country
District
Ο.Ι
+ 3.5
16,524
2.6
0.2
7,599
Kettering
2,888
+ 0.8
+ 4.0
7,578
+ 8.0
+13.5
Stafford and District
2,533
+0.3
+ 2.6
5,221
5.5
-13.9
Norwich and District
3,748
- 3.3
- 12.1
7,137
+ 1.4
-22.4
Bristol, Kingswood and
District
2,306
+- 2.8
+9.7
4,408
+ 2.1
5.6
Leeds and District
1.759
4.6
7.8
3,845
+ 4.3
- 12.9
Lancashire (mainly
Rossendale Valley)
4,443
0.4
+ 9.0
9,652
+ 3.9
7.3
Birmingham and District
999
+ 0.2
1,993
+ 3.2
7.2
Other parts of England and
Wales
1,103
+ 2.0
+ 4.7
1,957
-
0.7
5.9
ENGLAND AND WALES
46,246
- 1.4
-
0.7 100,145
1.3
8.8
SCOTLAND
2,293
0.2
+ 4.2
4,734
2.8
6.3
GREAT BRITAIN
48,539
1.3
0.5 104,879
1.3
8.7
* Comparison of earnings is affected by reductions in rates of wages.
Returns from firms employing 37,981 workpeople in the week ended 28th July showed
that about 41 per cent. of these workpeople worked short time in that week, to the extent
of over 13 hours a week on an average.
The exports of boots and shoes in July, 1923, amounted to 97,407 dozen pairs, or
6,982 dozen pairs more than in June, 1923, and 41,488 dozen pairs more than in July, 1922.
REVISION OF RULES.
The New Rules come into force as and from the 1st September, 1923.
We are not in a position to send copies of the same to the Branches, as at
the time of going to press they have not received the endorsement of the
Registrar of Friendly Societies. Apart from minor alterations, with the
reversion to Biennial Conferences, the rules really calling for special attention
are set out hereunder.
The old Rules 32 and 33 in the present Rule-Book will become obsolete
on and after the 1st September prox. In their place Rules 33 and 34 as
follows will be inserted:-
do so for trade purposes (but may join the National Health Insurance Department it
33. Persons between 40 and 50 years of age wishing to join the Union can only
sick purposes). Persons joining under this Rule shall be entitled to Fur Dev
as named in Rule 247.


---
are not to be counted as
506
entitling a member to claim benefit under this rule.
Serve a further probation of twelve consecutive working days before again being
In the event of a member resuming work and again being suspended, he must
that the suspension is bona fide before benefit is allowed under this rule. Holidays
cntitled to re-declare upon the Out-of-Work Fund under this special rule.
NOTE. For the purposes of the paragraph relating to non-payment for
holiday the following is the method for calculating the same....
Easter,
three days.
Whitsuntide, three days.
August,
Christmas,
FOR SCOTLAND The July Holidays, one week.
day of suspension.
"
one week.
one week.
The New Year Holidays, one week.
WORK BOOK EVERY DAY, otherwise they will not be entitled to declare upon
During the above named suspension the members must sign the OUT-OF-
the Funds, which for payment purposes commences upon the thirteenth working
It must be DISTINCTLY UNDERSTOOD that the waiting period of TWELVE CON-
No benefit under the rule will be payable before the 15th September, when a member
SECUTIVE WORKING DAYS will commence as and from the 1st September, and therefore
who has been unfortunately "suspended" for the twelve consecutive working days
will be entitled to one day's benefit only. In order to give examples as to how this
Union's Conference held at Whitsuntide, shewing the method of working the rule:-
benefit will operate, I append herewith an extract from one of my speeches to the
holidays, would that member be entitled to come on the funds on Wednesday
morning in Whit-week? I should say No. The ten days would be placed to
Supposing a member was suspended ten days prior to the Whitsuntide
prevent him coming on, because we should count those days the same as we do.
the member's credit, and the three holiday days being a break in between would
morning. He would then come on for benefit on the following Saturday. Youw
Sunday, and the member would continue his twelve working days on the Thursday
could also count it in exactly the opposite direction. Supposing a member had
been on the funds prior to the holiday period, is the payment continuous ? I
would be entitled to continue receiving the benefit in accordance with our estab-
should say if the member had fulfilled all the obligations named in the rule, he
lished principle. A member finished his twelve working days last Saturday.
When would he come on the Funds? Not until Thursday of this week."
Any information desired by Branch Officers will be readily given by the Central
Office. Pages 92-95 inclusive of the Conference Report will also be found helpfu
relative to this new rule.
CIRCULAR NO. 310.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
FELLOW OFFICERS,
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
14th August, 1923.
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT FORMS.
In connection with the payment of Unemployment benefit to members who
may be discharged or suspended, it will be necessary for the Central Office to keep
a separate record of the amounts paid out.
A new form-which will be used for the September claims-will be sent to you
in the course of a few days, ruled for insertion of both benefits.
I have appended at the foot hereof an example as to how these forms should
be filled up and sent along with the Monthly Return Sheet before the 15th of each
must send details on the new forms and the cash so remitted. must NOT be entered.
Those Branches who require direct cash transmitting from the Central Office
upon the Return Sheet, it being a direct payment from Central Funds.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
507
EXAMPLE.
Registered
Number.
Name of Member.
Unemployment (Discharge) Benefit.
W'ks. Days. £
15.
Jones, Thos.
13842
18243
Brown, Wm.
12843
Smith, Chas.
1
3
12
14283
Robinson, H.
2
13482
Goode, A. (f)
2
5
TOTAL
5
17
TOTAL
3
12
The above numbers and names are fictitious.
Officers are especially requested to see that the rules are complied
with in any business which may come under the particular headings set out.
Copies of the rules will be sent along to Branches as soon as possible after
endorsement.
POLITICAL AND INDUSTRIAL SITUATION.
Parliament has adjourned until November next. It cannot be said that
the Session which was brought to a close on the 2nd inst. was distinguished
by any outstanding measures which would bring permanent relief to the people
of the country, or to the speedy solution of the difficulties in connection with
the international position. It is quite true that a number of speeches have
been made expressing regret at the situation, and the desire to see a better
time, but the fact remains that there was very little done to relieve the situation
so far as real legislation is concerned.
We still have with us the vast army of unemployed, although to those
who have eyes to see there is a tremendous amount of employment could be
found in this country, apart altogether from the question of the export
trade. It is indeed a significant fact that even the great employers of the
country have been moved to send a letter to the Prime Minister condemning
the Government schemes to relieve unemployment, as being inadequate. This
letter was signed by Sir Allan M. Smith, M.P. (Chairman) and Mr. P. J.
Hannon (Secretary), and the attention of the Prime Minister is called to the
fact that upon the 25th July, 1923, they addressed a letter to him offering
in outline of constructive policy, as they contend that the proposals of the
Minister of Labour are "quite inadequate, and certain facts postulated by
im in his speech are likely to mislead the casual reader." The letter
ncludes as follows :-
"
"The problem is urgent and does not admit of a single day's delay.
We are approaching our fourth winter of unemployment with, in addition,
the cumulative effect of the last three winters."

---
Here is the extracted text:
508
In view of this significant statement we once more call attention to the
Let that time and time again, the General Council of the Trades Union Con-
Prime Ministers and the responsible Ministers of the Crown numbers of schemes
and the Executive Committee of the Labour Party have brought before
which are both practical and useful, and would add to the material prosperity
many occasions done all they could to persuade the Government to deal with
of the country. The Labour Party in the House of Commons has also upon
therefore beg to repeat the statement so often made how imperative it is to
It cannot be said that the Government has risen to the occasion, and we
this question upon a large scale, and thereby relieve the position permanently.
majority of Labour Members in the House of Commons. To this end
we must continue to work, and so influence public opinion as to bring about
the desired change in the House of Commons so that matters can be dealt
have a
with in a sympathetic and bold manner.
One other matter to which we wish to refer under this heading, that
nations. Whilst lip service is being paid to this question, very largely the will
is the serious situation from the standpoint of Peace and Goodwill between
is lacking to put into operation such machinery as will bring about real peace
and goodwill. We ask the members to pay particular attention to the
following figures which have been extracted from the Parliamentary Debates
of the House of Commons for the 31st July, 1923 :-
GREAT POWERS (COST OF ARMIES).
MR. COLLISON asked the Under-Secretary of State for War the cost of maintaining
armies in the following countries: Great Britain, France, Germany, Russia, and
the United States, for the years 1913 and 1922 ?
LT.-COLONEL GUINNESS: As the answer is long and includes a number of figures,
I will, with the hon. Member's permission, circulate it in the Official Report.
Following is the answer:-
GREAT BRITAIN :- The total voted for the British Army in 1913-14 was
£27,700,000 (exclusive of aviation). The figure for comparison in 1922-23 was
£60,800,000 (exclusive of war terminal charges, but including the cost of troops in
the Middle East repaid to Army Funds from the Colonial Office Vote).
FRANCE:-The total cost of the French Army for 1913 was :-
War Budget
Colonial Budget
Total
1,022,821,931 Francs.
88,023,178
1,110,845,109
"
The corresponding figures for 1922 were:-
War Budget
Colonial Budget
Total
3,409,473,659 Francs.
188,443,000
"
3,597,916,659
"
is dealt with under the heading of "Compte Special," or expenditure recoverable
The cost of the French Army in Germany is not included in War Budget, but
from Germany.
GERMANY :-The total cost of the German Army for 1913 was about £60,000,000,
and for 1922 it was Marks 3,341,477,038 (=£2,386,769, at Marks 1,400 to €1).
RUSSIA : The total cost of the Russian Army (including the Air Force) for
1913-14 was 647,000,0oo gold roubles. The cost for the first nine months of 1022
was 556,000,000 gold roubles.


---
```text
509
small supplementary estimate, was $320,800,000. The cost for 1922 was $461,010.
UNITED STATES - The cost of the United States Army for 1015. mehud
Reflection upon these figures cannot but bring one to the conclusion that
there are now being built up great armies and navies and air forces for
despite the unparalleled suffering inflicted upon humanity because of the war
what? It is said there is no intention of going to war. Why then this
enormous expenditure upon warlike material. Why not begin in the right
about that feeling of peace and goodwill, and divert the money-which is
way and reduce the armies and the expenditure upon same, and thus bring
general standard of life. Here is a tremendous field for work and energy. It
largely wasted on navies and armies to productive channels and so raise the
may be but each must be prepared to do their bit to secure a Labour
is no use leaving the matter to a mere handful of men-however able they
Government at the next Election.
ORGANISER.
The details of the voting for the position of third Organiser will be found
on reference to pages 518-519. No candidate having secured a clear majority,
therefore a second vote is necessary between Mr. L. Smith (Northampton)
Meeting Night, and the vote counted on the 14th prox., and posted so as to
and Mr. C. Bleakley (Edinburgh). Voting must be taken at the September
reach the Central Office not later than the first post 17th prox. Vote must
not be divulged.
NATIONAL AGREEMENT (DECEMBER) 1922.
Some confusion appears to exist regarding the application of the several
rates and adjustments of piecework statements in connection with the above-
named Agreement. The question of the application of the Repairing (Trade
Board) Rates must not be confused with the Agreement relative to the manu-
facturing side of the industry. We, therefore, print below the Clause affecting
the operations of the Minimum Wage and Graduated Scale Rates and adjust-
ments of Piecework Statement Rates.
8. THE MINIMUM DAY WAGE RATES as set out in the Interim Agreement, Feb-
ruary, 1922, and based upon the index figure of the cost of living are confirmed, or
varied and confirmed, as under. Changes are to become effective on the first pay day
in June or November, and are to be based upon the Board of Trade Index figures
for the preceding April or September.
This means the Board of Trade Index figures for the month of September,
published in the October issue of the Labour Gazette, will be the determining
factor for the wage rate in November.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
urns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
ants to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
510
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
make a success.
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only " Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
W. WARNER.
T. ADNITT.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
C. BATES.
A. W. LYNE.
L. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES.
34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
22nd August, 1923.
Dear Sir,
The Trade Board rates of pay as governed by the cost of living figures,
will revert to the 60/- as and from the 1st September, 1923, owing to rise
in the index figure, which means that the Operatives will draw this rate
on the 7th prox.
An official notice is at present being drafted by the Secretary to the
Repairing Board, and will be sent to all the Repairing Employers.
Yours faithfully,
T. F. RICHARDS,
General President.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
511
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Trade during the last month, wherein one has to meet employers, it is very
depressing to learn from most of them that trade is in a parlous state. No orders, no
prospects, hope being the only asset the trade seems to possess at the present time, and
with the New Unionism spirit, which we all meet with when organising, certain people
refuse to assist in the Unions unless they can get something more out of them than what
they have paid in. Although I have been confronted at open-air meetings recently with
the query: " Was 56s. enough to live on ?" "Why is it that the shoe operative pays is.
per week contribution and the building trade a Holiday Fund ?" "What benefits do they give?" So far as the
trade is concerned, wherein do they suffer as compared with other industries, and what
part has the questioner taken to improve the position? The "something for nothing
non-Union workshop, and even some more enlightened quarters where it is least expected.
spirit needs no advertisement. It will find its way out at every street corner and in every
shoe factory is outside the pale of our Union-it passes my comprehension. I am afraid we
My trouble at the present time is to conceive why any man or woman working in a
can only continue our work of organising, and hoping that some day that these people
will see the light.
EARLS BARTON, Wellingborough, has had trouble at Barker's. The firm wish
to put the men on day labour, hoping by that means, they say, to get better work.
This may be true, but the operatives hold the other view, and we share it with them,
that when day labour is called for after working piecework, we have only one idea-and it
is better for the employers to know it-that we, or at least I believe the object is to get
piecework quantities at day labour minimum, and from my point of view such firms are
suspect. Then when these firms find that the men are not more remunerative they wish
to return to piecework; but this can only be condoned when such firms have satisfied us
the fundamental principles of the terms of settlement, and in this respect I trust the local
and the operatives that they are in a position to carry out to the satisfaction of ourselves
and, therefore, not so strong as in ordinary times, and the temptation to stretch the terms
officials will keep a sharp look-out because, owing to bad trade, employers are very nervous
is very great. Indeed, we visited one firm that admitted making up stuff described as
"muck," and when we asked the question "Why so?" the answer was that it was to
oblige a customer. We replied we cannot alter our prices or condone such to oblige cus-
tomers who are prepared to palm off upon the public stuff described as "muck," and it is
not creditable to any firm to be prepared to make up such stuff which is only being used
to gull the public, and to take a mean advantage of the poor. In this connection I am
convinced that as a Union we must expose "shoddy"; the employers having failed to
tackle the same.
WELLINGBOROUGH have purchased a splendid building for new offices in Church Street ;
spacious, quiet and very roomy. The Branch are to be congratulated on making a move
so beneficial to their large and, I hope, growing membership. Here they will be able,
under pleasant conditions and surroundings, to do their work and administer to the require-
ments of our members there, who, I believe, will be pleased to know that they are members
of a Branch that caters for them in so pleasant a manner.
A meeting of our side of the Board of Arbitration for the County of LEICESTERSHIRE
was held, when we appointed our officers for the ensuing year. Mr. D. Astley was invited
to act as Chairman, the idea being that it is much nicer for the successful working of the
Board to change our Chairman and Vice-Chairman occasionally so as to give all members
the chance of filling the position.
The GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS held their usual monthly meeting, and
we are sorry to learn that the trouble between the boilermakers and their employers is
still in progress. Our appeal to the Ministry of Labour and interview have borne no
fruit, as we knew it would not. There have been times when Unions have said, "Hands
off," and we are not surprised when employers take up the same attitude, and whilst
private employment exists this policy is likely to continue. We have several Unions
who say that they do not believe in compulsory arbitration, and if we say that, how can
e deny the employers the same right?
We have also had a dispute at the firm of J. W. BLACK, OF SOUTH WIGSTON, but as
Chairman of the Company has a business at Kettering we journeyed there, saw the
inciple, and we hope we have persuaded him, although somewhat reluctantly, to agree
hour suggestion to make the reduction no more than the increase; he complied, although
could not imagine a state of mind that wanted to take more off the wages than they
on, that is why we say alertness must be our motto.
We have also attended a meeting of the JOINT STANDING COMMITTEE OF CO-OPERATORS
TRADE UNIONISTS Owing to an appeal by the Lancashire Wages Board for Co-operative
ties who were asking for a reduction in wages despite the fact that the private em-
Ts in Lancashire had made no demand. Our argument was, and is, that it ill becomes


---
512
the Committee will decide upon the whole of the claim. We do not appear to be making
fourteen days to allow the N.U.D.A.W. to put before the Wages Board their case, and then
co operators to make the running for reductions. The finding has been postponed for
much headway with the Disputes Committee of the Trades Union Congress. We have
two cases now on, and the Council of the Union is unanimously disappointed with the
We have held a further meeting of the Trade Board, and the new proposals of the
Board are as follows: To be placed before the Trade for opposition or approval for the
next two months: "Piccework, 12 per cent, off present rates; Repairing, and 5 per cent.
off Hand-Sewn making: ordinary male workers, 57s. over 21 years of age. Power Sole
Stitchers, 725.; Pressers, 67s. Blake Sole Sewers, 67s. Foremen or Managers, 72s.
unintelligent findings of the Committee.
Females working at any of the above operations, same rate as men.
the above operations, same rate as male learners."
Female learners on
We are at present considering the
Several meetings have been held by the various committees appointed by the Mans-
Lasting and Finishing for Women's or Girls' work: also four Statements or one for each
field, Derby and Nottingham Board of Arbitration, for the purpose of drafting Statements
department for Nurseries 2's to 8's. In addition to the above we have agreed to a State-
for the benefit of the firms in each District. The Statements include Clicking, Closing,
Stockroom work, and Statements for Pressroom, Preparatory Department and Heeling
are all to be taken in turn. This is very slow but useful work, and we trust will redound
We still ask all members to do their duty and take the "DAILY HERALD," and wear
ment for Making, Closing and Finishing Canvas.
to the credit of all concerned when complete.
only TRADE UNION-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES from reliable firms.
7, MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
19th August, 1923.
Yours fraternally,
M. M. Richards
General President.
ORGANISERS' MONTHLY REPORTS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
My last report was given on 24th July. On 25th July I went to Messrs. Ward,
The "Queensville" Boot Works, Stafford, and asked permission to speak to the females
in the closing room. One of the partners took me to the machine room straight away
and asked the forewoman to stop the machinery for me to speak. I can remember our
Branch Officers many years ago asking the Management of the C.W.S. Boot Works, at
Leicester, for the opportunity to speak to the workers on the premises after working
hours, but this was never granted. It is a pleasure to record of a private firm stopping
the machinery for five minutes to allow me to speak to the machinists. On the 26th I
went to Stone to consult with the Secretary there on a plan of organising. On the 27th
I spoke at a heel-making firm at Stafford; we made some members here. On the 28th
I saw one of the heads of Messrs. Bostock, "Lotus" Ltd., over speaking at their works
at Stone. I was granted the privilege of speaking in three departments after the August
holidays. In answer to a message from Mr. Poulton, I went to London on the 29th to speak
on the "Back-to-the-Union" Campaign. The first meeting was at Clapham Common. There
were two platforms and the attendance was good. The evening meeting was at Putney
Bridge. This was a fine meeting. Many trade union banners were in evidence and made
a circle for the meeting. I should say that the London trade union officers in charge of
the work received me right well and thanked our Union for my presence.
After the holidays I went to Stone and spoke on three occasions in the turnshoe
department to the men, in the closing room and stock room. Mr. R. Dunn, Secretary of
the Stafford Branch, accompanied me. We were given ten minutes in the firm's time
this report will appreciate the generous feeling shown to us by Messrs. Bostock in allowing
I know that the Council of our Union and the members who read
us to speak inside their great works at Stafford and Stone. Speaking for the local officials
of the industry that both sides should be well organised and that the management should
in the spirit the resolution agreed on over three years ago, that it was in the best interests
members as a result of our propaganda; about 40 new names were brought in to-day for
Mr. Dunn to add to the Stafford Branch. This evening we are speaking to the females
place no obstacle in the way of workers joining the Union. We made a good number et
in the closing room at a factory here in the firm's time. Some might say: How is it that


---
513
any should be outside the Union in factories where the employers are to friendly toward
the Union?" Aye! there's the rub. God's ways are better than the other fellow'
aid in their marrow and bones. Dan McCarthy would not bo wanted as organier. The.
are not all on His side? If all wage-earners were thoughtful and had the spirit of t
would apply to many preachers in high places. I will finish by giving the word, of two
manufacturers here in conversation with me:
decency by organisation and negotiation and we must not let it go down."
we must watch
that this can be done."
Why
the unfair men in the trade, and it is only by both sides being well organised
"We raised the trade to a standard of
21st August, 1923.
"At all cost
D. MCCARTHY.
is concerned, and yet what movement there has been is in the right direction. Trade
The past month has not produced much in the direction of change so far as Kingswood
improves but slowly and, after all, it is that which makes all the difference. To have to
play the part of Oliver Twist and be continually asking manufacturers for more while
the factory is silent. is not the easiest thing to do, nor can one hope to meet with unlimited
success, no matter how justified we may be in our demands.
the National Agreement is obtaining that recognition which is essential to the success of
But the fact remains that headway is being made and gradually, but none the less surely.
peaceful negotiation. One likes to use that term; it has a pleasant sound, and yet how
difficult it is to apply it here. Many of the employers in this district recognise nothing
but the policy of force, and at three firms extreme action had to be taken before the proper
the men refused to resume after the August break, until the Holiday Scheme was accepted.
At the first one the mere mention of the handing in of notices was sufficient, just a
little attempt to bluff, which was firmly met, and surrender followed. At the other two
ing of the fourth day the firm came along, and a resumption of work was agreed upon
In one case two days were sufficient to obtain a settlement, while in the other, on the morn-
conditions were established.
for the following Monday.
I have not the slightest doubt that we shall have to extend this policy, and there will
us their confidence and allow us to represent them in these matters. And after all this is
be no hesitation in that direction, no matter who the firm is, so long as the operatives give
the key to the situation. So much depends upon the interest shown by the workers in
the factory in the things that really matters.
as though the Union is something
It is difficult to understand the apathy and indifference that far too frequently is
shown in regard to industrial conditions. It is not satisfaction with present conditions
that give rise to it, for complaints are frequent enough, in fact, these very people are the
distinct and separate from themselves. The Union is strong or weak according to how
ones that ask "what is the Union going to do about it?
the workers make it strong or weak. And in this respect mere membership is not suffi-
cient: there must be interest and active participation in its work: it is the spirit and not
the form that really matters, and we shall not succeed either in Kingswood
else until we can knit together the factory and the Union office.
It is easier to deal with these matters at the
This is absolutely essential. Every happening or attempt to vary the conditions at
the factory cught to be reported at once.
beginning than it is after a period of time, when perhaps it will be claimed that the work-
people are satisfied, and have endorsed the change. If infringements or attempts at same
were reported at once on every occasion, our difficulties would not be so great as they are.
Nothing is gained by neglect, and members should understand that it is just as much a
responsibility of theirs to report as it is for the official to investigate when the report is
made.
The Union is like a machine, every part must be working accurately if the best results
are to be obtained, and everyone who holds a card is a part of the machine.
Of course it is all to the good if we have none outside the ranks, and I am pleased
to say that some members are being made. The difficulty is to understand why they are
outside. The record of the Union, both in regard to the conditions of labour in the factory,
as well as to benefits, justify one in saying, that instead of people pleading they cannot
afford to belong to it, it should be the other way, that they cannot afford to be outside the
Union and its beneficent influence.
There is no doubt that in some districts our task is greater than in others, and to say
the least of it Kingswood is not one of the easiest, but I am fully persuaded that in time it
will be in line with the rest of the country. We have got things on the move, the successes
art have come to us have awakened interest in others, and workers are asking why they
ould not have the full advantage attached to our agreements. The eyes of the operatives
turned in our direction and we will show that the Union is a power for good in the
fustry, and that not even in Kingswood shall the worst type of employer set the pace,
determine how the boot operative shall work and live.
Just, 1923.
WALTER R. SMITH.
C


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

AREROMETH
514
BRANCH REPORTS.
The bad trade here has been accentuated during the past
month by the midsummer holidays. To be idle four days every week, not
including Sundays, and then to get a holiday to recuperate your " exhausted"
physical powers savottes of a burlesque but the grimness of it dries up the
laughter. In our district this occasion emphasises the need for the suspension
benefit being based on a total of hom,
Our members have lost
period.
One sympathises with the
weeks at a holiday season, and they have just qualified to get the benefit when
when his members are put off for three
they start again to work, for two days, and then lie off for other four. Then it
is that otherwise reasonable members fume and fret, and use fierce threats.
present demands, because the fact remains that some will get the new Su-
It is useless to explain that the present contribution is hardly sufficient to meet
who won't participate. Our last two Branch reports have dealt fully with
pension benefit who really lose less working time in the aggregate than some
a factory trouble in Carnoustie, and all that requires to be added now has
director of the factory concerned agreed to meet our Union Officers in London
reference to an undesirable element arising in its course. When the managing
to discuss the situation, he also agreed to abide by any agreement reached at
two days afterwards that the agreement was to continue piecework, but when
the
entered into it. So sarcastic was he about our Comrade Bleakley's inter-
pretation of the decision of the conference in London, that our Secretary had
perforce to write to our General President (Mr. Richards) and to Mr. J. Buckle,
M.P., who had both been present at the meeting, to inquire what had actually
been agreed to. Needless to say, the replies proved beyond doubt that Mr.
Bleakley was right in stating the result as above. It is difficult to understand
what purpose is served by this sort of trickery, but we are glad Mr. Bleakley
was completely vindicated. If ever there is a next time for dealings between
the Union and an individual employer, only "black and white " agreements will
satisfy members here. During the month the Branch has lodged an appeal for
representation on the Court of Referees for this area, and this is being considered.
Appeal cases from any part of this country area are heard in the neighbouring
City of Dundee, which compels parties appealing against disallowances of
unemployment benefit to pay a considerable train fare to attend the Court.
What is worse is the absence of workers' representatives on the Court, and
decisions are usually at the discretion of the Chairman. We are hoping to
succeed in getting an opportunity to appoint and so help to put a stop to a
notorious neglect on the part of Trade Unions in this town. As opportunities
cf work-some very doubtful kinds of work very often-occur, the greater will
be the number of claims disallowed in future, and the only hope of justice
to the claimant lies in reliable representatives on the Workers' Panel. If we can
keep the National Union in the van of progressive forces fighting to advance
or defend the best interests of all workers, we are serving the real interests of
our class.
BARNSLEY.-Trade is no better, men not getting full time.
BELFAST. We have still to report that no improvement in trade has
taken place during the month.
CHESHAM. We are pleased to report the slight improvement of trade
reported last month is maintained.


---
CHESTERFIELD. - We have still to report trade bad, as we have several
members still out of work. We hope the season which is coming will find all
our members working again as some of them have been out since the Easter
Holidays.
EDINBURGH. - Repairers in our district have been fairly busy after the
holidays. At present we have not a member of the Union on Out-of-Work
Funds. New workers are still on short time. Is the boot trade never going
to be able to give our men the full working week? In Scotland the larger
Boot Repairing firms are laying down new machinery and are asking the
Branches to give a Piece Rate to meet the position. The Edinburgh Branch
is of opinion that Scottish branches should immediately be called together, so
as every place could meet the position along the same lines. Has not the time
arrived for the Repairing Section of our trade to have some Holiday Scheme
put forward something like the workers in the manufacturing? At present
the Repairers of some Co-operative Societies have been granted payment for
holidays, but no uniform scheme is in force. This Branch is endeavouring
with the Trade Union directors which sit on these Boards of Management.
to get all Co-operative Societies to grant this privilege. It is uphill work, even
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - There has been a slight improvement in
trade during the month all round the district. Irthlingborough seems to be
the busiest, two firms being on overtime and the remainder on full time. There
has also been a considerable improvement at Wollaston. Raunds and Ring
stead (the Army District) remains as reported previous months, very poor,
a large number still being unemployed.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. - Some slight improvement in trade
during the past month.
LEEDS. - Trade here is very bad, and, as a consequence, our unemployed
list is much heavier than ordinary. We would once more urge upon those
members who are out of benefit according to Rule to make an effort if it be at
all possible, to reduce their arrears and thus be entitled to benefit should they
have to come on the out-of-work list, or should sickness overtake them. We
have to report a lockout at Messrs. J. Salinsky & Sons, this firm desiring the
operatives to go on piecework or get out of the factory. The operatives, of
course, did not go on piecework, seeing that the new Piecework Statement
and conditions of labour had not been arranged. This question was taken
before the Leeds Board of Conciliation and Arbitration when, after discussion,
the Committee decided that the operatives return to work forthwith at the
old conditions.
LEICESTER. - We are sorry to report that trade is very bad, and worse
than last month.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S. - At their July monthly meeting, after hearing
reports from delegates from the Labour Party Conference, decided to vote
fifty pounds towards the fund of the Labour Party for political propaganda
work in rural areas. To our astonishment we had a letter from the Council
asking us to reconsider our decision, and send a smaller amount, owing to the
mall amount standing to the credit of the Union's Political Fund. We still
there to our resolution as the money we ask for stands to our credit and is
thing to do with the Union's depleted fund. We would also like to know
at other Branches, if any, have been subjected to this interference and
ation in matters which are strictly in accordance with the rules of our Union.
would also point out the letter received from the Council re the Report of
month on International Representation in which it states that six repre-
lives are being sent from organisations to which the Union is affiliated
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
516
who sit on those bodies at the ignorance of the Council on these matters, especi-
ally when the Secretary of the Union is a prominent member of the National
Council and ought to advise in accordance with facts.
gates, Miss Sherwin and Miss Timms (Mrs. Bell-Richards, who was attending in
We are pleased to report arrangements have been made for our two dele-
another capacity, was detained by illness), to attend with the shoe workers
from Austria, Boston (U.S.A.), and Christiana, and all factories of any consequence,
done by women in our trade. This knowledge will help us when meeting
to get practical knowledge of the workers and conditions of special operations
in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, all of which our delegates hope to
manufacturers who are never tired of telling us of the cheap labour, especially
visit before returning.
「The statement which appears as a footnote on page 461 of July Report that
six representatives of the Movement are attending the Vienna Conference
IS correct, and the names-as stated last month-have appeared in the
Labour Woman and the Daily Herald. In fact I was present at the meeting
ference. Moreover, it was reported in the Daily Herald on the 16th inst.
when they were elected and voted in favour of their attending the Con-
that no representatives are attending the Conference as they do not agree
with these separate organisations for women only. So far as the reference
to the Political Fund is concerned. Rule 285 is very plain, that the consent
are incurred.
E. L.
POULTON, General Secretary.]
LIVERPOOL. - Trade fair. We note by the trade press that the Trade
the Press.
but no official report
MAYBOLE.-Trade is improving and hope it may continue, but we have
still some of our members unemployed.
NORWICH. Trade in Norwich has shown very little change during the
month, the numbers on the fund being actually larger than the previous month.
At our monthly meeting, held on 1st August, our members expressed strong
resentment at the paragraph re Federation of Trade Unions in the General Presi
dent's report. A resolution of protest was passed against the gross misrepre-
sentation contained therein, and the Secretary was instructed to incorporate
the sentiments in this report.
[Will members interested in the above, please read the statement of the
the mover of the resolution (pages 140 and 141 of Conference Report)
and his reasons why we should leave the General Federation of Trade
Unions. T. F. RICHARDS, General President.]
PLYMOUTH.-We are looking forward to the first week of September
and the Trade Union Congress. Probably before this report is in the hands of
our Union delegates they will be travelling South, where we are pleased to
report that all arrangements are well in hand and everything possible is being
done to make the occasion unique in the history of the Trade Union Movement.
Our Branch will welcome the delegates Thursday evening, 6th September,
at 7.30 p.m., at the Borough Arms Restaurant, Cornwall Street, when a pro-
gramme of music has been arranged and refreshments provided for all members
who feel the call of fellowship and jolly good company.
SHEPSHED.-Trade here is very bad; factories are reducing their stafis
to a minimum; much short time is making it difficult for our members to pay
their contributions.
SOUTHAMPTON.-Trade moving forward very slowly.
STAFFORD. We are sorry to report that trade is very slack in thi
centre. Mr. D. McCarthy, National Organiser, has been in this centre for a to

---
520
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Council do not hold themselves responsible for the views expressed by Correspondents.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
51, ST. GEORGE STREET,
NORWICH,
8th August, 1923.
It will be remembered that at the Conference of the Union held in London during
Whit-week a resolution was carried instructing the Executive Council to discontinue
affiliation with the General Federation of Trade Unions. The resolution emanated from
Norwich, and was moved by myself with a speech, may I say, that did at least attempt
to present the true position of the Federation in its relationship to the British Labour
Movement.
Now, whatever may be our personal opinions on the matter, it certainly does not
warrant the General President misrepresenting the position in the way he does in his
report as published in the July Report.
He states:
GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.-During the month a most interest.
ing Annual Meeting of the General Federation of Trade Unions at Bridlington was
held, where, on all hands, very profound regrets were expressed that our Union,
bring about affiliation with the Trades Union Congress, should withdraw on the
commercial and capitalistic policy is contrary to the spirit of any kind of Trades
ground that having paid £30,000 in we have had only £800 out. This non-unionist.
penny in the Trade Unionism, the kind which is too shallow to be of any good
nineties, and savours
to the movement.
May I congratulate the General President on a fine effort at "Gutter Journalism,"
for surely the pages of our Report have never before contained such dishonest and libellous
statements against the delegates assembled at Conference.
I stated the Federation had failed to rise to the needs of the modern movement,
that it in fact was obsolete machinery and operated only to overlap and interfere with the
work of the Labour Party (Political) and Trades Union Congress (Industrial).
The examination of the case against the Federation was conducted from a quite
proper standpoint, viz. :-Is the Federation functioning to the general benefit of the
Labour Movement? The answer was a very decided NO, even from those who did not vote
for the resolution.
Our case is that every effort should be given to strengthen the Labour Party politically,
and that all interests should be consolidated in making the Trade Union Congress the main-
spring in industrial organisations.
Much can and will be done if some of the fourth and fifth rate Labour Leaders will
subordinate their assumed importance to the welfare of the wider movement. The time
has come when the Congress must do the work the Federation has refrained from doing,
viz.:-Co-ordinate and consolidate the interests of the 5,000,000 members whom they
operate for.
Much more was said, and on those lines the discussion ranged, although I incidentally
mentioned that the financial comparisons would not win for the Union much glory. To
pay in fees during a period the sum of £23,000 and receive in return £755 in fighting dis-
putes that cost £21,000 was, to my mind, not quite the right way to organise our financial
resources.
No, Mr. Richards, the Federation will not do, its only credential is its title. What
useful purpose it might have served has been prostituted by some of its leaders ("Top-
notchers "), and because we, the smaller fry, dare raise our voices against a continuance
of these things we become subject to abuse and misrepresentation (ever the weapons of
the incompetent) from men such as Mr. Richards.
Again I say the decision to withdraw was not prompted by financial reasons, and
Mr. Richards knows that to be true. I hope, therefore, when Mr. Richards meets his
friends of the Federation he will do our Union a service by stating the true facts of the case
and incidentally win for himself respect from those who differ with him.
Yours very truly,
FRED C. JEX,
Branch Secretary, Norwich Branch.


---
521
TRADE UNIONS AND THE LAW.
By One of the People.

32, DUNGAN TERRACE,
ISLINGTON,
LONDON, N.1.
4th August, 1923

FELLOW MEMBERS,
disinterested motives—it is as well that its defenders should be acquainted with the actual
In view of the attacks upon Trade Unionism—attacks prompted by far from
conditions of employment. As voluntary associations they are outside the law (ultra
Now a trade union is a voluntary association of persons to obtain and retain fair
vires) and having objects in restraint of trade, they are illegal bodies.
others guilty of embezzling their funds. The Act of 1871 gave trade unions just enough
Up to 1871 the members of a trade union had no legal redress against its officials or
legislation to hold land or property to enable them to carry on their proper business;
while not enough to expose them to actions at law. (This Act only applied to unions
registered.)
But in 1901, in the famous Taff Vale case, a judgment was given which made the
funds of a union liable for the actions and injuries caused by its servants, agents or officials.
This judgment was followed by others in the next seven years which made trade unions
liable for £22,000.

instituted. Section (4) is to the effect that although persons connected with a trade
As a result of much agitation another Act called the Trade Disputes Act (1906), was
(picketing). This Act absolutely reversed the Taff Vale decision, by making union funds
union may be sued for civil wrongs, they cannot be taken to law for watching or besetting
free from liability for actions of injurious nature by union servants, agents or officials.

While the Act of 1906 made it possible for unions doing as the members wished with the
funds, it prevented them from doing anything outside the objects. If they wished to do
something outside the objects, after obtaining a unanimous vote of the members, they
could apply for power from the Registrar of Trade Unions and Friendly Societies.
If the union's representatives did not first obtain a unanimous vote, objectors could
get an injunction to restrain by applying to the Courts. A case in point is that of Mr.
Osborn, a member of the Railway Servants' Union. He objected to being compelled
the political candidates for whom the political fund was instituted. The judgment to
restrain was upheld by the House of Lords.
political fund, on the ground that his
It was followed by the Act of 1913, which gave members of a trade union or similar
society the right to contract out of the political, or any other special fund which was not
in existence, and which they did not accept or agree to pay to on joining. This did not
affect their right to draw all other benefits from other funds to which they subscribed.
On the face of it this power to contract out is very fair. It seems so fair that the
desires of the movers of the new Bill to reverse the position and make those who wish
to subscribe, contract in, can only be interpreted in one way. That is, they think, by doing
so they can weaken the financial support the trade unions give to the Labour Party, and
forestall the time when Labour shall come into its own.

Summary.
(1) Trade Unions are not liable to be taken to law for crimes—" Nobody to be kicked,
or soul to be damned."
(2) Unions are free from actions for civil wrongs. They must manage their own
domestic affairs.
(3) Breach of contract or change in objects, gives members right to restrain and
contract out.
Yours fraternally,
H. ZIGGLES,
London Metro. Branch.

Union Reg. No. 135236.


---
```text
522
THE VIENNA WOMEN'S CONFERENCE.
WIEN, AM,
FELLOW MEMBERS,
17th August, 1923.
to the Working Women's Conference to be held in Vienna, from where I am now writing
In my letter of last month I complained of our Council not sending a delegato
this further letter, having been sent with Miss Sherwin at the expense of our Branch.
The note following my letter in the July Report, put there by Mr. E. L. Poulton, has
nothing to do with my protest, or yet is it anything but misleading to our members. Mr.
Poulton knows, as a member of the General Council of the Trade Union Congress and as an
were not chosen to represent the general movement, nor were they even selected by the
Executive Council Member of its Women's Group, that the six names he has mentioned
delegation from England shall be. All Unions and Societies affiliated to the Standing
National Movement at all. The Standing Joint Committee of Industrial Women's Organi-
sations is the only body in this country who can ask for and finally determine who the
and Trades Union Congress National Council are among the general number affiliated to
Joint Committee are invited to send a name for delegation. The National Labour Party
the above Committee. The International Federation of Working Women's Office is in
London at the present time. I repeat again how sorry I am that our Council are so in-
different to the interests of women that they do not think it necessary that we should take
any part in the world's work. I see by the Report that the Council thinks it necessary
I shall watch with interest how many delegates (women) will be sent to the Conference at
to keep a reserve delegate to attend the International Shoe and Leather Workers' Councils.
Dresden of this same International.
of the Trades Union Congress
「The statements made in the above letter that I know" as a member of the General Council
E. A. TIMMS.
Report were not chosen to represent the general movement, nor were they even
that the six names mentioned in last month's
is quite true that there is a Joint Committee of Industrial Women's Organisations,
but it is equally true the General Council selected the three representatives named
in accordance with the
when the delegates were selected, and voted for them to attend, and the General
to attend the Conference in Vienna. As a matter of fact I was present at the meeting
Council will have to pay the expenses of the delegates. It is interesting to note that
in connection with the meeting in Vienna it is reported in the Daily Herald neither the
Austrian nor the German women were represented at this Conference because they
do not agree with separate organisations for women.
indifferent to the interests of women, and it is an extraordinary statement to make
having regard to the great amount of work the Union has done to improve the position
of women working in the industry.-E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.]
The Council are certainly not
BRITAIN'S "DEVASTATED AREA."
"Sunk ships and cargoes rotting at the bottom of the sea may not shock the eye like the
-."-The British Note of August 11th
ruined villages of France and Belgium, but
to France and Belgium.
Casualties: Killed, 946,023; Wounded, 2,121,906.
Expenditure during the War
Loans to Allies
Losses at Sea:
Shipping and Cargoes (value)
Shipping and Cargoes (tonnage)
War Pensions (to March, 1923)
Unemployment (to March, 1923)
Housing (capital cost)
Liquidation of War Commitments :
Railways
Munitions and Shipping
Compensation for enemy damage
Coal Mines
Bread subsidy
::
Post-war Relief Loans
£9,590,000,000
£1,494,000,000
£750,000,000
8,000,000
£470,000,000
£400,000,000
£225,000,000
£203,000,000
£36,500,000
£5,000,000
£48,000,000
£101,500,000
£33,000,000
-Daily News, 14th August, 1923.
```

---
Here's the extracted text:

524

"Daily Herald"

NO COMPULSION.

I Pledge myself: "To take the Labour Daily FIRST.”
This is a voluntary pledge; there is no compulsion
about it. Nobody is obliged to sign it. A numbered Card,
bearing this Pledge, has been issued to every Union man and
woman in the country.

Every Union member is entitled to one of these cards,
and should ask for it. It may be worth £150; and the branch
secretary who issues it may get £50. It makes an appeal to
your loyalty: it asks you to be loyal to your own newspaper
before buying Employers' newspapers.

IT DOES NOT ASK YOU TO BE NARROW-MINDED;
OR TO SIGN AWAY YOUR FREEDOM TO BUY
AND READ WHAT OTHER PAPERS YOU LIKE.

Read BOTH sides, by all means, if you can afford it.
But first read YOUR OWN side: you certainly cannot afford
to be un-informed or mis-informed about that. The “Daily
Herald” gives your side: the workers' side, because it is run
by the workers.

Owned by Labour: the coming power.
YOU ARE LABOUR: be loyal to your own.


---
Here is the OCR text:
Why Labour's Newspaper Pledge Is Necessary.
How Henry Dubb
Helps the Millionaira
How the Millionaire
Helps Henry Dubb.
ONE
ONE
MILLIONAIRE PRESS
MILLIONAIRE PRESSISKO
Before You Buy Employers' Newspapers
Be Loyal to Your Own-The DAILY HERALD
"Take the Labour Daily First"
Daily Mittor
BEAUTY COMPETITION
Henry Dubb
Meets His
Greatest Enemy.
Labour's Own Press Campaign
Carmelite Street, London, E.C.4.


---
526
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
MILITARY EXPENDITURE AND DISARMAMENT.
MR. J. RAMSAY MACDONALD: I beg to move,
"That this House deplores the enormous and growing expenditure on the naval
and air forces and on other military preparations which is beginning once more a
competition in armaments and is depleting resources that should be available for ex-
penditure on education, public health and similar social and human services, and
recalling the pledges of political leaders and the expectations of the nation that the
to call an international conference to consider a programme of national safety based
upon the policy that by disarmament alone can the peace and liberty of small and
Great World War was to end war, urges the Government to take immediate steps
We have since 1919-20 made an expenditure of £1,290,000,000 on Army, Navy and
large nations alike be secured."
Air Force. I asked that the figures should be taken out for me, and that is the total with
which I have been supplied. If we ask the Government to supply money for public
health, we are told it is not there. If we ask the Government to be more generous with
houses so that we may supply our people with something a little bit better than mere
hutches, we are told the money is not there. When we, in relation to housing, say that
accommodation, a standard of atmosphere and a standard of beauty, and when in 1923
for years and years we have been working up to a standard of planning, a standard of
we say we stand by that standard, the Government tell us that the country is poor and
that we have to be economical.
When Mr. MacDonald stated that the League of Nations had not yet won the con-
fidence of very important nations of the world, Sir C. Kinloch-Cooke interjected with
"Hear, hear!" and Mr. MacDonald proceeded to say that he hoped the prophecy implied
of Nations will have won that confidence, but, at the moment, it has not won the confidence
in the interjection was a rash and bad prophecy. I hope that, very speedily, the League
policy which I have in mind, must be supplemented. The next war will be worse than
of these nations, and the League of Nations, in dealing with disarmament and with the
There will be the blockade, and, what is more, there will be the air raids, with
poison gases, which will simply devastate whole towns and whole countrysides. That
ever.
is not how we are going to redress wrongs.
MR. FISHER: It is impossible to advance a step in the direction of the regulation of
the manufacture and the traffic in armaments without the concurrence of the United States
of America. When we consider all the evils which have come to the world through the
failure of America to ratify the Treaty of St. Germain, which was signed in 1920, for the
regulation of the traffic in arms we shall realise that the assembly took a wise step in urging
the Council to summon such an international conference. There is a Clause in the Treaty
It is very difficult to draw the line between chemical warfare and the use of typhoid germs
glad if chemical warfare could be banished from the repertoire of destructive impulse.
and other microbes. I should not at all wonder if the next war began if there be a next
war-by a systematic attempt to introduce typhoid or other germs into the water systems
of the great towns of the belligerent Powers.
MR. ROSE: On the question of the extension of the Air Force, let me remind the
House that on the 4th August last year, the last day but one of the last Parliament, in
answer, or in obedience, to a deliberately engineered stunt, the then Prime Minister stated
that £2,000,000 was to be allocated to the expansion of the Air Force, of which £1,100,000
was to come from new money and the other £900,000 was to be raised by effecting economies
in other Departments. In the middle of this Session we learn that that provision is totally
inadequate for the necessities of the situation, and the Minister wants another £5,500,000
in addition, presumably, to the £2,500,000 already granted in this year's Estimates. That
is how the thing has grown. In the four years of this Ministry it has spent £64,000,000
and has produced-what? A perilous situation. Sixty-four million pounds seems a lot
to pay for inadequacy and an admittedly perilous situation. What became of that
£2,000,000? Did they spend it? We were told at the end of the last Parliament last
year that orders were to be given out immediately for 500 aeroplanes. What became of
all the aeroplanes? You don't want any Ministry of Air unless you want to kill babies
I am more assured now, since the beginning of another armament race, that Commercialisn
lies at the bottom of it, and the greed for commercial profit has over-ridden every othe
consideration. Where had France got her aeroplanes? Was it barely possible that th
Aircraft Disposals Co. Ltd. sold some of our duds to France, and was it not a fact that ti
armament traffic was responsible for more war and enormities of war than anything else
To stop private enterprise in armaments is one of the first necessities. It is the one practi
thing that Britain can do to-day, without imperilling her own defence in the slight
degree.
THE PRIME MINISTER (MR. BALDWIN): Very little, if anything has been mily
about one of the greatest difficulties which we finding in d
---

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
528
WHERE THE MONEY GOES.
Revolutions of the Public Accounts Committee. Wholesale Waste.
it's the first report, just issued, of
of Public Account, whose Chairman in the present Parliamentary session
of this Committee of the House of Commons is to inspect the public
It cannot stop extravagance, but it can and does require an explanation of
every item of expenditure, and its reports are of the utmost value in bringing to light
in the public administration.
Remarkable illustrations are given of defective co-ordination between departments,
of carelessness and neglect, and of lax control. For example :
hired, and charges amounting to £15,000 were run up; then they bought the craft for
A tug hired for £60 a week was retained by the authorities until they forgot she was
another £6,000 and handed her to the Disposals Board.
When she was hired they had the option of buying her at £9,000.
The Post Office tube-railway from Paddington to Whitechapel, on which £1,140,000
was spent between 1914 and 1920, is still unfinished.
£9,000 Pigsties.
An estimate of £1,000 for removing pigsties and other buildings for a farmer whose
premises were occupied by the Air Ministry was sanctioned as an alternative to a potential
claim of £2,500 to £3,000; but the operation ultimately cost over £9,000, the excess
expenditure not being authorised by the Treasury.
Subsidies amounting to £283,418 in six years were paid to a commercial undertaking.
the British-Italian Corporation. But "the witness who appeared before the Committee
was unable to inform them what advantages had accrued to H.M. Government from
the payment of this subsidy."
Profits amounting to £998,715 resulting from the Egyptian Cotton Control scheme
were handed over to the Empire Cotton-growing Corporation.
Grants and loans made to the Dye Industry amount to £426,000, in addition to
£1,700,000 invested in British Dye Companies; dividends on this investment amounted
in 1921-22 to £44,496, as compared with £89,250 as shown in the estimate.
No dividend in respect of the investment is shown in the estimates for 1922-23.
During the coal stoppage of 1921 the Government bought some 1,850,000 tons for
the maintenance of essential public services, paying four agents commission at the rate
of 6d. a ton for purchase and freight and 6d. a ton for discharging and distributing—
approximately £90,000.
The whole of this coal was resold, when the pits restarted, at a loss of £237,000.
Pocketed Money.
A total of £1,275,295 11s. 7d. was paid to certain American meat-packers, under
two agreements whereby, in return for such payment, these firms undertook not to send
any of their products to enemy countries or to neutral countries except under cover of
a permit from H.M. Government.
Up to March, 1922, the total payments made by the Government to the railway
companies for the privilege of controlling the railways during the war amounted (according
to the report of the Public Accounts Committee) to £294,000,000.
The total expense incurred by the British Government in connection with the Peace
Conference is reported by the Public Accounts Committee to amount to £686,464.
Expenditure in connection with the Supreme Economic Council amounts to £143,363.
-The Labour Press Service, 9th August, 1923.
A TIP FOR THE TIMES FROM "THE TIMES."
"The Trade Union Movement, at one time regarded as a bugbear and a nuisance
by short-sighted employers of labour, has long since won its rightful place in the world
of industry. Even by those who were most bitterly opposed to it it is now accepted as
indispensable to the modern system of collective bargaining, which on one side ensures
fair treatment for many who are individually unable to command it, and, on the other,
introduces an element of stability in the cost of labour." -The Times, 8th August, 1923.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
530
INTERNATIONAL
26, BUCKINGHAM GATE, S.W. 1.
25th July, 1923.
DEAR MR. POULTON,
Geneva has sent me a copy of your letter of 30th June, and of their reply, together
with the statement accompanying that reply.
I am delighted to learn that there is a prospect of your broadcasting a statement on
the work of the International Labour Office. The wireless affords an excellent medium
for publicity, and when I heard Mr. Clynes broadcasting a few days ago on the League of
Nations, without a mention of the Labour Organisation, I thought what an excellent
thing it would be if someone who could speak with authority on the subject were able to
give a short talk devoted to our work.
I have read the statement prepared by Geneva. It certainly contains most of the
facts though I fancy you will agree with me that they are presented in a rather uninteresting
way. From personal knowledge of a few owners of wireless receiving sets, I should say
that they prefer to have their information presented in a fairly popular manner, or, at any
rate, with some sort of " colour" or "life." I have no doubt you will realise what I am
trying to indicate and will easily clothe with flesh the rather dry bones of the Geneva
statement. I am only writing to endorse the implied offer of Geneva of any help which
this office can give you in the preparation of the material or text of your pronouncement.
In particular, I think you may be glad to have the enclosed copy of a pamphlet we have
produced on "The I.L.O. and the East," which is brought approximately up to date by
the accompanying communiqué issued a few days ago relating to action in China (see pages
477-478 in July Report). If there are any points on which you think we might help you
please do not hesitate to let us know. I personally, am going on leave for two or three
weeks at the end of this week, but Mr. Robbins will gladly supply you with anything
you need.
Yours sincerely,
J. E. HERBERT.
WORLD INFORMATION OFFICE.
Governments Greater Use of International Labour Office.
The steady increase in the use which is being made by Governments of the Inter-
national Labour Office of the League of Nations as a world information department on
industrial and labour questions is revealed in a statement which has just been issued by
that Office on information supplied during the last six months.
Among the requests from Governments which were answered in that period were the
following :-
UNITED STATES (Bureau of Labour Statistics, Department of Labour): Collective
agreements between employers' and workers' organisations in the Piedmont building
industry.
NORWAY (Ministry of Social Affairs): Arbitration in various countries.
POLAND (Social Attaché Polish Government to the International Labour Office):
Output in various occupations and in various countries, international organisations and
central labour organisations in various countries, legislation for the protection of com-
mercial employees Czecho-slovak, Danish and Serbian legislation concerning health, old
age and accident insurance. Social and economic results of the eight-hour day.
ITALY (Ministry of Labour): Representation of trade unions on advisory bodies
dealing with labour questions.
INDIA (Bombay Labour Office): Hours of work in the textile and metal industries
and for dockers and railway and tramway workers, Norwegian Compulsory Arbitration Act.
CHILI (Labour Office, Santiago de Chili): Statutory protection of maternity.
KINGDOM OF THE SERBS, CROATS AND SLOVENES (Ministry of Social Policy): Legisla-
tion in various countries concerning the protection of seamen.
FRANCE (Ministry of Commerce and Industry): Number of spindles used in the
worsted industry in different countries.
GERMANY (Federal Ministry of Labour): Social insurance institutions in various
countries.
These individual answers, of which the variety is noteworthy, are in addition to the
regular study made by the International Labour Office of current labour questions through-
out the world, the results of which are published in Industrial and Labour Information,
its weekly journal, and the International Labour Review, its monthly periodical.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

```
laws or administrative measures.
531
In such cases, the Office enables Government, tavol
minments frequently
Commenting on the growth of these requests for information, the Director of
Office, M. Albert Thomas, in his last annual report, said: "The Governinent
state that the information is requested with a view to the preparation of new ind
the expense that would be necessitated by the undertaking of special researche..
assigned to it by the terms of the Peace Treaty, is summed up in the words of a recent
international research and the great Universities of Europe have never been exclusively
The value of this side of the work of the International Labour Office, Sorcinecall
article by a well-known English economist: "There have
national either in range of studies or in student constituency. 1But not until now
there been the possibility of establishing a great institution, commanding considerabie
survey of this field from the point of view of the interest of the world as a whole."
resources, taking for its province a whole field of human activity, and committed to the
ave been, and are, other centre
UNEMPLOYMENT IN GERMANY.
Small but Increasing.
Interesting figures of the unemployment position in Germany are given in the current
issue of Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly publication of the International
regarding industrial and labour questions throughout the world.
Labour Office of the League of Nations, which summarises briefly the latest information
Labour Information. The number of unemployed persons in receipt of unemployment
During 1922 employment was good in practically all industries, states Industrial and
benefit decreased gradually from 165,248 on 1st January to
the end of the year, however, a decline in employment set in, which continued up to Ist
May, 1923, the latest date for which official returns are available. The following table
gives the number of unemployed persons in receipt of unemployment benefit and the
number of assisted persons dependent on unemployed workers for the period October, 1922,
to May, 1923.
Date.
uary to 16,678 on ist October. Towards
No. of unemployed
persons in receipt of
benefit.
No. of assisted
dependents of
unemployed persons.
1st October, 1922
1st January, 1923
1st February, 1923
1st March, 1923
1st April, 1923
Ist May, 1923
16,678
85,408
21,028
106,118
150,220
190,336
196,839
246,444
243,986
280,334
291,511
321,638
Unemployment usually increases with the approach of winter, but in the winter of
however, unemployment was not serious and it could not be said that there was a crisis in
1022-23 the decline in employment was not due solely to seasonal causes. On the whole,
the labour market until the general decline of industrial activities both in the occupied
territory and elsewhere, following upon the gradual isolation of the Ruhr from the rest of
ter country. Many establishments were forced to curtail their output. By working
short time a large number of manufacturers in unoccupied Germany who could finding
market for their products were able to retain the majority of their employees. The
Stabilisation of the currency which the Government succeeded in effecting for a short period
February and March, 1923) aggravated the industrial depression by reducing the volume
of export trade. Towards the end of April the slump in the sale of industrial products
became somewhat less acute, owing to the renewed fall in the value of the currency and to
the efforts of home buyers to cover their needs before a fresh rise in prices took place.
Out of 5,963,567 members of trade unions included in the trade union returns for
pril, 1923, 419,859 were unemployed at the end of the month (28th April), representing
per cent. of the total as against 5.6 per cent. at the end of March, 1923, and 0.9 per cent.
the end of April, 1922.
A WAGE BAROMETER.
e and Fall since 1914.
Under the title of "Wage Changes in Various Countries, 1914 to 1922" (Studies and
rts, D.10; 25.) the International Office of the League of Nations has just published
dy of the variations in the wage level since 1914 in the chief industrial countries of
forid.
spite of such obstacles as fluctuations of exchange, lack of uniform statistical
al, and variations in the standard of living of the workers in different countries,
```

---
532
an effort is made not merely to trace the movement of money wages but, by comparing
these changes with those of the general level of prices, to estimate the combined result on
the real wages of the workers, and further, by comparison with the level of wages in 1914.
to determine how far money wages have been adjusted to the cost of living.
The study is a continuation of an earlier report covering the period 1914 to 1921.
In that study the period was mainly one of rising prices and wages during the war and in
the post-war industrial boom. Indications were also given as to the tendencies of moncy
it is to this period that attention is mainly directed, and, as there are signs of a cessation
of the period of falling prices, it has been possible to cover the greater part of the period
of " deflation" which has been common to most countries outside Central Europe,
In the present study,
Figures are given for the United Kingdom, France, Belgium, Sweden, Norway.
Denmark, the Netherlands, Italy, Germany, Austria, Bulgaria, United States, Canada,
South Africa, Australia and India.
The chief general conclusions may be summarised as follows:-
According to the level of real wages, the above countries may be divided into three
main groups :--
(1) Those in which real wages are definitely higher than before the war, viz. Sweden.
Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands and Australia;
(2) Those in which the level is about the same as, or only slightly higher than, in
1914, viz.: The United Kingdom, France, Belgium, Italy, the United States,
Canada and South Africa;
and Bulgaria.
(3) Those in which real wages are lower than before the war, viz. : Germany, Austria
There is a general tendency for real wages to fall during periods of rising prices and to
rise when prices are falling. In other words there is a " time lag" in adjusting wage rates
to changes in the level of prices, and this acts against the workers when prices are rising
and in their favour when prices are falling.
There appears to be a tendency for wage rates to continue to rise after the rise in prices
has ceased to continue to fall after the cost of living has ceased to fall. Thus at the present
time, in a number of countries in which prices rapidly fell during 1921 and the beginning
of 1922, there has been a general tendency for this movement to cease, and a certain stabilisation of
prices is observed. In a number of these countries, however, reductions in rates of wages
continue to be effected for a further period and real wages suffer decline.
In the earlier study it was shown that there was a general tendency during periods
of rising prices for the relative differences between the wages of skilled and unskilled
workers, of men and women, and of professional workers and manual workers to be dimin-
ished, so that in many cases there was less inequality between the wages of these groups
in 1921, than in 1914. These changes are maintained in Germany and Austria where prices
continued to rise during all or most of 1922, and in these countries the relative differences
between the wages of skilled and unskilled workers are now very small. In countries
where prices have fallen, there appears to have been a reversal of the above tendencies
which operated when prices were rising. Thus in periods of falling prices there appears
to have been a tendency for the lower paid or unskilled workers to suffer greater pro-
portionate reductions than the higher paid or skilled groups.
WHITE PHOSPHORUS IN MATCH-MAKING.
Prohibition Effects on Italian Industry.
Interesting details of the effect of the prohibition of the use of white phosphorus on
the match-making industry in Italy are given in a report of the Senate Committee on a
Bill to convert into an Act the prohibition decree of 23rd December, 1920.
A Convention on this subject was adopted in 1905 at Berne and between that date
and 1914 it was adopted by thirteen countries, including Great Britain. The First Inter-
national Labour Conference of the League of Nations, held at Washington in 1919, recom-
mended that each country which had not already done so should adhere to the Berne
Convention, the result being that exactly the same number of States (thirteen) have done
so between 1919-1923 as did between 1905-1914.
The use of white phosphorus in the match industry has been entirely prohibited in
Italy since January, 1921, says the Report, and during the two years the decree has been
in operation it has been noted that the alteration of equipment has not given rise to the
difficulties and the inconveniences that had been feared. There are at present 90 factories
in the industry, employing about 8,000 workers and including nearly 20 small undertakings
employing on an average not more than five workers. As a result of the prohibition of
the use of white phosphorus there were more or less long periods of suspension of work
when the Decree first came into operation, but no factory has actually been closed down.


---
```text
of organised worker..
534
per cent. An increase to 1.2
wholly unemployed being only 0.8 pe
per cent. occurred in May and short time also increased. The chief industries affected
the quatrying, metal, glass, chemical, textile, clothing, and tobacco industries.
In Germany the percentage unemployed among trade unionists decreased from
but on the other hand the employment statistics of the German
Germany.
7.0 in May to 6.2 in June;
Federal Ministry of Labour show that 1446 firns employed 973,134 workers in May as
compared with 980,374 in April; a decrease of 0.7 per cent.
Austria.
In Austria the unemployment figures show a further drop at the end of May as com-
building, printing, and metal industries, and for the first time since the publication of
pared with the previous month, chiefly on account of better employment in the clothing,
these statistics a slight decrease of unemployment has been registered in the foodstuff
industry. The wave of unemployment which occurred at the end of 1922 and the beginning
of 1923 immediately after the stabilisation of the krone seems to be slowly disappearing.
Scandinavia and The Netherlands.
In the Scandinavian countries and in the Netherlands unemployment has very much
decreased since the beginning of the year, but the situation still remains unfavourable.
In Denmark industry is becoming more active. In Norway the wood and pulp industries
union members has fallen from 15.6 at the end of April to 10.6 at the end of May, but
unemployment is decreasing in the wood, tobacco, and transport industries and among
detailed figures for the different industries are not yet available. In the Netherlands
unskilled workers.
Switzerland.
The latest figures for Switzerland refer to the end of June and show a further sub-
of the wood, glass, clothing, and leather industries all groups of trades reported an increase
both of workers
of employment, the greatest improvement being in the unskilled trades, watch-making,
and the metal, machinery, and textile industries.
Great Britain and France.
month. In the United Kingdom employment remains slack at the end of June in most
In France and in the United Kingdom the situation remains the same as the previous
industries, though it was good in coal-mining, tinplate and steel sheet manufacture, and
the carpet trades, fairly good in tailoring and the paper industry, as well as in certain
sections of the metal trades, and a further slight improvement was reported in the
building industry, but a decline was recorded in the wool, textile, and hosiery trades.
United States and Canada.
In the United States and Canada employment in general is still improving. The
expansion of industrial activity which was such a feature of the opening months of 1923
in the United States seems to have reached its limits and a certain stability is shown br
the figures for the end of May, the latest received. The chief industrial groups reporting
an increase of employment are tobacco, brick and tile, iron and steel, saw-mills, and
chemicals; while a decline took place in the fertiliser industry, clothing, leather, printing
and steel shipbuilding. In Canada the employment situation at the end of May wa
more favourable than at any time since December, 1920. All provinces shared in th
upward movement, but the gains in Quebec and Ontario greatly exceeded those reporte
elsewhere. Practically all groups of industries reported improvement except leathe
textiles, and musical instruments.
CONDITIONS OF WORK OF WAR DISABLED.
Resolutions Adopted by World Experts.
The care with which the world problem of the employment of the disabled ex-serv
man was studied by the meeting of experts on the subject, just held at the Internatio
Labour Office of the League of Nations at Geneva, is revealed by the resolutions adopt
which are given in full below.
This meeting was attended by experts from thirteen countries, including Lt.-
G. Crosfield, Vice-Chairman of the British Legion; Mr. J. R. J. Passmore, of the Mini
of Labour; General Sir A. H. Russell (New Zealand); Brig. Gen. J. S. Wylie (S
Africa); Mr. Loftus Hills (Australia); and Mr. R. B. Maxwell (Canada).
The following were the resolutions adopted :---
Fundamental Principles.
(1) In the firm conviction that the nations are unanimous in desiring that the
who have suffered in their service should enjoy the facilities for obtaining an ade
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
receive, by their own productive work;
to the fullest extent of their capacity;
The experts
the war, and
535
and that such facilities should be provided, independently of the pension which thr
and steady means of livelihood which they would have had if they had not been dia alles
And further that in view of the immense amount of wealth consumed by the war.
it is to the interest of society that all means of production should be fully utilised i
rational organisation, and that in consequence disabled men should be enabled to work
complete responsibility for the means of livelihood and welfare of those disabled during
Are definitely of the opinion that it is pre-eminently the duty of the State to assume
employment and so contribute to the fullest extent of their capacity towards nationa!
legislation and otherwise devising means whereby disabled men shall be enabled to find
Are further of the opinion that such responsibility may be discharged by introducing
(2) While agreeing that during the years immediately following the war a system
able agreements has yielded and may still yield important results,
production.
of employment based upon the
The experts
Consider that in densely populated countries with a large proportion of disabled
men this system cannot ensure an equitable distribution of disabled labour among em-
ployers, and does not furnish to the disabled the necessary permanent guarantees of
employment in the future to which they are entitled:
Declare that in order to ensure definitely and finally the permanent employment
of disabled men, it is absolutely necessary to have recourse to the legal obligation of
employment, taking into account the varying conditions of labour prevailing in the different
Call the attention of the Governments to the fact that neither such a system of legal
of the disabled in their old age, and consider that it is primarily the duty of the State to
obligation nor the system of voluntary collaboration will adequately provide for the care
take the necessary steps for attaining this object.
countries, and
Essential Provisions to be included in all legislation, regulations or
agreements, relating to employment for disabled men.
1. Persons entitled to benefit.
(1) All legislation, regulations or agreements should be applicable to all disabled men
in receipt of pensions, whatever methods of compensation are adopted by the pensions
legislation.
(2) All legislation, regulations or agreements should be of a permanent character.
(3) The experience acquired in safeguarding the employment of the war-disabled
could appropriately be applied for the benefit of disabled workers and other disabled
persons.
2. Undertakings covered by legislation, regulations or agreements.
(1) All legislation, regulations or agreements should be applicable to all undertakings
in which the minimum number of workers employed reaches or exceeds a certain figure
to be fixed in each State.
(2) Undertakings subject to such legislation, regulations or agreements by virtue
of the number of persons employed therein should, however, be able on application to
obtain exemptions, when it is proved that the employment of disabled men in such under-
takings is impossible or particularly difficult. Such exemptions should be granted by
authorities entrusted with the application of such legislation, regulations or agreements,
in which the associations comprising disabled men and the trade organisations affected
should be represented.
(3) Undertakings subject to such legislation, regulations or agreements which obtain
Nemptions should be liable to the payment of a compensatory tax or charge, the produce
of which should be applied for the benefit of the persons entitled to the benefit of such
legislation, regulations or agreements.
Percentage of disabled men to be employed.
All such legislation, regulations or agreements should fix a general percentage of
Sled men to be employed. Such percentage should, in each State, be calculated
ving regard to the total number of wage-earners, the number of disabled men entitled


---
536
to benefit and the variations from the general percentage which it may be necessary to
allow to certain undertakings or certain classes of undertakings.
(2) Variations from the general percentage should be allowed to undertakings applying
for the same, when it is proved that it is impossible or very difficult for them to attain
the general percentage, Such variations should be granted by the authorities entrusted
with the application of such regulations, legislation or agreements, in which the associa-
tions comprising disabled men and the trade organisations concerned should be represented.
4. Administrative organisation of employment agencies.
(1) In countries which, in conformity with the decisions of the International Labour
Conference at Washington, have established a general and complete system of public
employment agencies, under the control of a central authority, with provision for the
joint consultation of employers and workers, it would be desirable to entrust the application
of such legislation, regulations or agreements to such public employment agencies.
(2) Such public employment agencies should, wherever necessary and particularly
in the larger towns, establish special sections for finding employment for disabled men.
Such sections should act in close co-operation with any government department dealing
with disabled men and with the associations comprising disabled men.
(3) The Committees administering the public employment agencies should include
representatives of any government department dealing with disabled men and of the
associations comprising disabled men, who should be directly entrusted with the application
of the legislation, regulations or agreements relating to the employment of disabled men.
(4) The action of the public employment agencies should be supplemented, wherever
it is considered necessary, by the action of any government department dealing with
disabled men and of the associations comprising disabled men.
(5) In States possessing both a system of public employment agencies and a general
system of social welfare institutions for the benefit of all classes of disabled persons, what-
ever be the origin of their disability, such institutions, which possess great experience of
the medical and vocational aspects of the problem of the disabled, might be entrusted
with finding employment for disabled men. Such institutions should, in the matter
of finding employment, act in close collaboration with the public employment agencies.
5. Wages of disabled men.
(1) The amount of the pension of a disabled man should not have any effect on wages,
but wages should be fixed independently of the pension.
(2) In principle, the wages of a disabled man should be equal to the normal current
wages of ordinary workers carrying on the same vocation in the same district, and should
be subject to the additions of every kind payable to ordinary workers according to the
same methods of calculation.
Nevertheless, in countries in which, owing to the economic situation, the employment
of all disabled men on full wages is not possible, and in very exceptional cases in which,
notwithstanding the efforts made to secure adequate vocational re-education and vocational
guidance, the vocational capacity of the disabled remains appreciably reduced, it is
admissible that such disabled men should not receive the whole of the basic wages of
ordinary workers, but subject to the following reservations :-
(a) Such reduction shall not apply to cost of living bonuses and increments
on grounds of seniority, or to any payment based on other considerations
than output.
(b) The conditions in which and the limits within which such reductions of
wages may be allowed shall, in each State, be the subject of provisions
contained in legislation, regulations and agreements, and agreements of
service involving such reductions shall be subject to approval by authorities
including representatives of the associations comprising disabled men and
the trade organisations concerned.
(c) The associations comprising disabled men shall be empowered to take legal
proceedings for enforcing the penalties and damages imposed by the general
labour legislation and the legislation, regulations or agreements, especially
applicable to the employment of disabled men.
6. Dismissal.
In all such legislation, regulations or agreements, disabled men shall be specially
protected against wrongful dismissal, both by the provision of a period of notice and by
providing for the submission of disputes between a disabled man and his employer to one
of the authorities entrusted with the application of such legislation, regulations or agree-
ments in which the associations comprising disabled men and the trade organisations
concerned shall be represented.


---
537
THE RURAL WORKER.
International Meeting in Geneva.
The first session of the Joint Advisory Committee on Agriculture, set up by the Inter-
national Labour Office of the League of Nations, and the International Institute of N-
culture, opened in Geneva yesterday (Wednesday, 22nd August).
The Committee, which was created for the purpose of ensuring collaboration bet-
the two organisations on questions affecting the agricultural worker, consists of the
representatives of the Governing Body of the International Labour Office and three repre-
sentatives of the Permanent Committee of the International Institute of Agriculture
and has the assistance of a number of experts chosen from national and international
bolies representative of practical agriculturists, among them being Mr. Rowland R. Robbins,
C.B.E., Chairman of the Labour Committee of the National Farmers' Union, and Mr.
R. B. Walker, General Secretary of the National Union of Agricultural Workers. Sir
Thomas Elliott (Great Britain) is one of the representatives of the International Institute
of Agriculture.
France, Belgium, Germany, Italy, Poland, Japan, Spain, and Norway.
Other countries, from which members of the Committee and experts are drawn, include
The questions put before the Committee by the International Labour Office for ex-
amination at the present session are: -
(1) Vocational education of agricultural workers;
(2) Workers' co-operation in agriculture;
(3) Prevention of anthrax infection in flocks;
(4) Agricultural aspects of items on the Agenda for the International Labour
Conference of 1924, including the development of facilities for the utilisation
of workers' leisure, and equality of treatment for national and foreign workers
as regards compensation for accidents.
The Committee will act solely in an advisory capacity. Any conclusions it may reach
will be of the nature of recommendations, and it will be for the Governing Body of the
International Labour Office, which meets next October, to take the necessary decisions
with regard to any action of the Office based on these recommendations.
FACTORY INSPECTION.
Problem of International Uniformity.
The fifth session of the International Labour Conference set up by the Peace Treaty,
which will be held in Geneva in October, will be devoted to the examination, from the
international and national points of view, of "General Principles for the Organisation
of Factory Inspection."
It may be recalled that among the principles for regulating labour conditions men-
tioned in Article 427 of the Treaty as being particularly important and urgent is included
the following: "Each State should make provision for a system of inspection in which
women should take part, in order to ensure the enforcement of the laws and regulations
for the protection of the employed." It was felt by those who drafted the section of the
Treaty by which the International Labour Organisation is established, that it would be
useless to adopt a programme of international labour legislation unless some adequate
system existed in each country for its application and supervision on appreciably similar
bases. One of the most serious objections hitherto raised against the scheme of legislation
instituted by the Treaty is that Conventions of the International Labour Conference may
perhaps not be applied with equal strictness in all the States which ratify them, and it is
partly in order to remove this objection that the coming Conference is to be invited to lay
down fundamental principles on which the supervision of the enforcement of labour legis-
lation in all countries might be organised.
In accordance with the regular procedure now followed in connection with the Inter-
national Labour Conference, a series of questions on the subject to be discussed has been
addressed by the International Labour Office to all the States which are members of the
organisation. These questions, which are preceded by a survey of the chief problems
involved in the subject, are designed to elicit exact information as to the views taken by
the various Governments of the object and scope of factory inspection, the nature of the
functions and powers entrusted to factory inspectors, and the methods by which factory
inspection should be organised and conducted.
Reports embodying the replies to this questionnaire will be prepared for distribution
to the delegates attending the Conference, and the ground will thus be cleared for the
examination of common general principles which might be accepted by all States and
embodied in a formal Recommendation of the Conference for submission to Parliaments.
---

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

539

LEICESTER COUNTY ARBITRATION BOARD.

Appointment of New Officers.

The annual meeting of the County Arbitration Board of the Boot and Shoe Trade was held at the City Hall, Leicester, Mr. George Geary in the chair, when Messrs. G. Ward, H. Harvey, H. P. Atkins, G. A. Burton, W. H. Keywood, J. H. Bott, J. Riley, G. A. Denman, R. Starmer, J. W. Hunt, and J. Palmer, representing the manufacturers’ side; Messrs. W. Warner, J. H. Osborne, D. Astley, T. Adnitt, G. Parbury, A. Needham, W. Woodward, G. Smith, F. Leader, F. W. Burchnall, C. Hurst, Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards, and Miss S. A. Peberdy, representing the operatives’ side; and H. A. Flavill (secretary) were present.

The stockroom statement prepared by the Joint Committee appointed by the Board was adopted, subject to the Committee agreeing upon a few suggested amendments.

The additions to the county finishing statement fixing prices for randing wood heels and crowing on heels were confirmed and the decision of the Finishing Committee in establishing two different classes of standard shaped heels for which extras are to be paid for shape was approved.

The thanks of the Board were given to Mr. G. Geary (chairman) and Mr. W. Warner (vice-chairman), for their past services. Mr. D. Astley (Earl Shilton) was appointed chairman of the Board for the ensuing year. Mr. G. Geary (Barwell) vice-chairman, and the district enquiry committees were re-elected for the ensuing year.

Mr. H. A. Flavill was re-appointed secretary for the ensuing year.

AND YET IT IS SAID “WE ARE POOR!”

Dress-Designing Beauty Visits London. Her 500 Frocks.

Miss Caroline Nunder, the famous New York dress-designer, who dresses all the prettiest and wealthiest women of Long Island and Newport—the Mayfair of New York—has arrived in London.

The envy arises out of the fact that every year Miss Nunder wears 500 gowns of her own design—and none more than once.

She acts, indeed, as her own mannequin, wearing the models at theatres and dinner parties and dances and selling them next day to the women who have seen her wearing them.

Could any woman ask for more ?

Miss Nunder, who is 24 years old and extremely pretty, with fair bobbed hair and large hazel eyes, receives £10,000 per annum.—Evening News, 15th August, 1923.

The craze for jewels at Deauville is said to be positively alarming. A diamond dress —silver satin covered entirely with small diamonds—is one of the novel and brilliant costumes; and it is said that no ultra-fashionable feminine visitors to Deauville can be truly happy without a four-inch depth on both arms of “all-round” diamond and sapphire bracelets set in platinum. One woman had ten on one arm, twelve on the other!

C.W.S. BANKING DEVELOPMENTS.

The institution of banking, made possible for the C.W.S. by the amendment of the law in 1876, in which year the Loan and Deposit Department (opened four years before) was transformed into the banking concern for the Co-operative Movement; and with results in the shape of development that may be seen from the summarised figures :—

Year. No. of Current Accounts. Turnover.
1873 62 £1,581,495
1882 144 13,772,551
1892 314 30,679,914
1902 694 84,644,940
1912 987 158,637,300
1919 5,359 522,515,878
1920 10,000 645,772,632
1921 13,909 563,423,226
1922 *16,209 496,600,174

* The total of current accounts is made up as follows: Co-operative Societies, 1,024 ; Trade Unions and Friendly Societies, 8,114 ; Clubs and other Mutual Organisations, 2,003; Individuals, 4,178.


---
"
541
" WANGLING " THE DOLE.
Unemployed Men Fined for Fraud.
"These frauds upon the Employment Exchange have got to be stopped," observed
Mr. J. L. Ward, who presided at the Town Hall this morning. Two summonses for fraud
were heard, Mr. Simpson prosecuting, and each defendant was fined 40s.
John Haywood, of 19, Thornton Lane, was summoned for obtaining unemployment
benefit and making a false representation that his wife was not employed."
The evidence called by Mr. Simpson was that defendant had been on the unemployed
list for some months. On 25th May he claimed for six days for himself and his wife, and
received £1 4s. On the back of the receipt was the statement signed by defendant that
his wife was not in work. Actually she was engaged in regular employment by Messrs.
Miller & Co., Granby Street, as a washer-up and kitchen hand.
Defendant offered to pay the money back, pleading ignorance, and saying he was
told by some men it did not matter whether his wife received anything or not.
The second defendant was George Harry Widdowson, 60, Paget Road, who was
summoned for obtaining benefit when employed by the Leicester Distress Committee.
It appeared that on 18th August last year defendant certified that he was not employed
by the Leicester Board of Guardians. On the 25th he received £1 from the exchange,
and it was ascertained that on the 22nd and 23rd he was employed by the Leicester Distress
Committee and earned 6s. 8d. for the two days.
Mr. Simpson remarked that when the summons was issued a year ago defendant
Defendant said he got work at Upringham, that was why he went away. Pleading
ignorance, he said he told the Distress Committee he was receiving unemployment benefit.-
disappeared.
Leicester Daily Mercury, 15th August, 1923.
OUR OVERSEAS TRADE.
Supplementary Details of Imports and Exports.
The particulars given hereunder supplement the information
printed in the Record
last week dealing with the Board of Trade Returns for June.
The details of the countries whence our imports of boots and shoes for the month of
June last were consigned are as follow:-
Countries whence Consigned.
Of Leather, or of
which the chief
value is Leather.
Of Rubber, or of
which the chief
value is Rubber.
Of other
Materials.
Doz.
Pairs.
£
Doz.
Pairs.
£
Doz.
Pairs.
£
Germany
4,313
7,599
8,364
9,304
6,975
8,249
Netherlands
16
116
16
15
Belgium
746
5,916
2,419
19,369
655
587
3,793
6,999
France
2,784
22,811
25
126
Switzerland
50
213
Italy
1,579
6,696
909
814
52
344
358
1,252
Austria
432
2,333
611
3,156
126
235
Czecho-Slovakia
1,772
13,837
16
52
187
U.S. of America
453
3,471
101
212
37
128
Irish Free State
68
1,130
Canada
6
34
Norway
8
50
63
26
Roumania
Denmark (including Faroe
Islands)
Japan (including Formosa and
Japanese leased territories in
China)
190
160
62
98
174
398
Total
14,646 £83,575 10,879 £14,585 11,687 £17,721


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF UNION OFFICERS.
Tel. No.: 4438 Museum, London. Tel. Address : "Natunishop, Holb., London."
GENERAL PRESIDENT.
T. F. RICHARDS, Business Address-34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
Private Address-7, Mecklenburg Street, London, W.C. I. NO business communications to this Address.
GENERAL SECRETARY.
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 69, Freegrove Road, Holloway, London, N.7.
ORGANISERS.
D. MCCARTHY, 23, Avenue Road Extension, Leicester.
W. R. SMITH, J.P., "Belle Vue," Old Catton, Norwich.
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
District No. 1-T. ADNITT, 65, Marfitt Street, Leicester.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
2-C. BATES, 8, Denmark Road, Rushden.
3-A. W. LYNE, 21, Cranstoun Street, Northampton.
4-L. SMITH, 26, Semilong Road, Northampton.
5-C. MAYES, 25, Pollard Street, Kettering.
6-Vacant.
7-W. WARNER, 59, Stockwell Head, Hinckley.
8-W. HINDES, J.P., 9, Tillett Road, North Walsham Road,
Norwich.
9-C. BLEAKLEY, 1, Drum Terrace, Edinburgh.
10-A. J. DOBBS, 6, Bramley Avenue, Bramley, Leeds.
" 11-ALEX. SMITH, 187, North Street, Wolverhampton.
" 12-J. MANNERS, 19, Downend Road, Fishponds, Bristol.
DISTRICT AGENTS.
District No.
1-M. A. PARKER, Leicester.
2-E. BATCHELOR, Rushden.
3-E. LAW, Northampton No. 2.
4-I. H. JOHNSON, J.P., Daventry.
5-G. CHESTER, Kettering.
6-Miss E. SHERWIN, Leicester
(Women's).
District No.
7-J. H. BAUM, Leicester No. 2.
8-F.C. JEX, Norwich.
9-G. WEIR, Edinburgh.
10-G. ABBOTT, Leeds.
11-C. HARPER, Wolverhampton.
12-J. T. OSBORNE, Bristol.
UNION TRUSTEES.
S. THOMPSON, J.P., 97, Charles Street, Northampton.
L. E. BRADLEY, J.P., "Flossleys," Barton Seagrave, Kettering.
GEO. PARBURY, 118, Harrison Road, Leicester.
Miss E. A. TIMMS, 6, Scott Street, Leicester.
H. H. WOOLLEY, J.P., 124, Narborough Road, Leicester.
PARLIAMENTARY AGENTS.
T. F. RICHARDS, 34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
J. BUCKLE, M.P., J.P., 13, Eighteenth Avenue, New Wortley, Leeds.
W. R. SMITH, J.P., "Belle Vue," Old Catton, Norwich.
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 69, Freegrove Road, Holloway, London, N. 7.
L. SMITH, 26, Semilong Road, Northampton.
AUDITOR.
J. B. B. ROBERTSON, F.L.A.A., F.R.C.A.,
241, Uppingham Road, Leicester.
BANKERS.
CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LTD., London.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT. - Approved No. 281.
Manager: R. D. MAYES, Business Address-34, Gullford Street, London, W.C. 1.
TEL.: 5168 MUSEUM.
Printed by Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Limited, 99, Church Gate, for
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
INSIST
in your Footwear
bearing this stamp:
Telephone No.1
4438 Museum, London..
NAL ONION
or
OTEL SHOE OPERATIVES
Copyrighk
Telegraph Addre
"Natanishop, Phone, London."
NATIONAL UNION OF
(Registered under the Trade Union Acts. No. 432: Affiliated to the Trates Urion
Congress, the General Federation of Trade Unions and the Labour Party).
Monthly Report for September, 1923.
Seat of Government and General Secretary's Office:
34, GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1.
WHERE ALL BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS MUST BE ADDRESSED.
PRICE ONE PENNY.
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

Week
ended
25th Aug.,
1923

ENGLAND AND WALES
London
Leicester
Leicester Country District
Northampton
Northampton Country
District
Kettering
Stafford and District
Norwich and District
Bristol, Kingswood and
District
Leeds and District
Lancashire (mainly
Rossendale Valley)
Birmingham and District
Other parts of England and
Wales

ENGLAND AND WALES

SCOTLAND

UNITED KINGDOM

1,985
8,756
2,330
6,915
7,711
3,426
2,514
3,817
2,262
1,852
4,372
1,006
1,391
48,337
2,534
50,871
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a
Month ago
0.8
1.8
+ 0.5
+ 1.4
+ 0.7
+ 1.5
0.8
+ 1.8
+ 0.8
+ 2.5
1.1
+ 0.7
0.6
+ 0.2
+ 1.1
+ 0.2
Year ago
10.2
0.9
4.2
4.3
+ 3.0
+ 6.5
+ 2.1
10.2
+ 4.9
6.3
+ 5.6
2.1
+ 2.1
0.9
+ 0.1
0.8
Total Wages paid to all
Workpeople
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a
Week
ended
25th Aug.,
1923
Month ago
Per
cent.
4,345
19,322
4,858
16,193
Per
cent.
2.1
+ 2.9
1.9
1.6
Year ago
Per
cent.
17.9
6.6
13.3
6.5
17,151
8,667
5,049
7,371
+ 2.5
+ 0.1
3.3
+ 2.6
+ 0.7
+ 5.9
+ 2.0
17.0
4,454
3,911
+ 4.4
0.4
8.9
12.8
8,954
1,871
6.8
6.1
7.0
7.5
2,324
0.9
12.0
104,470
0.1
6.8
5,333
+ 5.9
+ 2.0
109,803
+ 0.2
6.4
* Comparison of earnings is affected by reductions in rates of wages.
Returns from firms employing 40,172 workpeople in the week ended 25th August,
1923, showed that about 43 per cent. of these workpeople worked short time in that week
to the extent of thirteen hours each on an average.
The exports of boots and shoes in August, 1923, amounted to 99,411 dozen pairs,
or 2,004 dozen pairs more than in July, 1923, and 24,461 dozen pairs more than in August,
1922.

WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION CASES.

More Union Claims Settled.

We record with pleasure that through the efforts of the Union Solicitor,
Mr. Evan Barlow, of Leicester, several cases have been settled during the
past month:—
W.P., Leicester No. 2 Branch..  £75.
A.P., Leicester No. 2 Branch .. £10 plus three guineas costs.
B.P., Leicester  £50.
A.P., Kettering   £50 and five guineas costs.
A.L., London Metro.  £70 and five guineas costs.
A.W.P., Desborough  £185 and fifteen guineas costs.
J.S.F.G., Kettering   £50 and five guineas costs.
Once more it is proven what can be done for the membership when the
Insurance Companies are apprised of the fact that they have a strong organiza-
tion behind the member who has been unfortunate in meeting with an accident.


---
```text
561
by law, but only by agreement, and branches desirous of the Union taking up
We beg to repeat, however, that lump sums ARE NOT OBTAINABLE
thereof, and secure permission to consult a solicitor.
any cases must first of all acquaint the General Secretary with the full details
TRADE IN NEW ZEALAND.
WARNING.
Letters have been received at the Central Office from the Central Office of
the Boot Operatives in New Zealand thanking us for our action in publishing
matter in an earlier report regarding conditions in that country.
dull and a number of our members are unemployed."
The present letters state that "Trade here is at the present time very
"
The Boot Manufacturers of New Zealand speak with a double tongue
when they are asking for operatives to come to New Zealand, and at the same
time are urging us to join them in approaching the New Zealand Government
to place a greater tariff on Imported English footwear."
In another letter answering one of our members in Scotland, it is stated,
amongst other things, that while wages are higher than in Great Britain and
hours of labour 44 per week, cost of living is much higher than in Great Britain.
For instance, in relation to house rent, the following is stated :-
"In 1914 we could get a four-roomed house at a rental of 20s. per week.
To-day we have to pay that for one or two rooms. In evidence tendered
before the Arbitration Court, which is supposed to fix wages in proportion to
she searched for over eight weeks before she could find a room and then she
cost of living, Miss Cossey, Secretary of the Tailoresses' Union, states: "That
found one without a fireplace, and the price was 15s. per week. Others with
fireplaces were 25s. upwards. The 15s. per week did not include gas for cooking
or hot baths, or use of iron."
It will thus be seen how necessary it is to make enquiries before going to
New Zealand. The address of the Union is: New Zealand Federated Boot-Trade
Union; Secretary, C. A. Watts, Trades Hall, Auckland, New Zealand.
TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
The above was held in Plymouth, 3rd to 8th September. A Report from
Union delegates appears elsewhere. There are, however, several matters
ch were dealt with at the Congress which we feel bound to refer to. The
one is the necessity, in our opinion, for dealing with the question of the
ber of delegates attending Congress and reducing the number, as also
g the General Council enlarged powers for service. The serious position
g out of the War needs constant and vigilant watching, and we would
the members against being misled by the cry of "Wolf." The great need
upport by all legitimate means the international side of our work, and
y build up a sure defence against war and warlike tendencies.
```

---
562
HOUSING. The imperative need was once again shown for active work
in connection with this question. We give herewith a case reported in the
Leicester Mercury of 7th September, 1923, which shows a disgraceful condition
of affairs. Whilst it may be said it is an exceptional case, the fact remains
that hundreds of thousands of new houses are required, and that at once, to
meet the barest necessities of the situation.
A shocking case of overcrowding has just come to light in Nuneaton, a man,
his wife, and three children living and sleeping in one room. In the other part of
the house, which has two rooms up and two down, live five adults and two children.
The victim of these conditions is an old " contemptible," Mr. George Bateman,
who went to France with the 1st Division in 1914, and served throughout the war.
He has lived in his present circumstances for six months. Unable to find a house
or get furnished rooms, because landladies said "No children," he took this single
room as a last resort at a rental of 5s. a week.
Mr. Bateman, who is an ex-Quartermaster-Sergt. in the R.A.M.C., said there
is just sufficient cubic space in the room to equal that required for one patient in an
isolation hospital.
Mrs. Bateman said she had been to see the Council about getting a house, but
they could do nothing for her.
The sleeping arrangements constituted a problem, which was solved in this way:
The husband and wife sleep on two chairs, the two young children (aged four and
three) on the table, and the baby (12 months) in the pram.
Mr. and Mrs. Bateman are a respectable couple, and their position is extremely
painful to them. Mr. Bateman says he has been looking for a house without success
since April, 1919, and has spent a lot of money advertising for rooms. As soon as he
mentioned children, he states, his quest was hopeless. - Leicester Mercury, 7th Septem-
ber, 1923.
The serious position of the Herald also took up some considerable time,
and ultimately a resolution was passed instructing the General Council to carry
on for another three months; meantime cash is needed if the resolution is to be
acted upon. We have paid our share of contributions for 1924 and 1925 in
accordance with the authority given us at our own Conference this year, and
we hope that those Unions who have not hitherto responded will at once do
so, and thereby assist in saving the Herald. The other great need in
connection with the Herald is increased circulation. This is your paper, we
urge you to purchase the same daily and induce others so to do. We must
keep in being a daily paper. This is an easy matter to do if each do their
duty. It is a good pennyworth apart altogether from being a Labour paper.
Therefore our advice is buy, buy, buy, and thereby increase the influence of
Labour locally, nationally, and internationally.
The Congress recorded its full appreciation of the work of Mr. C. W.
Bowerman, P.C., M.P., who, under the age limit, now retires from the Secretary-
ship. For many years Mr. Bowerman has been actively engaged in the work
connected with the General Council, and the severance is bound to be felt.
The work has grown immensely since Mr. Bowerman has been secretary. In
Mr. Bowerman the Congress always found a courteous, affable and energetic
secretary. We hope he may live many years yet to render service to a cause
he has served so long. For Mr. Bramley, his successor, we hope that the work
may, under his guidance, still further increase in usefulness and influence, and
thereby help the workers to a better and more enduring status in life than the
one at present obtaining.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
563
We are pleased to record the fact that our General Secretary, Mr. E.. L..
Poulton, J.P., was again returned unopposed to the General Council of the
Trades Union Congress, and our General President, Mr. T. F. Richards, again
returned as a member of the General Purposes Committee.
SHORTNESS OF TRADE.
In connection with shortness of trade we would call attention to the
resolution (printed below) passed by the Leicester Board of Arbitration. While
it is regrettable that the state of trade is such as to call for such action, it is
nevertheless a tribute to the smooth working of the machinery dealing with
resolution is strictly in accordance with the understanding that has obtained
the industry and also a recognition of the obligations one to another. The
for some years past between the Executive of the Manufacturers' Federation
and ourselves. We hope that the principles underlying the same will be put
RESOLUTION: _" That with a desire to limit the amount of actual unemployment
during the present period of slackness of trade, manufacturers be advised to work
uniform short time, either departmentally or over the whole factory, in preference
to discharging or suspending operatives."
into operation whenever there is slow trade.
ORGANISER.
The result of the voting for the position of the Third Union Organiser
is as follows:-
SMITH, L. .. 3612 BLEAKLEY, C. .. 2656
The detailed figures will be found on reference to page 568. We wish to
congratulate our colleague, Mr. Len Smith, upon his success, and trust that
his term of office will be helpful to the organisation.
NOMINATIONS.
As a result of Mr. Len Smith being elected to the position of Organiser,
a vacancy on the Council automatically occurs in District No. 4, and
nominations to fill the position must be taken at the OCTOBER meeting
night, such nominations sent to reach the Central Office not later than the
first post on the 15th prox., otherwise they cannot be accepted.
FIVE-WEEK ΜΟΝΤΗ.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEEΝΤΗ!
Once again we feel bound to call the sericus attention of Branch Secretaries
o the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
turns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
turns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
set the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary


---
565
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Perhaps the most important work of the month can be attributed to the TRADE
UNION CONGRESS, held at Plymouth, and attended by 702 delegates, representing 4,369,000
odd members, and compare this with 1913, but I think it would be best for us to compare
the above figures with the Congress held at Cardiff in 1921, only two years ago, when there
were 810 delegates, representing 6,000,417 members. These figures make the first figure
look small as we have lost nearly one-third of the membership, including a number of
Unions-several officials of which I knew well-and have had to learn that much of the
loss during the past twelve months has been due to the resolution passed at Southport,
taking over the responsibility for the Daily Herald. This is a real pity, because unless
papers, but as the Chairman said in referring to the Daily Herald: "What does it matter
we do have a paper the Labour Members certainly will not get much help from the other
whether we have a paper or not. does not the failure lay with
or words to that effect.
Think of it, Fellow Members, after twelve months trial with the Trades Union Congress
drastic changes, but with the exception of a new and very capable Editor the personnel
and the Labour Party Executive behind it, many of us thought there were going to be
make for popular feeling and economy, and that portion of the movement that has openly
opposed Labour Candidates, should receive no more encouragement even by those who
were prepared to cave in to the attitude exhibited towards those who for a quarter of
a century had laboured hard to produce a movement with men behind them of adminis-
When most friends of the paper expected an alteration that would
trative capacity and ability.
Many Unions, including ours, had guaranteed several years' fees in advance, and yet
the prospects were unsatisfactory, and the paper has already been given a further three
months' life. Some of us have done much for the paper and accounted for many readers
and subscribers, and have at all meetings reminded our audiences of the value of our own
Press. Yet, in spite of all, on to-day's figures, not one in twelve are taking the paper.
One often wonders what kind of conscience those men have who will allow their money
to be used for political purposes and yet fail to take a journal, the only Daily that deals
absolutely with the problems that most concern the wage-earning section of the com-
munity. Personally, I shall still do all I can, both financially and physically, to save the
salvation lies in the two Executives referred to taking sole control and changing both name
with eight of the leading papers to compete with, and which have
ionaires behind each of them, how can Labour compete with their hands tied by lack
capital and support. There is still another three months to show the movement that
we cannot allow this our only Daily to die, in addition £12,500 must be found before the
end of this month. If those Unions who have not paid their fees in advance will only
do so, then the storm may be weathered, but final success can only come by loyalty to
the movement by taking the paper. One wonders what each of our 142 M.P.'s think of
their security if their constituents consume other literature. How can their prospects
look in such a light? As one great Internationalist tells me, who looks upon the British
Trade Union movement as by far the finest in the world, whilst all Continental countries
have Labour papers, and many of them, this country lacks even one with safety. He
really cannot understand it. Neither can anyone else, unless we agree with the Chairman
of Congress, that if the movement wanted the paper it would have it, and could not
be denied.
UNEMPLOYMENT BY INDUSTRY.-Personally I was sorry that the resolution was
carried discouraging the principle of Unemployment by Industry, meaning of course the
adoption of a scheme to be agreed to between the Manufacturers' Federation and the
Union, a subject upon which, as an Executive, we have already given adherence, and a
policy, to my mind, that should be tried until we can secure a Labour Government, when
the administration could be done on more sympathetic lines than at present. The policy
of sending workers to the Labour Exchanges for their benefit has been the means of
estranging and weaning them from their Trade Union, and accounts for more leaving the
Unions than we are aware of. Once let the worker think the officers are disinterested in
his welfare and he quietly abandons the organisation as being of no account. There are
those officials who would like to be relieved of this irksome duty, but the taking up of
this and National Insurance has had the effect of strengthening many Unions, but since
a few have abandoned the Unemployed administration, trade union membership has gone
down with a rush, and after so many years hard work we do not feel elated or sanguine
enough to find some personal excuse, and those who often meet with the non-unionist
wonder why these people remain unorganised and without the tangible benefits granted
through membership.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
566
MOUNTSORREL has again been visited and steady progress is being maintained-bad
trade plays an important part. One firm gave their non-union employees a holiday and
dates back a long time, and by this means the workers permit themselves to be beguiled
to sell their birthright for a mess of pottage.
It is for this reason we invite our fellows to join us
Few firms adopt this course who pay the full
Trade and National Agreement rates.
and demand as a right their dues according to the National Standard.
SILEBY has again been visited, and in this place we have one firm that is still outside
fair share of National Conditions, and thereby be the recipients of an income during
bad, their non-unionism even fails to get them more employment than those who claim
the pale of reason by the fact that the operatives are non-members. Trade here being
holidays.
BACK TO 60s. MINIMUM FOR HAND-SEWN MEN AND REPAIRERS. - Owing to the cost
Whilst the above is existing can one wonder at the lack of Daily Herald support.
rate according to the over 70 standard. The Ministry of Labour, on the advice of the
of living reaching 71 we immediately had put in operation, without demur, the previous
Secretary of the Trade Board (Mr. Popplewell), immediately issued some 30,000 odd
notices, and owing to some carelessness on the part of a journal we least expected, they
bungled the whole matter. Although the message was given them in my presence, yet
the same appeared garbled. The next day they issued the correct statement, saying
they had, with others, issued the previous day's statement. This is entirely untrue.
No other paper issued a garbled statement, and although we wrote both the Editor and
Manager, from that day to this no explanation has been forthcoming, and then we wonder
why papers do not succeed. Our relations have been most unfortunate.
The general trade and the minimum increase can only be determined if the cost of
living remains at its present figure as a minimum, such figure will reach its position at the
end of this month. Then without any equivocation the last cut will be replaced in Novem-
ber and the date will be agreed upon.
PLYMOUTH Branch invited the whole of our delegates to a convivial evening and gave
us a real good entertainment that we all greatly appreciated. Two of the artistes happened
to be employers and old members, thus creating a kindly feeling between both, we recog
nising each other's limitations. The President of the Plymouth Branch, Mr. Smale,
Secretary of the Plymouth Trades Council, and consequently Minute Secretary to Congress,
was the recipient at the end of Congress of the silver bell used during the proceedings,
Mr. Gay, the Secretary of the Plymouth Branch, was also present. We heartily thank
our Plymouth comrades for their many kindnesses during our very pleasant visit to their
town.
The GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS held their usual meeting and had to
learn that all attempts made up to the present time to settle the Boilermakers' dispute
had ended without any apparent result, and the Management Committee instructed the
Secretary to inform the Boilermakers' Executive that if there was in their minds anything
the General Federation of Trade Unions was able to do they would be very pleased to help.
Experience shows that very few Unions want any outside help other than cash-that is
always wanted, and it is for this very reason that for the second time in two years Congress
have refused to put the General Council in the position occupied by the General Federation
of Trades Unions. The General Council has been appealed to on two occasions by our
Union and has failed us on each occasion. They are far less useful than we expected.
MANSFIELD has again been visited in relation to the Statements being drafted for
Mansfield, Derby and Nottingham, and we hope shortly to be able to report their com-
pleteness and that they will be of benefit.
HUTHWAITE has been visited. The members and others think they should receive the
benefit of the National Agreements. To this we agree, but tell them membership is the
first essential. They recognise this and promise to join at no distant date.
Daily Herald still wants readers.
STAMPED SHOES still want wearers.
7. MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, W.C. I.
18th September, 1923.
Yours fraternally,
General President.


---
567
ORGANISER'S MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
During the past month I have been organising and helping at Stafford, Stone
and Wolverhampton. We had a "Back to the Union
September 10th to 15th. Several unions sent national officers to speak and the meetings
generally were well attended. The firm of Messrs. Edge, near Wolverhampton, have
withdrawn from the Federation with the view, no doubt, of permanently running their
business on non-union lines. The leading operatives may get wages that might appear
all right, but fair piece rates will be ignored. Boy labour will be uncontrolled and the
Graduated Scale of Wages for Juveniles will be just what the firm choose to pay. The
Stafford Board, with the Chairman of the Federation, have done their best to try to get
Wolverhampton and Stafford branches with myself, were deputed by the Board to see
way we have been treated at Stafford and Stone. I pointed out in a letter to Messrs.
Edge that the most prosperous manufacturers in the industry and the men who were
held highest in esteem as citizens were the men who worked to the National Agreements.
Manufacturers who are good organisers and pay close attention to details can get on without
looking all the time at taking advantage of the workers' wages and conditions.
In my last report I mentioned that Mr. Dunn and I were allowed to speak in the
closing room at the "Lotus" Works. As a result of that meeting the girls formed a
Shops Committee and the Management have agreed to consult with this Committee on
matters that may arise from time to time. I had a unique and pleasant experience yester-
day, 20th September; I got permission to speak in the closing room at the branch factory
of the "Lotus," in George Street, with the view of getting the girls to elect a Collector
and a small Committee to assist her. In a few minutes the business was done and all
seemed pleased.
We have joined nearly 300 members at Stafford and Stone. Taking into account
the short time being worked this, I think, may be considered satisfactory. Stone is nearly
100 per cent. strong, and excepting the two heel-making works, where trade is very bad.
Stafford is about the same. I have been assisting Mr. Dunn over prices for Clicking, Edge-
setting and Closing, and several small matters. With the exception of the Clicking prices
everything was settled satisfactorily. The Stafford Board must deal with the clickers'
case if the firm in mind persist in going on as they are.
STAFFORD, 21st September, 1923.
D. McCARTHY.
LEICESTER BOOT AND SHOE TRADE:
BOARD OF CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION.
A Meeting of the Board was held on 30th August, 1923. Present: Mr. G. Parbury,
in the Chair. Messrs. G. W. Hunt, W. H. Tomlinson, H. J. Mobbs, H. Hollingworth
and T. W. Smith, representing the Manufacturers. Messrs. T. F. Richards, T. Ådnitt,
J. Wheeler, M. A. Parker, T. H. Vallance, G. Smith, Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards and Miss
E. Sherwin, representing the Operatives, and Mr. A. E. W. Chamberlin, Secretary.
The Board discussed the present condition of trade in reference to the number of
dismissals and suspensions taking place, and the following resolution was unanimously
adopted with the view of helping to relieve the situation by distributing the work more
qually amongst the Operatives wherever possible, being the confirmation and re-adoption
f a resolution passed by the Board in July, 1920, which helped very much to relieve a
milar situation then existing.
"That with a desire to limit the amount of actual unemployment during the
present period of slackness of trade, manufacturers be advised to work uniform short
time, either departmentally or over the whole factory, in preference to discharging
or suspending operatives."
The Award of the Umpire in the matter of the Reference re Beckwith Puffs was received
ordered to be recorded.
The Award of the Chairman of the Joint Standing Committee of the National Con-
ce in the matter of the interpretation of the National Agreement of December, 1922,
received and ordered to be recorded.
Supplementary Piecework Prices fixed by the Finishing Joint Committee were approved
onfirmed by the Board.
C
Dispute as to the price to be paid for Leather Layer Lifts, upon which the Heel
ng Sub-Committee reported their inability to agree, was referred to the Arbitrators.
---

---
```text
569

BRANCH REPORTS.

ARBROATH.—Our local trade is taking a worse turn, and all the employees
are being paid off from one of the Arbroath factories. Part-time is bad enough,
but when a works closes down altogether the position becomes harder for tho
affected. Up here it becomes inevitable that men must transfer homes it work
is to be got at the trade, and this entails a small upheaval of an expensive
life in many cases, men, and in some instances women, are forced to face a future
quite impossible to get temporary work until things get better, and so, late in
description. All industries are suffering in this part of the country, and it is
of change and uncertainty. Whether they will find new employment in any
other part of Scotland is doubtful, and permanent unemployment may be their
lot. In this connection we are faced with a very troublesome problem. Labour
Exchanges keep offering any employment of which they get notice, and members
are penalised if they refuse. It may be work in Aberdeen or Dundee, and
without considering whether it is work the applicant can manage or not, the
Insurance Officer disallows benefit, and the claimant or the official of Union
must attend the Appeal Court of Referees to prove the reasonableness of the
refusal on the part of the member. Just now we have a spate of disallowances,
and our official has his hands full trying to get justice done to the idle members.
If members were all free agents without family responsibilities, they could start
a nomadic life and go hither and thither as wanted, but modern life is too
complex to permit folk leaving their moorings in this haphazard way without
any guarantee of permanent settlement. In Carnoustie our troubles are
growing instead of diminishing. Regarding the men's question of earning their
wages according to statement, we cannot too strongly insist on our members
acting loyally to the Union. Not only are their own conditions at stake, but the
conditions throughout Scotland, and a betrayal in one part leads to defeat else-
where. We must secure the National Terms, and all the power of the Union will
be behind us if we act correctly and courageously. No member need fear or doubt
if the instructions of the officials are faithfully carried out. Our women mem-
bers in Carnoustie are not being paid according to the National Terms, and this
must cease. In fact it becomes a question as to how much "back pay" should
be claimed. In future every member must claim the rate applicable to his or
her age, and any refusal to pay must be dealt with immediately. We are
accused of seeking to cause trouble because we are inquiring closely into the
conditions of our members, but our only object is to give to each member the
rights they pay for. Our members sometimes ask what the Union does for
them, and when one does get busy the employer wants to know why the D-1
he can't be left alone. But our members must get all the conditions they are
entitled to by the National Terms before we can afford to sit down in ease.
It is up to the members themselves to see their rights secured and maintained,
and surely federated firms cannot refuse to honour their own agreement. We
shall never seek to cause unnecessary dispute or bickering in our factories,
and shall be only too glad to work in harmony, but harmonious relationships
between employer and worker can only be built on honesty and truthfulness,
which would make both sides agree immediately to carry out always the precise
meaning and spirit of National Terms for our industry when mutually accepted
by both responsible organisations.

BARNSLEY.—We are pleased to say that members are now working
full time, and seem likely to continue doing so now the worst months of the
trade for this year have passed.
BRISTOL No. 2.—Glad to report that trade has shown an upward ten-
dency during the month at Kingswood. Good progress has been made with
those firms who stood outside the Holiday Scheme, and we hope to report
```

---
```text
570
shortly that everybody has toed the line. Meetings have been held outside
many factorio, endeavouring to stimulate the interest of the operatives in the
work of the Union, and new members are being made.
CHESHAM. We are pleased to report a further improvement in trade
during the past month.
CHESTERFIELD. - Trade is fair though some of our members are still
out of work. Messrs. Dronfield & Co. are putting in new and up-to-date
machinery, and we are waiting events to see how they will turn out.
EDINBURGH. Repairing section has been fairly busy during the past
month. Members are pleased at prospect of a visit from the General President.
His coming to give a start to the Scottish Advisory Committee takes away the
feeling that the Scottish delegates to Annual Conference had that the Council
did not look with favour on the idea of these committees. Now the Scottish
Branches held a meeting in Edinburgh regarding several matters in connection
with Repairing Trade. The position is one fraught with a good deal of danger.
Nearly all large employers are laying down new machinery and are pressing
the various secretaries to fix a piece-rate in connection with same. According
advise our members of Wages Trade Board to give this matter very careful
to information received the deduction wanted is rather startling. We should
consideration, as no doubt they will be asked to give a price for piece-rate in
connection with this machinery. We are sorry to report that our President is
laid aside owing to sickness. The members wish is that he shall have a speedy
recovery. One firm in manufacturing trade has given the Branch some trouble
re granting the 10 per cent. on statements compiled in 1919. Again, in
May, 1922, instead of taking the 2½ per cent. they have deducted 5 per cent.
The case has been referred to the Scottish Central Arbitration and Conciliation
Committee. Employees should on all occasions read carefully agreements
come to by our Union and Employers' Federation, thereby being able to
say what should be the condition under which they are employed.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.—There has been a general improvement in
trade during the month throughout our district since the Bank Holiday, although
in one or two isolated cases there has been short time. Some other firms have
resorted to overtime; in these cases overtime was worked because there was
no room for fresh labour in the factory.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. -The improvement in trade previously
reported is being maintained. Considerable success has been achieved by the
Organiser, W. R. Smith, ably supported by Chris. Bleakley and A. J. Dobbs, in
bringing a number of firms into line with the Holiday Fund, and if the volume
of trade is maintained, which has been usual at this time of the year, a con-
siderable increase of membership should ensue.
LEICESTER No. 1.- We are sorry to report trade is as bad as it has
been for a number of years. We have paid in Out-of-Work Pay the sum of
£886 8s. 6d. during the month; also there are over 150 members signing the
Suspension Book, and there seems no prospects of trade improving at present.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S. We are sorry to report that trade is not
improving. The Women's Branch has twenty members out of work, a very
high number for us, and many are suspended from time to time. We wish to
repeat that this Branch has taken four dozen Daily Heralds per day for a long
time; we have been forced to reduce it to two dozen per day. We suggest
that other Branches which are in a better financial position might copy and save
the Labour paper. Also we wish to report we are calling together for consulta-
tion purposes a few women from other Branches. An outing was arranged
for Saturday, September 15th, to Woodhouse Eaves by char-a-banc, and
we sold tickets to the number of 480. We hope to make this the opportunity
for some good organising, the outing being strictly limited to the members
```

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

571

of our Women's Branch. With regard to the General Secretary's remarks to
six women did not represent the whole movement at Vienna, as you will be
notified later that at least six women from England who were there were
our last report, we repeat the sentences that have been carefully left out the
delegates from their respective trade unions.

LIVERPOOL. - During the past month boot repairing has been brisk.
Members are requested to read Revision of Rules in the August Report, pages
504-505. Members who may be 50 years of age and upwards, paying 5d. per
week Special Trade, can now transfer to the new scale and, by paying 6d. per
week, after twelve months become entitled to six shillings per week Out-of-Work
Pay; £3 Funeral Benefit for members only.

MAYBOLE. - Trade is very good in some departments, overtime being
worked, and we hope it may continue for a time. We are sorry to report
ill for some months; and H. Gray (40435) as the result of a motor accident.
the death of two members-J. Kidd (probationary member), who had been
To the wives and families of both we tender our deepest sympathy.

NORWICH. - Trade in Norwich has shown little improvement during
the month for, although the turnshoe section is better than hitherto, all other
classes of trade are declining. Unemployment claims, therefore, are remaining
at a high level. Everything in the industry seems so uncertain that we hesitate
to attempt a forecast of events in the future. With a restricted home trade,
consequent upon the reduced purchasing power of our people, coupled with our
inability to secure the volume of trade abroad, so much desired, accounts mainly
for the wretched conditions a number of our members are facing. However, we
look to the future, hoping against hope, that the workers will become conscious
of the need to give political expression to their industrial needs.

PLYMOUTH. - As we write the last of the Trade Union Delegates to
Congress are turning homeward after taking one more look at Plymouth Hoe
and the waters of the Sound. It has been a memorable week, and our little
Branch has reason to be proud of the part its members have played, for the man,
more than anyone else, responsible for the success of Congress was our own
Branch President, Mr. J. R. Smale, J.P., upon whose shoulders the bulk of the
work has been thrust. As a Branch we congratulate him upon his success
and his many months of strenuous work given freely for the comfort and well-
being of his fellows. Our own Social Evening, held to welcome the delegates
of our Union, proved to be a very enjoyable one indeed, and our members
were delighted to see the wives of our General President and General Secretary
present, together with Mrs. Hinds and Mrs. Wheeler. We append the report
of our Social, given by The Western Morning News and Mercury:- "Twelve
delegates who are attending the Trade Union Congress, representing the interests
of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union, were entertained by the Plymouth
Branch at a social yesterday evening, Mr. J. Smale presiding. Mr. T. F.
Richards, President of the Union, said owing to the general slump in trade
membership had slightly decreased, but he thought workers more generally
realised the benefits resulting from proper organisation. Non-members, as well
as members, had benefited by the organisation, showing the unselfishness of
trade unionism. An enjoyable programme was contributed to by Miss Pengelly,
pianist; Messrs. J. Gay, violinist and vocalist; J. Allison, character impersona-
tor: Miss M. Gay, vocalist; Mr. W. Pettitt, comedian; and Mr. J. R. Smale."

STAFFORD. - Sorry to report trade very slack in this Branch.

STONE. - Trade here is very fair, but busy in the turnshoe department.
Machine-sewn work has fell off considerably; our members working in this
department have been doing very badly for some months. Mr. McCarthy and
Mr. Dunn (Secretary of the Stafford Branch) have paid us several visits during
the last few weeks. They have got permission to speak inside the factory,


---
Here is the extracted text:
573
TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
REPORT OF DELEGATES.
The Fifty-fifth Annual Congress of the above was held in the Guildhall, Fly
from 3rd to 8th September, 1923. Mr. J. B. Williams, Chairman of the General Co
presiding over the same.
The Congress was opened at 12 noon and a Civic Welcome was given by the Mos
on behalf of the Citizens and the Town Council. There were 702 delegates pre ent, a i
though the number of members affiliated to the Congress was less than last year, the towe
ship represented was 4,369,268, and as the President pointed out in his addres "the ro
Especially did he emphasise the wickedness of war and pointed out its futility in th
differences between nations, quoting effectively the following from an old song :-
is no reason for pessimism."
The President's Address covered a good deal of ro
"Oh, if I were Queen of Spain,
Or still better Pope of Rome,
I'd have no fighting men abroad,
No weeping maids at home.
All the world would be at peace,
And if kings would show their might,
Let those who make the quarrels
Be the only ones to fight."
To which there was a loud shout of agreement.
of affairs than those at present obtaining, and so make this world a better place to live in
The address finished up with an appeal to try and bring into existence a better state
than it is at present. There were, as usual, many subjects, not only of interest, but of
vital importance, to the workers, which were duly made public day by day in the Press,
and especially in the Daily Herald, which paper we earnestly commend to all our members
to purchase.
go through without any comment.
The Rossendale Valley case and the N.U.D.A.W. and our Union was allowed to
Amongst the resolutions dealt with were the following :-
HOUSING.
housing schemes equal to the urgent needs of large numbers of working-class families,
and renews its demand for continued legal protection against excessive rents until houses
ane built in numbers large enough to ensure for all fair payment for their use.
"This Congress emphatically protests against the attitude of Government, especially
the suggestion that working-class housing should be confined to the smallest possible
degree of accommodation.
"It calls upon the General Council to make representations to the Government,
having in view the handling of the problem on a comprehensive basis by means of
"(1) The clearing of slum areas
"(2) The provision of adequate grants to local authorities in order that housing
schemes may be forwarded without delay.
"(3) The continuation of the Acts protecting tenants against exorbitant rents until
such time as the demand for houses shall be fully supplied."
RUSSIA.
"This Congress reiterates the declarations of previous Congresses in favour of ful!
diplomatic and trade relations with Russia. Further, in view of the impossibility of
establishing normal relations in Europe and Asia, so long as Russia is outside the family
of Nations, the Congress is of opinion that an Anglo-Russia Conference should be called
without avoidable delay to settle all questions still at issue between the British and Russian
Governments. The Congress requests the British Government to approach the Russian
Government with a view to such a Conference being called as speedily as possible. Further,
Congress instructs the General Council to bring this resolution to the Govern-
ment as speedily as possible."
HOURS QUESTION.
That this Congress is of opinion that it is in the best interests of the workers that
instructs the General Council to promote a Bill in consultation with the National Labour
Party giving effect to the legal establishment of an eight-hour day and 48-hours week,
or industry which already enjoys a shorter
such Bill not to prejudice any occupation
working week.
---

---
575
Interesting statements and greetings were also tendered from America, Canada and
the Co-operative Congress. The question of the action of the directors of the Co-operative
Wholesale Society was also a matter which threatened to bring about a very serious
position between the Co-operative and Trade Union movement. Happily this was averted.
The Joint Committee of Trade Unionists and Co-operators, under the chairmanship of our
colleague, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., met at Plymouth, and after a very prolonged sitting of
the Committee until 10.30 p.m., they came to certain decisions which the Co-operative side
of the Joint Committee proceeded with to Newcastle-on-Tyne to meet the directors, the
result being on Thursday, the 6th inst., a telegram was received by Mr. Bowerman stating
that the directors would submit matters to arbitration, thereby avoiding any open rupture.
It is sincerely to be hoped that the result will be not only settlement of outstanding differ-
ences, but a spirit of goodwill on all sides whereby adjustments can be made from time
to time without any friction.
The Secretary, Mr. Bowerman, owing to age limit, retires this year. Fitting tribute
was paid to his many and varied services to the movement extending over many years,
and a retiring allowance of £300 was unanimously accorded him.
Mr. F. Bramley, the Assistant Secretary was, by vote, selected to succeed Mr. Bower-
man. We hope his tenure of such office may result in still further extending the usefulness,
prestige and power of the Trade Union movement.
In our judgment the time has arrived when the Standing Orders should again be
revised so as to reduce the numbers attending the Congress-the Congress is too large and
too many subjects are attempted. It would be, in our opinion, much more effective to
have a smaller representation and fewer subjects dealt with. Another matter we feel
ought to be dealt with, and that with a strong hand, viz., the washing of "dirty linen"
with the Press present. If such a process is to be indulged in, which we much regret,
it ought to be done in "private" session. We have left till almost last, the question of the
least important, the question of the Daily Herald. It is indeed a very great disappointment
after the Southport vote and the tremendous amount of work put in during the year to
increase the circulation of the Herald, to find such a poor response has been made. It is
easy to find fault with the Herald and point out its shortcomings. Making, however,
full allowance for the same, the fact remains that the Herald is our paper; run in the
interests of the Labour movement, giving more information upon labour questions and
political and economic questions that directly affect the workers' lives than do other
papers, and therefore ought to be supported by the workers.
After full discussion in two private sessions the Congress, while giving every credit
for the work done by the Directorate and the Executive of the Labour Party and the
General Council, felt that one more effort must be made to keep the Herald going, and not
close it down as suggested by the Council, this decision being due to deficient lack of
support by the rank and file and the exchequer being empty. A resolution was therefore
passed calling upon the Unions to send in cash and at once to ensure the continued existence
of the Herald. We may here say that we, as a Union, have done our share in paying up,
as we have paid our fees for 1924-1925. We sincerely hope the cash will be forthcoming,
and what is of equal importance, that the circulation will go up rapidly. Buy the Herald,
and induce your friends to buy the Herald.
Unity and concord are words very much used in the movement. The General Council
during the year reported upon action taken both to increase unity and promote concord.
dunen, however, this part of the report was dealt with it seemed as if all the forces of
disunity and inharmonious chords were let loose at once. It is indeed to be deplored
that so much energy is used during the year upon these subjects, and then when put to the
test it ends in recriminations. We can only hope that ere long real power will be given
to the General Council to deal with this matter in a way which will prevent any unseemly
squabbles taking place in Congress itself. Despite, however, this unpleasant aspect of the
week's work, we believe good work was done at the Congress, and which will show itself
in the not distant future. We record with pleasure that our Colleagues, Mr. E. L. Poulton,
was returned unopposed to the Council, and Mr. T. F. Richards again returned as a member
of the General Purposes Committee.
The Plymouth Branch of the Union entertained the delegates of the Union to Congress
to an enjoyable evening, when a very good entertainment was given and highly appreciated.
A good spirit was shown between the delegates and the officials and members of the Branch.
We also feel it a compliment to our Plymouth Branch that the Branch President, Mr. T.
Smale, was appointed Secretary of the Congress. Mr. Smale is also Secretary to the
Plymouth Trades Council.
J. WHEELER,
G. SMITH,
I. POOLE,
G. CHESTER,
L. SMITH,
E. LAW,
J. H. HOOPER,
W. HINDES, J.P.,
W. WARNER,
T. F. RICHARDS,
E. L. POULTON, J.P.,
Delegates.
D


---
577
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.

RURAL LABOUR PROBLEMS.

International Discussion at Geneva.

Agricultural education, co-operation, the prevention of anthrax, and the profitable
utilisation of leisure were the chief subjects discussed by the Joint Advisory Committee
on Agriculture, set up by the International Labour Office (League of Nations) and the
International Institute of Agriculture, at a meeting just held in Geneva.

The meeting was attended by three representatives of the Governing Body of the
International Labour Office, and three representatives of the International Institute of
Agriculture, including Sir Thomas Elliott. K.C.B., Counsellor of the British Embassy in
Rome. The Committee were assisted by a number of experts representing the principal
agricultural organisations of various countries, and including Mr. Rowland R. Robbins,
chairman of the Labour Committee of the National Farmers' Union, and Mr. R. B. Walker,
general secretary of the National Union of Agricultural Workers.

Technical Training for Landworkers.

The Committee first considered the question of the vocational education of agricultural
workers. This problem has already received close attention from the International Labour
Office, and was the subject of a Recommendation adopted by the International Labour
Conference of 1921 for examination by the Governments of all the States which are members
of the Organisation. The Recommendation urged that each State should "endeavour
to develop vocational agricultural education, and in particular to make such education
available to agricultural wage-earners on the same conditions as to other persons engaged
in agriculture."

Further, each State was urged to supply regular reports to the Inter-
national Labour Office on steps taken to develop technical education for landworkers.

After a general discussion of this question, the Committee requested the experts to
consider in detail the points on which Governments should be invited to report, and to
indicate in broad outlines the nature of the information which should be supplied. The
experts duly submitted to the Committee a questionnaire designed to elicit the fullest
possible information from Governments, and this was adopted by the Committee with a
recommendation to the Governing Body of the International Labour Office that it should
be forwarded to Governments with an intimation of the Committee's approval. By this
means it is hoped to bring together all available information showing what is being done
in the chief agricultural countries to promote agricultural education both in ordinary
schools and in special institutions.

Agricultural Co-operation.

The second subject considered was that of workers' co-operation in agriculture. This
problem, also, was dealt with in a Recommendation of the 1921 Conference, which invited
Governments " to encourage the creation of agricultural workers' co-operative societies
for the working and purchase or renting of land," and, to this end, "to take steps to increase
agricultural credit especially in favour of co-operative agricultural associations of land-
workers established for the purpose of agricultural production." In this case, again,
Governments were urged to present periodical reports to the International Labour Office.

During the discussion of this item, it was made clear that in the opinion of the Com-
mittee there was need for an extension of facilities for the acquisition by agricultural
workers, through co-operative methods, of access to land and equipment for its cultivation,
as a means not only of securing stability for the worker on the land but of promoting
increased production from the land. As in the case of agricultural education, the Com-
mittee agreed on the terms of a questionnaire to be addressed to Governments with regard
to co-operative undertakings in agriculture, their extent, methods and results. The
Committee further indicated its desire for continuous and effective collaboration between
the International Labour Office and the International Institute of Agriculture in the study
of this question and in the preparation of proposals for the encouragement of co-operation
in agriculture, each body keeping the other informed of the action it took and the results
of its investigations.

The Prevention of Anthrax.

Thirdly, the Committee examined the question of the prevention of anthrax infection
in flocks, in conformity with a resolution adopted by the Advisory Committee of Experts
on Anthrax which met in London last December and dealt with some of the problems of
this disease, from the point of view of safeguarding the health of workers engaged in
handling wool, hair, hides. &c. The report of the last-mentioned Committee will be laid
before the International Labour Conference next June. In the meantime, the repre-
sentatives of the International Institute of Agriculture have undertaken to lay the question
before the assembly of the Institute, and to take steps with a view to calling the attention


---
Here's the extracted text from the image, formatted for readability:

578

of Governments to the urgency of the problem. Apart from the danger to woolworkers,
that steps should be taken to prevent or suppress the disease among the live stock. It
it may be pointed out that the disease involves risks of infection to agricultural workers
house men, butchers, &c.), and that, important as are measures to prevent infection
among workers dealing with the products of infected animals, it is not less important
d. well as to all who come into contact with contaminated animals (knackers, slaughter-
was with this aspect of the problem that the Committee was particularly concerned.

Factory Inspection and Agriculture.
from the agricultural standpoint, on the questions which have been placed on the agenda
Finally, the Committee was invited to offer any suggestions it might wish to make,
of the International Labour Conference for 1923 and 1924.
"General Principles for the Organisation of Factory Inspection." Some discussion arose
This year's Conference, which meets in October, will be devoted to the study of
in the Committee owing to the difference between the French and English wordings of the
item. In the French text, the expression used is "Inspection du travail," and this term
covers the supervision of the enforcement of labour legislation in all establishments within
the scope of such legislation, whether they be industrial or commercial establishments,
or even in some cases agricultural undertakings. The English expression "Factory
Several members of the Committee took the view that agricultural work was outside the
scope of the question, and in these circumstances the Committee did not go beyond a
inspection," on the other hand, refers only to supervision of industrial establishments.
general exchange of views.

Leisure and Recreation.
Deve The first te Facilities for the Utilisation of Workers' Leisure the This gave rise to an
The first item on the agenda for the 1924 Conference, which meets in June, is "The
interesting discussion by the Committee and the experts. All the speakers agreed in
recognising the importance of encouraging the spontaneous use by agricultural workers
of healthy and educative forms of recreation, and of improving the existing facilities for
such recreation, as a means both of raising the standard of life of the workers and of
stimulating output. At the same time stress was laid on the necessity of avoiding any
suggestion of interference with the liberty of the workers, and of ensuring that, while
facilities for the profitable use of leisure were developed, the workers should retain complete
it was proposed that the International Labour Office and the International Institute of
freedom to choose how they should spend their spare hours. Subject to this understanding,
Agriculture should pursue the study of this question, taking care to avcid any overlapping
of effort.

The Next Step.
A full report of the proceedings of the Committee, which is of a purely advisory
character, will be presented to the Governing Body of the International Labour Office
at its meeting next October. In the meantime it may be stated that the first session of
this mixed committee is regarded as having completely justified the action of the two
international bodies which created it. The proceedings throughout were of the most
cordial nature, and revealed a desire for co-operation between the two institutions which,
it is believed, is of good augury for their future fruitful collaboration.

INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION OF THE WORLD.

Report of Geneva Enquiry.
The International Labour Office (League of Nations) announces the publication in
French of the first volume of a report containing information, collated and analysed,
concerning industrial production throughout the world.*
The report, which will be completed in four volumes in French and of which summaries
will be published in English, German and possibly other languages, embodies the results
of an enquiry undertaken by the Office in accordance with instructions given by its Govern-
ing Body in June, 1920. The initiative was taken by M. Pirelli (Italy) who proposed, on
behalf of the group of employers' representatives on the Governing Body, that the Office
should make an enquiry into "industrial production throughout the world, considered
in relation to conditions of work and cost of living."
the enquiry was to examine what share various labour measures, such as the eight-hour
At that time there was a general diminution in production. The general purpose of
day, the abolition of piecework in certain countries, &c., might have in the responsibility

*Enquiry into Production: General Report, Volume I. Published for the International
Labour Office by Berger-Levrault, 11, Rue des Beaux-Arts. Paris (25 French francs :
obtainable from the International Labour Office, Geneva (12.50 Swiss francst.


---
of markets.
579
for this depression. It was understood that the enquiry would cover all the factor, that
might have effected a reduction in output, such as the shortage of raw materials, the
transport difficulty, the depreciation of the exchanges, the credit shortage and the lack
had been decided upon. The International Labour Office was obliged, therefore, to point
However, the situation completely changed almost immediately after the Enquiry
out in a preface of some length how the general post-war shortage, the consequent crisis of
the markets in a number of countries, the falling-off of production due to the difficulty of
finding markets, and the resulting unemployment crisis arose in turn and profoundly
problem of labour conditions has in many cases assumed an altered aspect.
affected the general economic situation. Moreover, since the economic depression, the
The volume now issued is prefaced by a letter from M. Albert Thomas, director of the
International Labour Office, to the President of the Governing Body of the International
Labour Office, in which he recalls the origin of the enquiry, the difficulties met with during
introduction indicating the changes which have taken place in the world econd
its progress, and the discussions to which it has given rise. This is followed by a general
since the time when it was decided to undertake the enquiry.
economic situation
The volume contains information on the scheme of the enquiry, its progress, the text
39 federations of co-operative societies which replied, and the 206 persons consulted,
of the questionnaires issued, lists of the 29 governments, 180 industrial organisations and
a bibliography of production drawn up on the basis of the replies received from the various
governments, and
40 statistical tables and 92 diagrams.
to appear within two or three months.
The second volume is at present in the Press, and the last two volumes are announced
accumulating an exceptionally rich collection of material, and of the importance of this
Volume I. gives some idea of the work done by the International Labour Office in
states in his prefatory letter, the amount of information collected and the analysis to which
material for the study of present-day economic and social problems. As M. Thomas
it has been subjected will be of the highest value for research and for all who are interested
in the work of social progress undertaken by the International Labour Office.
INDUSTRIAL DISEASES.
International Meeting of Experts.
to assist the
International Labour Office of the League of Nations in dealing with questions affecting
the health of the workers, will meet in Geneva to-day.
The Committee, which was set up in accordance with a resolution adopted by the
International Labour Conference at Washington in 1919, is composed of medical inspectors
of factories and others possessing technical and scientific knowledge of industrial hygiene,
drawn from about a dozen countries, and including Dr. T. M. Legge (Chief Medical Inspector
of Factories, Home Office), and Dr. S. Miall (Director of the Brimsdown Lead Co. Ltd.).
The Committee will be invited to advise the International Labour Office on two
questions :-
and skins;
(1) The protection from anthrax of workers engaged in the handling of hides
(2) The compilation of a list of the principal industrial processes to be considered
as unhealthy.
As regards anthrax, it may be recalled that considerable progress has already been
made in the direction of safeguarding the health of wool-workers by the disinfection of
wool from infected or dangerous countries; but, in the case of hides and skins, according
to the opinion of a special committee which studied the matter last December, it is imposs-
ible at the present time to secure complete disinfection, though various processes have
been tried and some have given interesting results. The problem, therefore, is two-fold:
To discover a satisfactory process of disinfection, and, pending that discovery, to devise
measures, by regulations or otherwise, for the protection of workers occupied in the mani-
pulation of hides and skins. The experts will be asked at this week's meeting (1) to make
suggestions for the organisation and co-ordination of research in different countries into
disinfection processes, for joint consideration by the International Labour Office and the
Health Committee of the League of Nations, and (2) to indicate what provisions might be
made for minimising the risk to the workers during the actual handling of hides and skins,
for the sterilisation of the effluents of tanneries, and for the use of serum against anthrax.
As regards the preparation of a schedule of unhealthy processes, this involves not
but the collection and study of all the available scientific and statistical information
merely the careful examination of the dangers to health involved in various processes,
relating to each process. The list is already in an advanced stage, but before it is published
the experts forming the present Committee are to be asked to examine it in detail and to
collaborate in ensuring its scientific completeness and accuracy.


---
Here is the extracted text:
1
day of 10-12 hours, from 6.30 or
in the latter.
581
or 7 a.m. to about 7 p.m. They would have been
been eauje
In connection with this second cause it was observed that Parisian workers had
to move to the suburbs in increasing numbers after the application of the Eight her
Day Act. It had been impossible for them to live in the suburbs when they had a wom
to leave their homes at 6 a.m., returning not before 8.30p.m. at the earliest. At prot
work begins about 7.30 or 8 a.mn, in industrial undertakings and at o am. in cofotodresal
houses, and ceases at between 5 and 6 p.m. in the former and not later than 6.30 pi
Nightwork in dressmaking and milliners' establishments has been abolished and
work ceases at latest at 8 p.m. (on the days of exemption from the Act). Thus the famibes
to avoid their returning home too late. The above facts are corroborated by statistics
of the girls employed in these workshops are no longer compelled to live in Paris in order
of the special weekly season tickets issued by the railways to workers living in the suburb..
and working in the capital. The total number of these tickets for the Est, Etat, Nord,
Paris-Orléans, and Paris-Lyon-Mediterrranée lines had risen in 1921 to 5,597.704 as comm-
pared with 3,509,171 in 1913.
EMIGRATION AND THE EMPIRE. A SURVEY.
will be discussed. lends special interest to a careful survey of some important aspects of
the recent migration policy of Great Britain and the Dominions which appears in the
The opening of the Imperial Conference, where the question of Empire settlement
International Labour Review, the monthly publication of the International Labour Office
of the League of Nations, and from which the following notes are extracted:--
Under the Empire Settlement Act, passed by the British Parliament in 1922, agree-
for assisted passages, or land settlement schemes, under which an increasing number of
ments have been concluded with certain Dominion Governments and private societies
emigrants are now proceeding to other parts of the Empire. Up to the end of June,
1923, this number amounted to 22,207 persons.
Australia.
immigrants except from Great Britain. The main openings are for farmers and farm
The first to take advantage of the Act was Australia which does not actively encourage
labourers and for women prepared to undertake domestic work. Three Land Settlement
Schemes under the Act have been signed with Western Australia for the settlement of
75,000 settlers within three years, with Victoria for 2,0co within fifteen months and with
be approved by the Director of Migration and Settlement in London. A scheme for the
New South Wales for 15,000 within five years. All applicants for assisted passages must
settlement of the empty northern regions by British immigrants is being promoted under
the auspices of the United Service Institution.
New Zealand.
The Government of New Zealand is also encouraging immigration from Great Britain
but on a smaller scale. Assistance is given to persons nominated by fiereat Britain
or prospective employers, resident in New Zealand.
Canada.
The Canadian Government has concluded agreements providing for financial assist-
ance to children, nominated agricultural workers, and domestic servants, while the Ontario
Government has concluded a separate agreement under the Act, providing for loans
towards the cost of passages of 2,000 experienced farm workers and 2,000 experienced
Jomestic servants. The Soldier Settlement Board is being used by the Dominion Govern-
ment as the general colonisation agency for both civilians and soldiers. The Canadian
railways participate in the official schemes, while, in addition, the Canadian Pacific Railway
advances money up to 1.400 for building materials, &c., to settlers on their Alberta land on
a 20-year payment basis.
These immigration movements are counterbalanced by emigration to the United
States, it being calculated that during the first three months of 1923 three times as many
people emigrated to the United States from the Canadian Maritime Provinces as during
the corresponding period of 1922.
South Africa.
Apart from a considerable immigration of coloured workers for the mines in Mozam-
bique, as the native coloured population is able to do the ordinary labouring work, the
dhovernment encourages the immigration only of those who are capable and qualified for
direction and higher grades of work. Unemployment prevails in the Union, so that white
labour is not desired, and stringent restrictions are imposed on their immigration.
India.
Under the Act of 1922, the Indian Government permits emigration of unskilled
labour only to certain countries and on certain conditions. The Indian Government has
been negotiating with the Governments of certain British colonies, and agreements have
been reached with British Malaya, Ceylon and Mauritius. These regulations do not apply
to skilled labour.


---
582
GOOD NEWS FOR CONSUMPTIVES.
A Proved British Remedy at a Cost of Sixpence Per Day.
REMARKABLE CURES AT BLACKBURN.
A Twenty-Five Years' Boycott. The Story of a Great Wrong.
A FREE GIFT TO THE NATION.
This new treatment (Umckaloabo) constitutes an entirely new and really
efficient weapon in the fight against tuberculosis, and its use, once
it has become general, might contribute largely to the eradicating
of this terrible scourge.- Dr. SECHEHAYE, Geneva.
The treatment of tuberculosis has received a good deal of attention in the Press
recently. This has been brought about by the fact that the Insurance Committee of the
Lancashire County Council, with commendable enterprise, proposed to provide over
£100,000 to make what is known as the Spahlinger serum available for persons suffering
in the county from this hitherto incurable malady.
Before this could be done, it was necessary to obtain the consent of Mr. Neville
Chamberlain, the Minister of Health.
Mr. Chamberlain announced to a deputation that waited upon him from the County
Council, that although he was convinced there was a sound prima facie case for these
remedies, he was not prepared to take the responsibility of authorising the expenditure
of public money upon them at the present stage of their development.
Dr. Spahlinger is a Swiss physician, residing at Geneva. He has been engaged on
this treatment for sixteen years.
It takes Dr. Spahlinger about four years to produce the complete serum. It is the
result of a combination of 22 different serums, each of which, it is stated, attacks some
one symptom associated with tuberculosis, and altogether is the result of very delicate
and exact experiments.
Although Dr. Spahlinger estimated that it would be the end of 1924 before the com-
plete serums and vaccines could be ready, he stated that the first of the 22 forms could be
available by next December.
The Lancashire Insurance Committee are spending very large sums in sanatorium
and other treatment of tuberculosis, and they are convinced that this method should be
tried. They did not guarantee it as a cure, but considered that it was very promising.
Sanatorium Treatment "A Tragic Failure."
The treatment of tuberculosis is costing our nation nearly £2,000,000 per year. This
is principally spent in sanatoriums. The ratepayers of Blackburn alone have to provide
every year nearly £8,000 for consumptive treatment.
The true effectiveness of this so-called remedy is tersely summed up in the following
paragraph reprinted from the Medical World of 16th July, 1920 :-
"Dr. Dickinson, Adviser to the Insurance Committee of Newcastle, has issued a
'Survey of Sanatorium Treatment,' of which most of our readers will have heard if they
have not read it, its figures being such as to appear incredible without the data he gives.
Briefly, in only 14 out of 1,086 cases had the disease been arrested, and only eight of these
were bacillus-free for a certainty, whilst of a further series of 1,162 cases but 81 are now
at work or fit for work. The only possible conclusion is that sanatoriums, in spite of all
the vast expenditure upon them, are, for the working classes at least, a tragic failure."
A Proved British Cure.
It will come as a surprise to most people that hundreds of persons suffering from
tuberculosis in different parts of the body are being cured in our own country every
year by a very simple treatment. This is brought about by a specific sold, under the
name of Umckaloabo, by Mr. Charles H. Stevens, 204, Worple Road, Wimbledon, London,
for use in tincture, capsule, and lozenge form.
Umckaloabo is a South African plant, of the order of Polygonaceae. It is prepared


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
evening.
583
The tincture is sold at 2s. per ounce, and as
cient for the great majority of cases.
1 as only two teaspoonfuls are to be
The treatment is simplicity itself. It is only necessary to take a dose
before breakfast and a similar dose half an hour or two hours after the 
it works out at a cost of 6d. per day. There are, of course, many
larger dose or even more than two doses daily, but two doses of one teaspoonful of
would come out about one-half less than it does to him now, for the simple reason th
Mr. Stevens informs me that if Umckaloabo were produced in a large way...
has to keep his own men in South Africa cultivating and collecting the plant, and
overhead charges would be very little more to produce ten times the quantity that th
His treatment was brought under my notice through an action he brought against the
I have never met Mr. Stevens, nor am in any way financially interested in his busine
British Medical Association in 1912 for alleged libel.
tuberculosis because of the fact that, as a newspaper publisher, I am Pai
I have always taken a deep interest in the treatment of pulmonary consumption and
I therefore read with interest the reports of the evidence given in the High Court of
1
that the proportion of persons who suffer from this disease in
are at present turning out.
Justice in the case, which lasted several days.
that
e in the printing trade is very large
painfully aware
" A Swindler and a Quack,"
called "Secret Remedies: What They Cost and What They Contain." This book con-
The alleged libel was made in a publication issued by the British Medical Association
tained certain statements founded on analyses, and on the face of these charged Mr.
Stevens with being a swindler and a quack who foisted upon the public a so-called remedy
on the names of the plants the plaintiff said he used not being found in the British
which he knew to be absolutely worthless. The Association relied on their analyses and
tion of an astringent quality taken from Krameria, a cheap and easily procured drug.
or South African Pharmacopeia, and they claimed that the remedy was a common decoc-
Examples of the Cure.
A number of medical men gave evidence for Mr. Stevens. I can only find space for a
summary from the evidence of one of the gentlemen. All the others are in the same
strain.
Edward Ferdinand Grun, L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., medical officer of the second district
of the Steyning Union, said that he was living at Southwick, Brighton, and in practice
there. He had had to deal with a good deal of tuberculosis. He had written a book on
ther Koch's treatment of tuberculosis. At the time he wrote the book he was a doctor
with Dr. Wodehouse, at the Hospital for Incurables at Putney. Dr. Koch's work was
exciting great interest and he was instructed to go and investigate the treatment. He
did so and wrote the book on his return. He was the author of a number of letters to the
Lancet. In 1908 he received a circular about Stevens' Consumption Cure. He wrote
to Mr. Stevens, who told him about the mixture and furnished him with some very striking
During the whole of his 30 years' practice he had lost many dear friends
from tuberculosis, and in 1908 one had just died. He thought it his duty to try and see
whether it was of any use. He obtained samples from Mr. Stevens, and having obtained
the consent of patients used the mixture. He was very surprised by the extraordinary
results of its use.
results of its use.
beneficial results.
A patient had asked for relief and he was ordered to go and see her. He found her in
a very bad state. She was expectorating a great deal. Her temperature was 103; she
could not take her food. He gave her a supply of the mixture. Her symptoms improved
almost at once and at the end of 14 days before the next meeting of the Guardians her
husband managed to send her away. The name of the woman was Hudson. He used the
mixture again in the case of a lad who was at school at Shoreditch Grammar School. He
had a cavity at the apex of the lung and a bad cough. The witness said he had treated
this boy with various remedies, but he got so bad that he was unable to go to school. He
put this boy under the treatment. The result was that in three months there was no
mischief in the lung and no tubercle, and there had been no subsequent relapse.
Another patient he had treated with the mixture had come with him to the court
had been certified by four medical
witness also examined him. About April, 1908, he had a very bad attack, and the disease,
which had been more or less latent, became acute. He put him under the treatment
and he got better. He lost his cough and he put on weight. He had been working as the
captain of a yacht and all this wet summer he had been sailing round the coast.
---

---
There was a man named Hersee, who was a gardener, who had been in his employ-
a man of good physique. All of a sudden he was taken in with acute galloping phthisis.
A man of 11 to 12 stones, in a month he weighed seven stone. The witness came home
from abroad and found him in a very serious condition. He treated him with the remedy,
and he greatly improved, but unfortunately, he was subsequently attacked by influenza,
and died of pneumonia.

There were other cases where he had used the mixture, but of course he saw a great
number of patients and he did not keep notes of them all.

On the whole, he was of opinion that the treatment had been extremely beneficial,
and in any future cases he should have he should recommend its administration. Mr.
Stevens made no charge to him for the medicine. Doctors were supplied with it free of
expense. He had used the mixture since 1908 and had noticed no difference in its outward
characteristics or in its taste.

Miraculous Cures at Blackburn.

In the end the jury failed to agree. Mr. Stevens brought a second action against
the British Medical Association, and lost his case.
I came to the conclusion that Mr. Stevens had been badly treated, and wrote him to
this effect. I also promised to give his treatment a trial if any of my relatives or friends
were smitten with this terrible malady. This I did in 1914, and have since supplied the
remedy to several persons who had tuberculosis, the results in every case being most
satisfactory.
A Singular Coincidence.
Before dealing with the Blackburn cures, I want to explain why I am giving publicity
to Mr. Stevens' treatment of tuberculosis at the present time. On the same day as there
appeared in the Press a report of the action of the Lancashire Insurance Committee, I
received a translation from the Swiss Medical Review, published at Berne, and dated
21st March, of a paper read at a Medical Conference held at Geneva. It is a rather singular
coincidence that whilst Dr. Spahlinger was developing his cure for the treatment of tuber-
culosis, another eminent Genevan physician, Dr. Sechehaye, should have been using the
British cure for three years with great success. By putting the welfare of his patients so
very much above any professional prejudices he may have against a treatment introduced
by an unprofessional man, Dr. Sechehaye in no way lessens his esteem for the honourable
profession of medicine. It is possible that his courageous action may have some influence
with the British medical profession.

202 Cases Treated in Three Years.

Dr. Sechehaye, to whom I have already referred, in his paper given before the con-
ference of medical men at Geneva, dealt with the results obtained in 202 cases he had
treated over the past three years. These would fill several columns of this journal, and
I can only quote one or two general observations as follows:

“ Amongst the cases cured or in the course of being cured, some are of a very grave
character; white tumour of the elbow with fistula, osteoarthritis of the shoulder, in which
ankylosis could be avoided, white tumour of the knee with abscesses and fistula, not open
supperating coxalgia, tuberculosis of the foot with complete caries of the ankle bone and
of the calcaneum, &c.

“ The time between the commencement of the treatment and recovery was from
5 to 8 months, even in the case of patients who had been bedridden sometimes for several
years.

“Results are particularly favourable in cases of tuberculosis with predominating
bronchitic tendencies in children. Last winter, Umckaloabo, often after fruitless attempts
with Thiocol preparations, really worked wonders by bringing about in several cases of
this kind a prompt and thorough transformation.

“Another striking fact is that the slightest tendencies to a relapse are overcome by
a resumption of the treatment. The most frequent causes of failure have been unfavour-
able economic conditions with unhealthy living accommodation, hard work and cares,
insufficient nourishment, alcoholism, and, in rare cases, gastric trouble.”
After dealing exhaustively with the 202 cases he had treated, Dr. Sechehaye gave
his conclusions on the treatment as follows:

First Conclusion.
There can be no doubt that, amongst these 202 cases of Tuberculosis of a Surgical
or Pulmonary character, a considerable proportion of patients was cured or is in course
of being cured, except in two classes of cases: A. Those in which the super-acute invasion


---
Second Conclusion.
justifying this assertion are :
UNCKALOABO ACTS AS REGARDS TUBERCULOSIS AS A REAL SPECIFIC
A. THAT UMCKALOABO SEEMS TO BE EFFICIENT IN THE CASE OF ALL AFF
WHICH KOCH'S BACILLI ARE TO BE FOUND IN THEIR PURE CONDITION.
B. THAT IT ACTS ONLY ON AFFECTIONS OF A TUBERCULOUS CHARACTER; the treat
ment has no influence whatever on the other inter-current disease.
tuberculosis pure and simple, an indisputable hypotheamic effect, whereas antipyretic
had no effect at all.
C. Although Umckaloabo is not an antipyretic remedy, it has, especially in cases of
D. That it has a remarkably consistent action in cases of relapse; ITS REGULARITY
OF ACTION CAN BE COMPARED WITH THAT OF QUININE IN ATTACKS OF MALARIA.
E. The fact itself that Umckaloabo often fails to have any effect on surgical cases
with secondary infections and on those with cavities in the lung constitutes one more
ing microbes of all kinds found in a cavity of old date, it would no more be a specific against
Koch's bacilli. It has been found that in complicated cases of associations of micro-
organisms Umckaloabo has a beneficial action only in so far as the organism, freed, thanks
to its action, from the hold of Koch's bacilli, is still capable of taking up, by itself, the
fight against the other micro-organisms. Is there any means which would act efficiently
upon secondary infections? All attempts made with medicines, serums, &c., have had
disappointing results; the only agent capable of assisting the organisms in this fight
is an air cure and high altitudes. In cases which have reached the fibro-caseous stage,
with softening and cavities, the sanatorium alone is capable of bringing about a cure,
the specific action of Umckaloabo being added to a complete rest of the body and of the
mind, a suitable diet, severe hygiene, fresh air breathed for 24 hours each day, and the
vivifying and antiseptic action of the sun.

Third Conclusion.
This treatment possesses very great advantages-
A. IT IS COMPLETELY FREE FROM DANGER; there is no feverish reaction, no limit
of toxicity to be just avoided as one goes round the edge of a precipice. The only risk
the patient runs is when he has an intolerant stomach, which is exceptional.
B. This treatment is comparatively inexpensive, as it does not require any intricate
apparatus, or series of injections to be made by the practitioner. In cases of tuberculosis
pure and simple, patients can be treated entirely at
is very economical. The essential point is to prescribe the remedy in the initial stage of
the disease, prior to the appearance of the secondary infection, which are so much to be
feared.
THIS NEW TREATMENT CONSTITUTES AN ENTIRELY NEW AND REALLY EFFICIENT
WEAPON IN THE FIGHT AGAINST TUBERCULOSIS, AND ITS USE, ONCE IT HAS BECOME GENERAL,
MIGHT CONTRIBUTE LARGELY TO THE ERADICATING OF THIS TERRIBLE SCOURGE.

The Blackburn Cases.
In recording the cases at Blackburn which have come under my notice, I refrain in
the interests of the persons concerned from publishing their addresses, for they would be
certain to be inundated with inquiries. I shall be pleased to give the names and addresses
to representative persons.

A Bad Case Cured.
Early in 1914 a young married woman in Blackburn, an ardent Sunday-school worker,
was compelled to give up her class owing to her having been smitten by tuberculosis.
It was stated that she had lost one lung, that the other was also seriously affected,
and that she also had the affection in the throat. I believe tuberculosis of the throat
has never been cured by the ordinary medical treatment.
I offered, if her husband was agreeable, to arrange for Mr. Stevens to treat her by
tinued the treatment at her own expense for another three months, when she was cured,
correspondence for three months. This was done, and at the end of that period she con-
and has had no further trouble.


---
Mr. Stevens, in a number of testimonials sent out, refers to this as "an easy case".
It cannot have been very easy seeing that the young woman treated had been in the
Blackburn Royal Infirmary for six weeks, that her foot had been in plaster of Paris for
seven months, and that after a consultation between three medical men it was decided
to recommend her to have her foot amputated.
As superintendent of the Sunday-school she attended, I was asked to go and see her
before she underwent the operation.
I did so, and found that she was anxious to try the Stevens Specific. I arranged to
get her the medicine if her doctor did not object. Fortunately for the young woman, he
consented. The following is the record of the case as sent out by Mr. Stevens:
1916. December 11. Miss - wrote: "I have received the medicine. My com-
plaint is all in my ankle. I have been in hospital for six weeks, and had it in plaster
for seven months. It is very swollen."
1917. May 11. "I am still improving and able to walk about. My foot is still swollen,
but very little to what it was. All my friends are surprised how well I have done
since I started to take your medicine. Am only sorry I did not know of it before."
1917. August 8. "I am now able to work; this I owe to your medicine."
1917. October 24. "I am still able to follow my work, and never feel anything wrong
with my foot."
This young woman is to-day strong and well, and has never had the slightest return
of the trouble. She declares that Umckaloabo saved her foot from being amputated.

Tuberculosis Bone.
The next case I know nothing about, except what I found in Mr. Stevens' testimonials,
simply suppressing the address and name, which are given.
On October 19th, 1917, I received the following letter:
"Dear Sir, - Having heard of your marvellous cure of Miss - , I have a daughter
thirteen years old suffering from a tubercular bone in her thigh. She has been going to
the Royal Infirmary for eighteen months, and on crutches ever since she had her leg in
plaster of Paris. She can't bend it, and I should like your advice."
(Some medicine was sent for her by return post.)
1917. December 11. "I am quite satisfied with your treatment for my daughter. She
is going on fine, getting fuller in the face, eating a lot better, and no pain; only when
we feel it (the leg) the pain comes on again."
1918. January 27. "She is still on the mend, and can bend her knee a little without
pain."
1918. April 9. "She is still on the mend."
1918. October 28. "She seems to be doing very nicely; can go about without crutches
and walk very well, only the stiffness has not gone out of her leg yet."
1919. March 16. "Still improving."
1919. April. "Gave up treatment."
1921. March 3. "We have only your treatment to thank; she is doing fine, and has
started work. Use this letter if it be of any service to you."

An Ex-Service Man Cured.
In the early part of this year a young married man who formerly resided in Blackburn
called to see me about Mr. Stevens' treatment for consumption. He was one of four
strong, healthy brothers who went to the war. Three of them were killed on the battle-
field, the fourth being wounded and gassed. This developed into tuberculosis, and he was
pensioned off and advised to take a small farm in the South of England. For two years
he had been under treatment, but gradually grew weaker, and had to engage a man to
look after his place while he tried if residence in Southport would benefit him.
He took Umckaloabo for two months with the consent of his doctor, when he dis-
continued the treatment and returned to his farm.
Writing to me last month he said: "I can now rise at 6.30 a.m., and, with a rest
for an hour after lunch, work in the open until it is dark (which I do every day). A year
ago I was not supposed to do more than four hours a day of light work. I have no boy
to help me now, and I have reared over 500 chickens this year."

To be continued in next Monthly Report.


---
587
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st SEPTEMBER, 1923.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included.
Food only
73 per cent.
68
"
FOOD.
At 1st September the average increase in the cost of the pre-war working-class dietary.
level of July, 1914, as compared with 65 per cent. at 1st August. The retail prices of
as shown by the statistics compiled by the Ministry of Labour, was 68 per cent. above the
eggs, bacon, butter and cheese rose considerably during the month, and milk and fish
were also somewhat dearer, on the average, on 1st September than a month carlier. On
the other hand, there was a considerable fall in the prices of potatoes, and sugar and
British mutton were also cheaper on Ist September than on 1st August.
In the following Table is given a comparison of retail prices of these articles of food
in July, 1914, at 1st August, 1923, and at 1st September, 1923-
Article.
Average Price (per lb. unless
otherwise indicated-
to the nearest d.)
July,
1914.
Ist Aug.,
1923.
1st Sept.,
1923.
Average Inc. (+)
or Dec. (-)
at 1st Sept., 1923,
as compared with
July,
1914.
s. d.
Beef, British-
Ribs
s. d.
Ist Aug.,
1923.
s. d.
0 10
s. d.
I 5
Thin Flank
0 61
0 10
Beef, Chilled or Frozen
Ribs
I 5
+0
+0 3
0
71
0 41
0
I
5
0 10
Thin Flank
Mutton, British-
Legs ..
Breast
Mutton, Frozen-
Legs
Breast
Bacon (streaky)*
0 101
0 5+
0 10
18
3
+0 51
0 II
I
I
0 5+0
I 7
0 63
0
4
0 II
05
+0 5+
I
+0 71
per 7 lb.
Flour
0 101
I
Bread
per 4 lb.
0 31
0
53
Tea
083
0 6
Sugar (granulated)
0
2
I
per quart
0
31
0 5
Milk
05
05+
Butter-
Fresh
I
I
I
8
Salt
0
I
Cheeset
0
I
Margarine
0
83
22
02
0 I
Eggs (fresh)
0 II
0
Potatoes
each
per 7 lb.
0
4
81
0
I
61
0
0 10
4
* If this kind is seldom dealt with in a locality, the returns quote the price of another
kind locally representative.
+ The description of cheese specified for quotation is Canadian or American, but where
such cheese is seldom sold in a locality the returns quote the price of another kind locally
-Labour Gazette, September, 1923.
representative.
---

---
589
must be regarded as together constituting his usual employment, and, therefore, that h
work unless he had taken the evening work also. I think the morning and evening wor
has not ordinarily followed the occupation of door-keeper in addition to and outreide the
ordinary working hours of his usual employment." -Labour
Insurance.
Gazette, September, 1923
HEALTH AND UNEMPLOYMENT CARDS.
Boot Repairer Fined at Newcastle-on-Tyne.
repairer, Wellfield Road, Newcastle, was charged, on two summonses, with having failed
At the Newcastle-on-Tyne Police Court, on Friday last, Thomas Osborne May, boot
to pay contributions under the Health Insurance Act, in respect of an employee, R. W.
Brown, and with having failed to pay his contributions in respect to Unemployment
Mr. Thomas Gibson, District Inspector, Insurance Department, Ministry of Health,
who prosecuted, said the youth Brown, who was dismissed from the defendant's service on
30th June, was employed by the defendant as a boot finisher. Brown asked his employer
for his cards, and, had stated, that the defendant refused to give them to him. Brown
pocket. Brown alleged that the defendant thereupon assaulted him. When Brown
knew where the cards were kept at the shop, and he obtained them and put them in his
went to the Minstry of Health office to report the case he was very agitated.
The matter was further aggravated by the fact that Brown stated that the defendant
had made various deductions from his wages. On one occasion a lump sum was deducted.
Brown had IOS. a week as wages, but one week he received only 3s. 6d., the rest going to
payment of contributions for health and unemployment insurance. From May, 1922, to
30th June, 1923, the defendant had affixed only four stamps in the unemployment book,
up and threw it in a wastepaper basket. He had no right to do that, as the card was the
instead of about fifty. When Brown went for his insurance card the defendant tore it
property of the Ministry of Health. The Ministry regarded the case as a serious one in
ow of the treatment of the employee, and they asked that, in addition to any penalty,
an order should be made for the payment by the defendant of the arrears, amounting to
I 17s. 6d. for health insurance and £3 IIS. 3d. for unemployment insurance.
Brown said he worked for the defendant from the end of May, 1922, until 30th June
last, when he was dismissed because he had been late that morning. The defendant
assaulted him by taking hold of him and hitting him. He was 19 years of age, and had
not been in the trade before. He took on the work till he was able to get a fresh job.
He asked for his money and cards, but the defendant said he would not give them to him.
Witness obtained the cards, and the defendant hit him. If it had not been for a woman
who intervened he would not have got out of the shop alive. There was another card,
which the defendant told him to tell the authorities had been lost. The defendant tore
up that card and threw it into a wastepaper basket.
view
Mr. Gibson: You were paid a weekly wage of ros.? Witness: Yes.
Mr. Gibson: Did Mr. May make any deductions from your wages for unemployment
insurance? Witness: Yes, he kept the whole of my wages one week.
Mr. Gibson: On what grounds? Witness: He said he could not pay because his
business was bad. He told me later he had kept it for the insurance, and I said " All
right."
Mr. Gibson: Did he make deductions on any other occasion? Witness: Another
time he gave me 3s. rod. He said there were boots in the shop to go out, and he would
make the wages up. The people came in for them, and he got the money on the Monday.
I did not get it.
Mr. Gibson: Did he tell you it was stopped for health insurance? Witness: Not
till two or three weeks after. He said he had kept it for the stamps, and I said "All
right." He did not make deductions every week.
Magistrate's Clerk: When he deducted the lump sums, were these deducted in advance
or were they for the past? Witness: They were for the time being, and to stamp future
cards.
The defendant said he was willing to pay the arrears. It had been neglect on his part.
At the beginning of the year he and Brown came to an agreement as to putting on of the
stamps. Brown was to put on the stamps for health insurance and defendant was to put
on the others. He was to pay Is. 7d. and Brown 10d. He (defendant) relied on Brown's
honesty. It was a case of balancing one against the other.
The Magistrates fined the defendant f2 in each case, and made an order for the pay-
was £9 8s. od. - The Shoe and Leather Record, 31st August, 1923.
ment of the arrears of contributions. The total amount in which the defendant was mulcted


---
590
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT CASE.
Month for Norwich Boot Repairer.
At Norwich Guildhall Police-court yesterday David Hume, of Exeter Street, was
summoned for obtaining unemployment benefit by false representation. Mr. Keefe, who
appened to preseente on behalf of
ant war paid 21., the pension which he would have been entitled had he been unemployed
f of the Ministry of Labour, said that on March 16th defend-
throughout the year as a boot worker, for the firms of Barratt & Co. Ltd., and the Saxone
Co. Ltd.
Frank Parsons, of the Norwich Employment Exchange, spoke to having received a
signed application from defendant.
George Albert Gutteridge, of the Norwich Employment Exchange, said that he paid
the defendant 255. on receiving from him a signed form, on March 16th.
Reginald P. Kemp, an employee of Barratt & Co., shoe manufacturer, said that he
had seen defendant in the firm's shop. Defendant was a boot and shoc repairer. Defend-
ant used to send up a boy to fetch his work. He was paid by cheque from the headquarters
for him. Witness could not give figures as the accounts had not been sent from North-
ampton.
Frederick Thomas Allen, an employee of the Saxone Shoe Co. Ltd., said he knew
defendant, who had repaired boots and shoes. Defendant used to send for his work until
March 19th. After that date defendant called himself. On March roth the firm paid
him ₤1 8s. od. On March 17th defendant was paid £1 5s. od.
Defendant said that he had received £2 6s. od. per week from the Guardians when
unemployed. He went to the Saxone Shoe Co., and got a job. He did not get much
money from it. He signed on the Labour Exchange with the idea of getting a better job.
He never expected benefits as he had never paid the insurance.
The Chairman-How do you explain signing the form saying that you could get no
work? -I gave my job to another man to keep open for me until trade should pick up.
The Chairman said: "Your case is typical of a great many cases that have been far
too frequent before this Bench. Unfortunately for your case it is a thoroughly bad one,
in which there are no extenuating circumstances, and you will have to go to prison for a
month with hard labour."-Eastern Daily Press, 22nd August, 1923.
WANTED-MEN.
There's the chap with the "Can't," and the chap with the "Won't,"
And the chap who's betwixt, more or less;
There's the chap with an "Aye," when it ought to be "Nay," and
The "No," when it ought to be "Yes."
There's the chap who's too weak to get up when he's down-too
Bluffed to strike back when he's hit,
And the chap who bobs up when he ought to stay down; and the
Chap who does nothing but sit.
There's the chap who is brave when he's nothing to fear, and
The chap who's afraid without shame.
But the world wanting men has no patience with these-what it
Wants is the fellow dead game!
What it wants is the chap with the "Can" and the "Will," and the
"Get up" and "Hustle" and "Do";
And the chap who " comes back," with a smile on his face, when the
World thinks he's beaten clean through;
The chap who'll back down when he knows he is wrong, and the
Chap who'll stand pat when he's right,
And the chap who keep faith when he pledges his word, and will
Back up his stand with a fight;
The chap who forever puts right above wrong, and honour o'er
Riches and fame;
Ah, he is the chap that the world's looking for-the trustworthy
Fellow-dead game!
-" Exchange," Shoe Workers' Journal.


---
591
THE DAILY HERALD
As a result of a Shop Collection taken at the True Form Factory, Barry Road, South-
ampton, 42 IIS. 6d. has been sent to the Daily Herald, and best wishes for the use
of our paper.
66 IN THE MELTING POT."
Affairs of a Kingswood Boot Manufacturer.
At Bristol Police Court yesterday, Messrs. Jay Bros. were summoned under the
Factory Acts for failing to keep a register. There were two summonses, and Mr. H. W.
Brown, who appeared for defendants, pleaded guilty to both charges.
Mr. James Owner, H.M. Inspector of Factories, explained that Jay Bros., a boot
manufacturing firm at Kingswood, failed to keep a general register showing the names
of young persons employed, dates of lime-washing, particulars of accidents, &c. The other
summons referred to a register of names and addresses of people who were doing work in
their homes, of whom Jay's employed 41, so that they could be visited by the inspector
to see that their working conditions were all right. Jay Bros.' factory at Bolton Lane
came within the city boundary in 1921, and since then witness and his predecessor had
written to them several times, and witness had interviewed Mr. Walter Jay three times,
but he could not get him to produce the register.
Forms as Greek or Latin to Proprietor.
Mr. Brown said he had known Mr. Jay for 40 years. He could not write his own
name, and could no more fill up the forms referred to than he could translate a Latin or
Greek book. There were thousands owing, the firm was bankrupt, and its affairs were
in the melting pot. If the justices saw fit to inflict a fine, Mr. Brown could only pay it
himself.
Answering Alderman Whitefield, Mr. Owner said this was not the first time he had had
trouble with Mr. Jay. He had complained to him personally on four occasions, and sent
four times for offences under the Factory Acts, the last occasion being in 1919, when he
two letters to him. In the last 20 years he had been before the Lawford's Gate magistrates
was fined 40s. for having an unfenced fly-wheel.
The magistrates (Mr. A. G. Verrier and Alderman William Whitefield) imposed a
fine of 20s. in each case. —Bristol Times, 28th August, 1923.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914: All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923
January 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78
February 15 35 65-70 90 130 120 151 88 77
March 15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 86 76
April 15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 82 74
May 20 40-45 75 100 105 141 128 81 70
June 25 45 75-80 100-105 105-110 119 150 80 69
July 25 45-50 80 110 115 152 119 84 69
August 25 45-50 80-85 110 115 155 122 81 71
September 25 50 115-120 80-85 161 120 79 73
October 30 50-55 120 75-80 125 164 110 78
November 30-35 60 120-125 85 176 103 80
December 35 65 85 120 169 125 99 80
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement,
1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922)
Agreement, and present date.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
WAR OFFICE. — BOOTS: Northants Productive Society, Wollaston: Tebbutt & Hall
Bros., Raunds; S. Walker, Walgrave.


---
Here is the extracted text:
592
REPORT AND BALANCE SHEET OF THE LEICESTER CO-OPERATIVE
PRINTING SOCIETY LIMITED.
We have pleasure in submitting the 61st Half-yearly Report and Balance Sheet
half-year. After providing for Interest on Share and Loan Capital which amounts to
pared with the corresponding period of last year, but an increase of 1,201 Over the previous
The Sales for the half-year amount to £24,003 175. 8d., a decrease of f1,338 3S. IId.com.
of £1,043 9s. 6d. brought forward from last half-year, and the remaining balance of
fo86 5s. 8d., and depreciating Fixed Stock, Buildings, &c., £1,069 125. 8d., there is a
balance profit of £304 5S. 2d. This amount has been deducted from the adverse balance
£739 45. 4d. written off the Reserve Fund.
Considering all the circumstances, the Committee regard the result of the half-year's
work as very satisfactory. It is a good recovery from the position at the end of the previous
half-year, and testifies to the effectiveness of the reorganisation and measures of economy
which have been instituted. The prevailing depression in trade, which naturally reacts
on our own industry, is still making it very difficult to obtain the amount of work needed
to keep the works fully employed, but during the greater part of the past half-year we were
fortunate in having a steady flow of orders. At the commencement of the half-year
management generally have proved to be very valuable and to have fully justified the
Mr. H. S. Halford was appointed as Works Manager and Estimator at the Leicester Printing
Works. Mr. Halford's services in the direction of close supervision and assistance in
having installed a Rotary Offset Machine and accessories, thus bringing this department
appointment. We have made an important addition to our plant in the Litho Department,
thoroughly up to date.
LONDON BRANCH. - An important development is taking place here. The owners of
the premises we occupy at present now require them for their own purpose, and we have
been compelled to seek fresh quarters. After considering many propositions we have
securedad. It is admirably adapted for our purpose, although too large for our sole use
for the time being. We are subletting the upper floors and utilising the basement, which
will provide the necessary accommodation and improved conditions for working which
we have been needing for so long. The trade has been well maintained here and the better
facilities in prospect will be helpful from every point of view.
BOX DEPARTMENT. - The continued depression in the Boot and Hosiery trades is
making business very difficult to maintain, but we are glad to report that on the whole
trade has been well maintained. The Sales for the half-year amount to £6,235, a decrease
of £1,061 compared with the corresponding period of last year, but an increase of £888
over the previous half-year.
PRODUCTION OF FOOTWEAR IN DENMARK.
1922 Figures Below those for 1913.
The total production of boots and shoes in Denmark during last year amounted to
2,217,000 pairs, valued at approximately 30,000,000 crowns, says the Chamber of Commerce
Journal. This compares with 2,315,000 pairs in 1921, 3,557,000 pairs in 1920, when
production attained its maximum, and 2,400,000 pairs in the last pre-war year.
Sales have been somewhat greater than production. During 1922 Denmark imported
footwear, principally from Germany, to the amount of 790,800 kilos., as compared with
574,900 kilos. in 1921. Converting Danish production into weight, the total during last
year was 1,257 tons, as compared with 783 tons imported. The value of imported footwear
last year amounted to 13,200,000 crowns, c.i.f. Danish harbour or station. - The Shoe and
Leather Record, 31st August, 1923.
SCOTTISH CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LTD.
The report of the Scottish Co-operative Wholesale Society for the half-year ended
30th June states that net sales totalled £8,318,711, a decrease of £149,867 from the corres
ponding period of 1922. Value of goods manufactured in productive departments amounts
to £2,570,661, a decrease of £191,288. The balance brought forward was 23,230, and the
tion, a dividend on purchases to members and non-members at the rate of 3d. per pound
and ind. per pound respectively is proposed, placing £17,330 to reserve and 11, 161 to special
fund, and leaving
After meeting all expenses and


---
```text
593
EPIDEMICS.
Influenza Far More Deadly in Effecto Than Smallpox.
Interesting statistics appear in a chapter devoted to epidemics. In 1922 the notific-
ations of smallpox totalled 1,042, although the net total cases was only 973. Of thee.
27 were fatal,
For the first six months of this year, 1,294 have been notified.
In this connection the report says it is obvious that the vaccination laws are in need
of amendment, but "the protection which vaccination and re-vaccination may afford
cannot be disputed
proe-vaccination times."
Of other epidemics there was a real increase in influenzal pneumonia in March and
April. Of the total deaths due to this cause in England and Wales (21,948), 2,600 occurred
in London.
The relation of food to health is discussed, and it is stated that during last year 113,860
samples of various foodstuffs and drugs were examined. Of these 7,106 were found to be
adulterated, giving a percentage of 6.2, as against 6.7 in the previous year. - Daily Herald,
oth September, 1923.
A TESTIMONIAL TO MAJOR STEVENS' TREATMENT.
DEAR MR. POULTON,
NORTHAMPTON,
29th August, 1923.
I am writing to you to discontinue taking Mr. Stevens' treatment for a time,
as I am feeling myself again now. I thought it such a pity to take it when I am feeling
allright. I have been taking it for three years altogether, as I had been taking it for some
time before the Union took it up. I wish to thank you very much for the benefit I have
received and should I fall ill again, I hope you will be able to see your way to let me continue
treatment again.
I once again thank you very much.
I remain, yours truly,
MRS. F. E. B.
£500,000,000 TURNOVER.
What the C.W.S. Bank does Yearly.
The Red Lion Square branch of the C.W.S. Bank, through which much of the trade
union business of its clients has been transacted in London, is to be removed next week,
along with the offices of the Co-operative Insurance Society, to premises in Kingsway,
formerly known as West Africa House, and in future to be known as Clare House, they being
on the site of the old Clare Market.
There are 8,187 trade unions and trade union branches now banking with the C.W.S.,
in addition to 1,029 Co-operative societies and 3,458 friendly societies, clubs and other
working-men's organisations. The bank has a turnover of £500 millions a year. - Daily
Herald, 30th August, 1923.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. -Membership of Unions reporting at end of August, 1923,
75,420. Unemployed at the end of August, 1923, 4,513; percentage, 6.0. Increase in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.8; year ago, 1.9.-Labour
Gazette, September, 1923.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES IN GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND
AT 27th AUGUST, 1923.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPERS AND CLOG TRADES. - Men, 11,229; Women, 3,710; Juve-
niles, 705; Total, 15,644. Increase as compared with 23rd July, 1923, 597. - Labour
Gazette, September, 1923.
```

---
Here's the extracted text from the image, formatted for readability:

**NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF UNION OFFICERS.**

Tel. No.: 4438 Museum, London. Tel. Address: "Natunishop, Phone, London."

**GENERAL PRESIDENT.**
Private Address-7, Mecklenburg Street, London, W.C. 1. NO business communications to this Address,
T. F. RICHARDS, Business Address-34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1,

**GENERAL SECRETARY.**
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 69, Freegrove Road, Holloway, London, N.7.

**ORGANISERS.**
D. MCCARTHY, 23, Avenue Road Extension, Leicester.
W. R. SMITH, J.P.." Belle Vue," Old Catton, Norwich
L. SMITH, 26, Semilong Road, Northampton.

**EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.**
District No. 1-T. ADNITT, 65, Marfitt Street, Leicester.
" " 2-C. BATES, 8, Denmark Road, Rushden.
" " 3-A. W. LYNE, 21, Cranstoun Street, Northampton.
" " 4-Vacant.
" " 5C. MAYES, 25, Pollard Street, Kettering.
" " 6-Vacant.
" " 8-W. HINDES, J.P., 9, Tillett Road, North Walsham Road,
Norwich.
" " 9C. BLEAKLEY, 1, Drum Terrace, Edinburgh.
" 10-A. J. DOBBS, 6, Bramley Avenue, Bramley, Leeds.
" 12-J. MANNERS, 19, Downend Road, Fishponds, Bristol.

**UNION TRUSTEES.**
S. THOMPSON, J.P., 97, Charles Street, Northampton.
L. E. BRADLEY, J.P..."Flossless, Barton Seagrave, Kettering.
GEO. PARBURY, 118, Harrison Road, Leicester.
Miss E. A. TIMMS, 6, Scott Street, Leicester.
H. H. WOOLLEY, J.P.. 124, Narborough Road, Leicester.

**PARLIAMENTARY AGENTS.**
T. F. RICHARDS, 34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
J. BUCKLE, M.P., J.P., 13, Eighteenth Avenue, New Wortley, Leeds.
W. R. SMITH, J.P., "Belle Vue," Old Catton, Norwich.
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 69, Freegrove Road, Holloway, London, N. 7.
L. SMITH, 26, Semilong Road, Northampton.

**AUDITOR.**
J. B. B. ROBERTSON, F.L.A.A., F.R.C.A.,
241, Uppingham Road, Leicester.

**BANKERS.**
CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LTD., London.

**NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.** - Approved No. 281.
Manager: R. D. MAYES, Business Address-34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
TEL.: 5168 MUSEUM.

Printed by Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Limited, 99, Church Gate, for
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, 34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.

**OCTOBER, 1923.**

Telephone No.:
4438 Museum, London.

Telegraphic Address:
Natunistiop, Phone, London."

Seat of Government and General Secretary's Office:
34, GUILFORD ST., LONDON, W.C. 1.
Where all business communications must be addressed.

Monthly
Report
of the
NATIONAL
UNION OF
BOOT & SHOE
OPERATIVES
(Registered under the Trade Union Acts, Register No. 432 T).

General President:
T. F. RICHARDS.

General Secretary:
E. L. POULTON, J.P.

PRICE ONE PENNY.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
Those Reports are Printed for
the Use of Members only.
::
SPECIAL NOTICES
ALL RETURNS TO BE SENT IN TIME TO REACH THE
OFFICE BY THE 15th OF EACH MONTH, OTHERWISE A FINE
It is particularly requested that Branch Secretaries should send
Cash WITH the Returns, and not send Stamps in Payment.
OF 2s. 6d. WILL BE ENFORCED.
The following Goods can be had at the Office :-
Branch Contribution Books in various sizes.
Shops Clerks' Books, ruled and well bound.
Receipt Books.
Address printed on.
Large and Small Envelopes, with General Secretary's Name and
Contribution Cards, with Secretary's Name and Address printed
Is. 10d. dozen up to 20 dozen,
on front, and also without name.
Is. 7d. dozen over 20 dozen.
Official Note Paper. with Printed Heading and Names and
Addresses of Secretaries.
Sick Certificate Books.
Books of Rules are supplied to Branches at 1d. each,
Return Sheets, Out-of-Work Benefit Sheets, Out-of-Work
Contribution Sheets, Out-of-Work Insurance Contribution Sheets,
Victimisation Sheets, Compensation Sheets, Travelling Sheets.
Dispute Sheets, Arbitration Forms, Funeral Forms, and Bail Notes
in Books are supplied Free.
All Claims to be sent in on the forms provided for that purpose.
ORGANISING BILLS will be supplied FREE to Branches upon
application to the General Secretary.
Boots, Shoes and Slippers
bearing
leolit pean your Footwear
tep
the Stamp.
UNION OF BOT
NATIONT
JUNIOR
COPYRIGHT
ERATIVES
With the Union Stamp on are
supplied by the following firms :
Higham Ferrers Co-operative Society, Higham
The
Ferrers, Northants
" Equity"
Co-operative Society, Western
Road, Leicester
The
"Self-Help"
Road, Leicester Co-operative Society. Dartford
" Excelsior"
near Leicester
The "
The
"Pioneer"
Co-operative Society, Sileby,
Co-operative Society, Clare
The Union Co-operative Society, Regent Street,
Manufacturera of
Mon's & Youtho'
Stamp Ne.
1
Women's & Girls'
2
3
Kettering
Street, Northampton
Women's & Girls'
4
All kinds
5
Northamptonshire
Society, Wollaston, Northants
Productive Co-operative
Boys', Youths' & Men's 6
Kettering
Havelock Co-operative Society, Havelock Street,
Northampton
Leicestershire
L. L. P. Co-operative Society, Abington Street,
Boys', Youths' & Men's 7
Boys', Youths' & Men's 8
Messrs. Dronfield & Co., Chesterfield
Glenfield Progress Co-operative Society, Glenfield,
All kinds
9
Women's & Girls'
Leicestershire
Sperope Boot Manufacturing Co. Ltd., Barwell,
Men's & Boys' Strong
Nailed Work
10
11
Ladies', Girls' & Boys' 12
13
All kinds of Children's 14
All kinds
15
All kinds..
17
All kinds..
18
New Gate Street, Bishop Auckland
Higham Road, Chesham
Chesham Boot and Shoe Manufacturers Limited, Men's, Youths' & Boys'
Strong & Half Strong 21
Nailed and Bradded
Works, Desborough
Crompton Boot Manufacturers Ltd., "I & U"
Boots and Shoes
23
All kinds
24
Walker & Gunn, Higham Ferrers, Northants
25
Jacques & Son, Rushden
26
Messrs. J. T. Marriott & Co., 74, St. Nicholas Square, Leicester
Messrs. S. Trolley & Co., Finedon, Northants
Wm. Timpson Ltd., Kettering
27
28
All kinds
29
Mr. T. S. Bunting, 37, Clare Street, Northampton All kinds
Anchor Boot Co-operative Society, Asfordby St.,
Leicester
Plymouth Mutual Co-operative Society Limited.
Treville Street, Plymouth
Mr. Norman McLeod, Strathmartine Boot
Factory, Dundee
Burrows Bros., Earl Street, Northampton
Bishop Auckland Industrial Co-operative Society,
A List of Retail Shops where Union Stamped Footwear can be obtained may be had
on application to Mr. E. L. POULTON, J.P., 34, Guilford Street, London W.C. 1.
PUSH THE UNION STAMPED GOODS.
October.
A


---
Here is the extracted text:
CL POULTON ..
Nearest Fo
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph O
Red Lion Street, Londra, A
MONTHLY
REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
STATE OF TRADE.
22ND OCJODE 192
The state of trade during the past month continued quiet, and the demand
made upon the Union's Unemployment Fund was higher than of late. The
figures recorded by the Ministry of Labour Gazette are set out hereunder:
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment during September remained very slack, and much short time was again
worked. Some districts showed a slight improvement; others, including several of the
principal centres, a decline. On the whole, there was not much change as compared
with August.
Among workpeople covered by the Unemployment Insurance Acts the number
registered as unemployed was 14,785 on 24th September, as compared with 15,644 on
27th August.
In of
year. In the Leicester and Northampton districts it was slack, and showed a decline:
short time was general. At Kettering employment remained quiet generally, but a good
number of firms were on full time at the end of the month, and employment was decidedly
better than in September of last year. There was an improvement at Hinckley, at Welling
borough, and in the Rushden district; in the last-named district employment was reported
as fair. Employment continued slack at Stafford, the average time worked being 32
hours a week; but it was good at Stone, where some overtime was worked. Employ
ment was very slack at Derby. At Bristol there was general slackness; but at Kingswood
there was a slight improvement, especially among women workers. At Leeds employment
continued bad generally, though some firms were again well employed. At Norwich


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

612

of the workpeople were on
much unemployment; some firms, however, were still on
nd it was generally fair. At Maybole there was a further
Table summarises the information received from those employers

Number of Workpeople

Week
ended
22nd Sept.,
1923

Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a

Month ago
Per
cent.
+ 0.4
- 1.0
+ 0.7
- 0.4

Year ago
Per
cent.
- 9.2
- 0.9
- 0.6
Total Wages paid to all
Workpeople

Week
ended
22nd Sept.,
1923
£
4,080
16,382
4,909
15,887
Per
cent.
+ 0.1
- 9.9
+ 2.4
- 1.6
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a

Month ago
Per
cent.
-14.9
- 18.0
- 6.2
+ 3.3
+ 0.4
+ 2.0
+ 5.8
+ 3.5
-1.2
+ 0.4
- 3.1
4.7
- 0.5
-0.7
+ 7.3
-12.2
- 4.1
+ 1.9
+ 1.6
+ 7.2
- 4.0
4,549
4,163
- 2.1
+ 6.5
- 8.7
- 6.1
- 0.4
- 5.2
- 1.4
- 2.6
- 7.8
- 6.9
- 14.2
+ 1.9
+ 2.0
2,484
+ 6.3
- 6.2
+ 0.1
+ 0.7
101,257
- 2.4
- 6.1
- 0.4
+ 1.0
5,233
- 0.4
+ 0.8
+ 0.1
+ 0.7
106,490
- 2.3
- 5.8
* Comparison of earnings is affected by reductions in rates of wages.
Returns from firms employing 42,546 workpeople in the week ended 22nd September,
showed that about 45 per cent. of these workpeople worked short time in that week, to
the extent of about 13 hours each on an average.
The exports of boots and shoes in September, 1923, amounted to 129,727 dozen pairs,
or 30,316 dozen pairs more than in August, 1923, and 59,615 dozen pairs more than in
September, 1922.-Labour Gazette, October, 1923.
DECEMBER (1922) NATIONAL AGREEMENT.
Owing to the fact that the Cost of Living figures for September, published
in this month's Ministry of Labour Gazette, stating that the cost of living is 75
points above July, 1914, the rates of wages payable to boot and shoe operatives
in accordance with the above-named Agreement will be as follow:—
The MINIMUM DAY WAGE RATES as set out in the Interim Agree-
ment, February, 1922, and based upon the index figure of the cost of
living are as under. Changes are to become effective on the first pay
day in June or November, and are to be based upon the


---
Here is the extracted text:
613
A. Male Operatives Employed in other than Heel Building Department
AGE
16
17
18
19
WHEN INDEX FIGURE
IS OVER 70
19/6
23/0
29/0
35/6
AGE
20
21
22
23
WHEN INDEX FIGURE
IS OVER 70
42/6
53/0
56/6
60/0
B. Male Operatives Employed in Heel Building Departments or in the
Stock or Shoe Rooms.
AGE
16
17
18
19
WHEN INDEX FIGURE
IS OVER 70
17/6
21/0
26/0
32/6
AGE
20
21
22
23
WHEN INDEX FIGURE
IS OVER 70
39/6
50/0
53/3
57/0
C Female Operatives Employed in the Closing and Heel Building Depart-
ments or in the Stock or Shoe Rooms.
AGE
16
17
18
WHEN INDEX FIGURE
IS OVER 70
17/0
21/0
25/6
AGE
19
20
WHEN INDEX FIGURE
IS OVER 70
31/0
36/0
These are day rates only, and the piecework statements will require the
additional percentage rates being included.
The rates of wages named above will operate as and from the 8th, 9th and
10th November prox.
We trust the members will see that the Agreement is loyally carried out.
A statement of the above fact has been sent to every boot and shoe manu-
facturer in the country, as follows :-
To all Boot and Shoe Manufacturers.
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1,
BOOT OPERATIVES' WAGES.
22nd October, 1923.
GENTLEMEN,
I beg to call your attention to Clause 8 of the December (1922)
National Agreement-copy enclosed-wherein provision is made for a
readjustment in the wages of Operatives when the Index figure of
the cost of living is over 70 full points. The figure recorded in the
October issue of the Ministry of Labour Gazette shows that the figure
has risen during the past six months, and now stands at 75 points
above July, 1914.
The change in rates of wages will become effective on the first
clear pay day in November-i.e., 8th, 9th, or 10th November.


---
614
The Executive Council of the Union trust that you will see
the Agreement is loyally carried out.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
In the event of the Agreement not being adhered to, the matter should
be immediately reported to the local officials who, in turn, will report the
matter to the Central Office if they cannot adjust the matters locally.
VOTING FOR ORGANISER.
The Council at their meeting this week had before them many letters
of complaint relative to a letter which appeared over the name of Mr.
James Gribble, of Northampton in the Northampton Echo for the 5th of
September, 1923, in connection with the recent vote for the third Union
organiser.
After careful consideration, the Council unanimously passed the fol-
lowing resolution :-
" That the Executive Council of the Union learned, with surprise,
that in connection with the recent voting for organiser, Mr. James
Gribble, of Northampton, should have written to the local press showing
preference to one of the candidates, and thereby showing bias as to the
way members are to vote. The Council deprecate such action, and
trust that NO member will adopt such a policy, as it is both unfair,
and likely to prejudice the position and create endless confusion and
ill-feeling."
THE SUSPENSION BENEFIT.
This is the first month wherein the new rule granting benefit to suspended
members has been payable, but we are as yet unable to give the number of
members who have drawn benefit, as the records cannot be completed until
the end of the month. Meanwhile, we wish to impress upon officials and
members the fact that the rule must be fully complied with before payment is
made. The rule relative to this benefit is as follows :-
216. ANY member who may be suspended from work for more than
TWELVE CONSECUTIVE WORKING DAYS shall be allowed to declare upon
the Out-of-Work Fund of the Union, payment from such Fund to the
member to COMMENCE as and from the THIRTEENTH WORKING DAY upon
which the member is not employed; it always being understood that the
officials must themselves be satisfied that the suspension is bond fide
before benefit is allowed under this rule. Holidays are not to be counted
as entitling a member to claim benefit under this rule. In the event of
a member resuming work, and again being suspended, he must serve a
further probation of twelve consecutive working days before again being
entitled to re-declare upon the Out-of-Work Fund under this special rule.


---
Here is the extracted text:
615
NOTE. For the purposes of the paragraph relating to
for holidays the following is the method for calculating th
Easter, three days.
Whitsuntide, three days.
August, one week
Christmas, one week.
FOR SCOTLAND-The July Holidays, one week.
The New Year Holidays, one week.
During the above-named suspension the members must sign
Out-of-Work Book every day, otherwise they will not be entitled to decla
upon the Funds, which for payment purposes commences upon the
thirteenth working day of suspension.
Cases have already occurred where enquiries have had to be made from
the Central Office before the benefit was authorised, owing to some misunder-
standing having arisen.
COUNCIL MEMBER No. 4 DISTRICT.
As Mr. I. H. Johnson, J.P., of Daventry, is the only nominee for
Mr. Johnson will find the work of the Council helpful and that he may
Council Member for No. 4 district, he is elected unopposed. We trust
still further the influence of the Union in the District.
JUBILEE CONFERENCE, 1924.
The Special Conference of the Union, agreed to by the Delegates to tle
Conference at Whitsuntide of this year, will be held at the Borough Hall,
Stafford, on 9th, 10th, 11th June, 1924. If any branch has questions of
policy they wish to raise, the same should be sent along to the General
Secretary NOT LATER than the 15th February, 1924.
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR No. 6 DISTRICT.
At our meeting this month a letter was received from the LEICESTER
WOMEN'S BRANCH-the only branch in No. 6 District-intimating that they
a member to represent them on
have reconsidered the question of sending
the Council, and that they have unanimously re-elected Mrs. M. J. Bell-
Richards as their representative. This nomination we have unanimously
Endorsed.
WINTER PROSPECTS-UNEMPLOYMENT.
The present position of affairs, whether looked at from the industrial,
itical or economic standpoint, is very unsatisfactory. There does not appear
be any real trust or confidence between the nations such as is necessary
ring about more stable and promising state of affairs than at present obtains.
far as the British Government is concerned, we cannot but express our
great disappointment at the lack of vision and courage at present shown
Ministry. The newspapers-without regard to party colour-are daily
up the question of unemployment, but what is missing is the putting
ing schemes which will need the skill and labour of the great armies of
es who are vainly asking for work. Promises are made and statements


---
616
I that the Government is seriously considering the question. This
whilst men and women are starving for the want of the bare
ole output at present upon the vital question-" seriously
We have upon more than one occasion called attention to
the programme of the Trades Union Congress and the Labour Party, who have
muatic of life.
hemes drawn up for dealing with this question, and we wish to refer to several
points in that programme. Firstly there is
HOUSING.
Apart from finding employment for hundreds of men, and they in their
turn by spending wages finding employment for others, there is the great
scandal attached to this question of the bad housing of millions of people in
all parts of the country, yet at the present moment Health Weeks are .being
held in cities and towns whilst the main thing which would help to materially
improve the health of the people is proper housing accommodation. Houses
are lacking because of the timidity of the Government to deal with such a vital
issue.
Then there is the question of canals, afforestation, reclaiming of foreshores,
making of new roads, improvement of existing roads, all of which would find
work of a useful and beneficial nature to the nation as a whole. We are
driven to the point time after time to find the will is lacking in the present
Government to seriously tackle these great questions. It is, therefore, incum-
bent upon all workers to not only keep a live interest in the various trade
unions, but to also spread abroad the fact that if these matters are to receive
that treatment which the seriousness of the position calls for, men and women
must be placed in authority-both nationally and locally-who will not shrink
from dealing with the vested interests which stand in the way, and whose power
is so great at the present time. It may be said (and with truth, that difficulties
would be found in putting these schemes into operation. Difficulties have
always to be met when great reforms are adopted. We hope, however, no one
will be dis-spirited because of the need for great courage and determination
being necessary in connection with such matters. We must keep pegging
away and convert public opinion to our views. There is one other serious
question to which we wish to refer, and that is the question of
WAR.
We are all well aware of the phrase "War to End War." War will not be
ended until the overwhelming majority of the people have the will to peace
and make known to those in authority, in no unmistakable manner, that war
between nations should be brought to an end for all time, and in its stead
reason shall be brought to bear to settle differences which may arise between
nations. One has only to read their newspaper from day to day to see how
near nations are to a militarist outbreak. It is the more imperative, therefore,
that all those who believe in peace and goodwill should use their energy and
influence to not only prevent war, but to bring into being an era of peace. trust
and confidence between the nations.


---
618
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
work, or any transfer to any other system or notice of any change of any sort.
We are at present aware of advice being given by some that absolute freedom prevails
in the employers' choice of the above. We deny that. Such can only be done after due
notice, or in a general sense only after due consideration and with the approval of the
local board. Clause ro, Sub-section C. deals with anomalies only, and any attempt to
do more than this should be immediately reported.
LEGAL FORCE OF AGREEMENTS. - The Trade Press has dealt many times with the
action of the Trades Union Congress at Plymouth and the confirmation of the National
Agreements by passing such legislation as to enable such Agreements to have the full
force of law, and although some even of our members may hold diverse views on the matter.
none of us can dogmatise either way, but after many years of voluntary effort many of us
think that the non-unionist has too much of the good things provided for him by his less
selfish comrade, who thinks a little pressure will do the "pay for nothing" person a lot
of good. It was in this manner we entered into the spirit of a scheme for the Industry
and paid part expenses for same being drafted, and it ill becomes big unions who are con-
tinually asking the Government to give their own industry special treatment, and to find
the finances for such a purpose and yet deny another industry legal enforcement only of
their conditions.
Already on one important point we stand alone as the only Union in the world which
has a monetary guarantee between both sides as a guarantee against Lock-outs or Strikes
before resorting to Arbitration. We are perhaps the only Union in the world that had
help from the Employers' Federation for Strikers' children during a dispute, and like the
Cotton Operatives, we are one of the few, who, under proper safeguards, believe in and
practise Piecework or Payment by Results.
Therefore, it is nothing new that we should have a different point of view to many
other Unions who prefer other means and methods of working, which they are welcome to
adopt, but must allow others similar freedom, which means that they would not present
adopt National Agreements for legal enforcement, whereas we should; and with my
present experience of Trades Boards should prefer that power than our adherence to the
Voluntary Registration of Agreements.
The TRADE BOARD held a two days' meeting at Whitehall, where we have been review-
ing the past D 22 and D 23 Lists to correct anomalies, grant permits and to revise prices,
if necessary, but after being warned that the wages paid to Managers and Foremen was
about to be challenged, it was, after postponement from one day to the next, allowed to
go unchallenged to the country. A careful review of the prices and conditions as reported
on previous occasions will bear comparison with prices and conditions generally in the
majority of trades. This may not receive the "puff" that some other work gets, but it
is the greatest feat known in our industry, the reason for its success being the work of both
sides aided by three independent gentlemen who hear all the discussions and evidence,
and act as mediators in the finding of agreement between us, in which they have been
unusually successful.
In connection with the above I have had to approach a large firm of multiple shop-
keepers as to the payment of Trade Board rates by one of their Managers in a town 100
miles from the Chief Office. My complaint was that the Ministry had been dealing with
the Manager instead of the Directorate, and further, instead of the Ministry advising
conciliatory means on the report and advice of a Special Committee, including the Chair-
man, they were considering the effect of a prosecution; here was the bold, bald idea of
resorting to force before trying conciliation. I knew many of the Directors, paid the firm
a visit and saw one of the Principals, who has investigated the matter and has recom-
mended a course we are about to follow in a few days. We have no fear but of a settlement
satisfactory to all concerned, and in the meantime the Ministry is taking the case up again
and paying special visits.
KINGSWOOD. After the last Council Meeting the General Officers of the Union
attended an Annual Rally of the Kingswood branches of the Union, but owing to the wet
weather and perhaps bad trade, there was not as good a gathering as the work of the last
twelve months deserved. It has been a long dreary business and our Organiser, Mr.
W. R. Smith, made the statement that the Union could congratulate itself on the fact
that he estimated that not less than 90 per cent. of the operatives working at the industry
in that area were in receipt of the Holiday Scheme in such a manner that the operatives
---

---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

619
ever paid the employers' share as to need little amendment to bring members of the Union to respond equally to all the factory. We hope with the aid of the Federation can accomplish much on a cash basis if no higher, their responses to our
SCOTLAND-My work during some fourteen days was held at Edinburgh. You can always rely on some 70 per cent. of the result, as is always the case with the members of this City. They always show a wonderful interest in the work of the Union, and one of the largest repairing establishments visited next day. Many questions on Trade Board matters were coming to which it has decided to set and a Conference of Scottish branches for the purpose of setting up a District mee as carried at the London Conference of the Union's appeal and the Council having granted permission this year. The Advisory Council, that if the Council could see their way clear to pay the expenses to such Committee, they rather them (the Council) were reasonable periods, they would prefer to meet as at present, if less often, and also came to the conclusion that for management expenses, and Mr. M. Gamble, of Glasgow, was appointed Chairman, and Mr. J. P. Reid, of Arbroath, Secretary in addition to the above. It was decided to having three in name only. One has never functioned for the whole of Scotland instead of few occasions. Only one Board appears to be alive and the Council are asked to bring this about. To my
This Scottish Committee will have both sides of our work, or factories, and the Hand-sewn Making and Repairing are matters affecting work in Scotland, consequently there will be much for the Committee to do.
BLACKFORD-From here I had arranged to go to Dundee, but owing to Dundee having its holidays, the branch advised I should go to Blackford, in Perthshire, where the operatives would very lively branch of men and women who turned up in fair numbers, although here again I found they had a Section, and where the operatives were not making a full week for the last three years, and the President of the branch, one of the recall William Morris, Blatchford and Hardie and the me whilst there.
DUNDEE-I next day called at Dundee and visited the Repairing factory of Mr. Malone, the finest repairing factory I have ever seen, a model of what a factory should be, and room for at least six times the number of employees engaged therein. Mr. Malone appears to me to endeavour to make his men happy at their work and his shops are cleaned up daily. I have been in repairing shops that have left me in doubt as to how many years it was since they were last cleaned up. Here the marked, pleasing contrast of his retail shops reminded me of the cleanliness associated with drapers' shops, a condition of things we shall arrive at when we have more men copying the methods of Mr. Malone. We have much respect for him on the Trade Board, and also his colleague, Mr. Banchop, of Edin-burgh.
CARNOUSTIE was next place of call, and as Mr. Bleakley had had to visit there some few months ago, we attended the Branch meeting which was a very nice gathering.
We found that there were a number of girls who were not getting the Scale according to the Agreement. The firm had put the only two departments that had been on Payment by Results back to Daywork. Some of the men preferred it. We soon found that the usual amount of fear was put up as a reason for some not doing their duty and had received encouragement. In this I could take no share, every person must make their personal claim according to age, and we arranged to meet all operatives next day and interrogate them. We did this and owing to the principal of the firm being away until the next day obtained sufficient evidence that at least some eight girls were not getting their money.
ARBROATH was next visited where there was a very good meeting, but owing to the firm of Mr. Colin Grant having closed down it has left the Arbroath men and women with poor prospects. Some thirty operatives being displaced, this leaves only the firm of Fairweather & Co. in that town. We were sorry to learn upon enquiry that our old secretary, Mr. Alec. Smith, was not well. This meeting was an interesting one but two days per week do not increase the vim of men and women in Trade Union activity.
The following day we saw the Manager of Winter's, of Carnoustie, as per arrangement, who said that when operatives had arrived at certain ages they had not made claims or

---
620
for would have been paid. He advised the clerk who looks after the wages to attend
to the matter and in future to watch such. He strongly advised us to go round the factory
ww some very good work, as good as I have seen anywhere. There was a very
tim during the last eighteen months. The employer says if the men will give him the
are proportion going to America, made on lasts imported from America, much hand
Labour being substituted for machinery, and over one hundred operatives added to the
months. Here is a chance for the Arbroath men only seven miles away.
quality he can get plenty of orders, and the firm has had no short time for twenty-six
I advised
repairers present with a fair sprinkling of Morrison's operatives. At both the above firms
ABERDEEN was next visited and a very nice meeting resulted. There were many
as I was due at Glasgow that night there was not time to see or to hold shops meetings to
and the Northern Co-operative Society, we are bound to make further enquiries because
this
obtain evidence of complaints.
The GLASGOW meeting was not large by any means and many of those present were
members whose grievances appeared those of the perpetual kind, and another held it to
suffering from the advice we gave them some months ago and were very wroth because we
gave them such advice. Many questions were put, and especially those of one or two
Although he claimed much for Glasgow's activity, my answer was
be the duty of local officials or shops clerks to investigate all disputes as the individual
plan was that in such affairs he claimed that the office or shops clerk should go to him.
and is he had no right to accept any price on the recommendation of any foreman. His
With this and similar reasoning one could make little headway. The next day we visited
machines which is done by one operation. We are unable to give it to him at present,
the repairing shop of Mr. Webster, who wants a price for the Rounding and Channelling
feared the "sack."
but I
I am afraid that a firm we "struck" some years ago have prices not favourable to us
Society's Boot Department, Dundas Street, as Shieldhall has more boys than the Award
and may be copied. We also called on the offices of the Scottish Wholesale Co-operative
allows, but as the Manager was in London we had to leave this matter over.
KILMARNOCK. - The meeting was very good under the conditions considering it was
Sat thinking that Council should do the organising. I advised them that it was expected
Saturday night, and a few questions were asked respecting the new Scottish Committees
daily. Several other matters were discussed and these over local grievances were lightly
that branches would do it also, and most of it. We could only help occasionally, ted
touched upon, which may bring about one Scottish Board of Arbitration.
AYr was the next place of call. Here the members, as usual, turned up well and asked
a crop of questions, showing a lively interest in the Union : work here being very poor.
MAYBOLE, the last place of call, was visited, and an open meeting was held in the
Town Hall, some 350 persons being present, many more than members in the Union there,
and it was very interesting. No questions were missed, no singing more attractive, and
to my mind a very good evening was spent which should prove of great service to the
Branch and the Union. On the following day I travelled up to London, and on Thursday
morning had an interview with Mr. Clarke, respecting a matter affecting his firm (The
Saxone Shoe Co.) and the Scottish Boards, and suggested that the Boards affecting all
Scotland should be called together to shorten the time and lessen the trouble of appealing
to all three Boards when Statements are affected. He agreed and made arrangements
for this to be done. I afterwards had an interview with Mr. C. Bleakley, who is Chairman
of the Board, and he concurred.
At all meetings in Scotland I pushed the claim of the Daily Herald. If all our members
will do this when they have the chance, the Daily Herald will live.
Stamped boots are good boots and honest boots.
7, MECKLENBURG STREET,
16th October, 1923.
LONDON, W.C. I.
Yours fraternally,
Mithonah
General President.
A
NOTICES OF PROPOSAL.
Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board (Great Britain).
of wages for periods dependent upon the "Cost of Living" Index Figure - Lal
Proposals D. (22) and (23), dated 10th October, 1923, to fix and vary minimu
October, 1923.
---

---
34. GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
621
[Copy.]
7. TAVISTOCK SOLAR
Loestos, V
NATIONAL CONFERENCE (DECEMBER 1922) AGREEMENT:
Dear Sir,
COST OF LIVING.
is 75, and we beg to draw your attention to clause 8 of the December (1922) National
The cost of living figure as published in the "Ministry of Labour Gazette" for October
Conference Agreement, wherein provision is made for the re-adjustment of the wages f
operatives when the index figure of the cost of living is over 70.
rates that will be paid to male operatives are set out under Column I in Schedules" "
In accordance with Clause 8 the change will become effective on the first clear pay day
in November, that is to say, 8th 9th, or 10th November, and the minimum day wage
Column I in Schedule "C" headed "when the index figure is over 70.
and "B" headed "when the index figure is over 70," and to females operatives under
Agreement (February, 1922) Clause 6 (b) against the minimum wage of 60s. per week.
The Pieceworkers in Class "A" of Clause 8 will receive the rates set out in the National
and the pieceworkers in Class "B" will receive the rates set out against the minimum
wage of 57s. per week as follows:-
CLASS "A."
DAYWORKERS.
PIECEWORKERS.
Statement A. Statement B. Statement C.
6os.
21% added to
Nett
per
week
earnings instead
of 10% as under
the 1920 Interim
Agreement.
7% deducted
from total
earnings
Statement D.
25% deducted
from earnings
CLASS "B."
Statement A.
Statement B.
57s.
21%
added to
Statement C.
per
week
earnings instead
of 10% as under
Nett
the 1920 Interim
7% to be de-
ducted from
earnings
Agreement
The Pieceworkers in Class "C" of Clause 8 will receive the rates set out in the National
Agreement (February, 1922) Clause 6 (b) against the minimum wage of 36s. per week
as follows:-
CLASS "C."
DAYWORKERS.
36s.
5%
per
week
Statement A.
added
PIECEWORKERS.
Statement B.
Statement C.
to
21% added to earn-
ings instead of 71%
as under the 1920
Interim Agreement
5% deducted
from total
earnings
earnings instead
of 10% as under
the 1920 Interim
Agreement
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary to Operatives' Union.
RUTH TOMLINSON,
Secretary to Boot Manufacturers' Federation.
TE. -The above is a copy of the joint statement issued by the Manufacturers' Federation
and the Union, and is being circulated to boot and shoe manufacturers. -E.L.P.


---
622
ORGANISERS' MONTHLY REPORTS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since my last report I have been organising at Nuneaton and assisting Mr. W.
Warner, at Hinckley, and Mr. Alex. Smith, at Wolverhampton. There are three factories
at Nuneaton, and owing to the fact that a great many of the operatives do not reside
there, it is a difficult matter to organise them, get meetings of them, or to make them
solid and united. We made some members, but our aim is to unite the three shops and
to make one man responsible for the financial side of the business. At one factory the
employer gave Mr. Warner and myself an opportunity to speak to the workers inside the
factory. I believe that we have got all in, with one exception, at this place. If the
promises given to me at another factory are realised we shall have all in there.
For many years our Union has worked systematically towards the equalising of con-
ditions in every branch of the trade, but to me it seems that the factors and the shop-
keepers are the great obstacles in the way of our making it impossible for any manufacturer
to carry on business unless he observed the agreements of the trade. Primarily, the non-
unionists are to blame. The factors and shop-keepers are outside all trade union control.
When they buy boots it is all a question of price. The matter of fair wages and conditions
concerns them not. A manufacturer severs his connection with the Federation, takes
advantage of the bad times we are going through, reduces wages and throws aside every
standard of fair dealings, but he is the darling of the factors and the shop-keepers if he
comes along with cheaper goods than he previously sold. The producers in the boot and
shoe trade have cause to curse the non-producing side of the industry. Pity it is that
the Federation and the Union don't more effectively unite to check those everlasting
squeezers and grinders of the people who produce the goods.
D. MCCARTHY.

The past month has largely been spent in the Kingswood area, and one is pleased
to report further progress having been made. We may not have achieved all we would
have liked in this area, but it is certainly no longer the black spot it was regarding the
conditions contained in the National Agreement. But while that may be so, there is
only one thing that can give a guarantee for the future and that is the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives receiving the confidence and support of the operatives engaged
in the district. Unity and solidarity among the workers irrespective of sex or occupation
is the one thing needed. In view of this, the fact that both branches are making new
members is helpful and encouraging.
In the light of experience one is inclined to the opinion that it may be rather more
difficult here than in other centres, to maintain the influence of the Union. There are
too many of the old features and conditions of the trade in existence. On the common
or cheaper lines of heavy work much outdoor labour is employed, with the result that the
whole family is engaged on the work, and the total earnings appear to give a measure of
satisfaction, even if they do not reach our minimum figures. Then again this system
makes it easier for new firms to start, with the result that competition becomes keener,
and unhealthy trading develops.
It is perhaps true to say that the heavy work made in this district lends itself to
adulteration as readily as any, and it is carried to its utmost limit in the Kingswood area.
This is the most pernicious of all forms of competition, and in the long run it is no use to
anyone. It degrades those who make it whether employer or worker, and it is a fraud
on those who buy the goods so produced. One illustration of the extent to which adultera-
tion is carried on as told to me may be worth recording.
At a town in South Wales, a woman entered a shop to purchase a pair of boots for one
of her children. She was shewn a pair of Kingswood production. In examining them the
woman commented on the fact that the hobs were not properly hammered down. The
shopkeeper stated that could easily be put right and proceeded to pull them on a last
kept handy for such a purpose. He gave one blow with the hammer when to the surprise
of both shopkeeper and customer, the hobs not actually struck by the hammer flew out.
When the former recovered from his astonishment he found the woman had vanished,
and in place of a sale he had lost a customer who probably would never enter his shop
again, and further he was in possession of a quantity of boots that he dare not offer to
anyone again.
These boots were made by a firm well known in Kingswood. A firm that has always
sought to evade our conditions, a firm, who, in my opinion, by this method of manufacture
has robbed both his workpeople and the public. The only satisfaction obtained from the
whole business is, that he has never made any headway as a manufacturer, thus proving
that this kind of trading brings with it no satisfactory results. It would be well if this
form of business could be abolished, and one would like to see the matter considered from
the standpoint of legal enactment. Its destruction would be helpful to the employer
who seeks to produce a good article, it would be a good thing for the worker, the shop-
keeper, and the public.


---
Here is the extracted text:
623
I have paid another visit to Brynmawr, regarding some difficulty
the firm of Morgan's. I hope the suggestions made will have the to e
settled conditions at this firm. Crediton and Okehampton have al od
when we had a good branch of the Union at Crediton, but the indus
firm being in existence at both places. Old members of the Un
out, only about 20 persons now being employed, and these motly old bl
places is there much prospect of growth, and the trade done is, I am melamed to
I have also attended meetings of the Labour Party E.C. and the Congre of t
and Shoe Operatives and Leather Workers' International Federation, a separate
local character.
of which is given.
coti: October, 1923.
Union will re
WALTER R. SMITH
WHY HOUSES ARE DEAR.
"Rings" Exploit the Public. Prices in 1914-and Now.
Remarkable evidence showing how "rings" in the building trade are keeping up
builder.
prices of materials, and so delaying the building of houses, was given yesterday by a London
The following figures of prices in 1914 and 1923 show that values are still about 100
per cent. and sometimes as much as 200 and 300 per cent. -above those which obtained
In the meantime houses are still wanted in every part of the country, and the housing
before the war.
of the working classes is in many places deplorable.
A Comparison of Prices.
Best Stock Bricks
Fletton Bricks
Glazed Bricks
Thames Ballast
Thames Sand
Portland Cement
Ground Blue Lias Lime
Grey Stone Lime
Portland Stone
Sound Building Timber 4 x II
1914.
£ s. d.
2
5 0
1 17 6
13 0 0
0
5 9 yd. cub.
0
7 3
"
I 16 0 ton
I 0 0
"
0 14 0
0
2
5 ft. cub.
3 × 7
3 × 11
"
16 10 o stan.
1923.
£ s. d.
4 13 0
3 3 0
22 10 0
0 12 9 yd. cub.
0 16 0
2 18 0 ton
2 14 0
2 II 0
0
4 6 ft. cub.
34 0 0 stan.
"
"
"
13 0 0
22 10 0
15 0 0
"
32 10 0
20 0 0
"
41 10 0
18 0 0
37 15 0
9 oo ton
13 0 o ton
II 0 0
"
21 00
21 10 0
"
35 00
"
30 0 0
"
5800
0
0 3 ft. sup.
3 gal.
0
0 4 4 ft. sup.
0
0 3 9 gal.
090 "
"
"The effect of the 'rings' is felt most seriously in the case of cement," said the builder.
Where there were eight or nine firms supplying cement before the war, all quoting different
prices, there is now one price only for all the firms.
"Any small manufacturer who tried to compete would simply be swamped by the
combine.
"In the case of bricks, the reason for the high price is said to be increased cost of
production, but wages are only 60 to 70 per cent. up.
"The rise in the price of grey stone lime is due to increased demand. Rolled steel
jeists, on the other hand, dropped recently from £18 ros. a ton to £13, owing to lack of
demand.
"Turpentine is high in price, owing to the state of the American exchange."
Westminster Gazette, 3rd October, 1923.


---
624
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. - During the month trade has continued bad, and the firm
of Colin Grant Ltd., has closed their factory for the time being. It seems a
pity that one of the best factories in Scotland - from a building point of view-
and enterprise somewhere in the trade willing to carry on the Gold Medal fame
should go out of business, even temporarily, when surely there must be capital
of this firm which has been established over forty years. But such things are
outside the control of humble officials, and our mournful position is that nearly
forty members-men and girls - are signing the branch books. Such con-
ditions look bad for the winter months, and with more stringent regulations
applying at the Labour Exchanges, our members are in for a bad experience.
The new circulars sent to Exchanges indicate the official view of the appalling
distress felt throughout by workers. Further efforts are to be made to cut
down the expense, and many may be denied benefit during the new "benefit
year" who got it regularly before. Those who have to claim uncovenanted
benefit are to suffer most, and a stern fight should be made in every part of
the country to force the Government to either provide work or give adequate
relief payments. The whole trend of the new regulations is in the direction
of assuming it to be a person's own blame if he or she is out of employment
for any length of time. This unwarranted assumption should be exposed
mercilessly, as it cannot be laid to the blame of anyone that work cannot be
got. Labour Exchanges are too busy paying out benefit and taking the daily
signatures to be able to help folk to find work, and in any case in view of the
appalling dearth of jobs, how can it be otherwise than that some remain idle
all the time. This futile pretence of blaming applicants for not finding jobs
when such a vast number have been without regular work for fully three years,
and while all industries are rocking on their foundations yet, may easily provoke
disorder, and yet who could complain if it so happened. If this rotten form
of administrative impertinence is allowed to pass unchallenged, the only
alternative for the older and less assertive workers will be to take in each
other's washing and so earn stamps, to prove their genuine desire to work.
This useful and highly enlightened practice would salve the official conscience,
and all would be well! We have had a visit of Mr. T. F. Richards, General
President, and good meetings were held in Carnoustie and Arbroath. Mr.
Richards spoke very well, and created a deep interest as he outlined the wide-
spread activities of the National Union. National Terms, Trade Boards,
Trade Union Congress and Labour Party, International relationships, &c.,
were each laid under review to indicate the scope and nature of the work which
confronted a national organisation, and even the humblest member could
appreciate the incessant activities of National Officers. Such a visit brings
home to all the bond of work and the bond of principle, and we wish a regular
form of visitation by our officers could be designed. Mr. Richards lives Union,
and exudes Union in all he does, and we can only hope to have him back.
While with us he dealt very effectively with our trouble in Carnoustie, and
we have every reason for thinking that is over now. Mr. C. Bleakley, our
Council member, accompanied the President, and the best thanks of the branch
are his for the disinterested work he has performed for us. Let us close by
sending greetings to the new Scottish Advisory Committee, and wishing it
a long and useful life.
BARNSLEY. - We are pleased to say that members are fully employed
at present, and there is a likelihood of it continuing. We are pleased to say
that our members are sticking to their work well after so much short time
has had to take place. Our Secretary has been at a convalescent home at


---
```text
625
past month, although it is still very far from normal.
that he will keep all right for the winter months.
in trade during the month.
Southport for some weeks, and has derived great benefit bom it. We hig
BELFAST. - There has been a slight improvement in trade doming f
CHESHAM. - We are pleased to report a further general improvemed
DUNDEE. - The village of Blackford nestles at the foot of the Ochil
Hills, the staple industry of which is boot manufacturing, employing
sixty workers, all members of the Union, and staunch ones at that. Our
General President who is touring Scotland just now, not by motor car, but by
the more primitive method of transit, by rail, arrived at the little town of
Strathallan on the Ist of October, and in the evening met the members and
wrapt in the closest attention, without the slightest visible sign of weariness
delivered a very stirring address. Full ninety minutes he kept these members
on their part. We are in receipt of a letter from the Sectional Secretary,
Mr. W. Walker, expressing the great appreciation of the members at the visit
of Mr. Fred. Richards. More frequent visits by our leading officials would
be of the utmost value. In many respects it would be educational. It would
strengthen the bonds of unity and widen our vision. Altogether the good
derived by such visits is incalculable, and should not be measured parsimoni-
ously by pounds, shillings and pence. A very interesting function took place
on the 12th ult. in the Y.M.C.A. Hall, when the representative of I.T.S. Rubber
Company presented a magnificent silver cup, on behalf of the Company, to
the members of the St. Crispin Bowling Club, to be competed for annually.
We have pleasure in reporting that the first winner's name to be inscribed on
the cup is a member of our local executive, Mr. George Bathie.
was to be arrived at.
EDINBURGH. Along with the other Scottish Branches we were repre-
sented at a preliminary meeting to form a Scottish Area Advisory Committee.
In Scotland the need of some co-operation amongst the branches was essential
if a proper understanding of the conditions prevailing throughout the district
real business could be started. We are also pleased to have had a visit from
Mr. Richards, General President. Sorry that by accident he was late in
arriving as there was a good muster of the members present to hear him.
However, surely at some date in the near future we will have the pleasure of
again meeting him. When General Officers of the Union pay a visit it is a
good stimulant to membership. During the month we have had several cases
where the 5 per cent. was still being deducted from Repairers' wages. But
on the firms being communicated with the matter has been cleared up. The
Central Arbitration Committee for Scotland have also a matter of wages which
the branch have laid before them to settle. It is a small matter but it goes to
prove that shopmates should always be ready to report to officials whenever
any change in conditions takes place. By having the matter looked into at
once it saves a good deal of friction. What about Council when next negotiating
with the Federation putting in for a reduction on the working hours and
thereby trying to help our members who are unemployed. Share and share
alike would in our opinion be true Trade Unionism.
Of course we must await Council's sanction before any
[Upon the last occasion of a revision of the Agreement the Council asked
or a reduction in the working week. This matter was explained at the Union
onference in London this year, and is reported on pages 157 and 158 of the
nference Report.-E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.]
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.-Trade has considerably improved during
month in this district. Our numbers on Out-of-Work books drawing
it for week ending 29th September, were Rushden and Higham (23),
B
```

---
thong
626
tidine Lonatugh and Addington (8), Finedon (18), Irchester (4), Ringstead (3).
(10). Stanwick (3), Wollaston (4), Bozeat (I). Finedon is out of
proportion to tot of district owing to members having to stand off owing to
Leicester, eclosing down temporarily (Closing factory), and the
chemes down of Mests. Dunkley & Shrive. Raunds is of course subject to
more than any other section. Trade has been specially good at
Higham Ferners and Irthlingborough. Trouble has arisen at Stanwick and
Bozent in connection with the Overtime Award. At Bozeat the matter was
dealt with by President and Secretary, and settled satisfactorily. At Stanwick
We referred the matter to County Board who informed him he must pay at
Secretary and President had dealt with the Manager there, he still refused.
the Reliable Shoe Co. refused to pay time and a quarter, and after Assistant
but payment was made on Monday, 1st October, so that the Court of Enquiry
After some delay a Court of Enquiry was fixed for Tuesday, 2nd October.
Matters of this character should be reported AT ONCE
once.
was not necessary.
to the Branch Officials.
KINGSWOOD. - We are pleased to report trade as good, and we are
hopeful that it will continue good for some time ahead. At the time of writing
we have still men and youths unemployed. Some of them (youths) have been
Wage, and then they get emptied out into the street, with slender chances of
kept on minor operations until it became inconvenient to pay them the Minimum
getting a footing into the trade again.
LEICESTER No. 1.- There is no improvement in trade.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S. We believe trade is stirring in our depart-
ments. Our Out-of-Works have gone down to 12 in number, 20 still on
suspension. We are again circularising the non-unionists, many of whom
have fallen out through the last cut in wages and short time, so we are hoping
by the first week in November to get back many lapsed members. The in
creased wage on the cost of living figures to be returned the first week in
November is very welcome, but still the cost of living figures as all women
know is a great farce, and money does not purchase the amount or value that
it is supposed to do. Mrs. Bell-Richards has been elected unanimously by
the members to represent us once more on our National Executive, the members
hoping she may see her way to attend on our behalf.
LIVERPOOL. From reports to hand boot repairing is fairly good.
Our Secretary regrets not being able to give a lengthy report owing to defective
vision.
MAYBOLE.-Trade is much improved, some departments working a
little overtime. The Secretary attended the Conference of Scottish delegates
at Edinburgh, and we are satisfied that much good will come out of these
meetings. We were pleased to have a visit from the General President this
week. We had a public meeting and had a good turnout. Mr. Richards
gave a fine address and we hope much good in the shape of increased member-
ship will be the outcome.
NORTHAMPTON No. 1.-Trade here remains quiet; very few firms
on full time, several small firms have closed down for an indefinite period;
some have gone into bankruptcy, which all adds to the number of permanent
unemployed. Speaking generally the only prospective avenue of creating
employment is by the national organisation of agriculture. This it is estimated
would employ an additional million men, and put this country in a more
staple condition, instead of always looking for export trade as the only hope.
During the month our Vice-President, Mr. Len. Smith, has been elected as a
National Organiser, and we hope he will have a successful time, and thus
assist in getting the membership up to the 100,000.


---
PLYMOUTH. - Trade is still on the quiet side, but
NORWICH. - Trade in Norwich is still uncertain, he
being the only satisfactory portion of the industry
concerned. Most manufacturers are anxiously awaiting Gue
" Shoe Fair" in regard to the many and varied exhibit
the trade. Meanwhile hundreds of operatives are either wake
idle or working the smaller portion of the working week.
vyear we are apt to take a look round, and after a friendly cha
the trade. The war-time vogue of leather substitute and rubber de
quite so marked, and the old army boots with their stained and would
know, we conclude that there is certamly a more optimistic part porte
are gradually disappearing from the shop windows the unemployed co
meet now that prices are lower. The welcome advertisement appears
is finding the competition of the time-honoured craftsman more difione 10
more in the Press "Repairers wanted." The good-humoured reply of the
old tradesman to the familiar greeting. "How's Trade?" "Well, can't grumble
into the larger towns seems to be arrested, and there are faint signs of a back-
sounds like real good music. The tendency of our country workmen to migrate
ward flow, thanks to the national wage fixed by the Trade Board. The
threatened menace of our trained ex-service men no longer perturbs the most
master or man, ours is a trade where everyone gives honest labour for his daily
conservative of tradesmen, and we all wish them well as they settle down and
become proud members of the horny-handed fraternity, for we feel, whether
bread. The idlers who batten upon the labour of others are difficult to find
in the boot repairing trade. Further, we may say, without fear of contradiction,
ours is a trade where Jack's as good as his master."
SHEPSHED. - Trade has slightly improved since our last report, but
“
is still far from being good.
STAFFORD. - Trade remains very slack in this centre. We are hoping
for a revival after the Leather Fair. We are now in a position to report more
accurately the success attending the effort of Mr. D. McCarthy, National
Organiser, in this centre. We have added to our membership about two
hundred from the local factories, and fifty from a firm of heel manufacturers.
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT SUSPENDED.
Miners who Refused Jobs Away.
A point of interest as regards unemployment insurance benefit has been raised at
Blaina, says the South Wales News of Ist September.
At a meeting of the Blaina District Miners' Council on Thursday evening, Mr. Dunn,
miners' agent, according to a supplied report, dealt with cases which had been submitted
to the chief insurance officer in London for observation.
He explained that a number of unemployed married men were asked to accept work
in the Mountain Ash and Aberdare districts. They did not refuse to go, but said they
were willing to accept work if accommodation could be found in these districts for them-
I selves and families. Such accommodation could not be found, only lodgings for the men
themselves.
As the men did not go their unemployment benefit was suspended. By an agreement
between the Ministry of Labour and the Miners' Federation he, the agent, had placed the
case before the chief insurance officer.
The chief insurance officer, in disallowing the benefit, gave the right to appeal to the
Court of Referees.
The council considered the matter and decided to carry the case to the umpire for
final decision.
trict, which was about one-third the number of unemployed twelve months ago. Insurance
Mr. Dunn also reported that there were now only 592 unemployed in the Blaina dis-
cette, 29th September, 1923.


---
628
INTERNATIONAL SHOE OPERATIVES.

DELEGATES' REPORT.
Worker Federation, was held at Dresden, commencing 15th September, 1923. About
twelve countries were represented by fifty delegates. The Congress opened with songs
The Second Congress of the International Boot and Shoe Operatives and Leather
Socialist Premier of Saxony, and Herr Elsner, President of the Trades and Labour Council.
rendered by a local male chior. Addresses of welcome were given by Dr. Siegner, the
and M. Roux, of France, were elected Presidents to preside in turn, Mr. Poulton having
Vuseforwitch, from Moscow, also spoke. Herr Simon, of Germany, Mr. Poulton, England.
that honour on the second day of Congress.
condition of the workers arising out of same.
The report contained the following
Unemployment and short time had
The Report of the Secretary referred largely to the position in Germany, and the
largely increased since the occupation of the Ruhr. Boot and Shoe operatives were badly
hit in this respect. In May 16 per cent, were out of work, and 70 per cent. on short time.
some working as little as eight hours a week, while 30 per cent. worked less than 30 hours.
"The German workers have accepted the duty
that Germany had to perform the reconstruction of the damaged districts and to pay
reparations up to the extreme limit of its capacity, but the possibility for reparation
payment is destroyed when the most important territories of industry and of raw materials
are occupied by a foreign army, and divided from their country. Ten thousands of
railwaymen as well as railway officials, were expelled from their dwellings and deprived
workers. Peaccable workers, even school children, were brutalised and menaced with
of their property, and often submitted to hard penalties of imprisonment, sometimes to
imprisonment for life, because they were unwilling to become traitors to their fellow
shooting, because they did not perform the orders of the French authorities. There is
probably in history no example of a conqueror who brutalised in the same manner the
4.
in
There have been acts of sabotage, we condemn energetically, but they have been
often
whole district. Various towns had to pay several hundred milliards of marks, in some
in the morning, that it was possible for the physician to visit an ill person as well as for the
from 8 o'clock in the evening
midwife to go to a woman in childbed. The windows had to be closed even during a
burning heat. We have detested the cruelties done by Germans during the war,
we are the more right in detesting the brutalities done in peace in the Ruhr after the end
of the war, in protesting against these infamies of the Irench and Belgian soldiers and in
making an appeal to the conscience of the world to prohibit those acts and at last establish
peace."
The effect of the depreciation of the mark was shewn. At the end of August the
wages varied from 400,000 to 700,000 marks per hour, while at the time of our visit it
had risen to as much as 5,000,000. The difficulty evidently was to get wages to rise
equally with prices, and consequently famine revolts, plundering, and irregular strikes
had taken place.
The report further showed that through the Secretary useful work had been done,
though we regret to say that an attempt to settle a dispute at Ballys', in Switzerland,
was not successful. The financial statement showed the funds to be in fairly satisfactory
condition. There was a lengthy discussion upon the report, some of which was irrelavent,
but it was adopted after the closure had been applied.
A resolution dealing with the conditions for affiliation was submitted by Simon on
behalf of the E.C. We opposed this on the grounds that the conditions established at
Vienna two years ago were adequate for our purpose. The resolution was carried. The
question of the admittance of the Russian Communists was strongly opposed. They
asked to come on the grounds of unity within the movement, and the need for a united
front. But it was pointed out by some delegates that Communists had taken the place
of Trade Unionists on strike, while a paper had just been started by them that attacked
Trade Unionism, and in some places articles by Fascists in support of their cause were
published in the Communist Journals.
A report on the eight-hour day was presented by M. Roux, France, from which it
appeared that such had been established in a large number of countries, some by law and
others by collective bargaining by the Unions. He pointed out that attempts had been
made by employers' organisations to destroy the eight-hour day, but had failed. In
Germany the organised employers had offered 500 million gold marks towards reparations
if the Government would make some concession on the eight hours. The Unions ener
getically apposed these proposals. He urged we should not be content with the eight hours,
but should at once prepare to establish the 44-hour week.


---
under the conditions that existed.
629
Resolutions were passed upon the question of Mili 10
possible to defeat those persons who are always endeavouring to
and to bring in its place peace, goodwill and harmony among
The attempt to amend the rules resulted in only slight al
The Secretary and E.C. were re-elected, Mr. Poulton
During our stay we were able to look over a boot factoty. We it t
to be paid daily. as men and women were to be seen counting l
as only about 20 hours a week were being worked by the
his house twice a week, and he dreaded to think about his workpl
them on the floor round his machine. The employer told me he could only i
were about 200 million marks (but it is only a few make a full week), the following
prices of some articles of food: 1 lb. Butter, 48 million marks: b. of Bacon al
The difficulty can be better understood by the fact that although we foll
1 lb. of Bread, 6 million: 1 lb. of Margarine, 25 million; litre of Mill, 11 million 1.
milk is rationed out to the people with children, wages are spent mainly on food, other
things being let go in proportion to their importance in maintaining physical eficiency
difficulty of the changing currency is shown by the fact that a lunch at the Folkhouse
We were informed that the farmers were doing well. in some cases, they were telo in
to bring their goods to market. The people had to go out and buy at the farms. Th
where the Congress was held, doubled in price in three days. On the day of our arrival
the next day it was 610 million. During the time we were there the rail fares were increased
the rate of exchange was 380 million to the f, three days later it was 1,000 million, while
would not affect us, we were called to pay 1,250,000,00o marks as excess fare on the three
six times, and although we had return tickets from London, and were told the increase
It is clear that the present unfortunate position in Germany has brought about in
present agitations going on in their country amongst Monarchists, Socialists and
large masses of the people, a spirit of despair rather than apathy. They look upon the
can be summed up as follows: that so far from supporting changes from the point of view
munists in a different light from which we should look upon it. We believe the position
of a deep-rooted principle, the outlook is so black that many of the German people look
do not actually support these changes, they do not oppose them.
upon it that it cannot be worse than the present, but it may be better, therefore, if they
1
tickets.
and Com-
F. L. POULTON.
W. R. SMITH.
A. W. LYNE.
CONFERENCE ON FACTORY INSPECTION.
Delegates for Geneva.
The Ministry of Labour announces that the fifth general conference of the International
Labour Organisation created by the Treaty of Versailles will meet at Geneva on 22nd
October, to discuss "General Principles for the Organisation of Factory Inspection."
The Government have appointed as their delegates Mr. H. B. Betterton, M.P., Parlia-
mentary Secretary to the Ministry of Labour, and Sir Malcolm Delevingne, Assistant
meder-Secretary, Home Office, and, in agreement with the National Conferedation of
Employers' Organisations and the General Council of the Trades Union Congress, have
nominated Mr. James Lithgow (ex-President of the Shipbuilding Employers' Federation,
lice-President of the National Confederation of Employers' Organisations) and Mr. E. L.
Poulton, J.P. (Secretary of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives and member
of the General Council of the Trades Union. Congress) as employers' and workpeople's
delegates respectively.
The following advisers have been appointed :-
For the Government Group. - Mr. O. C. Allen, Ministry of Labour; Mr. Gerald
Bellhouse, Chief Inspector of Factories, Home Office; and Miss Constance Smith, Deputy
Chief Inspector of Factories, Home Office.
For the Employers' Group.-Mr. J. B. Forbes Watson, secretary of the National
Confederation of Employers' Organisations.
For the Workers' Group. - Miss Margaret Bondfield, chairman of the General Council
of the Trades Union Congress, secretary of the Women Workers' section of the National
Union of General Workers; and Mr. A. Conley, secretary of the Tailors' and Garment
Workers' Trade Union.
A further adviser for the employers' group will be appointed. Mr. A. L. Kingham, of
the Ministry of Labour, Montagu House, Whitehall, S.W. I, is secretary to the delegation. -
The Times, 12th October, 1923.


---
```text
630

BOOT AND SHOE REPAIRING TRADE BOARD.

The 18th meeting of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board (Great Britain) was
held at the Office of Trade Boards on Wednesday and Thursday, 19th and 20th September,
1923. Mr. W. Addington Willis, the Chairman, presiding. The following members of the
Board were present:—

Appointed Members: Mr. W. Addington Willis, Professor G. W. Daniels and Mr.
W. G. Campbell.

Representatives of Employers: Messrs. J. Bachop, W. T. R. Beckett, J. L. Beckley,
H. L. Burrows, J. Coombes, H. Crabb, J. Hoyle, A. King, T. Malone, W. B.
Noble, F. Park, J. Pollitt and H. Treadwell.

Representatives of Workers: Messrs. C. Bleakley, P. Brennan, J. W. Dickson, A. J.
Dobbs, J. Gay, A. J. Gwyther, J. Jagger, M. McGill, A. T. Morris, W. Orchard,
J. T. Osborne, W. Renwick, T. F. Richards, F. Swain, and W. J. Webb.

Mr. R. Wilson and Mr. J. Gulland for the Secretary of the Trade Board.

The Board received intimation from the Ministry of Labour of the appointment of
Professor G. W. Daniels as Deputy Chairman of the Board, and of Mr. James Coombes
as a representative of Employers on the Board.

The Board also received intimation from the Ministry of Labour that they had decided,
with a view to giving more adequate representation to the various interests of the trade,
to appoint one additional representative of Employers and Workers to the Board.

Proposed Variations of Minimum Rates.

The principal business before the Board was the consideration of the proposed varia-
tions of the minimum rates of wages. This question was fully discussed at the meeting
of the Board held on 18th, 19th and 20th July. The principles upon which the proposed
variations should proceed were decided at that meeting, and the question of adjusting the
proportionate increases or decreases, in accordance with the rise of fall of the Cost-of-
Living figure, on the lines of the decisions of the previous meeting, had been referred to
the Administrative Committee for consideration.

The Administrative Committee submitted Draft Notices of Proposals to the Board
for approval. After full discussion the Draft Proposals were, with certain amendments,
approved by the Board, and the Secretary was instructed to issue the Notices of Proposal
at the earliest practicable date. The principal features of the new proposals are as follow:

General Minimum Time Rates.

The Board propose to fix two principal General Minimum Time Rates:—
(a) For workers who are wholly or mainly employed in making bespoke hand-
sewn leather footwear (including bespoke hand-sewn surgical work), or who are wholly
or mainly employed in performing any of the operations in the making of bespoke
hand-sewn leather footwear (including bespoke hand-sewn surgical work) on the
sectional system.
(b) For workers employed on all other work (except the special classes of workers
employed as power sole-stitchers, pressmen, and foremen and managers for whom
special minimum rates have been fixed).

The proposed minimum rates for the workers referred to in paragraph (a) above are
5s. per week of 48 hours above the minimum rates payable to the workers referred to in
paragraph (b) above (except the special classes).

The Board propose to fix a graduated scale of payments for all workers for various
periods until the Cost-of-Living figure is 30, but this scale does not vary the General Mini-
mum Time Rates at present in operation, in respect of the workers referred to in paragraph
(b) above for the periods when the Cost-of-Living figure is more than 70.

The effect of the Trade Board's proposals may be illustrated by stating that on the
basis of the present Cost-of-Living figure of 73 the minimum time rate for bespoke hand-
sewn work (including all operations in connection with the making of bespoke hand-sewn
surgical boots) would be 65s. per week of 48 hours, and the rate for repairing and for making
bespoke pegged work and bespoke rivetted work would be 60s. per week of 48 hours.

It is proposed to make a variation in the existing rates for learners by taking 1s.
from the weekly rates for the years between 15 and 17 and adding it to the weekly rates
between the years of 19 to 21.

General Minimum Piece Rates.

With regard to the General Minimum Piece Rates the Board propose certain per-
centage reductions (a) from the piece rates for repairing, and (b) from the piece rates for
making, for periods dependent upon the Cost-of-Living figure, ranging from the period
when the figure is more than 90 to the period when it is not more than 30.
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
1
It is proposed that no percentage reduction be made
Cost-of-Living figure is over 90, and various percentage
to the Cost-of-Living figure until that figure is not more
the percentage reductions shall be 30 per cent, in the
in the case of making. The Board also propose that the
items of surgical work (whether in making or repairing) all
piece rates for making and the percentage reduction, from
The effect of the above proposals, on the basis of the p
and in the case of the making of bespoke hand-sewn, b
73. would be that the percentage reductions in the case of
and rivetted work (including the special items appropriate to re
making or repairing), would be 5 per cent.
system, but the total piece rates for such surgical work are the same a
It is proposed to fix piece rates for surgical work when performed ch
items appropriate to surgical work), are the same as the piece rates, for repairing ordinary
It may be noted that the piece rates for repairing surgical boots (other than the pond
Copies of the Trade Board's Notices of Proposals will be issued at an early date to all
employers in the trade, who are on the list kept at the Office of Trade Boards, and objection
to the Proposals should be lodged with the Secretary to the Trade Boards, I, Whitehall
Gardens, London, S.W.I, within two months of the date of publication of the Proposal,
in the London and Edinburgh Gazettes.
After the expiry of this period the Board will meet to consider objections and the
reports of the District Committees, and the fixing of the rates in accordance with the Board's
proposals. Such proposals do not operate unless and until they have been fixed by the
Board and confirmed by the Minister of Labour.
Suggested Piece Rates for Rounding, Channelling, &c.
work.
The Board considered a proposal from the Scottish Boot Repairing Factories Asso-
ciation suggesting that "the Board should fix general minimum piece rates for rounding,
channelling, levelling and heeling, done by machinery." After a full discussion of the
subject the Board decided that it was not advisable to fix general minimum piece rates
for such work, and that the question of the payments to pieceworkers employed on such
course, to the Statutory requirement that the piece rates fixed are sufficient to yield to an
work should be left to mutual arrangements between employers and workers subject, of
ordinary worker the equivalent of the general minimum time rates.
Notice was given by one of the workers' representatives of a motion to the effect that
the Board should consider the advisability of fixing a piecework basis time rate of Is. 6d.
per hour for work for which no general minimum piece rates had been fixed by the Board.
The Board will discuss this motion at their next meeting, but in view of the importance
of the subject it was agreed that in the meantime the District Trade Committees should
be given an opportunity of expressing their opinions at their forthcoming meetings.
Indentures of Apprenticeship.
in any other
The Board agreed to amend the definition of an indentured apprentice so as to provide
that the indentures of apprenticeship shall be in the Trade Board's form or "
form approved by the Board" The object of this amendment is to give the Board wider
powers in dealing with applications for the registration of apprentices whose indentures
are in the forms which have long been used by recognised Associations and public bodies.
Inspection and Enforcement.
The Board received a report from the Ministry of Labour on Inspection and Enforce-
ment in the Trade for the period from 1st April to 30th June, 1923. The total number of
inspections made during the period was 49. The total number of complaints received
during the period was 47, of which 26 were investigated. Arrangements have been made
for the investigation of 39 outstanding complaints. The Roard also received a special
report on the inspection of a number of firms in London employing outworkers.
24th September, 1923.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. -Membership of Unions reporting at end of September, 1923,
75.538. Unemployed at the end of September, 1923, 4,402; percentage, 5.8. Decrease in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.2; Increase in percentage
as compared with a year ago, 0.9.-Labour Gazette, October, 1923.


---
632
LABOUR MINISTER ON WINTER WORK PLANS.
50 Millions to be Spent—and Perhaps Much More.
Apcal to Builders.
Cabinet Committee's " Constant" Efforts.
Sir Montague Barlow, the Labour Minister, in an important speech in the City to-day,
announced that unemployment schemes involving an expenditure of 50 millions are being
initiated, "and as far as possible put in hand immediately," by the Government.
The expenditure, he added, might work out at a "considerably higher figure."
Sir Montague gave the following details of this program :---
Roads and Bridges
Unemployment grants (additional)
Trade facilities
Railway Companies (approximately)
£14,000,000
10,000,000
12,000,000
15,000,000
Some allowance must also be made for Public Utility Companies who received assist-
ance from Lord St. David's committee.
Sir Montague indignantly repudiated Mr. Clynes's charge that the Government had
not carried out the pledge it gave in August, and stated that the Cabinet Unemployment
Committee was in almost constant contemplation of the problem.
HOUSING PROBLEM.
Builders asked to Reconsider Their Position.
Emigration Schemes,
Sir Montague Barlow said unemployment was the most distressing, the most paralysing
problem that faced any statesman to-day. We had been carrying this terrible burden
for three years. It was true that the figures were about 80,000 better than this time last
year, the total of wholly unemployed last week being 1,251,600, compared with 1,330,000
on 9th October, 1922, but he was quite willing to admit that this figure did not represent
the total of unemployment in the country.
An August Pledge.
Sir Montague claimed that the Cabinet Unemployment Committee had carried out
the pledge he gave on 1st August to continue its operations and enlarge its plans as necessity
might require.
"I wish to repudiate with all the strength in my power," he said, "the charge which
Mr. Clynes has thought good to make against the Government, and incidentally against
myself, of breach of faith, and of not carrying out the pledge which I gave to the House
of. Commons.
"Our Socialist opponents, including Mr. Clynes, are anxious to secure power and the
control of government in this country. But I would suggest to them in all sincerity,
that in that pursuit of power they will not find it worth while to make such charges as these
of which I cannot but think Mr. Clynes himself is secretly ashamed."
Mr. Clynes.
He had read the agenda of the Trades Union Congress at Plymouth five weeks ago,
and the chairman's speech, but he found no mention of unemployment. Mr. Clynes was
present. Did he introduce the subject of unemployment? Did he propose plans?
"Not a word did he utter, so far as I can discover," said Sir Montague.
Dealing with a suggestion that the Government "should press on with infinite zeal
a vastly extended housing policy," Sir Montague continued :-
"I am glad to say that the Government policy is progressing steadily. I see that
380 local authorities have initiated building schemes.
"But I put it to the building operatives and their leaders in all seriousness and in all
friendliness whether a time has not come to reconsider their position. At any rate it is
clear that until the acute shortage of skilled labour is eased it is obviously useless for the
Government to bring forward a greatly extended program of building."
Empire Development.
Turning to the Government's unemployment proposals, Sir Montague referred to the
Imperial Conference, to which—and to the development of relations with the Dominions—
they were looking for much help and success in future, " not only in the redistribution of
our man power, but in the strengthening and organisation of our markets.
---

---
633
"The President of the Board of Trade," he went on, " has already
posals with regard to preferential treatment for the Dominions and
the financial help which we shall be prepared to give, both in the D
big works which would lead to the placing of orders in this country while at the
Crown Colonies, along what I may call the Lord St. Davids hoe, for the
assisting the economic development of the Dominions.
Migration.
statement of the brilliant Prime Minister of Australia (Mr. Bruce) on the subject of
"I must say a word with regard to distribution of man-power and the
"I have long thought that group, or what I prefer to call associational sette
is one of the most hopeful lines of progress in our work of redistributing the man power
of the Empire.
" I am sorry it has not proved possible, so far to make more progress along this line
and I was delighted to see that Mr. Bruce gave his unhesitating support to the idea, and
indicated that it would be welcome in Australia.
Dominion Training.
Why should not great towns, universities, friendly societies and trade unions acquire
great tracts across the seas with the approval of the Dominion Government?
"We want," he said, " strong committees in our great centres to take up land in the
send out the best of the young life of the community to form replicas of the home com-
Dominions, and to form village settlements of London or Liverpool across the seas-to
munity in the new lands.
"There are in our great towns one to two hundred thousand strong able-bodied
ex-servicemen-all young, all first-class material, many married, all practically untrained
for a settler's life.
Training here or in the Dominions is essential. I believe it is practicable."
Railway's 10 Millions.
Referring to the efforts of great companies to help reconstruction, Sir Montague
singled out the Great Western Railway, which is spending ten millions, and referred to
it as " an excellent example of what an energetic industrial undertaking can afford."
Other Companies.
Similar programs were also being undertaken by other railway companies, and he
hoped to be able to announce further progress on another occasion.
"So far as I can gather, not less than about five millions' worth of work is being put
in hand by the various railway companies along the lines I have indicated probably
more," he added.
Three "Trunk Lines."
Sir Montague then referred to "the three trunk lines of the Government effort"—
unemployment insurance, trade development, and relief schemes.
England was at last beginning to realise the greatness of unemployment insurance—
our sheet anchor."
Export Credits.
"As to (b) trade development, under the heading of export credits scheme and trade
facilities provision, here again there is ample provision, both for the individual trader who
desires to export, and to have his risk shared by the Government, and also for the public
company which desires to enter on big constructional development.
"The export credit program still allows of some £16,000,000 or rather more of risk
being undertaken in proper cases.
Trade Development.
So far as trade facilities were concerned there had been big developments since August.
10 to 12 millions in round figures, and this will bring the total State guarantee up to the
figure of about 30 millions out of 50 available, leaving 14 for other schemes of develop-
ment as they come along."


---
Here is the extracted text:
635
LABOUR:
The Coming Power
A VOICE IN THE PRESS.
Is there another newspaper in the country, has there ever been
a newspaper so widely cherished as the "Daily Herald"? Is there
a newspaper proprietor anywhere who would not appreciate the
unique advantage which the "Daily Herald " has in the matter of
personal service among its readers ?
The letters which pour into the Herald Office by every post give
evidence of widespread interest in the details of the paper's circula-
tion figures. In every Parliamentary division the units of the Labour
Movement have now been informed of the quota or proportion of new
readers which are required as the local share of the 500,000 circulation
that is required.
Yet, with all this interest and goodwill, with all this general
feeling of benevolence towards the Herald, it is still necessary to tell
its friends in the plainest possible English that all previous efforts
must be redoubled and renewed if the paper, the only one of its kind,
is to be preserved for the future.
Many of the understanding ones, who are the outposts of this
great idea of an independent Labour Press, have become tired, and
have given up the struggle in despair. But in many places the warfare
against prejudice has been renewed at the right moment and is
achieving its rewards at last.
After long silence, the arguments and persuasions of years are
beginning to have their effect.
The amount of willing service in the form of canvassing must,
in the aggregate, represent a volume of pressure upon wavering
minds which, if it be continued long enough, will undoubtedly have
rich results.
The "Daily Herald" wants more readers and is getting them;
the question is, will it get them quickly enough to save this great
enterprise from an untimely death, as its proprietor, LABOUR,
approaches the threshold of power:
Only personal effort can avail.


---
```text
636
WHAT MR. McCURDY THINKS OF THE "YES,
WE HAVE NO BANANAS" GOVERNMENT.
The questions of Unemployment, and Security for the Worker, were the subjects of
a special address, delivered by Mr. C. A. McCurdy, K.C., M.P., at the Northampton Town
Hall, on 6th October, 1923.
Mr. McCurdy, who was very heartily received, said that the Government were so
busy taking off their hats to Poincare or rubbing themselves where he last kicked them,
The trouble of the Conservatives was not that they had no remedy for trade depression,
for unemployment, and for the distressed agriculturists. On the contrary, they had a
golden remedy for all these evils. They had been telling them so for years. “Tariff
Reform means work for all." "Tariff Reform means two jobs for every man." Their
difficulty was not that they had no remedy, but that they could not screw up their courage
to apply it. They felt bound by the pledge of Mr. Bonar Law, and that pledge meant that
if they were to give the country the remedy in which they believe, they must first ask the
permission of the electors.
Mr. Baldwin and his colleagues were on the horns of a horrid dilemma. Either they
must withhold from the British manufacturer their golden remedy for bad trade, or they
must take the chance of themselves joining the ranks of the unemployed. (Laughter.)
Either they must stick to their fiscal principles or stick to their places.
One and a quarter million unemployed are asking the Government what
their policy is for coming winter. The only answer they got was, "Yes,
we have no policy to-day."
The farmer asked whether the Government wanted him to continue
arable farming, or what was their policy for British agriculture, and the
only answer they got was, "Yes, we have no policy to-day."
The whole country was asking: What is the Government's foreign
policy? Are they in agreement with France, or are they in profound
disagreement, and what is now the policy of the Government with regard
to the French occupation of the Ruhr? And they get no answer from
anybody. This was a “Yes, we have no Bananas" Government.
(Laughter.)
The Government relief works will find occupation for not more than 300,000 men.
That will leave more than one million out of work. Was there really nothing useful that
these men could do?
How to Pay our Debt to the United States.
A Vast Re-Housing Scheme.
France was building new and modern factories, improving her waterways and railways,
overhauling her industrial plant. Yet one million men on these islands stood looking
idly at one another. There was abundance of productive work waiting to be done. He
would give them one example-the re-housing of our slum population would not merely
pay for itself, it would in the course of the next 10 years be producing an annual profit
sufficient to pay off the debt of this country to the United States of America. Four years
ago the cost of building was prohibitive, a cottage which could be built to-day for £330
was then costing £1,200. There was a good excuse then for caution and delay before
embarking on a bold re-housing policy. There was no such excuse to-day. Three millions
of our people, men, women, and children, are festering and rotting in slums. Glasgow,
for example, was rotten with rickets, and out of a population of 1,000,000, 600,000 were
living in one room or in two-roomed tenements.
What was this condition of affairs costing us? Not merely in terms of immorality,
health, crime, and unhappiness, but in terms of cash? At the lowest possible estimate
the total direct material loss in England and Wales from sickness and disability, including
loss of wages, was £150,000,000 a year. Tuberculosis alone, that product of the slums,
costs us £90,000,000 a year.
The President of the British Medical Association had pointed out that if the abolition
of the slums and the removal of three millions of our race from these hotbeds of disease
reduced our national sickness bill by only one-third, the saving would be £50,000,000 a
year. What would it cost at present prices to rehouse three million people? He had
```

---
made careful estimates of the cost. Assuming that half were ret
of the land and buildings would not exceed £271,000,000.
of the existing sites, the cost would be £281,000,000. Five
an annual charge of £14,050,000. From that must be deducted the
from the new houses, say £7,000,000. On the debit side was an
£14,050,000, on the credit side £7,000,000 in rent and £50,000
abolition of the breeding ground of tuberculosis, rickets, venereal
and crime. Taking the cash side of the transaction alone, it should
£42,000,000 a year when the scheme is completed. That surplus of
more than pay the whole of our indebtedness to the United States.
- Northampton Daily
What the "Northampton Daily Chronicle" thinks of Mr. McCurdy.
Mr. McCurdy says that whether it is unemployment or agriculture or France and
foreign affairs the Stanley Baldwin Government have no policy, and he even suggests
they seem to have no time to attend to the unemployed. It is, he declares, a
we have no bananas" Government. And why is Mr. McCurdy moved to pay these left-
handed "compliments ?" He was elected to Parliament by the Conservative vote of
Northampton, and he has never formally broken off from the "understanding" then
existing. Moreover, he will not be again elected for Northampton unless he has the
Conservative vote. Wouldn't it be better form to say the least for him to speak a
little more respecfully of the Government and give them credit for honesty of purpose.
There would still be room for him to offer his political or economic wares and there
would also be a far greater readiness among Conservatives to sympathetically examine
them.
In view of the above-named statements, it is quite plain that with proper manage-
ment, the outlook for the return to Parliament of a Labour Candidate is much more
promising than it was in 1922. It is to be hoped that all sections of workers in North-
ampton will realise the great opportunity they have, and when the appeal is made to them,
I hope they will put their X against the person running in the Labour interests, and thus
ensure the return of the first Labour Candidate for Northampton. - E. L. POULTON, General
Secretary.]
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out:-
SICK BENEFIT.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
s. d.
£
s. d.
To December, 1922 598,886 9 3
To December, 1922 270,614 8 4
January, 1923
..
2,872 12 4
January, 1923
4,768 13 9
February
2,399 13 0
February
3,992 5 9
March
3,050 12 2
March
3,621 8 9
April
3,902 6 2
April
4,427 12 3
May
2,669 1 4
May
3,410 18 0
June
2,610 16 0
June
2,923 17 3
July
2,728 15 0
July
3,566 18 0
August
2,303 0 10
August
3,880 3 9
September
2,217 12 0
September
4,100 9 0
£623,640 18 1
£305,286 14 10
PANEL DOCTORS' FEES.
Protest by Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
The Executive Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
being in London to-day, unanimously endorsed the action of the Trade Union
Approved Societies protesting against any amount being allowed to medical practi-
tioners higher than 7s. 3d. per insured member. - Leicester Mail, 22nd October, 1923.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

638
GOOD NEWS FOR CONSUMPTIVES.
Continued from page 586 in September Monthly Report.
Snatched From the Grave.
My last case is of a very remarkable character. It relates to a gentleman who for
many years hold an important position with a Blackburn firm, afterwards receiving a
responsible appointment in London.
Mr. Stevens says this patient was in an advanced condition of pulmonary consumption
when commencing the treatment, having a large cavity in each lung. His general con-
dition was very poor. His normal weight was 13 stone, but when he began taking the
remedy he was only 8½ stone.

cure:
Writing me on the 23rd ult., the gentleman enclosed the following account of his

"I have ample cause to feel grateful to Mr. C. H. Stevens, of Wimbledon, for his
wonderful discovery for the cure of that terrible scourge, consumption.
"Three years ago I was attacked at the age of fifty-six by this malady, and by force
of circumstances obliged to continue at my work. I got weaker and weaker, lost weight
to an alarming extent, and finally collapsed, being on the verge of death.
"Before my collapse I consulted three specialists, who in each case advised sanatorium
treatment.
"Finally, I entered one of the most famous hospitals in England for the cure of
consumption. I was in such a weak condition that I was put to bed immediately, and
remained there as a bed patient during the whole five months I was in the hospital.
"I was especially well treated and well looked after, but at the end of the five months
the medical superintendent asked for an interview with my wife, and informed her—
unable to do anything further for me, which was tantamount to indicating that my case
was hopeless.
"After leaving the hospital, which I did in such a weak state that I was removed in
a vehicle, although feeling better for the long rest and the ample, wholesome food, all the
symptoms of the fell disease were upon me.
"The outlook seemed very bad indeed. I did not quite know what took place at the
interview which my wife had with the medical superintendent, but the impression left
on her mind was that I had not long to live.
"Just at this time, when black despair was looming upon my household, my old
and valued friend, Mr. T. P. Ritzema, informed me of the wonderful cures of consumption
which had been effected by Mr. Stevens, and strongly advised me to try the treatment.
I did so, and have cause to bless the man who gave the advice and the man who discovered
the wonderful Umckaloabo cure.
"The treatment is very simple, and the directions easy to follow.
"From the very first I experienced relief. After a few days there was a sense of
cleanness and sweetness of the palate and throat, to which I had long been a stranger.
"The disease had been allowed to get such a terrible hold upon me that it seemed a
miracle when definite and not to be disputed improvement began to take place. Progress
was necessarily slow at first, but week by week, and month by month, the improvement
went on, and life began to open up anew fresh hopes for the future; visions of a return
to health and strength and a return to work and happiness!
"These dreams and visions have become crystallised facts, and to-day, I have so far
got back to health that I am about to make application to my old firm for reinstatement
after an absence of over two years.
"It is undoubtedly the duty of those who guide the destinies of our nation to take
up and use Mr. Stevens' treatment. The nation has at its disposal a curative agent which
is thoroughly effective in curing and eradicating this terrible scourge from our land."
Boycotted for Twenty-five Years.
It is twenty-five years since Mr. Stevens took up this treatment, having himself been
cured of tuberculosis by the use of Umckaloabo. Had he been out to make money by his
discovery he might have formed a wealthy syndicate, gone in for a big advertising campaign,
and made a fortune. On the contrary, for the first nine years he gave the preparation
away. He then took up the sale of the article for a living, continuing to supply it to poor
people free of charge.


---
639
He has always been willing to hand it over to the for
take it up after being satisfied as to its usefulness. All
follows, were in vain. and but for the remarkable c
in the wilderness. It is a pitiable story.
men of Switzerland
a trial.
by Dr. Sechehave, he would probably Love.
One would have thought, seeing that we have over a patt
in our country, and that ovER ONE THOUSAND PERSONS DIY
SCOURGE, that any treatment which gave promise of beinte my
Had Mr. Stevens been a German, and done a tenth of the god L
in lighting this monster, he would have been lionised by the Pres
He is only an Englishman, who joined up and fought for his country in t
Not only did he do this, but eighty men who had been cured of tuberculo
ment were passed as fit and well and served their country.
After endeavouring through every known channel to get an official test for co
covery, Mr. Stevens made the following proposal to the Brompton Hospital, with:
An Offer to the Brompton Hospital.
result shown below:
F. Wood, Esq.,
Secretary, Brompton Hospital, S.W.
16/7/'08.
Dear Sir - I know you must have many remedies and treatments put before your
Committee by men claiming same to be cures, &c., for Tuberculosis, and now I am bringing
vet another to your notice, but this time, perhaps, you will consider the modus operandi
a little different to my predecessors.
but before I intend to ask your Committee to try it in your renowned Institution I want
I myself claim to have discovered the missing link for the treatment of Tubercle,
to place myself at their disposal to be inoculated with the Bacilli of Tuberculosis, and
the disease allowed to take a thorough hold an my system under their observation and
to their satisfaction. I will then demonstrate to them how the discovery I have made
will cure me, and if they are satisfied when I am quite well again that I have cured myself
famous Institution at my expense. I will disclose its entire formula to your Committee,
of Tubercle, I shall request that they will administer the remedy to the inmates of your
and if it is not objected to would like to interview the selected cases for experiment.
Awaiting your reply,
Yours faithfully,
CHAS. H. STEVENS.
Hospital for Consumption and Diseases of the Chest,
Brompton, London,
17th July, 1908,
Dear Sir, I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of yesterday's date, which
will be laid before the Medical Committee in due course.
Chas. H. Stevens, Esq.,
Wimbledon.
F. Wood, Esq.,
Yours faithfully,
Secretary, Brompton Hospital.
(Signed) FREDERICK WOOD,
Secretary.
Wimbledon, London, S.W.,
28/8/'08.
Dear Sir, I should be pleased to hear what the Medical Committee decided regarding
my letter to you on the 16th July. You may inform them that I should only request to
tay in the Institution until they are satisfied I am safely in the throes of the disease.
Should they decline my offer, which I trust they will not, may I request to be allowed to
end gratuitous supplies for general testing purposes in the Institution. I only ask that
the first place it shall be given
a trial on those patients that fail to respond to the usual
remedies employed.
Yours very truly,
CHAS. H. STEVENS.
Anxiously waiting your reply, I beg to remain,


---
640
Hospital for Consumption and Diseases of the Chest,
Brompton,
29th August, 1908.
Dear Sir, -In the absence of the Secretary on leave, I beg to acknowledge the receipt
of your letter dated yesterday, and to say that I will place the same before him on his
return.
Yours faithfully,
STANLEY HARTLAND,
Senior Clerk.
Chas. H. Stevens, Esq.,
Wimbledon.
Hospital for Consumption and Diseases of the Chest,
Brompton,
14th September, 1908.
Dear Sir, - I found your letter of the 28th ult. awaiting me on my return to the
Hospital this morning, and in reply beg to inform you that your letter of 16th July last
has been considered by the Authorities of this Hospital.
I am desired to inform you, however, that the Committee regret that your offer is
of a nature which they are unable to accept.
Yours faithfully,
FREDERICK WOOD,
C. H. Stevens, Esq.,
Wimbledon.
Secretary.
An Offer to the Royal Commission.
The following is a copy of a letter Mr. Stevens addressed to the Secretary of the Royal
Commission appointed on Tuberculosis. A copy was also sent to every member of the
Commission and to every Practitioner whose name is given in the Medical Directory as
having anything to do with the two London Hospitals where Mr. Williams (who is referred
to in the letter) attended. With one exception, his communications were not even
acknowledged.
Broadway, Wimbledon,
London, S.W., 9/5/'08.
E. J. Steegmann, Esq., M.B.,
Secretary of the Royal Commission on Tuberculosis,
5. Old Palace Yard, Westminster.
Dear Sir,-It is with great pleasure that I now approach your Commission to allow me
to demonstrate to them that I have discovered a positive cure for Tuberculosis. I have
been curing for the last few years hundreds of cases of Tuberculosis of the lungs, but it
has not been an easy matter to convince even the medical men who had attended these
cases and pronounced them to be undoubted cases of Tuberculosis, and afterwards who
had pronounced them cured, that it really was my specific which brought about the
recoveries.
One cannot see the lungs, therefore, there is much room for argument, that the disease
itself may not have been Tuberculosis in the first place, even if actual disease of any
description existed. A case came before my notice on the 16th ultimo, of a Mr. Williams,
of 68, Clarendon Road, West Croydon; he had been suffering with a Tuberculous Wart
on his hand, which had gradually progressed for the last seven years, in spite of the fact
that he had attended the Royal Free Hospital, Gray's Inn Road, and St. John's Hospital.
Leicester Square, for the last six years, off and on, without receiving any benefit whatso-
ever; in fact the wart gradually spread, until, when he came to see me on Good Friday
it measured four inches across. This patient came to see me last night, and is completely
cured.
I will, with pleasure, wait upon your Commission and bring this patient with me,
so that you may see for yourselves that the disease is perfectly eradicated. What I
particularly wish you to do is to give me an opportunity of demonstrating to you that I
have discovered a treatment which will eradicate the disease of Tuberculosis in any part
of the body, and I shall only be too happy to disclose its entire formula to your Com-
Any external cases of Tuberculosis can be cured in a much quicker time than Pulmonary,
mission, either before or after I have demonstrated to you that I can cure this disease.
but even with Pulmonary Tuberculosis, it is only a matter of a few months treatment.


---
641
Trusting you will put this letter before your Commission of
SHOULD I FAIL TO CURE 95 PER CENT. OF ALL CASES SELECTED SUFFERERS
the favour of your reply, for which I thank you in anticipation.
IAM QUITE WILLING THAT YOU SHOULD CONSIDER MY DISCOVERY A SAFE
Yours very truly,
The following mere acknowledgement is all that Mr. Stevens received in reply
ROYAL COMMISSION ON TUBERCULOSIS.
CHAS. H. STEVENS
5. Old Palace Yard,
Westminster, S.W.,
14th October, 1903.
Sir - I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 12th inst.
together with various enclosures.
C. H. Stevens, Esq.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) EDWARD J. STEEGMANN.
An Offer to the Nation.
In view of the large sum of money that the Lancashire County Council was willing
to provide for experimenting with the Spahlinger treatment, I asked Mr. Stevens on
what terms he would be willing to sell his treatment to the nation.
Although I believe that he is a comparatively poor man, he replied that if the Ministry
of Health put Umckaloabo to the test and found that it was a specific for consumption,
he would be willing to make the nation a present of it, together with his stock-in-trade,
on condition that it was supplied to panel patients and used in the national sanatoriums.
A more generous offer was never made to any people.
WHAT OF CANCER?
Hitherto a vast sum of money has been spent in endeavouring to find a cure for
cancer as well as for tuberculosis. This has been largely, if not exclusively, expended in
endeavouring to find a serum with which to inoculate patients suffering from these scourges.
The specific for tuberculosis discovered by Mr. Stevens, and which, according to Dr.
Sechchaye, may contribute largely to eradicating this terrible scourge, belongs to the
vegetable kingdom. It seems to entirely clear the system of tubercle. Is there any
reason why the vegetable kingdom should not be explored for a specific to cure cancer?
“And the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations."
The medical faculty seems to be obsessed with the idea that there can be no cure
for either cancer or tuberculosis except through a serum injected into the blood of those
who are overtaken by these terrible scourges, although it has not yet been proved whether
cancer is caused by bacilli or not. Any person who brings forward a new serum is hailed
as the deliverer of the people. This was the case in the year 1880, when Dr. Koch, a
German physician, was able to isolate tuberculosis and at a later period-produced
tuberculin, which was received throughout the world as an absolute remedy for the disease.
Unfortunately it turned out a dismal failure. The remedy for the white scourge has
apparently been found in a plant grown in the British Empire, and all that is necessary is
for the medical profession to prescribe it to deliver the human race from the destroyer.
Mr. J. A. Speed, secretary of the Lancashire County Council Insurance Committee,
speaking recently in Manchester on the treatment of tuberculosis, said: “Whether it
was the Spahlinger healing OR ANY OTHER they wanted its benefits and wanted it now.
The digging must be done and CONSUMPTIVE PATIENTS MUST BE SAVED. Waiting was
no use.
The Lancashire County Council need not wait another day for a remedy, much less
until the end of next year to make experiments with the Spahlinger treatment. Mr.
Stevens will be pleased to send the Council a supply of his specific free of charge, so that
it may at once be put to the test in the Lancashire Sanatoriums.
[Reprinted from the “Northern Daily Telegraph,” 28th, 29th, and 30th August, 1923.]


---
642
GOVERNMENT PUT IN THE DOCK.

Promises on Unemployment that have not been Carried out.
"In view of the explicit undertakings which you gave in the House before Parlia-
ment adjourned, and which it is clear have not yet been fulfilled, and in view of the in-
creasing gravity of the unemployment situation, we think that Parliament should re-
assemble without delay." - Mr. J. R. Clynes, to Sir Montague Barlow, Minister of Labour,
Mr. Clynes' statement occurs in correspondence which he, as chairman of the Emergency
Committee set up by the Parliamentary Labour Party, has had with the Minister, and
which was released for publication last night.
Sir Montague Barlow's replies were indefinite and consisted mainly of airy assurances.
Minister's Airy Replies.
Mr. Clynes first wrote on 13th September, when he asked what further measures the
Government had decided upon to supplement the proposals already outlined, when they
would provide.
He recalled that the Minister, in his statement to the House of Commons, prior to the
recess, recalled that the Minister, in
that it was" only a first broad outline" of the Government's programme, and that the
Cabinet Committee on the subject would continue in session.
Since then the volume of unemployment had steadily risen and
"
the situation which will arise during the fourth winter of unemployment will,
be even more acute and more serious than it has been during the past three years."
The State had not taken action on a scale commensurate with the gravity of the
situation, declared Mr. Clynes, and by some of its actions it had hampered the revival
of trade, as, for example, by its exclusion of Russia from the operations of the export
credits scheme, and had permitted hardship and privation, as, for example, by the restric-
tions it had placed on uncovenanted unemployment benefit.
Minister's Vague Assurances in Reply.
Sir Montague Barlow replied on 24th September, saving that the details of the Govern-
ment's measures for dealing with the unemployment situation would be explained when
the House met, but that he could assure Mr. Clynes we have been actively engaged
in developing, and, as far as practicable, expanding the programme
the recess.
"
Substantial progress, he said, had been made in the administrative details, which
were a necessary preliminary to the approval of the large volume of public works proposed
to be instituted by local authorities, with State assistance.
The departments concerned were approving the schemes as rapidly as possible, and
in the result local authorities should be enabled to commence many of them at a very early
date.
It had also been possible to announce the form of assistance which the Government
could provide in respect of development schemes instituted by public utility companies.
A National Burden, but Government Pushes it on Local Authorities.
To that letter Mr. Clynes sent a rejoinder on 27th September, stating that the joint
meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party's Emergency Committee and the National
Joint Council
"expressed its profound dissatisfaction with the limited information contained
in your letter and with the absence of any new proposals for dealing with a situation
which is growing steadily worse,"
and it was declared that Parliament ought to reassemble without delay.
"We do not think that the guarantees or the assistance which the Government is to
provide in respect of development schemes instituted by public utility companies will
lead to any appreciable increase in the volume of employment.
The conditions which are imposed are, in our opinion, such as to render those schemes
of little real value in the present emergency.
institution of public works by local authorities. We would, however, point out that, with
"But the Government appears," proceeded the letter, “to be relying mainly on the
to absorb more than a mere fraction of the unemployed.
the best will in the world, the local authorities cannot promote schemes on a scale adequate
"
announced before


---
644
KINGSWOOD BOOT OPERATIVES.
Success of a Recent Campaign. Future Prospects.
The annual rally of the Kingswood and District Nos. 1 and 2 Branches of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives was held last evening at the British School, Kingswood.
Mr. J. Manners, a member of the National Executive of the Union presided, and the chief
speakers were Mr. T. F. Richards, general president: Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., general
secretary of the Union and Mr. W. R Smith. Messrs. Poulton and Smith have recently
returned from a national conference of shoe and leather workers in Germany.
The Chairman said that 90 per cent. of those working in the trade locally were receiving
the benefits of the holiday scheme. He felt that achievement was something to be proud
of because for many months they had been faced with adverse circumstances as regards
the trade. It was only in the last few months that they had been able to make any appreci-
able headway. Locally interest had been taken in the quest of the cut in wages, which
became operative in June, being restored.
Mr. T. F. Richards expressed appreciation of the work done locally on behalf of the
Union by Mr. W. R. Smith, Mr. J. Manners, and Mr. A. G. Randall. It had been felt in
the past that in the Kingswood trade the economic conditions were in a bad way. That
reflected itself in many employers who naturally preferred, through bad trade and other
causes, to make an escape from obligations by not paying to the holiday scheme, which
was an organised agreement made by organised bodies of Employers and the Union. The
Union embraced at least 80 per cent. of those engaged in the trade. No loophole would be
allowed the employer by the Union to escape his responsibility. They did not want to
make trouble for the employer. They started on a campaign many years ago with the
sole intention, as far as possible, of endeavouring to see that the labour cost of the boot and
shoe operatives should be as stationary and as fair nationally, irrespective of districts, as
was the price of leather, machines and taxes of the country. He did not think any em-
ployer in Kingswood or any other part of the Kingdom would impugn or tell them they
had endeavoured on any particular occasion to take a mean or contemptible advantage.
The very fact that their agreement of 1895 remained solidified to-day, and from that time
till now a general upheaval in the boot and shoe industry had not taken place, was an
example to other industries. They had endeavoured to have a working agreement which
and the majority of the employers. Time was when the boot and shoe operative was looked
upon as of lower status than he was to-day. Many people would rather wear boots without
nails than those with nails, and they had arrived at a transitory stage. They might find
that lighter grades would be made in course of time. They had competitors. They would
remember the struggle made with their greatest competitors at Chesham. The conditions
in Chesham now were such that they had no complaints to make. The success at Chesham
had defended Kingswood. If the cost of living at the end of September was officially
shown to be over 70 per cent., then the last "cut" would be restored in their wages.
(Applause.) The prospects between themselves and the employers appeared to be of a
satisfactory character. The speaker appealed for greater support of the Union in the
future.
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., referring to the holiday payment scheme said the central
manufacturers were desirous that every manufacturer should pay to that scheme. By
support to their local officers they should see from time to time that the scheme was
honoured. He felt strongly upon the question of hours. Whatever economists might
say here or in other countries, they might make up their minds that the workers were going
to have shorter hours, also on the Continent and in America. Mr. Smith and himself
had just returned from Germany, attending a national conference of shoe and leather
workers. One of the principal matters discussed there was the maintenance of the eight-
hour day. Emphasis was particularly laid upon the necessity of that, and the Boot
Operatives' Union hoped to see the number reduced lower and lower as they found the
means of producing boots and shoes and other articles by machinery faster and faster.
When machinery turned out goods at a faster rate the workers ought to be entitled to
benefit. They should be entitled to that from a humanitarian standpoint, and also with
the view of having greater opportunities to improve themselves and fit themselves to
discharge their duties as citizens. It was somewhat pathetic to note the way the Continental
workers were looking to England to bring about a more satisfactory state of affairs. He
appealed to them to build up their organisation, to make it increasingly useful to themselves.
He felt sure they had the same sort of spirit as people in other parts of the country. Because
they had fallen on bad times and the days were dark do not let them get dispirited. Let
them display the qualities and courage shown on another field during the war, and on the
industrial field do their part towards bringing about a better state of affairs.
Mr. A. G. Randall, J.P. (local secretary of the Union), said that although 90 per cent
were receiving the benefit of the holiday payment scheme, they should not be satisfied
until the remaining 10 per cent. were benefiting. They were looking with anxiety to the
winter. As a season's trade it had been disappointing. It was hoped to make some pro-
vision for the winter in the district outside their own funds. The Union during the past


---
```text
645
something from the national scheme of relief to tide over the winter
through difficult times. He hoped they would have their fair share
three years had spent thousands of pounds in the district for the benen of
Mr. W. R. Smith referred to the progress made in the district by the
During the past twelve months they had
Times, 25th September, 1923.
had made a real advance in work,
THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS AT WORK.
A Message from Geneva.
By J. RAMSAY MACDONALD, M.P.
and blues which make this place and its surroundings so much like a coloured picture.
are toned down by a gauzy veil. There are white sails and white boats on the water
The lake looks its best. There is a haze on the hills and the crude greens and re
hereon the sunbeams glitter.
ing a state of siege. Here one is invited to a lotus life, to sip coffee in open-air cafes
of Nations; but when one meets the men who are taking part in the work, no content-
and to dream of contentment. This is the outward setting of the meeting of the Leagu
It is hard this morning to read newspapers and to believe that governments are decla
ment is found in their hearts.
They shake their heads; they talk gloomily; they
still grope in the night and come up against hard things.
*
*
*
At the hotel headquarters of the delegates, flags of all nations fly; at the Victoria
Hotel, where the Assembly is meeting, there are more flags. From the threshold one is
in a bustle, and I am first of all struck with the number of men who have frequented our
own Socialist Internationals.
The first I meet is that Dane with the fine, large head, and the flowing beard, the
patient son of the Viking, the faithful friend of Stanning (who is not here); and others
come up in a stream. Branting, just released from a trying meeting of the Council, sits
down apart to give me the news; Benes books an interview and returns to his seat at the
head of the table of the Disarmaments Commission, of which he is reporter. Our old
friends are trying hard to mend the world.
*
*
*
Mr. Baldwin's speech at the Tory Agents' School had just come through in a French
a movement that will really make for peace and settlement, and France is anything but
summary, and it added to the gloom of the day. All our friends here are trying to create
helpful.
They all trust to the proclamation of a British policy which will rally the small nations
advantages of an understanding between France and ourselves. They are working for it
and put ideals other than force before the world. They do not need to be told of the
missions, in the League Assembly and at tables, they are sowing the seed of such an under-
by every means that good and faithful men can adopt. On Commissions and off Com-
standing. But it must be an understanding on principle and on a common aim.
They believe, and I agree with them, that Mr. Baldwin's speech read too much like
a sacrifice of everything to such an understanding. One of these people greeted me with:
Has England no policy? Do you people see nothing but an easy life?"
Undoubtedly, the first effect of the speech here was to stiffen the sections hostile to
the League. I have studied the speech, and its mischief lay in what it did not say more
than in what it did say. Mr. Baldwin really does not know the circumstances with which
he has to deal-any more than did Mr. Bonar Law.
*
*
It was certainly a morning of rather gloomy interviews. I believe the League leaders
mean business, but they are fearfully hampered. They are disappointed with us.
To one of the most distinguished representatives of a State that was not
"Your country
involved in the war I explained the difficulties in which we found ourselves. He
trusted in the foreign policy of the Labour Party and spoke highly of some of the British
representatives here, but his last words, spoken as we shook hands, were:
and your Government have not done well. You have a great opportunity if you
only had the wisdom to take it."
It is plainer than ever to me that in these days it is being determined for us whether
the next generation will, or will not, find itself again involved in a world war. There is
no alternative between a League of Nations, with peace, and a Balance of Power,
with war.
And if the League of Nations is to have a ghost of a chance there must be
a British policy, pacific but firm, friendly but clear as to aim. That we have
not got, and that is the great danger which now besets our Country. - Extracts
from the Daily Herald, 4th October, 1923.
```

---
```text
646
UNEMPLOYMENT.
Mr. Baldwin on Taking Risks.
We live in times, said Mr. Baldwin yesterday, when risks must be taken. Yes, but
what sort of risks? By far the greatest risk of all is the risk of doing nothing, and if this
was the risk that Mr. Baldwin had in mind, he is entitled to congratulate himself. But of
any other sort of risk, we can see no sign in the Government's policy. Prod it anywhere
and you find it soft, yielding and spongy.
The one question that is relevant, namely, whether France ever intends to get out of
approaching the time when whatever we do it will make no difference to the fact. Our
the Ruhr, and if not what we propose to do about it, is never mentioned. We are rapidly
chief textile industry will be the spinning of words, while others make the facts.
Or take that other aspect of the problem, the relations of capital and labour. We not
only need the old closed markets to be reopened, but if we are to compete successfully in
them, we need to get back our old power to produce more cheaply and better than our
competitors. That is impossible without close and sympathetic co-operation between
capital and labour. You must have a constructive labour policy which will increase
industrial output; you cannot increase output without an incentive to the worker; and
your incentive must be part of a considered policy that will remove the prime heresy of
labour in our time, that you can make work for others by doing less yourself. We can
imagine England under the right leader being rallied by such a policy into a great industrial
revival which would rival the triumphs of the past. But as for this Government, we cannot
discover that it has any labour policy at all.
Mr. Baldwin yesterday seemed to be addressing himself to the third part of the pro-
blem-emigration, and the development of the under-populated lands in the Dominions.
But here, too, there seems to be a conspiracy to shirk the real issues. The Government's
policy crumbles into dried currants, and one section of the Liberal party is treating the
currants as though they were granite boulders, heaving and sweating as though the great
fiscal controversy of the early years of the century were upon us again. We have expressed
our opinion on these proposals about currants. The issues seem to us comparatively
trivial in their present form. Our suspicion is that Mr. Baldwin, so far from having a
policy that will accomplish anything, is really occupied in doing nothing at all that matters.
The sterling of British statesmanship is no sooner touched by this Government than
it breaks up into small coinage and unconsidered trifles.
Unemployment insurance ought to be standardised and brought up to subsistence
level, and the guardians would thus be relieved of a disagreeable and onerous responsi-
bility. At the same time, the enduring remedy for unemployment is NOT UNEMPLOYED
BENEFIT, BUT WORK. It is distressing and disappointing to find that, with Christmas
getting nearer and nearer, NOTHING IN THE FORM OF A CONSTRUCTIVE POLICY IS FORTH-
COMING FROM THE GOVERNMENT. France has organised a flood of constructive and pro-
ductive enterprises in the months during which our rulers have been painfully devising
sops and remedies. Why have we not done the same? If a cure for the worst disease
that attacks the industrial worker has been found in France it can be found here.--Daily
Chronicle, 13th October, 1923.
SUPPRESSION OF TRADE UNIONS IN GREECE.
H.M. Commercial Secretary at Athens transmits a translation of the text of a "Re-
volutionary Decision" of the Greek Government, dated 20th August, 1923, by which all
legally recognised trade unions and trade union federations are declared to be non-existent
on and from the date of the Decision, and are to be dissolved by Royal Decrees on the
advice of the Greek Government. The public prosecuting authorities are to take over all
trade union archives, books and registers, and their funds are to be deposited, under the
care of the same authorities, with the National Bank of Greece, in an account in favour
of the Workers' Provident Fund. Legally recognised Workers' Benefit Societies are
excluded from the scope of this Decision. - The Labour Gazette, October, 1923.
NOMINATION FOR COUNCIL MEMBER.
DISTRICT No. 4.
Branch to which
Member belongs.
Name.
JOHNSON, I. H.
Daventry
Branch Nominating.
Daventry, Northampton.
```

---
DOLES FOR THE "DISTINGUISHED."
Living on Glamour of Ancestry. Mystery Pensions.
Doles to the "Distinguished" cost the British people for the year ended 31st March
last £366,456, according to official statements issued yesterday.
The pensions for naval and military services totalled £12,270. For the most part
they are not pensions for naval and military services rendered by the present recipients.
Lord Rodney and Baroness Rodney have £1,000 each because the first Baron Rodney,
born in 1718, distinguished himself by victories at sea at the Battle of Cape St. Vincent in
1780, and other naval engagements. There is no evidence that the family has ever been
anywhere near the poverty line.
Earl Nelson, though not a direct lineal descendant of Horatio, benefits because of
Horatio's part in the Trafalgar victory. It was computed in 1913 that collateral relatives,
personally unknown to the public, who could have no claim but what they derived from
accidental fact of bearing Nelson's name, had collected altogether over £500,000.
"Pretty Well Paid."
Yet Nelson himself was pretty well paid. Apart from his pay as a naval officer and
prize money, which at the Battle of the Nile alone amounted to over £3,000, while an estate
grant by the King of Naples produced an annual sum of £3,000, Nelson was also presented
with £10,000 by the East India Company, and in the latter part of his life he had Govern-
mental pensions, English and Irish, of £4,000 a year.
Viscount Hardinge draws £3,000 a year by virtue of a pension for that amount voted
to the first Viscount and his next two successors to the peerage. The first Viscount fought
at Ligny, where he lost a hand, and in India.
A Mysterious £2,000.
Exactly why Lord Seaton draws £2,000 a year is not clear. But he served in the South
African War and the Great War himself, and many of his ancestors were warriors whose
names were conspicuous.
Under the head of political and civil pensioners only two names figure in the financial
accounts of the United Kingdom - Lord George Hamilton, £2,000, and the late Viscount
Chaplin, £1,200. Both of these will not figure in next year's accounts.
The total amount drawn by Lord George Hamilton was £44,000.
Lawyers draw £56,000.
Among the pensions for judicial services there are £5,000 to Earl Loreburn, Viscount
Haldane and Lord Buckmaster. Earl Loreburn is an ex-Lord Chancellor. He was in
office 6 years. Viscount Haldane was Lord Chancellor for just under three years, and
Lord Buckmaster one year and seven months.
Two Irish peers, Lord Shandon and Lord Glenavy, have £3,692 each.
Others on the law list are Lord Trevethen, £3,322; Lord Wrenbury, Lord Phillimore
Viscount Mersey, Sir A. M. Channell, Sir M. Ingle Joyce and Sir E. Ridley, £3,500. All
were adequately paid when " in harness" in law courts.
The total pensions for judicial services in England amounted to £56,422.-Daily
Herald, Wednesday, 3rd October, 1923.
The above-named list shows how well certain people are looked after by the Nation.
What a contrast when the recipients are working people; the smallest amount of
income from any small savings due to thriftiness on their part are taken into
account and the allowance reduced accordingly. Another example showing the
need of a Labour Government.-E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
ATTACK ON HOURS?
M.P.'s Warning to Boot and Shoe Operatives.
A warning to operatives in the boot and shoe trade, that an attempt to destroy the
48-hour week was being contemplated by the Federation of British Industries, has been
made by Mr. John Buckle, M.P., at a meeting of the union at Higham Ferrers, Northants.
He knew that the union was very strong, but it was necessary to rope in those who
had accepted the advantages obtained by the union's efforts.
Before the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union was formed, said Mr. Buckle, men had
to work 60 hours a week for 18s. to 20s. The rapid growth of the union had com
rate of 56s., shortly to be increased to 6os., in accordance with the cost-
scale, for a 48-hour week.-Daily Herald, 15th October, 1923.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

649
COST-OF-LIVING FIGURES.
New System Hits Sliding Scale Workers.
While admitting that the cost of living figures are accurate on the whol
Mr. D. Carmichael, secretary of the London Trades Council, contends that
inflicts great hardships on the organised workers whose wages at
and fall of the percentage compared with 1914 prices.
In a very informative circular Mr. Carmichael gives illustrations to
tention that the Ministry of Labour method is not fair,
The Ministry adopt a system whereby the estimated expenditure of copper
per family: 60 per cent. on food, 16 per cent, on rent and rates, 12 per cent onc
boots, and hosiery, 8 per cent. on fuel and light, the remaining 4 per cent, for soap
domestic ironmongery, pottery, fares, tobacco, and newspapers.
"Absurd."
"These percentages, says Mr. Carmichael,
the food, and no fares are required.
are absurd when applied to Lon
workers, skilled or unskilled. No mention is made of the additional cost incurred by the
workers in London and other large cities in the purchase of lunches away from home
an expenditure not required in the smaller towns and villages, where the housewife purchase
"The purchase of refreshments is ignored, although, in pre-war days, it was claimed
that a glass of ale with bread and cheese satisfied for 3d. the manual worker better than an
equal expenditure in an eating-house.
Cost of Entertainment.
It requires 7d. to purchase the equivalent in beer, cheese, and bread an increase of
weight with him than a statement that food prices have only advanced 68 per cent.
130 per cent. This point is brought home daily to the average worker, and has more
"The increased cost of entertainments is omitted, the increase on this item being at
beef and mutton, butter, margarine, cheese, condensed milk, eggs, and the keen com-
least 100 per cent. higher than pre-war. In most cases the basic figure for 1914 is too high
for London's working-class districts. The abundance of imported food, such as frozen
petition among the retailers, resulted in food being obtained in London at least 20 per cent.
below the quoted figures."
When Worker Benefited.
compared with 4d., Russian butter rod. and IS., as compared with Is. 2td.
Star, 18th October, 1923.
then the present price being Is. 8d., the London increase would be 100 per cent., but the
average being taken as IId., the increase would appear in the Gazette as 82 per cent." - The
To illustrate this point Mr. Carmichael points out that in 1914 Dutch margarine was
sold at 4d. and 6d. per lb., as against 7d. in the Gazette, frozen breasts of mutton at 3d.,
be 11d.,
ANOTHER TESTIMONIAL FOR MAJOR STEVENS.
Major Stevens' Treatment for Tuberculosis.
56, HIGH STREET,
STREET, SOMERSET.
10th October, 1923.
Our member, F.W., has done exceptionally well under Major Stevens' treatment,
and his local doctor says he will be quite strong enough to resume his employment within
a week or two. This has been a stubborn case and we are quite satisfied with the result.
Yours very truly,
MANUFACTURER'S DEATH.
JOHN H. HOOPER.
H. . Bostock, President of the Boot Manufacturers' Federation, has died at Stafford,
Mr. Henry Bostock, chairman of Lotus Ltd., boot manufacturers, and father of Mr.
aged 82. He was a member of Mr. Joseph Chamberlain's Tariff Reform Commission. The
Star, 12th October, 1923.


---
651
history and environment. It therefore behoves the Government to go slowly, before
understood by the Siamese people, who have had an entirely different industrial
introducing, by anticipation, unfamiliar remedies for evils, which have arisen in other
countries under entirely different conditions.
Siam was excluded from the Eight-Hour Convention adopted at the Conference held
in Washington in 1919, but was asked to accept the principle of the protection of labour
factory legislation. In this connection the Siamese Foreign Minister writes:
"My Government, while agreeing in general with the position maintained by you,
that some of the difficulties arising from an industrial development may best be dealt
take the development of a service of factory inspection, even in an embryonic form.
with in advance, nevertheless regard it as not feasible at the present juncture to under-
When the time comes that the recently established Public Health Service is
functioning adequately, it might be possible to charge it with the additional duties
of factory inspection. At the present time, however, considerable difficulty is experi-
enced in obtaining inspectors, sanitary and medical, for the essential and primary
inspection upon top of that, particularly when the factories are practically non-
work of public health, and it is not possible now to establish a system of factory
Discussing the Draft Convention of 1921 concerning the rights of association and
combination of agricultural workers, the letter says:
existent."
on a basis of co-operation."
of industrial workers, has a right to be registered and, if registered, is not to be
"Any organisation for a legal purpose (in Siam), whether composed of agricultural
deemed as an illegal secret society. There is no specific legislation with regard to
organisations of industrial workers, nor does the Government have the intention,
engaged in working their own fields, or the families or neighbours of such, the latter
at the present time, to promulgate any. Agricultural workers in Siam are those
The question of vocational training in agriculture is dealt with in the following state-
ment of the Minister of Education on compulsory education and training in Siam.
instruction, general knowledge of Siam, the rules of health, drawing, and physical
training, and a further period of two years when this knowledge is amplified, but
of the elements of knowledge-reading, writing, and arithmetic-along with moral
"There is an introductory period of three years mainly devoted to the acquisition
during which sixty per cent. of the school time is allotted to introductory vocational
training. The course of training must receive the approval of the Minister of Educa-
tion as being suitable to the needs of the locality. Opportunity for vocational training
is afforded not only in the primary schools. Agricultural colleges with specially
trained instructors have been and are to be established at various centres in the
country, whose special purpose is the training of teachers who shall be thoroughly
qualified to undertake the vocational instruction in primary schools."
Siam has taken a particular interest in the International Labour Organisation since
its creation by the Peace Treaty in 1919, and has been regularly represented at the annual
sessions of the International Labour Conference. At the fourth session, held in Geneva
last October, the Siamese delegation consisted of six persons, headed by Prince Charcon
as senior Government representative.
WOMEN AND WORLD LABOUR PROBLEMS.
Many women will attend the fifth annual session of the International Labour Con-
ference of the League of Nations which opens at Geneva on Monday, 22nd October, and
which will study "General Principles for the Organisation of Fractory Inspection."
To this Conference each of the 56 States which are members of the International
Labour Organisation is entitled to send four delegates, two representing the Government
and one each the employers' and workers' organisations, and each delegate is allowed two
technical advisers. It is in the capacity of technical advisers that most of the women
will be present.
In the lists of official representatives already received at Geneva there appears the
name of Mme. Betzy Kjelsberg as full Government delegate for Norway. Mme. Kjelsberg,
who is a Government factory inspector, has already attended the two preceding sessions
of the Conference in 1921 and 1922 as delegate.
Among technical advisers for Government delegates appear the names of Mme. Julie
Arenhold (Denmark), factory inspector and civil engineer; Mme. Letellier (France),
Departmental Inspector of Labour, who attended the 1921 session in the same capacity;
and Mme. Marguerita Sarfatti (Italy).
It is also stated that Miss Margaret Bondfield, who has just been elected first woman
chairman of the Trades Union Congress, will attend this session as a technical adviser
to the British Workers' delegate, Mr. E. L. Poulton, O.B.E., J.P., General Secretary of
the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.


---
Here are the bounding box detections:
```json
[
  {"box_2d": [306, 336, 386, 588], "label": "Monthly"},
  {"box_2d": [395, 405, 477, 531], "label": "of the"},
  {"box_2d": [428, 327, 580, 622], "label": "NATIONAL UNION OF"},
  {"box_2d": [576, 308, 626, 622], "label": "(Registered under the Trade Union Acts, Register No. 432 T)."},
  {"box_2d": [651, 327, 685, 417], "label": "General President:"},
  {"box_2d": [653, 519, 685, 622], "label": "General Secretary:"},
  {"box_2d": [94, 319, 103, 397], "label": "Telephone No.:"},
  {"box_2d": [95, 502, 108, 555], "label": "Telegraphic Addresss"},
  {"box_2d": [245, 366, 261, 522], "label": "Seat of Government and General Secretary's Office:"},
  {"box_2d": [259, 330, 274, 569], "label": "34. GUILFORD ST., LONDON, W.C. 1."},
  {"box_2d": [274, 361, 290, 522], "label": "Where all business communications must be addressed."},
  {"box_2d": [93, 544, 116, 594], "label": "Museum, London."},
  {"box_2d": [155, 508, 183, 602], "label": "NOVEMBER, 1923."},
  {"box_2d": [496, 361, 584, 580], "label": "BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES"},
  {"box_2d": [801, 269, 819, 547], "label": "PRICE ONE PENNY."}
]
```

---
TRADE UNION STAMP FOR
BOOT & SHOE REPAIRERS.

The following Firms use the "STAMP" :-
BROCKLEY, Surrey
CHESHAM
CHESTERFIELD
DARTFORD
DUNDEE
DUBLIN
GRANTHAM
LEEDS
LEICESTER
LEIGH
MANCHESTER
NORTHAMPTON
NOTTINGHAM
PLYMOUTH
Mr. F. Jeffery, 1. Merritt Road, Crofton
Park
Mr. J. Mead, 150, High Street
J. W. Booth, Eyre Street, Hasland
Industrial Co-op. Society, 73, Kent Road
T. Malone, Mid Street
Arnold Lowe, 31 1/2, Upper Kevin Street
F. Lewin, 6 and 7, Chapel Street
J. Chapman, 5, Bulmer Street,
Meanwood Road
Henry Brightwell, 12, Barrack Street
J. Smith, 30, Eldon Street
Ralph Wood, 47, Cottesmore Road
Messrs. J. T. Marriott & Co.,
74, St. Nicholas Square
Edward Gee, 51, Wolverton Road
Co-operative Society Ltd., Leigh
J. Mason, 15, Oakhill Street, Heath
Street, Cheetham Hill
Messrs. Roberts & Son, 98, Fairfield
Street, London Road
Manchester and Salford Equitable Co-op.
Society, Downing Street
T. W. Lewis, 72, Ethel Street
J. Seymour, 79, Woodborough Road
Messrs. Petitt & Co., 105, Tavistock Road
Stamp No.
16
14
7
17
4
10
19
21
23
9
15
20
22
13
1
2
8
3
12
11
All Trade Unionists should have their Repairs done
by Repairers who use the TRADE UNION STAMP.

Full particulars from General Secretary :-
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 34, Guilford Street, LONDON, W.C. 1.
---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure information
being men on whom we can rely, should,
being pointed out to us, we shall be happy to give
correction as to the original matter. As the responsible
the information contained there must not be divulged.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE
19TH NOVEMBER, 1923.
during the month has showed no improvement, no less than 2,336 of our
members drawing benefit from the Union's Unemployment Fund. The figures
issued by the Ministry of Labour are as follows: -

BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment during October continued slack on the whole, and showed little general
change, an improvement in some districts being counterbalanced by a decline in others.
Short time working was still very prevalent.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 9.8 on the 22nd October, compared with 10.3 on
24th September.
In London employment remained bad generally. There was a slight improvement
at Leicester, but short time was still largely worked. At Northampton employment
was slack; most of the factories were working short time. At Kettering some firms
were on full time, and few were working less than three-quarter time; employment was
slightly better than in October of last year. At Wellingborough there was a further
improvement, and very little short time was worked. Improvements were also reported
at Hinckley and in the Rushden district; in the latter district employment was good,
and some overtime was worked. At Desborough employment declined, and much short
time was worked. Employment also declined at Stafford and at Stone.
At Norwich there was not much change, and short time was largely worked. At
Bristol employment was still quiet; at Kingswood the gradual recovery from a condition
of extreme depression was maintained. A slight improvement was reported at Leeds,
though short time was still largely worked.
---

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
Approved
Insurance Acts. Approval He. 281
General President
General Secretary
E.L POULTON J.D.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
GUILFORD STREET)
LONDON
Nearest Telegraph Ofice:
Red Lion Street, London, WC. A.
MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS, 19TH NOVEMBER, 1923.
TRADE
during the month has showed no improvement, no less than 2,336 of our
members drawing benefit from the Union's Unemployment Fund. The figures
issued by the Ministry of Labour are as follows:-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment during October continued slack on the whole, and showed little general
change, an improvement in some districts being counterbalanced by a decline in others.
Short time working was still very prevalent.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 9.8 on the 22nd October, compared with 10.3 on
24th September.
In London employment remained bad generally. There was a slight improvement
at Leicester, but short time was still largely worked. At Northampton employment
was slack; most of the factories were working short time. At Kettering some firms
were on full time, and few were working less than three-quarter time; employment was
slightly better than in October of last year. At Wellingborough there was a further
improvement, and very little short time was worked. Improvements were also reported
at Hinckley and in the Rushden district; in the latter district employment was good,
and some overtime was worked. At.Desborough employment declined, and much short
time was worked. Employment also declined at Stafford and at Stone.
At Norwich there was not much change, and short time was largely worked.
Bristol employment was still quiet; at Kingswood the gradual recovery from a condition
of extreme depression was maintained. A slight improvement was reported at Leed,
though short time was still largely worked.

---
Week
ended
27th Oct.,
1923
Month ago
Per
cent.
Year ago
Per
cent.
ENGLAND AND WALES
2,012
+ 4.2
2.5
London
8,308
1.6
+ 0.2
Leicester
Ο.Ι
3.4
Leicester Country District
6,891
0.9
+ 3.2
Northampton
Northampton Country
8,044
+ 1.0
+ 4.0
District
3,326
0.4
+ 5.5
Kettering
2,549
+ 0.4
+ 3.5
Stafford and District
3,753
0.7
9.3
Norwich and District
Bristol, Kingswood and
District
2,454
1.7
+ 2.7
Leeds and District
1,920
+ 2.0
3.1
Lancashire (mainly
Rossendale Valley)
4,384
+ 0.6
+ 7.3
Birmingham and District
1,009
+ 0.7
2.2
Other parts of England and
Wales
1,512
+ 2.0
+ 4.5
ENGLAND AND WALES
48,464
0.0
+ 1.3
SCOTLAND
2,587
0.4
+ 0.7
UNITED KINGDOM
51,051
0.0
+ 1.3
* Comparison of earnings is affected by reductions in rates of wages.
Returns from firms employing 41,336 workpeople in the week ending 27th October
showed that about 48 per cent. of these workpeople worked short time in that week, to the
extent of about 13 hours each, on an average.
The exports of boots and shoes in October, 1923, amounted to 127,758 dozen pairs,
or 1,969 dozen pairs less than in September, 1923, but 45,014 dozen pairs more than in
October, 1922.
THE GENERAL OUTLOOK.
The general outlook is not at all a bright one, many members still receiving
unemployment benefit, whilst a still greater number are working short time.
This policy is one pursued for many years by the Union, and upon the whole
is much better than the operative being out of work entirely. Nevertheless,
the spending power of those on short time must necessarily be reduced, and
taking the whole country through, having regard to operatives unemployed as
well, the home market is essentially restricted, and after all that ought to be
the basis of our well being and prosperity. We would therefore call the serious
attention of the members to the position in which we find ourselves to-day
owing to the action of the Government. The Premier, Mr. Stanley Baldwin,
has made a number of speeches latterly, which all go to prove-whatever word
may be used that at the back of the mind of the Government, the idea of
---

---
"Protection" is prominent. We are aware of the fact that when people are
short of work, or have no work at all, a specious case can be built up and state-
ments adduced which are designed to show that we should be better off under
Protection. In this respect, however, experience is readily available, and the
history of our own and other countries shows that protection, apart from being
a real help to the worker, tends to make his position worse. We hope, there-
fore, that our members will not be misled by any will-o'-the-wisp which is being
attempted to be put into the forefront for what appears to be an early General
Election. We are, therefore, pleased that the General Council of the Trades
Union Congress and the Executive of the Labour Party have taken an early
opportunity at a gathering held on the 1st inst., to welcome the return of Mr.
J. Ramsay MacDonald, M.P., from his voyage in the East, to secure from
M.. MacDonald, as leader of the political side of the movement, a clear statement
that the Labour Party will not allow itself to be drawn into an argument
merely of Protection v. Free Trade, but their battle cry will be Protection". the
Labour Policy, which policy puts in the forefront adequate methods of dealing
with the unemployment question. This question becomes more and more
serious because of so many boys and girls leaving school with no chance of
getting a good training in any particular trade or calling.
At a joint meeting of the General Council of the Trades Union Congress
and the Labour Party held prior to the meeting referred to above, the following
resolution was unanimously passed :-
"This meeting of the General Council of the Trades Union Congress
and the National Executive of the Labour Party calls upon Trades Unions,
Trades Councils and other affiliated organisations, local Labour constitu-
ency bodies, and individual members,
to resist to the utmost the specious policy of Protection, and to press
upon the electorate Labour's policy of work and wages, with the
provision of adequate maintenance for the reserves of industry, to
be secured by international reconstruction and co-operation, national
reorganisation and development, and the putting into operation of
Labour's general programme to meet the crying social and economic
ills which assail the urban and rural populations alike.
" This is the only real alternative to Protection, and upon that we
stand."
This resolution was followed by a splendid speech from Mr. MacDonald,
in which he gave a very good outline of the Labour policy, which policy the
Party has been constantly bringing to the front as an alternative to the many
makeshift schemes the Government have from time to time brought forward.
We hope the members availed themselves of the opportunity of reading the
special report of this speech in the *Herald* of the 2nd inst., thereby being enabled
to see for themselves the practical proposals the Labour Party have for dealing
not only with unemployment, but the world position.


---
678
THE GENERAL ELECTION.
The General Election has been precipitated upon us, but the call has found
the Labour Party ready. On Tuesday, the 13th inst., the Prime Minister, the
Rt. Hon. Stanley Baldwin, M.P., announced to the House of Commons that he
the Tory Government would appeal to the country upon the question of
Protection. We appeal to all our members and the workers generally - who
had advised the Crown to dissolve Parliament on Friday, the 16th inst., when
candidate in their respective divisions, and thereby return to power men who
are in the great majority - to so use their influence and vote for the Labour
understand the working-class difficulties. The General Election at this moment
was not of our seeking, but we are confident that the policy of the Labour Party
is the policy for the workers and also for the best and highest interest of the
Nation generally. A majority for the Labour Party in the next House of
Commons means real headway will be made to bring about better conditions
in the lot of the workers both at home and internationally. During the past
twelve months the Government have done nothing tangible, although they
have made many, many promises, and now that the opportunity has come we
trust the workers will take full advantage of the same by voting Labour, and
thus help on the millions of workers throughout the country.
So far as the Union is concerned, we shall have candidates at Eccles,
Daventry and Norwich. In the first named Mr. J. Buckle, J.P., will again
champion the cause of Labour, whilst at Leicester West, which has been
represented by Ald. A. Hill, J.P., the latter will not contest the Seat, he having
retired from the campaign on medical advice, which we very much regret
indeed, he having in the short period during which he was a Member of
Parliament, been assiduous in his duties in fulfilling the position of a M.P., not
merely from our own standpoint, but for the constituency as a whole. We
trust Ald. Hill will speedily be restored to his normal health and strength again.
In connection with LEICESTER WEST, we felt that Ald. Hill, having won
the Seat by such a handsome majority and the Union having spent a very
considerable amount of cash upon the constituency, the Union would have
been given the first choice of another candidate. To our surprise, although
we held our meeting a week sooner than the usual time, owing to the Election
being sprung upon the country, the Executive of the local Labour Party had
a meeting on Friday, the 16th inst., and decided that they could not wait
until Monday, the 19th inst., and selected a candidate immediately. Thus
the position passes from us. We feel we have a right to express our disapproval
of such procedure, especially, as previously stated, we not only won the seat,
but had a full time agent in the Division, thus keeping the Party machinery
in being, at our expense. More may be said of this next month.
In the DAVENTRY Division of Northants our Mr. Len. Smith has been
selected as the Candidate; at Norwich our Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., has been
selected as one of the two Labour Candidates, this being a two member con-
stituency.


---
Here is the extracted text:
679
We strongly urge all our members to do all that is possible to ensure the
return of our colleagues; they are all well known, and have spent many years
of service in the Labour cause. Let nothing stand in the way of ensuring
success. The great and outstanding need for this is work. Therefore, WORK,
WORK, WORK, AND VOTE FOR LABOUR
DO YOU WANT REAL PROGRESS MADE? IF SO,
VOTE LABOUR
This is Labour's Opportunity; take advantage of it and Vote For Labour.
NOVEMBER ELECTIONS.
We are pleased to record the fact that in several towns and cities, members
of the Union have either held their seats or won seats on the Borough and
City Councils. The Labour Party, taking the country as a whole, consider-
ably increased its membership on Public Bodies. This will mean still more
attention being paid to those many inequalities and hardships which are the
lot of so many workers in all parts of the country, and which have had in
the past such inadequate treatment from the older parties.
GREETINGS.
We wish every member the Compliments of the Season, and trust that
1924 will be brighter and happier than 1923 has been.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimare that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."


---
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
A. W. LYNE.
I. H. JOHNSON.
C. MAYES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
ORGANISERS' MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
MANCHESTER,
21st November, 1923.
During the past month I have been organising at Nuneaton, Market Harborough
and Manchester. Also I had to deal in an arbitration case at Leicester where I represent
our side as an arbitrator. The manufacturers' side claimed that for the building of heels
that leather layer lifts should be the same price per gross as lifts made of board or pulp.
We claimed that the leather layer lifts were not as uniform in substance as the pulp lifts,
and that the operator had to use judgment in selecting lifts as though they were leather.
The Umpire's decision is that when leather layer lifts are as uniform in levelness as pulp
lifts the price shall be the same, but judging on the samples of lifts and leather layer board
submitted by our side and the employers, the price shall be the same as for leather lifts.
At Nuneaton I had the help of Mr. W. Warner, Secretary of Hinckley Branch, and I
am pleased to report that we made some progress towards uniting the factories there.
We had a good meeting and joined about 50 members. At one firm where the Holiday
(Provision) Scheme was not being carried out we got the employer to agree to it. There
are two small heel building factories at Nuneaton and the workers are poorly paid. All
sense of honour and fair dealing are ignored in regard to prices when compared to the
Leicester prices for heel building. At the firm of Smith's the workers are all juveniles
and unable to defend themselves. I am of the opinion that if their parents understood
the true position of things that no matter how hard up they may be they would not allow
their girls and boys remain there. Some of the girls said if there was any chance of getting
anything elsewhere they would leave the place. I presented the employer with a copy
of the Statement and showed him where he was wronging the youngsters as well as the
trade. Messrs. Asher's, of Leicester, run the other shop. There are not many employed
there, but so far as I could learn the conditions are not much better than at Smith's.
I paid a few visits to Market Harborough. There are more men getting the minimum
wage here now than there were when Mr. E. Law and I were there over twelve months ago.
The workers are to blame here as well as the employers for the full conditions of the Agree-
ments not being carried out. Mr. Looms, senior, told me that if I could get a meeting of
the workers and take their conditions down, that he was prepared to go into anything
that I considered unfair. I told the men and women of this promise, but it seemed to
have little effect on them, as I could get no one to volunteer to take contributions or agree
to a meeting.
At Manchester I have made a little headway in organising the repairers, having
secured over 20 members. Some of the men think that because they are working under
Trade Board Awards the Union is of no use to them. They overlook the fact that it was
the trade union movement which secured them the position they now enjoy.
Last night I attended Mr. J. Buckle's nomination meeting at the Eccles Town Hall.
It was a fine meeting and the approval vote in Johnnie was carried out
I hope that our candidates and the Labour Candidates throughout the country may
triumph. The devil's cause has been too long enthroned in power.
D. MCCARTHY.


---
681
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
TBLLOW MEMBERS.
devoted to the welfare of the Union.
GENERAL ELECTION. - Owing to the sudden change in the political world, I have
Iween asked by my colleague for LEICESTER WEST if I would permit my name to go forward
as Candidate for that Division, as Ald. Hill, J. P., is retiring owing to ill health. In
have decided to retain my position as General President of the Union, rather than undergo
view of the rule that prohibits a national officer from being a Member of Parliament I
similar experience which I had in 1910. Consequently, my time will be wholly
KETTERING. - During the month I have, upon several occasions had to visit a Kettering
tirm who do not feel inclined to adopt the National Agreement in the same sense as it is
usually accepted. The employer in this case, who has only recently owned the particular
factory in question, which is situated in South Wigston, had deducted from the operatives'
wages-dayworkers in the Press and Heel Building departments-4s. upon each occasion
whereas the original advance was only 8s. and 7s. respectively. The firm have an idea
that because the business is not paying, they have a right to deduct from wages so long
as they pay more than the minimum rates. This is a policy we cannot accept, and as a
consequence we are now pressing the firm for payment, or to refer the case to arbitration.
The firm is non-federated so arbitration is our forte, and the policy we hope to pursue,
and thus avoid friction. The matter will be placed before the Executive Council at their
next meeting as to whether this policy is to be pressed to its logical conclusion, and I do
not doubt that we shall receive their hearty support.
WELLINGBOROUGH, Four visits have been paid to Wellingborough and Leicester
local management do not understand the National Agreement, and the policy which has
in connection with the C.W.S. factories. Friction has occurred owing to the fact that
hitherto prevailed between the Union and the C.W.S. Management. Although for some
reason or other there was exceptional shyness upon the part of the girls engaged in coming
to meetings to enable us to get the facts, after several attempts I am pleased to say at
present that everything we expect from this firm appears to be in good working order,
and we have no doubt about the future.
SOUTH WIGSTON. I have visited the firm of Messrs. Crane & Co., where, owing to
considered when the first award was given respecting South Wigston that Leicester prices
the class of work done-children's and sizes-they wonder whether the business was
should apply to that town. With two of my colleagues from Leicester we saw the head
of the firm and are going very carefully into the matter because this business is solely for
children's and sizes' work. The employer's statement is that he feels the effect of com-
petition only about a quarter of a mile from his firm. My two colleagues are going through
the Statements with him and will report at an early date as to what course should be
taken, when, if necessary, the opinion of the Executive of the Union will be taken as to the
next step.
TRADE BOARD. I have attended a Trade Board meeting for the Midland area at
Birmingham. Under the presidency of Professor Daniels, of Manchester University, we
went through the new proposals now before the country, and I am pleased to report that
after careful consideration the Board as a whole-both employers' and employees' repre-
sentatives came to the conclusion that the proposals in themselves were very reasonable
and would meet with the unanimous support of that body.
NORTHANTS DISTRICT COUNCIL has met during the month at Desborough, and which
I attended. One of our colleagues, Councillor A. W. Lyne-although he was not a coun-
cillor at that date-gave a very interesting report of his visit to Germany, in which the
members showed very enlivened interest to hear a report from someone who had been
to the country under discussion. It gives one a much different idea from what we read
in the Press from time to time, and it is very evident from Councillor Lyne's report that
speaking of Germany generally, they are in a very bad way. Let us hope that the new
Government will get us out of the slough which we are in at present, including the whole
of Europe. If I were asked to forecast a result of the Election, I should surmise that the
halance of power will be with the Labour Party. Although I doubt that they will be
strong enough to form a Government. Let us hope someone will arise to pacify the
country and put it upon a better footing than it is at present. My own opinion is that
the Labour Party's programme, being so unselfish in its entirety, is the only foundation
upon which the country can permanently build.
B


---
NORTHAMPTON
I have also attended a very interesting meeting at Northampton
to explain and defend the attitude that the Union has taken upon the subject of reverting
back to the minimum of 60s, and leaving the Stock, Shoe Room and Heel Building Rooms
Our explanation was and is that had we accepted the proposition made to us, we should have suffered-generally speaking-because in the Leicester area, nearly all
those operatives in these departments are working on very good piecework statements.
and secondly we should have been altering an agreement within the space of two years
set for its allotment, and I am pleased to say that my colleagues in Northampton look
upon the matter in the same light as myself. When one considers that the Council had the
matter before them and did not see their way to enter upon such a doubtful proposition
in surrendering the statements, they allowed the matter to slide without taking it at all
seriously. I promised the operatives and am sure my colleagues will agree with me-
that at the meeting of next October when the Agreement is again considered, that we shall
give one minimum for all males, and I trust that this will be the
stepping-stone for one minimum for males and females.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH.-I attended a meeting of the Leicester Women's
Branch at their request, and dealt with the Agreement affecting women and the Women's
Branch. We had a very good meeting and much interest was shown in the discussion
and application of the Agreement. As many of them are pieceworkers, or working on the
policy of payment by results, there were no difficulties in the way, but the meeting was
called for the purpose of letting them understand how the matter stood, and to also find
out whether there were any prospects of any firms likely to throw obstacles in their way.
None have been reported up to the present.
GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADES UNIONS.- I have also attended meetings of the
General Federation of Trade Unions, when the Boilermakers' strike was considered once
again. As many of our members will know that Mr. A. Short, M.P., Chairman of the
General Federation of Trade Unions, is a boilermakers' representative in the House of
Commons, any help or assistance the General Federation of Trade Unions could give
would be willingly given. They felt, however, the matter was too delicate for them to
in any sense probe, but their help was at the disposal of the boilermakers. We were hopeful
that a meeting between the boilermakers and the employers would be held at an early
date. In any case we were satisfied that no pressure could be put upon the Ministry of
Labour to which the Minister would respond by asking for his interference.
During the month I have been called upon to give advice respecting one of our branches
who own property and the disposal of a small portion of it. I was surprised to find that
the solicitor of the other side who were purchasing the strip of land from the Branch in
question, wanted to know upon what authority we had to sell land, &c., &c., and under
what Acts of Parliament we were registered. Unfortunately for us, we are sometimes in
the hands of legal advisers who ought to know better, but upon this occasion, the original
Deeds had been drawn up that we were registered under the Friendly Societies' Act, whereas
as a matter of fact we are registered under the Trade Union Acts 1871-1918. I began
to wonder whether we should not take the necessary powers, although if my memory
served me correctly we have powers under the Trade Union Act to own property, and
consequently this was borne out by investigation. Consequently when the fact was made
known to the purchaser's solicitor, he ceased making enquiries as to who were our trustees,
when were they elected, had we appointed others in their stead, and so on and so on.
I did not hesitate to tell the legal gentleman that in my opinion it savours of several daily
newspaper attacks upon trade unions. I am assured that nothing of the kind was intended.
RUSHDEN was visited on the roth inst., when we met 77 collectors of the branch. A
musical programme was supplied by members of the branch and I, with the General
Secretary, was called upon to say a few words of encouragement upon the organisation of
the union.
THE ELECTION. In conclusion, I hope that the results of the election will show a
good sterling number of Labour members in the British House of Commons, who I am
sure will do all they can to bring about an improvement in our own country and Europe
in particular.
THE "DAILY HERALD." The Daily Herald will again be to the fore, and perhaps
this journal will show to the workers of this country-whether of brain or muscle-that
without a Labour paper justice cannot be done to the great working population.
I hope you are still wearing "Stamped" boots.
7, MECKLENBURG STREET,
LONDON, W.C. I.
16th November, 1923.
Yours fraternally,
y. f. ilchard.
General President.


---
683
BRANCH REPORTS.

ARBROATH. - Trade is still bad with us, and to all appearances no
chance of improvement can be expected before the Spring. That phrase
seems to mock one when the past experience is taken into account, but as an
end must be reached sometime, one hopes it will be each succeeding trade
period. To temper the bad times comes the welcome news that the last wages
cut is to be restored. This removes the grudge, largely felt, which existed
because of the last cut, and for a time at anyrate we are free from that worry.
In Scotland we do not get the advantage of a much cheaper living in spite
of apparent falls in the National standard. Full inquiries such as conducted
by the Union of Postal Workers in Scotland have revealed that the average
cost of living in this country exceeds the Board of Trade figures considerably.
Why that should be is not very clear, although an explanation might be found
in the fact, that shop-keepers and other distributive merchants combine
together so skilfully as to defeat the normal incidence of rise and fall in market
prices. It is a curious reflection on "economic law" or purpose to find the
cunning intelligence of a section of the community, thwart or divert such from
its objective. Unemployment is becoming the burning question in public
affairs in this town. For the past three years our Town Council has evaded
its duty to provide helpful work, but at last we seem to be driving it into a
corner. Our members have taken a prominent part in establishing organisation
amongst those signing at the Labour Exchange, and since this was done we
have been able to extract promises from Parish Council, School Authority,
and Town Council that everything possible will be done to relieve the acute
distress this winter. Each suceeding winter sees the lot of the unemployed
intensified in its misery, as all resources have been used up, and the primary
need of food is added to by the need of boots and clothing and fuel. Relief
above the bare subsistence level is demanded, and the only sensible policy is to
provide some kind of work with a wage to
The Scottish Advisory Committee has now got started to work, and the first
agenda of proposals has been considered. These showed an urgent desire to
help those members in the Repairing Trade as well as those in the New Work
side of the industry. We are glad that there is a strong likelihood of our being
able to establish one Arbitration Board for Scotland in place of the three
District Arbitration Boards. The weakness of District Boards has been revealed
in the two districts with the small branches of the National Union. These
have practically ceased to function, because the small employers are afraid of
yielding concessions which the larger firms may refuse. In any case it would
be distinctly better to make Scotland uniform in its consideration of, and its
decisions on, all matters referred to arbitration. As a Branch we regret our
Council could not take a more drastic step in dealing with the Edinburgh
protest against Gribble's letter on the last Union vote. It is a pity they
couldn't have declared the vote null and void, as a decision of that kind would
stamp out a practice which only needs acquiescence to develop into an un-
mitigated evil. As the rules do not support that procedure sufficiently, it
is up to some Branch to move when the time comes. As a General Election is
imminent, let us express the hope that the National Union takes its proper
place in the coming fight, against the monstrous doctrine that Protection
will meet our nation's needs. There is no worse economic heresy than the
view that fiscal juggling will establish sound industrial prosperity.
BARNSLEY.-Trade is still good here, and men are fully employed.
We hope it will continue all the winter, for it has been very bad for the last
few years, but there is every prospect of it continuing good, and full employ-
ment for those engaged in this district.


---
```text
684
CHESHAM. The improvement in trade previously reported has been
maintained, and some overtime is being worked.
CORK. Trade during the month still remained bad.
EDINBURGH. Trade here is still very quiet. We have been successful
in having arrears paid up to a few of our members. Having attended a District
Committee meeting of Trades Board our side have put forward some suggestions
which we believe should be added to Statement. Also some alterations in
piece-workers should have two breaks in 10 points when the time rate is only
figures in regard to sliding scale. Our members cannot understand how
operative every to points. Hand-sewn makers have forwarded a suggestion
which in our opinion goes to the root of the whole question of the apprentice-
ship, whether it should be according to years worked, or as per schedule accord-
ing to age. The Scottish Advisory Committee have again met and a very
profitable meeting was the result, Mr. Bleakley having forwarded some very
good suggestions for discussion which will certainly help the members of
Committee to meet the arguments which are oftimes levelled at officials when
negotiating with employers. Edinburgh Branch at monthly meeting believe
the vote for organiser. Scotchmen generally like a straight fight and no stabbing
that Council have done all in their power in connection with our protest regarding
in the dark. Edinburgh has just passed through a Municipal election but have
not been able to add the Labour representatives in Town Council. One of
our Shopmates was a candidate for the Unemployed, and under the circumstance
had a very good vote.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.-Trade remains fairly good right through
the district, although a number of older operatives are out of work, but gener-
ally speaking we are in as good a position as most districts. The visit of Mr.
John Buckle, M.P., has been a help to us, although the meetings were not
attended as well as we hoped they would be, the weather spoiling the dinner-
hour meetings.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.-Trade generally throughout the
district is fair, some firms experiencing a falling off of orders. A mild excite-
ment was caused locally when a small manufacturer, a local Councillor, asserted
that the Heavy trade of the district was booming. Subsequent experience has
proved that this statement was more optimistic than wise. We also disagree
with those persons who assert that the day of the heavy boot is gone for ever.
We believe that when the unemployed army is absorbed into industry, an
increasing demand will be made for good strong honest boots, and a reaction
will set in against shoddy death traps, which bring neither pride nor profit to
manufacturer or operative.
LEEDS No. 1.- We regret to report that trade here is not as brisk as we
should like it to be, and as a consequence our members in the majority of cases
are not as fully employed as we should like them to be. We would strongly
urge upon those members who are fairly well employed to see that they have
a clear Union card, and thus be entitled to Union benefits should they need them.
We wish to draw the attention of all our Approved Health Insurance members
that we do not make any grants for either dental or eye treatment, but that
we do pay increased financial benefits in sickness, disablement and maternity
benefits. We are pleased to report that Mr. A. J. Dobbs, our Branch President,
and Mr. T. Rushton, our Local Arbitrator, have both been successful in the
November Municipal Election, thus gaining two seats for Labour.
LINCOLN. We are sorry to say our Secretary is leaving the town.
The duties have been turned over to Mr. Uzzell, 46, Horton Street, Lincoln.
LIVERPOOL. From reports to hand the boot repairing trade has shown
a marked decline from the previous month. We note the Trade Board has
issued proposals D22 and 23, making drastic reductions in surgical work,
```

---
from 80s. to 65s. per week, just 5s. per week above the ordinary minimum,
which if it comes into force will mean a reduction of 15s. per week to our
members, and the cost of living going up each month. We are not much
concerned with the other items affecting boy labour, but maintain that highly
skilled labour in any trade ought to be well paid. We do not consider 1s. 41d.
per hour is anything like being adequate for special work of this description.
We note the Prime Minister has been suggesting a Fiscal Policy as a cure for
unemployment, but we fail to see how that is going to improve matters, because
we depend a great deal on our imports for food, and in our opinion the suggested
cure will be worse than the disease. This being the last report that will be in
the hands of members before Christmas we wish all officials and members the
Season's Compliments.
MIDSOMER NORTON. - It would not be the wish of the members to
allow this monthly report to appear without a word of appreciation of our
deceased shopmate and friend, Robert Bailey. Quiet, honourable, and a
sound trade unionist, he has in season and out, stood firmly by the principles
which he held dear. He has served as Shop President very many years.
Watchful of the members' interest he was always anxious to keep them clear
on their cards. He was a good-natured and kindly man. A long spell of
unemployment, with no prospects, had seriously affected his health. Who
he would not
and agony of the future thus impaired his health. We followed him to his
last resting-place. To his friends and loved ones we extend our deepest sym-
pathy.
NORWICH.-Trade has shown little change during the month, the number
of members unemployed in Norwich being slightly larger than during the
previous month.
PLYMOUTH. - Following the Trade Union Congress, Plymouth has once
more been the centre of national and political interest. The great Unionist
Party gathered here from all parts of the country and presented us with no
mean view of its wealth and power, but we were interested mostly in the
programme adopted by the organisation, and more particularly with the
speech of the Prime Minister, outlining the immediate and future policy of
his Party. Very few of our members indeed were fortunate enough to hear
him, the price of a ticket being far beyond us, but we claim that our interest
in the future of our country and the programme of the Government is just as
keen and intelligent as that of those who bedecked with dazzling jewels and
beautiful furs, arrived in smooth-running motor cars, albeit the show seemed
not for us. However, we must say that the Premier appeared to be the very
essence of sincerity and goodwill, but whether or not his great discovery of
Protection will prove to be a panacea for the terrible scourge of unemployment
remains to be seen. His declaration of the Government's intention to build
several light cruisers was welcome news to a dockyard town, and hope long
deferred has revived once more. We wish all members a Merry Xmas and a
Happy New Year.
SOUTHAMPTON. - Trade very quiet.
STAFFORD. - Trade still very slack in this centre.
STREET. We regret we cannot yet report any appreciable improvement
in the state of trade. Our factories are still on short time, only half time being
worked in some departments. Although dismissals are fortunately few, a
number of our members are temporarily suspended. Business for forward
delivery is not so good as usual at this time of year, especially in the better
class turnshoe work, but there is a steady call for goods to meet immediate
requirements. Now that a local difficulty with the Labour Exchange has been
removed we are glad to be able to arrange for our unemployed members to


---
Here is the extracted text:
advantage which is much appreciated.
686
sign for both State and Union benefits at the Trade Union Office. This is an
WELLINGBOROUGH. Trade at the present is much better, several
factories working overtime. We hope that this will continue, and that other
soon be in the same position, or at
time. Mr. Len. Smith, National Organiser, has been in the district for three
weeks. Shop meetings have been held, and the whole organisation in general
has been tightened up.
PIECEWORK.
ARBITRATION ON EXTRAS FOR_SAMPLES.
PROVISIONS OF THE AWARD.
The members of the Joint Board of Conciliation and Arbitration for the
Boot Trade in the County District of Northampton having failed to agree on
the amount to be paid for samples, Mr. W. A. Willis was appointed to act as
arbitrator to determine the difference.
His Award is as follows :-
THE AWARD.
(1.) The provisions of this Award shall apply to all cases in which
work is given out in quantities of three pairs or under, and shall be in
substitution for :-
(a) The extras provided "for quantities of three pairs or under "
in "Extras 5" of the Clicking Statement, 1919.
(b) The extras provided under the heading "Samples and
Specials" and "Samples and Odd Pairs" in the Lasting Statement,
1919; and
(c) Any extras corresponding to the above now being paid in the
closing and finishing departments.
(2.) The extras to be paid for quantities of three pairs or under, shall
be as follow:-
CLICKING. Where patterns and materials are not found for the operative:
100 per cent. on Statement prices. Where patterns and materials are found
for the operative: 65 per cent. on Statement prices for a single pair; 50 per
cent. on Statement prices for two or three pairs.
CLOSING.-50 per cent. on Statement prices for a single pair; 25 per cent.
on Statement prices for two or three pairs.
LASTING. If all the proper materials (e.g., heels) are found for the opera-
tive: 50 per cent. on Statement prices for a single pair on all operations;
33 per cent. on Statement prices for two or three pairs on all operations.
If all the proper materials are not found for the operative: An extra 10 per
cent. to be added.
FINISHING. On edge paring or trimming and edge setting: 60 per cent. on
Statement prices for a single pair; 33 per cent. on Statement prices for two
or three pairs. On all other operations: 33 per cent. on Statement prices
for a single pair; 25 per cent. on Statement prices for two or three pairs.
(3.) This Award shall come into operation at the commencement of the
full pay week which begins on or next the 30th day of October, 1923. -Kettering
Evening Telegraph, 31st October, 1923.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

687
CHILDREN'S HERITAGE OF HEALTH.
Neglect Due to Bad Environment. Preventable Physical Defects.
After the first year of life the young child has to bear a heavy burden of environmental
neglect.
Bad housing, poverty, and the absence of hygienic supervision are the main factors
in this neglect.
The chief Medical Officer of the Board of Education, writes to this effect in his annual
report, which was issued yesterday.
With regard to the care of children under five years of age, the report says: "It
may be safely assumed that from 80-90 per cent. of children are born healthy, and with
the potentiality of leading normal and healthy lives.

Heritage of Healthy Birth.
Whatever be the facts of parentage, the tendency of nature is to reassert the right
of each new generation to the heritage of healthy birth." It adds:--
"After the first year of life the young child has to bear a heavy burden of en-
vironmental neglect, associated with bad housing, poverty, and absence of hygienic
supervision. As a result, the school medical service is faced with the hard issue that,
out of an infant population born healthy, 35 to 40 per cent. of the children who are
admitted to school at five years of age bear with them physical defects which could
have been either prevented or cured."

Effects of Unemployment.
The report also states that the improvement in the physical condition of the children,
which occurred during the war and was maintained during the two years of prosperity
after the war, has not been lost in the past two years of "unparalleled conditions of un-
employment and financial restriction."
"If it be asked why has unemployment not affected the health of children more
than appears to be the case," says Sir George, "I think the answer is that (a) there has been
an increased sense of responsibility among the parents for their children's welfare; (b)
there have been forthcoming various monetary aids of the nature of relief, insurance,
and union payments, and these have in part made up for loss of wage; and (c) there has
been the supervision, assistance, and nurture of the school medical service."--Leicester
Daily Mercury, 1st November, 1923.

BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-

SICK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1922 598,886 9 3
January, 1923 2,872 12 4
February 2,399 13 0
March 3,050 12 2
April 3,902 6 2
May 2,669 1 4
June 2,610 16 0
July 2,728 15 0
August 2,303 0 10
September 2,217 12 0
October 2,725 1 10
£626,365 19 11

OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1922 270,614 8 4
January, 1923 4,768 13 9
February 3,992 5 9
March 3,621 8 9
April 4,427 12 3
May 3,410 18 0
June 2,923 17 3
July 3,566 18 0
August 3,880 3 9
September 4,100 9 0
October 5,135 11 3
£310,422 6 1


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

689
A Labour Chancellor of the Exchequer, in consultation with Treasury experts, would
at once work out a scheme to impose a non-recurring, graduated War Debt Redemption
Levy on all individual fortunes in excess of £5,000, to be devoted solely to the reduction
of the Debt.

The saving thus effected, with reduction of expenditure on armaments, other sanc-
economies, and the increased revenue derived from Taxation of Land Values, would make
it possible to reduce the burden of Income Tax, abolish not only the Food Duties, but also
the Entertainments Tax and the Corporation Profits Tax, as well as provide money for
mecessary Social Services.

The Commonwealth of Co-operative Service.

The Labour Party is working for the creation of a Commonwealth of Co-operative
Service. It believes that so far only a beginning has been made in the scientific
of industry. It will apply in a practical spirit the principle of Public Ownership and
Control to the Mines, the Railway Service and the Electrical Power Stations, and the
Inspection of Work-places and more effective measures against Accidents and Industrial
development of Municipal Services. It will make work safe for the worker by stricter
of Hours.
It will provide fuller Compensation for the Workers and Improve the Standard
Diseases.

The Aged, The Widows, The Children.
Labour Policy is directed to the creation of a humane and civilised society. When
every child equality of opportunity in Education; it will make generous provision for the
Labour rules it will take care that little children shall not needlessly die; it will give to
aged people, the widowed mothers, the sick and disabled citizens.

It will abolish the slums, promptly build an adequate supply of decent homes and
resist decontrol till the shortage is satisfied. It will place the Drink Traffic under popular
control.

Ex-Service Men's Pensions.
In accordance with its past actions inside and outside Parliament, the Labour Party
will do its utmost to see that the Ex-Service men and their dependants have fair play.

Equal Rights.
Labour stands for equality between men and women; equal political and legal rights,
equal rights and privileges in parenthood, equal pay for equal work.

Labour's Practical Idealism.
The Labour Party submits to the men and women of the country its full programme.
It urges them to refuse to make this General Election a wretched partisan squabble about
mean and huckstering policies. It appeals to all citizens to take a generous and courageous
stand for right and justice, to believe in the possibility of building up a sane and ordered
society, to oppose the squalid materialism that dominates the world to-day, and to hold out
their hands in friendship and goodwill to the struggling people everywhere who want only
freedom, security and a happier life.

J. RAMSAY MACDONALD.
MARGARET BONDFIELD.
C. T. CRAMP.
J. R. CLYNES.
FRED BRAMLEY.
ARTHUR HENDERSON.

DATES OF COUNCIL MEETINGS, 1924.
JANUARY
FEBRUARY
MARCH
APRIL
MAY
JUNT
. . . 20TH
. . . 24TH
. . . 23RD
. . . 27TH
. . . 25TH
. . . 22ND
JULY
AUGUST
SEPTEMBER
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER
DECEMBER
. . . 20TH
. . . 24TH
. . . 21ST
. . . 26TH
. . . 23RD
. . . 21ST
Conference, 9th June to 11th June inclusive.
To ensure correspondence being dealt with by Council it SHOULD BE DISTINCTLY
UNDERSTOOD that letters MUST reach the General Secretary by WEDNESDAY
WORNING prior to the above dates, otherwise letters will be held over for the followin
ath's sitting.


---
691
SOME OTHER THINGS TO REMEMBER.
What of the toll of human life and suffering? The casualties in the Great War
were more than half the population of England. Upwards of nine millions were killed.
Approximately one-tenth of the killed were British.
It brings home the magnitude of these losses to reflect that it would take the Legion
of the Dead nearly two months, without stopping day or night, to march past the Cenotaph
four abreast. It would take nearly six days for the British section of this Legion to do
their part.
In America it is officially stated that they have produced a liquid of which approxi-
mately three drops applied to the human skin cause death. Several thousands of tons
of this can be manufactured in a day. A fleet of aeroplanes equipped with it could anni-
hilate the population of a city in a few hours. A pilotless aeroplane controlled by wireless
has been perfected. Next we shall have a pilotless tank controlled by wireless, or a
pilotless submarine. Torpedoes directed by wireless exist already.
Do not forget that at the present time there are more men under arms than there
were in 1914. What for? Do you want War? Do the workers of other countries want
War? They do not, any more than we do. Our duty then is to clearly support PEACE,
and a peace policy. Make it so clear to Kings, European Presidents, Statesmen, Diplomats,
that differences between nations must be settled by reason, and not by force, and thus
bring into actual practice the time when-
No strife shall rage, nor hostile feuds
Disturb those peaceful years;
To ploughshares men shall beat their swords;
To pruning hooks their spears.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.

DOLE FRAUD.
Leicester Man Goes to Goal.
At the Leicester City Police Court on November 21st, 1923, before Mr. J. L. Ward
and other magistrates, John William Harrison, a shoehand, of 37, Elmdale Street, was
summoned for obtaining benefit under the Unemployment Insurance Act by making false
representation on 28th September.
Mr. Simpson, prosecuting, stated that Harrison applied for unemployment pay last
June. An arrangement was made so that he received the pay through his trade union,
the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives. From June to September he was in
receipt of the pay, and then it came to the ears of the authorities that the defendant was
being employed and was working as a china rivetter. He was having work regularly
from two china merchants in the city. He and his brother together were carrying on the
business.
Mr. Simpson produced an invoice written on a bill head, on the top of which was
printed "A. and J. W. Harrison, makers of rush and cane chair seats, glass and china
repairers, &c., 37, Elmdale Street."
On 28th September, for the week ended two days earlier, defendant drew 24s. unem-
ployment pay and similar amounts on 5th, 12th and 19th September. He also received
from one of the china merchants £7 3s. od. for work done from Ist to 27th September.
Witnesses were called to prove that defendant had received unemployment pay.
Defendant, in the witness box, told the magistrates that previous to 1921 he and his
brother were in partnership. Then he was sent to prison for an offence and the business
failed. When he came out of gaol he started in the boot trade and was thus employed
until June. Since then he had simply fetched the work and money from the various
places and handed it to his brother, who was still doing it. They made the mistake of
still having his name on the bill heads. He did not help his brother.
Albert Harrison, 12, Bakehouse Lane, assured the Bench that his brother (defendant)
had not done any of the china rivetting work "since his last sentence." Witness gave
his brother a few shillings for fetching the work and taking it back, but it was never
more than 5s. a week.
Three previous convictions were proved against defendant, one of which was for
attempted warehouse breaking.
Harrison was sent to prison for a month with hard labour in connection with this
case.-Leicester Mail, 21st November, 1923.


---
Here is the extracted text:
693
In GREAT BRITAIN on 1st January, 1923, the number of unemployed members of
trade unions was 165,342, or 13.7 per cent, of the total membership. In September this
number had fallen to 129,245, or 11.4 per cent. In October, 1922, the number was 180,589,
or 14 per cent, unemployed trade union members. The total number of unemployed
in Great Britain was on 1st October, 1923, 1,285,000 (of whom 955,000 were men) or 11.4
per cent, as compared with 12.2 per cent, in the same month of the preceding year. On
22nd October, 1923, there were 1,249,500 registered unemployed.
Of the trade union membership of CANADA, there were in July, 1923, 2.2 per cent.
unemployed, against 2.9 per cent. in June, and 4.1 per cent. in July, 1922.
and Eastern Galicia, was at the end of May 87,000, against 120,000 at the beginning of
The number of unemployed in POLAND, exclusive of the former Prussian territory
the year, and 128,916 in the same month of the previous year.
In DENMARK there were 20,754 registered unemployed at the end of October as
follows: September, 1923, 7.4 : January, 1923, 21.5 : September, 1922, 10.6 per cent.
compared with 33,000 in the same month of the previous year. The percentages were as
In NORWAY the number of unemployed increased in September by 3,000. On 10th
October it was 12,840, compared with 9,808 on 10th September, and 7,600 or 6.4 per
cent. on 10th August. In October, 1922, there were 21,400 registered unemployed.
There were also 7,000 persons engaged in relief work in October, against 12,500 in the
same month of the preceding year.
For SWEDEN the figures are even more satisfactory. At the end of September there
were 11,009 members of trade unions unemployed, or 8.7 per cent., as compared with
21.4 per cent. at the beginning of the year, and 34.9 per cent. in January, 1922.
The number of totally unemployed was in April 35,512, in August 22,554, and at the end
of September 22,830. The numbers of partially unemployed were in the same months
17,767, 13.507 and 14,422 respectively.
In respect of CZECHO-SLOVAKIA, exact statistics are only available concerning the
number of unemployed persons receiving benefit either directly from public funds or
indirectly through the employers. On 15th September 57,000 persons were receiving
benefit from public funds, and 41,700 from employers. But these figures do not give an
idea of the real number of unemployed, which is estimated at about 300,000.
In AUSTRIA, too, unemployment is steadily declining. Whereas at the end of March,
1923, there were still 152,828 registered unemployed, at the end of July there were only
87.349, at the end of September 79,956, and in the middle of October 77,923.
In GERMANY the development is in the reverse direction. The official reports of the
Ministry of Labour Gazette show that the industrial situation is changing for the worse
in every branch of industry. The number of totally unemployed persons in receipt of
benefit on 15th October was 660,788, and the number of those employed on short time
work was 1,379.499. It is to be feared that these figures will yet be higher during the
next few months.
According to the official figures, the number of unemployed persons in 52 towns of
RUSSIA at the beginning of May, 1923, was 443,000, or 14 per cent. more than in the previous
month. In Moscow alone there were 102,000 registered unemployed. Unemployment
is most acute among the civil servants, the municipal employees, the clothing workers,
and unskilled workers.
It will be clear from the above figures that the information received from the various
countries is in some cases very fragmentary. Moreover, as the unemployment statistics
are compiled on different systems, exact comparison is impossible. Nevertheless, an
attempt will be made to give in the Press reports some current information as to the state
of unemployment. — Report of the International Federation of Trade Unions, 8th November,
1923.
FAST TRAVELLER.
We like a story that was very popular with the Army in France.
It is the tale of a negro who was beating it for the back areas as fast as he could go,
when he was stopped by a white officer.
"Don't delay me, suh," said the negro. I's gotta be on my way."
"Boy," replied the officer, "do you know who I am? I am a general."
"Go on, white man, you ain't no general."
I certainly am," insisted the officer angrily.
"Lordy!" exclaimed the negro, taking a second look. "You sure is! I musta
been travelin' some, 'cause I didn't think I'd got back that far yit."


---
694
THE CAPITAL LEVY AND WHAT IT REALLY IS.
One of the Originators of the Proposal Explains How it Would Work.
Press and the Rothermere section particularly is attempting to create a bitter prejudice
What is the Capital Levy? How will it work? What is its purpose? The Tory
against the policy of the Capital Levy.
In the article below, Mr. Pethick Lawrence gives a concise explanation of what the Capital
Levy really is, what its objects are, and how it would be levied.
The writer, it may be mentioned, is one of the originators of the proposal, and the author
of an explanatory pamphlet on the subject, published by the Labour Party.
While Liberals and Tories are fighting over again the tariff battle the Labour Party
will go to the country on its full programme of reform. In the front rank of this programme
is reduced taxation. We stand for reducing the flat rate of the income-tax, for raising the
exemption limit, and for giving larger allowances to people with children. We stand for
abolishing the corporation tax and the entertainments tax.
Above all, we stand for abolition of the taxes on food. Tea, sugar, and all the
other foods of the people must not be made artificially dear by taxes as they are
to-day.
Their continued existence is a scandal, because they press most heavily on the poorest
people and those with large families who find it hardest to make ends meet and keep the
wolf from the door.
Neither the Liberal Party nor the Tory Party have the means to bring about these
reductions in taxation. The only Party that can have the means is the Labour Party
and the only way is the Capital Levy.
The Capital Levy is an emergency measure for redemption of a great part of the
National Debt. It is intended to be applied once and once only, and its proceeds will
be kept separate from the annual revenue and used exclusively to redeem debt.
When this is done an immense cut will be effected in the annual interest which
has at present to be paid out of annual taxation.
The Levy will not be imposed upon companies, corporations, or businesses, as such,
but upon individuals, who will have to make a return giving the value of their total wealth.
and will be assessed on this, just as is the case with the executors of a deceased person,
for the purposes of the estate duties.
No person whose total wealth falls short of £5,000 will be subject to the Levy.
This is true whatever the nature of the wealth possessed, whether it be a small holding,
or furniture, or stocks and shares, or war bonds, or savings certificates, or other
Government, Colonial, or Municipal stock.
If a person's total wealth exceeds £5,000 he or she will become liable to tax, but the
rate at which he will have to pay will be graduated, so that a man with £6,000, £7,000
or even £10,000, will only have to contribute a very small amount.
Against this he will obtain reductions in taxations of all kinds, in Income-tax
and in indirect taxation, which will fully compensate him for his share of the Levy.
Those with great wealth will have to bear a heavier proportion, but this is only just,
because if they had been taxed adequately at the time, the vast war debt need not have
been incurred.
Some traders are afraid of the Levy because they do not understand it. They think
that they will have to hand over a great sum in cash to the Government, but this is not the
case.
If their business is a company and their private wealth consists of shares in it, they
will be able to discharge their liability by handing over some of their shares.
If their business is a private firm they will have the option of paying the Levy in
instalments spread over 15 or 20 years which they can meet out of income, and which
will be set-off by the reduction effected in income-tax.
The working capital of the country does not consist of money, but of things-land-
and houses and factories, mines and forests and railways, machinery, plant and so on.
The Capital Levy will not reduce these in any way.
It will merely bring about a transference in some of the title-deeds of these things.
Consequently the Capital Levy will not reduce the output of commerce or th
employment of labour. On the contrary, by reducing annual taxation and see


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

Opponents of the Levy have no alternative to suggest except the slow processes of the
Sinking Fund, which will take about 150 years to wipe out the debt. All this time the
people will be loaded down with taxation to pay the interest on it. We of the Labor
Party are not content to wait so long!

695
POINTS AGAINST PROTECTION.
Facts in Figures.
Our trade with the Dominions represents much less than half our total trade. The
following are the latest figures: -
Imports from
Exports to
British
Possessions.
(£ millions)
1921
330.8
1922
318.0
1921
298.6
1922
285.8
Foreign
Countries.
(£ millions)
754.7
685.9
404.8
434.7
Total.
1,085.5
1,003.9
703.4
720.5
The above figures show that the Dominions are responsible for less than one-third of
our imports, and receive rather more than one-third of our exports. Two-thirds of our
overseas trade must, therefore, be entirely unassisted by any system of Dominion Pre-
ference.

Staggering!
We believe that in the event of the authors of the crisis securing an electoral majority
for their Protectionist policy they will deal a staggering blow to the economic and financial
stability of the nation.- From the Tory Glasgow Herald.

Protection Fails.-I.
Protection has failed to keep out imports.
Protective duties of 33 per cent., imposed by Mr. McKenna, the Liberal, and erst-
while champion of Free Trade, are in force on cinema films, watches and clocks, musical
instruments, and motor cars and parts thereof.
In 1922 (which is the post-war year showing the lowest aggregate imports) the number
of clocks imported was 3,741,126 against 2,413,926 in 1913; the number of musical instru-
ments was 408,048 against 175,445 in 1913; the number of motor-cars was 14,361 against
6,820 in 1913; and the number of motor chassis was 8,527 against 7,958 in 1913.
The only cases in which the quantity of 1922 imports was less than 1913 are those of
watches (2,700,342 in 1922 against 3,535,523 in 1913) and motor-cycles and tri-cars (976
in 1922 against 1,725 in 1913).
The latter case is probably due to the increasing popularity of motor-cars. The
reduction in imports in this case is certainly not the result of the McKenna duty, for in
1920, when the duty was just as much in force as in 1922, the number imported was 4,305
against 1,725 in 1913.
Protection Fails.-II.
Protection has failed to prevent unemployment.
At the end of December, 1921, the percentage unemployed in all insured industries
was 16.2 per cent.; the percentage unemployed in the construction and repair of vehicles
(chiefly motor vehicles) was 20 per cent. In December, 1922, the percentage unemployed
in all insured industries was 12.2 per cent., and in the construction and repair of vehicles
was 14.1 per cent.
The Ministry of Labour has now ceased to give percentage figures; but the numbers
unemployed in the construction and repair of motor vehicles and aircraft rose from 21,255
in August, 1923, to 23,662 in September.
In the manufacture of watches, plate and jewellery, &c., the percentage unemployed
in May, 1923, was 11.4 per cent., while the percentage for the manufacture of miscellaneous
metal goods (including musical instruments) was 8.9 per cent. At the same date 11.5
per cent. were unemployed in the manufacture of glass (other than optical and scientific glassware).
The percentage unemployed in all the insured industries at that time was 10.5 per cent.
The figures for the protected industries were, therefore, generally above the general average.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

696
LEICESTER BOOT AND SHOE TRADE:
BOARD OF CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION.
HEEL BUILDING STATEMENT.
UMPIRE'S AWARD.
In the Matter of the Dispute as to the price to be paid for Leather Layer Lifts
relation to the dispute, DECIDE AND AWARD
Gross System on Boss Machines shall be as follows:-
Love Appuie for settlement or determination under Rule 7 of the Board, having heard
Arbitrators and their witnesses and duly considered the evidence placed before me in
LINDESIGNED, THE UMPIRE to whom the Arbitrators to the Board referred the
That the prices to be paid for Leather Layer Lifts used in Heel Building by
(a) Where the Leather Layer Lifts are all of equal substance the price for each
Lift shall be that fixed by the Statement for Board Lifts, namely, 3d. per
(b) Where the Leather Layer Lifts vary in substance (as Samples submitted
be that fixed by the Statement for Whole Leather Lifts, namely, 5d. per
to and initialled by me and held by each Side) the price for each Lift shall
and be paid from and including the working week commencing on the 15th, 16th or 17th
gross pairs.
gross pairs.
November, 1923.
Dated this 8th day of November, 1923.
Midland Boot.
(Signed) W. A. NORTH,
CO-PARTNERSHIP WORKSHOPS.
Umpire.
Funds which will still stand at £5,703, or about one-third of the Share and Loan Capital.
The trade for the first half of 1923 has been £12,400, but a loss of £1,090 has been
incurred owing to the depression of trade. This loss and interest are paid from Reserve
Northants Boot.
is paid from this, and the Interest Guarantee Fund which will then amount to £1,143.
The trade for the first half of 1923 has been £13,016. giving a profit of £25. Interest
Leicester Printers.
this, £434 is paid as interest on Shares and the other £304 used to lessen a debt of £1,043
The sales for the first half of the year have been 24,604, and the profit £738. Of
brought forward. The remainder of this debt is taken from the Reserve, which then
stands at £3,581.
Crompton Boot.
The sales for the first half of 1923 were £18,871 and the profit £1,539. Of this profit
(292 goes to the shareholders in Interest and Dividend, £7 to the Educational Fund,
$258 to the Provident Fund, and about £300 to the Reserve. The Customers receive
1358 at 6d. in the f on purchases and the Workers receive £302 as dividend upon wages
at is. in the f.-Co-partnership, November, 1923.
GUILTY.
A country school board was visiting school and the principal was putting his pupils
through their paces.
"Who signed Magna Charta, Robert?" he asked, turning to one boy.
"Please sir, 'twasn't me," whimpered the youngster.
The teacher, in disgust, told him to take his seat; but an old tobacco-chewing country
man on the board was not satisfied, so, after a well-directed aim at the cuspidor he said:
"Call that boy back. I don't like his manner. I believe he did do it."


---
REPORT OF THE STANDING JOINT COMMITTEE OF INDUS-
TRIAL WOMEN'S ORGANISATIONS, January - October, 1923.
INTERNATIONAL WORK, - The International Federation of Working Women. The
Committee continued during this year to represent in this country the International
Federation of Working Women, but before the meeting of the Biennial Congress at Vienna
in August, 1923, the Committee went very thoroughly into the whole situation and received
a report from the Federation secretariat to the main principles of which agreement was
only Trade Union women, and that the representation in this country should therefore
in Great Britain the General Council would give it hospitality in its offices and would give
of the Federation, put this matter before the Women's Group and the General Council
agreed to a report from them under which it was resolved that if the Secretariat remained
assistance through the staff of its Women's Group as had been previously done by the
Federation that it should endeavour to secure the development of the Women's Depart-
ment of the I.F.T.U. into a Women's Section. These matters were discussed in detail
by the S. C. which appointed a special committee to consider and report upon them,
and the delegates sent from Great Britain had instructions to press for this develop ment
and to urg. that if the I.F.T.U. would undertake this work of forming a Women's Section
with a Women's Advisory Committee and a Biennial Congress of Working Women, the
Federation's identity might be absorbed in that larger organisation. The British delega-
tion to the Congress consisted of all members, who were as follows:-
Dr. Marion Phillips, Miss Edith McDonald. Mrs. F. Harrison Bell, Miss Madeleine
Symons, Miss Margaret Bondfield, Miss Julia Varley, Miss Dunch, Miss Vera Chinn,
Miss Edith Howse, Miss Ward, Miss Florrie Moss.
Dr. Marion Phillips having intimated her intention of not continuing the work of
International Secretary, it was agreed that the British delegation should put forward the
name of Miss Edith McDonald, then acting as Assistant Secretary for that office, if the
Secretariat remained in Great Britain. It was decided at Vienna that it should so remain,
and the proposals with regard to the future of the Federation were adopted on the lines
which have been described. Miss Margaret Bondfield was re-elected British Vice-Presi-
dent. Mrs. Harrison Bell. Treasurer, and Dr. Marion Phillips was made a Consultative
Member of the Secretariat: Mlle. Burniaux (Belgium) has taken the place of Mrs. Robins
(U.S.A.) as President. The full report of the Congress presented by the delegates was
adopted by the Standing Joint Committee, and it is understood that a Report of the
Congress will soon be available in book form.
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SOCIALIST WOMEN, HAMBURG, MAY, 1923. The
British Labour Party sent two delegates to this Congress, Miss Susan Lawrence and Dr.
Ethel Bentham. Mrs. Sidney Webb attended as a Fabian delegate and Dr. Marion
Phillips as secretary to the delegation and as a fraternal delegate on behalf of the I.F.W.W.
The work of the delegation was discussed with the S.J.C., and a report submitted by them
on their return. The Conference met on Sunday, 20th May. Its two main purposes
ofere to consider what organisation should be established in the future to link up Socialist
women of all countries, and also to report upon the conditions specially affecting women
in the different countries. The result of the discussion on future arrangements was
inconclusive and was finally left in the hands of the Præsidium of the Conference to see
what arrangements could be made with the new International formed at Hamburg in the
following week, but the feeling of a large majority was against having any separate inter-
national organisation for women in the Socialist parties even as part of the International.
The Conference was well attended, about 90 delegates being present, and there were many
interesting speeches upon the position of Socialist women in different countries. Reso-
lutions were also passed dealing with Women's Suffrage, an International Women's Day,
Education and Peace, and Motherhood and Child Endowment.
Dr. Marion Phillips, who was one of the Præsidium, has continued to act as the corre-
spondent for Great Britain with the Austrian women Socialists, who initiated this Congress,
and who are continuing their endeavours to develop a women's side to the work of the
new International on the restricted lines laid down by the Conference.
WOMEN AND UNEMPLOYMENT. -The administration of the Unemployment Acts was
dealt with in a letter of protest to Sir Montague Barlow early in the year, and questions
were also prepared upon this subject which were asked in the House of Commons. Informa-
tion was collected as to the position of unemployed women and circulated to members of the


---
out of a job.
698
and matter was provided for a series of articles which
question of uncovenanted benefit and the treatment
Parlimentary Labour Party appointed a special Emergency
en to unemployment amongst women. As a result of this
ment, a request was sent from the S.I.C. urging that
ated as Consultative members of this Committee so that there
d for summon Mrs. Harrison Bell and Miss Margaret Bondfield
LATOR AND EMIGRATION-The question of juvenile emigration has been dealt
or of the Committee which were being held with the National Joint Council.
to seal a special Commission to Australia to enquire into emigration matters the S.I.C
al times and Mrs. Bell, our representative upon the Overseas Settlement Com
en kept fully informed as to the views held. When the Government proposed
hotel accommodation for women emigrants both on arrival and at any lator time when
ani to utge that special enquiries should be made into the reception arrangements and
paste 1 Mrs. Bell to press for the appointment of a Labour Woman representative
molation and social amenities provided for family life in areas that were being settled.
It was also pointed out that family emigration should be urged and proper accom-
as the delegation was already settled, but as Mr. Wignall, M.P was included in it. Dr.
was entirely in agreement with these and fully convinced with the need of making enquiry
Marion Phillips saw him and put the points raised by the Committee before him. He
SALARIES OF HEALTH VISITORS, &c. -The Committee has continued to send protests
Women Sanitary Inspectors and Health Visitors that these letters have been of great
Sanitary Inspectors and Health Visitors, and have been informed by the Association of
to any Local Authorities proposing to pay salaries lower than a reasonable minimum to
value to them. The Committee have also dealt with the Circular letter of the Minister
of Health in July, 1923, addressed to the Metropolitan Borough Councils recommending
Administrative, Technical and Clerical Services. The Committee called the attention of
to them that they should adopt a lower scale of salaries for Sanitary Inspectors and Health
the frades Union Congress and the Labour Party to this matter, and also sent a letter
Vi iors than had been agreed upon by the London District Council for Local Authorities'
of protest to the Minister of Health. The correspondence is continuing, so that its result
tment of a Labour woman at that time
It was not found possible to secure the appointment
into them.
cannot be given.
NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF LABOUR WOMEN. - The S . . C. as usual, co-operated
with the Labour Party in the arrangements for the National Conference of Labour Women.
which was held in York on 8th and 9th May, 1923.
Labour Movement, Motherhood and Child Endowment Second Interim Report to be pre-
The reports on Penal Reform, Education of Youth in the Ideas of Feace and the
feature of this year's Conference was that at the private organisation conference of deng
sented to the Conference, were carefully discussed the Committee. An interesting
gates of the Women's Sections and Labour Parties, the election of the four additional
entitled upon the S.J.C. took place. The
members to which the Labour Party is now
In September the S.JC. considered the lines which should be taken in making arrange
other four members are the four women on the Executive Committee of the Labour Party.
ments for the Annual Conference in 1924, and it is still dealing with proposals for improve-
ments in the agenda in order to make the Conference of still greater value and interest.
WOMEN'S DAY, JUNE, 1923. On the proposal of the S.J.C. the Executive Committec
of the Labour Party asked all Women's Sections and Labour Parties to arrange for special
Women's Day Demonstrations to be held in their constituencies during two week-ends
in June. This proposal was carried out with very great success in a large number of areas,
and the Executive Committee have again accepted a recommendation to make a similar
proposal for 1924.
PENAL REFORM AND POOR PERSONS DEFENCE. -This subject has occupied a great
deal of the attention of the Committee. A report upon it was presented and adopted by
the National Conference of Labour Women. The proposals in this dealing with Poor
Prisoners Defence were the result of joint meetings between the Sub-Committee of the
S.J.C. and the Labour Party Advisory Committee on Legal and Judicial Matters.
Amendments to the Criminal Judicature Bill passed by the House of Lords and now
before the House of Commons, were put forward, which will be dealt with by the Labour
Party in the coming session. The Committee made an enquiry from Labour women
magistrates as to the conditions of nursing in prisons and some useful information was
obtained. The whole question of penal reform will continue to occupy close attention.
The case of Mrs. Wright, who drowned her child when in very great despair, was taken
up by the Committee and help was given in getting signatures and a petition for her reprieve.
---

---
of the Labour
699
in order that the jury might decide that owing to her being certified as al
unable to plead. At the recommendation of the Committee, the Toxe e Co
Attention was later given to the case of Mrs. Brooks, who was brought i
should use his powers to prevent so cruel a scene in future cases.
admission and the sufficiency of accommodation in lying-in hospitals, atl
LYING-IN HOSPITALS. - The Committee conducted an enquity to Cue Belirl
naire upon this to all Women's Sections. A report is now bring re
Executive Committee of the Labour Party that an Advisory Committee shold t
DOMESTIC SERVICE. - The Standing Joint Committee made a recoint
to deal with the organisation of domestic work. The proposal was agreed to and refer
to the Information and Research Department to report on further.
training of youth in the ideas of peace and the Labour Movement, was presented to to
ORGANISATION OF YOUTH. - A report upon this subject, combined with falf of the
decided to set up a Sub-Committee to go into the whole question and report at the BOXE
National Conference of Labour Women, and the Executive Committee of the Labour Party
Conference. This Sub-Committee is now conducting the work.
resolution upon this subject was deferred and not voted upon, a Sub-Committco was
BIRTH CONTROL. - After the National Conference of Labour Women at which the
Mrs. Hobbs, Mrs. Hood, Mrs. Rackham, with Mrs. Lowe, as secretary. This Committee
appointed by the Standing Joint Committee, consisting of Mrs. Harrison Bell, Dr. Bentham.
is still considering the subject and has not yet reported.
Legitimation and Guardianship of Infants Bills in the House of Commons, both of which
Other subjects which have been occupying the attention of the Committee are the
the Committee has supported, the Demonstrations on "No More War," on the Committed
of which the S.T.C. is represented, the Employment of Married Women Teachers and
Mrs. Hobbs on the Council for the Overseas Settlement of British Women. On the National
Housing. Mrs. Harrison Bell continues to represent us on the Overseas Committee, and
Council for the Unmarried Mother and Her Child are Mrs. Baker, Mis. Hobbs and Miss
Michelmore on the Women's Section of the Garden Cities Association are Dr. Phillips
Harrison Bell. Though nominally we still have members on the Consultative Council
and Mrs. Hobbs, and the Labour Saving Devices Sub-Committee of that body, Mrs.
on General Health Matters of the Ministry of Health for England, we have to report that
Consultative Council for Wales on the other hand, where our representatives are Mrs.
successive ministers have continued Dr. Addison's policy of not calling it together. The
Andrews and Mrs. Davies, has continued to meet and do very useful work. We have
sent representatives on several deputations and Miss Howse attended as our fraternal
delegate at the Annual Congress of the Women's Co-operative Guild at Cardiff.
CONGRATULATIONS. - The Committee learnt with very great pleasure of the election
Trade Union Movement that of Chairman of the General Council of the Trades Union
of their former Chairman, Miss Margaret Bondfield, to the highest post in the English
Tragress, in September, 1 st this was not only a great personal honour
Consmark of recognition to Miss Bondfield's work in the movement, but an honour which
mises the whole position of women in the Labour Movement and gives wide recognition
Party agreed that it should be suggested to the Hour:
to women's place in the Labour world.
KEEP ON DOING.
There's lots of joy in living if you strike the proper gait;
If you'll always come up smiling in the face of every fate,
If you're keeping step and whistling some lively little tune,
You'll be living gay and happy as a sunny day in June,
Keep a level head, don't worry, help your brothers on the way;
Let the sunshine of good humour shine upon you ev'ry day;
Speak a cheerful word at all times, never" knock" your fellow man,
And you'll surely be rewarded-just keep doing all you can,
There is lots of joy in living if you live your life aright,
Lots of sunshine and of roses, keep your eyes turned to the light,
Look behind the clouds of trouble; there's a silver lining there,
And you'll find it if you're only living life upon the square.
Scatter good cheer like the thistle scatters seed before the wind,
And the petty woes and troubles soon will be left far behind.
Be a Booster" every minute, help along your fellow man,
And you'll surely be rewarded, just keep doing all you can.
-Exchange,


---
Here is the extracted text:
700
and (un) giving false information.
PROSECUTION UNDER TRADE UNION ACTS.
repainer, at the Old Street Police Court, on 4th July, 1923. for (i.)
notated against Abraham Smith. 26. Brushfield Street, Spital.
h agent of the above Abraham Smith. was also charged with pro-
at not le than the minimum rates to I worker; (ii.) producing false
When brst visited in September, 1922, it was found that under.
piwnent had occurred to one worker arrears were assessed and a receipt signed by the
discovered that the worker had not received the amount stated in the receipt, that the
worker had not been paid the correct rates since the time of the first visit and that the
tasker for the amount claimed was forwarded to the Department. It was subsequently
book produced by the employer contained incorrect entries of the wages paid.
Abraham Smith. -(i.) Underpayment. Fined £7 and £5 5s. od. costs. (iⅱ.) Pro-
The defendants pleaded guilty. Penalties as follows were imposed :-
Hyman Smith. -(i.) Producing false records. Fined To os. od. and £2 28. od. costs.
and £2 25. od. costs. Fined ₤10 and
ducing false records.
Fined 20 and £2 2s. od. costs.
(iii.) Giving false information.
Arrears amounting to f8 9s. 5d. were ordered to be paid.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
PROGRESS OF WORLD LABOUR LAWS.
Some Results of the International Labour Office.
of the League of Nations at Geneva on Monday, 21st October, 1923, to which each of the
States which is a member of the International Labour Organisation is entitled to send
four delegates, two representing the Government and one each the employers and workers.
the following figures are of interest as showing the progress of world labour legislation
With the opening of the fifth annual session of the International Labour Conference
since the fourth session held in October last year.
and 19 Recommendations, each of which must have been carried by a two-thirds majority.
The Conference has adopted 16 Draft Conventions for "ratification" by each State
The results in legislation are :-
Number of Ratifications registered by the Secretary General
Number of Countries adhering to Berne Convention on white
phosphorus since Washington Conference
Ratifications authorised but not yet communicated
Ratifications recommended by Governments
Legislative measures adopted to give effect to decisions
Legislative measures proposed but not yet adopted
Oct., 1923.
86
Oct., 1922.
51
12
10
20
16
126
85
98
78
72
63
Great Britain has ratified Draft Conventions dealing with the prohibition of the
night work of women and young persons, the minimum age of children employed in industry
and at sea, the provision of public employment exchanges, the rights of association of
farm workers and the provision of workers' compensation for farm workers. Among
the Draft Conventions which have received the largest number of ratifications is that
prohibiting the night work of women, this "Labour Treaty" having been duly signed
by Bulgaria, Czecho-slovakia, Esthonia, Great Britain, Greece, India, Italy, the Nether-
lands, Roumania, South Africa, and Switzerland.
CHINESE IMMIGRANTS.
Restrictive Tendencies in Several Countries.
the League of Nations.
regulations in other countries regarding them are given in the October issue of the Inter-
Interesting details of the migration movements of Japanese and Chinese and of the
national Labour Review, the monthly publication of the International Labour Office of


---
Here is the extracted text:
703
WHAT LABOUR WILL FIGHT ON WHEN ELECTION COMES.
Ramsay MacDonald Defines the Real Issues and Lays Down Clear
Constructive Policy. Straight Questions for Mr. Baldwin.
Labour's Programme ". Protection.
It was a smallish room in which the gathering was held, and for the most part Mr.
MacDonald spoke in a conversational tone. But every now and then his voice to e, every
Never was a party leader more emphatic or more genuinely in earnest, never did a
and when all his hearers broke into loud applause on hearing his declaration :-
Party gathering approve more vigorously a declaration of policy, than when he declared,
now and then some emotion-pity, or anger, or sarcastic disdain thrilled in his tonee
The issue on which we shall fight is not Protection versus Free Trade. It is Pro-
tection versus the Labour programme.
That was the core of the speech. Ranging over a wide field, touching at all important
points the situation created by Mr. Baldwin's speeches, it was all a disscitation upon that
text. Every part of it fitted in with that declaration and formed a mosaic of which the
central pattern was a firm resolve not to lose the initiative, not to let the adversary choose
the battleground, not to take up a merely negative attitude, but to make a positive offer
in reply to the Prime Minister's challenge.
Protection Fallacy.
Protection, said Mr. MacDonald in a closely-reasoned and very skilful analysis of the
problem of unemployment, would not help us to find markets for our manufactures. On
the contrary, it would add to the difficulty of finding them.
We could not sell our goods at present because other countries, owing to the political
chaos in Europe, which so deplorably affected the rates of exchange, produce more cheaply
and could undersell us.
The Tory remedy was to make our goods dearer still !
Nothing appreciable had been done by the present Government to help in reducing
that chaos to order. As for its dealing with the workless, it was a scandal and a disgrace.
The leader's voice shook with indignation as he pronounced this condemnation. A
few moments before it had sunk to a sad whisper as he spoke of "your friends and my
friends" in the ranks of the unemployed.
Here, we felt, was the only spirit in which this terrible disaster could be combated
with any hope of success. Tories and Liberals speak of unemployment as something
remote from themselves, from their own lives and families and friends. The deep murmur
which responded to Mr. MacDonald's parenthesis proved its truth. All these men and
women were burning to cure unemployment because it is a real disaster to them, because
it does touch their friends, their relatives, their daily lives.
Real Remedies.
And how could it be cured? By developing our own country. How could we reduce
the taxation which weighed so heavily upon families of small means? By combining
economic wisdom with moral rectitude, imposing a Capital Levy and paying off a large part
of our debt. How could we increase production? Turn the unwilling into the willing
producer by producing, not for private profit, but for common use.
Those were the issues on which Labour would fight. Those were the only remedies
which offered any hope of improvement.
Protection would leave our difficulties and problems as they were. It would expose
us, in addition, to all the evils of "lobbying" in favour of particular industries-such
intriguing and bullying and bargaining as they had seen in connection with the Safeguard-
ing of Industries Act.
Into the working of that measure Mr. MacDonald called for a searching inquiry,
prophesying that it would knock the bottom out of Mr. Baldwin's case for Protection.
He pleaded, too, for more inquiry into "the terrible thing called Socialism." Few of
those who trembled at it knew anything at all about it.
Pioneers of Socialism.
They did not know that all the saints and seers of the nineteenth century-Carlyle,
Ruskin, Robert Owen, Shaftesbury-had been pioneers of Socialism. Not a single great
name could be shown in opposition to the principle that common interests, and not private
interests, must come first. That was Socialism, and he never felt more confident of its
Power to build up a new social stricture in which all might be contented and of which all
could be proud.


---
704
11er to the Prime Minister's cold and fumbling advocacy of a policy
In sancerity, its fire, and its admirably marshalled arguments made a
pupe con on the meeting
Why they Smiled.
said Mr. Henderson, in his little introductory speech:
that the arrangements had been made long before. All the familiar faces were thero-
bat, as one looked round the room, one would, without this admission, have supposed
It had been "improvised,"
or almost all-and at the end they all beamed with satisfaction.
"We are ready for the fight whenever it comes," their smiles said.
"We have got
a straight-thinking leader and he has given us a clear lead." - Daily Herald, 2nd November,
1923.
SIR HALL CAINE'S PLEA FOR PEACE.
"Victory of Dust and Ashes."
H. F.
A "Plea for World Unity and Peace" was broadcast from London by Sir Hall Caine
on the 11th inst.
of a
After speaking of the commencement of the war, Sir Hall Caine said: "Has our hope
better world been fulfilled? What do we see? Europe is in chaos. One of its
Empires, the one that began the war, has been almost wiped off the map. Another is
Our own country may have laid down its arms, but it is now fighting a deadlier enemy
at this moment struggling with anarchy. A third has been swept by famine and disease.
than Germany-poverty and want.
reconcile ourselves to our condition by thinking how much worse it might have been if
of the State. Nearly four millions are badly housed or not housed at all. We try to
"A million and a quarter of our people are unemployed and living on the charity
we had been beaten in the war, but what is it to be the victors if our victory is as dust
and ashes?"
"The gospel of war is that war has failed as a judge of human conduct. It is not the
last appeal court of Providence. The conscience of humanity repudiates it. The supreme
interest of mankind in this hour of the world's peril is peace, and the further militarisation
of the world must cease."
SUNLIGHT AND BETTER HEALTH.
There is no longer any need to emphasise the general advantages of exposure to sun-
by cutting off the supply of a few simple and universally available factors, directly causes
light. But if we consider its effects in detail we are driven to conclude that civilisation.
diseases which require the most elaborate treatment to arrest or cure.
light and Health " (Nisbet, 5s. net), Dr. C. W. Saleeby traces the various discoveries with
regard to one of these factors. We find that not only are tuberculosis and rickets curable
by light but that their development is prevented by its agency in conditions under which
they would otherwise certainly appear. Sunlight and artificial light are, therefore, not
only antiseptic but also stimulative to the vital powers, calling up their maximum resistance
against disease. The range of its beneficent power is already proved to be so great that we
are justified in assuming that the mere general effect of increased sunlight would be the
arrest or rout of the majority of diseases and an immense increase in health and energy.
This conclusion is not weakened in the least by the fact which Dr. Saleeby makes clear
that the specific action of sunlight in the cure of disease is still unknown. But if it be
true, what can be said of the dilatoriness and cowardice of the Government in dealing
with the evil of smoke, which effectually cuts off the sunlight from those members of the
population whose mode of life places them most in need of it? Cologne, Düsseldorf,
and Essen, when working at full pressure, were smokeless cities. Even Pittsburg has cut
off over 85 per cent. of its smoke. In this country alone do we tolerate an evil which
directly saps the vigour of everyone and produces disease in numerous people. The
Committee on Light of the Medical Research Council work in vain if their findings are to
have so little influence on policy. This is another case in which we should naturall
expect the Ministry of Health to act; but up to the present we see no sign of any adeqint
attempt to deal with the smoke evil. - Westminster Gazette, 12th November, 2


---
```text
706
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
January
10-15
35
65
85-90
120
130
165
92
78
February
15-20
35-40
70
90
130
151
88
78
March
15-20
35-40
70-75
90-95
110
141
86
77
April
20
40-45
75
95-100
105
132
133
82
76
May
25
45
75-80
100
105
141
128
81
74
June
25
45-50
80
100-105
105
150
119
80
70
July
25
45-50
80
110
115
152
119
84
69
August
25
50
80-85
110
115
155
122
81
69
September
30
50-55
85
115-120
120
161
120
79
71
October
30
60
85
120-125
125
164
110
78
73
November
30-35
65
85
120
176
103
80
75
December
35
169
99
80
75
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement,
1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922)
Agreement, and present date.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.-Membership of Unions reporting at end of September, 1923,
75,783. Unemployed at the end of September, 1923, 3,875; percentage, 5.1. Decrease in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.7; Increase in percentage
as compared with a year ago, 1.2.-Labour Gazette, October, 1923.

PATHETIC.
A big burly man called at the rectory, and when the door was opened asked to see the
rector's wife, a woman well known for her charitable impulses.
"Madam," he addressed her, in a broken voice. "I wish to draw your attention to
the terrible plight of a poor family in this district. The father is dead, the mother is too
ill to work, and the nine children are starving. They are about to be turned into the cold.
"How terrible!" exclaimed the lady. "May I ask who you are?"
The sympathetic visitor applied his handkerchief to his eyes.
"I'm the landlord," he sobbed.-American Legion Weekly.

ILLUSTRATED.
Two tourists in Spain could not speak the language, and consequently had some
difficulty in making known their wants. At a wayside inn they tried to obtain roast beef.
Nobody could understand them.
"What are we to do?" asked one of them, despairingly.
"I know," said the other, a ray of hope appearing. "I'll draw a picture of a cow.
Then they'll understand."
He made a rough sketch of a cow, put a "2" underneath it, and handed it to the
waiter, who instantly smiled to show that he understood, and went off to execute the order.
A few minutes later he returned with two tickets for a bullfight.

A ROBOT'S ROUNDELAY.
Hush-a-bye, baby, on the tree top,
When you grow up you can work in a shop;
When you are married your wife can work too,
So that the rich will have nothing to do.
Hush-a-bye, baby, on the tree top,
When you are old your wages will stop,
And when you have spent what little you save,
It's rock-a-bye, baby, off to the grave.
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

DECEMBE
ON OFFICERS.
shop, Phone, London."

bet, London, W.C.1.
unications to this Address.

ay, London, N.7.

Leicester.
Norwich.
oton.
Northampton.
Warwick Road,
perial Avenue,
ey.
Walsham Road,
gh.
y, Leeds.
hampton.
ads, Bristol,
apton.
Kettering.
т.
ester.
C. 1.
eds.
ich.
Hon, N.7.
Telephone No.:
4436 Museum, London.
Seat of Government and General Secretary's
34, GUILFORD ST., LONDON, W.C. 1.
Where all business communications must to addressed.
Monthly
Report
of the
NATIONAL
UNION OF
BOOT & SHOE
OPERATIVES
(Registered under the Trade Union Acts, Register No. 432 T).
п.
No. 281.
.C. I.
General President:
T. F. RICHARDS.
General Secretary:
E. L. POULTON, J.P.
PRICE ONE PENNY.


---
TRADE UNION STAMP FOR
BOOT & SHOE REPAIRERS.
The following Firms use the "STAMP":
BROCKLEY, Surrey
CHESHAM
CHESTERFIELD
DARTFORD
DUNDEE
DUBLIN
Mr. F. Jeffery, 1, Merritt Road, Crofton
Park
Mr. J. Mead, 150, High Street
Stamp Ne
J. W. Booth, Eyre Street, Hasland
Industrial Co-op. Society, 73, Kent Road
T. Malone, Mid Street
Arnold Lowe, 311, Upper Kevin Street
16
14
7
17
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in our reports to those upon the
reliance being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the necessary
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
National Union
Boot & Shoe Operatives
4
F. Lewin, 6 and 7, Chapel Street
10
J. Chapman, 5, Bulmer Street,
19
GRANTHAM
Meanwood Road
LEEDS
Henry Brightwell, 12, Barrack Street
21
J. Smith, 30, Eldon Street
23
LEICESTER
Ralph Wood, 47, Cottesmore Road
Messrs. J. T. Marriott & Co.,
9
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
15
74, St. Nicholas Square
LEIGH
MANCHESTER
Edward Gee, 51, Wolverton Road
Co-operative Society Ltd., Leigh
J. Mason, 15, Oakhill Street, Heath
Street, Cheetham Hill
20
22
13
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Messrs. Roberts & Son, 98, Fairfield
1
Street, London Road
Manchester and Salford Equitable Co-op.
2
Society, Downing Street
8
T. W. Lewis, 72, Ethel Street
NORTHAMPTON
NOTTINGHAM
3
J. Seymour, 79, Woodborough Road
12
PLYMOUTH
11
Messrs. Petitt & Co., 105, Tavistock Road
MONTHLY REPORT.
17TH DECEMBER, 1923.
There is practically no improvement in trade over what was reported in
last month's issue. The number of members who received Out of Work Benefit
during last month is 2,531. The Union's Out of Work Fund has proved to
be a very great advantage to those of cut members, who have unfortunately
from time to time found themselves out of employment. The figures recorded
by the Ministry of Labour Gazette are set out hereunder :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment during November continued slack on the whole, but improvements
were reported in some districts, and less short time was worked than in recent months.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment book
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 9.6 on the 26th November, as compared with
9.8 on the 22nd October.
In London employment remained bad. There was a further improvement at Leicest
although a good deal of short time was still worked. There was not much change
Northampton, where employment remained moderate on the whole, with much sho
time; at Kettering there was a slight further improvement, though short time was s
largely worked. At Wellingborough employment continued to improve, and there
very little short time working; a few factories were even reported to be working overti
Overtime working was also reported in the Rushden district, where employment contin
good. At Hinckley a further improvement was reported, while at Desborough emp
ment remained bad. General slackness continued at Leeds, but a slight improve
was reported. An improvement was reported at Stafford.
All Trade Unionists should have their Repairs done
by Repairers who use the TRADE UNION STAMP.
Full particulars from General Secretary :-
E. L. POULTON, J.P., 34, Guilford Street, LONDON, W.C. 1.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph O
Red Lion Street, London, W. 1

MONTHLY REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
STATE OF TRADE.
17TH DECEMBER 192.

There is practically no improvement in trade over what was reported in
last month's issue. The number of members who received Out of Work B to
during last month is 2,531. The Union's Out of Work Fund has proved
be a very great advantage to those of our members, who have unfortunately
from time to time found themselves out of employment. The figures recorded
by the Ministry of Labour Gazette are set out hereunder :-

BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.

Employment during November continued slack on the whole, but improvement
were reported in some districts, and less short time was worked than in recent months.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 9.6 on the 26th November, as compared with
9.8 on the 22nd October.
In London employment remained bad. There was a further improvement at Leicester,
although a good deal of short time was still worked. There was not much change al
Northampton, where employment remained moderate on the whole, with much short
time; at Kettering there was a slight further improvement, though short time was still
largely worked. At Wellingborough employment continued to improve, and there was
very little short time working; a few factories were even reported to be working overtime
Overtime working was also reported in the Rushden district, where employment continued
good. At Hinckley a further improvement was reported, while at Desborough employ-
ment remained bad. General slackness continued at Leeds, but a slight improvement
was reported. An improvement was reported at Stafford.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
Number of Workpeople
Inc. (+) or
Week
ended
Dec. (-) on a
24th Nov.,
1923
Month ago Year ago
724
anemployment among boot and shoe operatives.
At Bristol employment varied from
ttle change in the situation at Norwich, where there was considerable
hul to fait at Kmgasood it was fairly good, At Street employment continued bad.
me working remained general. Elsewhere in Scot
The following Table summarises the information received from those employers
Employment w.rs
at Arbroath and at Edinburgh short time
land employment was generally fair or good.
who furnished returns for the three periods under review:-
Total Wages paid to all
Workpeople
Week
ended
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a
Year ago
ir
t
I
24th Nov.,
1923
Month ago
Per
Per
Per
cent.
cent.
£
cent.
ENGLAND AND WALES
1,913
+ 0.1
0.6
4,090
1.8
Per
cent.
0.8
3.2
19,339
London
8,370
+ 9.4
6.3
Leicester
Northampton
Leicester Country District
2,342
+ 1.3
2.8
5,293
+ 6.9
6.9
6,851
0.6
+ 3.2
15,412
+ 1.4
+ 2.2
+ 9.5
Northampton Country
8,213
+ 0.7
+ 6.6
18,121
+ 1.1
District
Ο. Ι
+ 5.7
8,382
3,402
+ 1.9
+ 8.9
Kettering
Stafford and District
2,555
+ 0.2
+ 4.2
5,392
+15.2
+10.6
2.8
8.5
7,610
Norwich and District
3,949
Ο.Ι
+13.6
-6.6
Bristol, Kingswood and
1.6
0.7
4,744
2,422
0.5
District
Leeds and District
1,855
+ I.I
0.4
4,214
+ 5.7
7.2
+ 2.7
Lancashire (mainly
Rossendale Valley)
4,355
0.7
+ 1.0
7,908
+ 3.5
Birmingham and District
1,012
+ 0.3
1.7
2,014
+19.0
Other parts of England and
+ 3.4
-19.5
Wales
1,542
+ 1.0
+ 5.4
3,096
+ 4.6 + 9.4
ENGLAND AND WALES
48,781
0.3
+0.7 105,615
+ 4.1 + 0.3
SCOTLAND
UNITED KINGDOM
2,548 + 0.6
+ 1.1
51,329
0.2
+ 0.8
5,143
110,758
- 4.8
4.2
+ 3.6
+ 0.0
* Comparisons of earnings are affected by changes in rates of wages.
Returns from firms employing nearly 41,000 workpeople in the week ended 24th
November showed that about 43 per cent. of these workpeople worked short time in that
week, to the extent of about 12 hours per week, on an average.
The exports of boots and shoes in November, 1923, amounted to 120,300 dozen pairs,
or 7,458 dozen pairs less than in October, 1923, but 40,300 dozen pairs more than in
November, 1922.
NEW MAGISTRATES.
It is with pleasure we record the fact that two more of our colleagues,
Councillor J. Gribble and Councillor A. W. Lyne, both of Northampton, have
been made Magistrates during the last month. We congratulate our colleagues
and feel confident they will carry out the duties connected with the office in a
manner creditable to themselves and the movement.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
We have pleasure in recording that the Union has secured for A.P., of
Norwich, a lump sum of £250 for an accident in 1922.
We again beg to remind Branch Officers, and also the members, that
lump sums are NOT obtainable by law, but only by agreement, and if


---
branches are anxious that
725
a solicitor should be engaged to caftand
interests of any member. the Central Office should be at once noted
the accident, together with the full name and address of the role
registered number, and details of the accident, on the prescribed form
THE GENERAL ELECTION.
Once more the nation has been called upon to elect representatives for the
members to be ready at all times for an election, believing as we did that such
House of Commons. For many months past we have impressed upon the
an appeal would not be long delayed. We cannot but think that among the
reasons for having an election so soon after the 1922 election is, to make it
increasingly difficult for the Labour Party to find money to fight elections.
The Party, however, with great courage, have risen to the occasion, and
there was no lack of Labour candidates in all parts of the country.
So much so, it would have been easy to have secured an absolute majority
of members had the electorate so used their powers as to send more Labour
Members to the House. This, however, has not taken place, although 191
Labour Members (including six Co-operative Members) were returned to the
House of Commons, out of a total of 615 Members.
THE UNION'S CANDIDATES.
So far as the Union is concerned we had three Candidates in the field:-
Mr. John Buckle, J.P., for the Eccles Division of Lancs.; Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P.
for Norwich; and Mr. Len. Smith, for the Daventry Division of Northants.
In the Eccles Division, Mr. Buckle had two candidates fighting him this
time-Conservative and Liberal-the Conservative being a formidable opponent
owing to his great local influence and also that he was a representative for
Eccles until Mr. Buckle won the seat in 1922. The fight was a strenuous
one, but we are delighted to report that, thanks to the whole-hearted support
of a band of workers, led by Councillor M. Rogerson, our Agent for the Division,
added to the way in which Mr. Buckle placed his views before the electorate,
Mr. Buckle was again returned for the Division. The figures are as follows :-
ECCLES.
Electorate: Men, 20,265; Women, 16,406. Total, 37,671.
*Buckle, J. (Lab.)
Stevens, M. (U.)
..
Ashton, W. S. (L.)..
..
12,227
10,364
6,011
1,863
Labour majority
* Elected. No change.
In the case of Norwich the situation was a peculiar one, there being two
Labour Candidates, two Liberals and two Conservatives. One of the Con-
servatives Candidates was the Rt. Hon. George Roberts, at one time the
Labour Representative for Norwich, and our Mr. W. R. Smith was then his
election agent. The campaign was a most strenuous one, especially having
B


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
726
to the whole of the circumstances named above, and we are pleased
that om Mr. W. R. Smith was returned, the figures being :-
NORWICH.
Electorate: Men, 33,609 ; Women, 27,559 ; Total, 61,168.
*Smith, W. R. (Lab.) 20,077
*Jewson, D. (Lab.) 19,304
Young, Lt.-Com. H. (L.) 16,222
Roberts, G. H. (U.) 14,749
Copeman, H. J. (L.) 13,180
Swan, H. D. (U.) 12,713
Labour majority 3,855
" " 3,082
* Elected.
In the case of the Daventry Division, which is largely an agricultural area,
there being 133 villages in the division, the difficulty was very great indeed.
Mr. Len. Smith had less than three weeks in which to do the work and place
his views before such a large and scattered constituency. Here again the
position was different from that of 1922, there being a Liberal in addition to
a Conservative Candidate. Despite the great work put in by Mr. Len. Smith
and the loyal support given to him, we failed to win the seat :-
DAVENTRY.
Electorate: Men, 17,705 ; Women, 13,230; Total, 30,935.
*Fitzroy, Capt. E. A. (U.) 10,514
Kerr, Lt.-Col. C. (L.) 8,914
Smith, L. (Lab.) 4,127
Unionist majority 1,600
* Elected. No change.
The following Boot and Shoe constituencies in which we are particularly
interested have returned the following candidates :-
Northampton: Miss M. Bondfield, M.P., by a majority of over 4,000.
Kettering: Mr. S. Perry, M.P., 2,506 majority.
Wellingborough, where, although we were not running a candidate, con-
siderable help was rendered to Mr. Cove and our Mr. L. P. Poole acted as the
Agent for the Candidate. Mr. W. G. Cove, M.P., was returned by a majority
of 2,537.
Leicester East has been regained by Alderman Geo. Banton; and
Leicester West, where our Alderman Hill had to retire owing to ill-health, has
been held by Mr. Pethick Lawrence. Mr. Fred Gould, Secretary to our Mid-
somer Norton Branch, was the Labour Candidate in the Frome Division of
Somerset, he having been Agent for the late Captain Gill. Mr. Gould was
returned by over 2,000 majority.


---
Here is the extracted text:
727
LEICESTER WEST.
It will thus be seen that in a number of districts where our trade is pre-
dominant Labour Candidates have been successful. These stuces are a
source of gratification to us and we hope as opportunities present themselve
other constituencies will likewise return Labour Members.
In our November issue we inserted a paragraph commenting upon the
method adopted by the Leicester Labour Party, the seat in Leicester West
having passed from us. We also expressed our disapproval of the procedure
adopted, as we had not only won Leicester West, but kept a full time agent in
the Division. Although the methods adopted were not just to the Union, we
refrained from taking any further action, because we desired the seat to be
retained for Labour, and as showing our sincerity in the matter, Alderman
A. Hill, J.P., in addition to taking the chair at one of Mr. Lawrence's meetings,
issued a special appeal to the electors to support Mr. Lawrence.
As a Union, although the services of Councillor J. H. Baum, our full time
Agent in the Division, would have been of great service to Mr. Len. Smith in
the Daventry Division, we agreed that Mr. Baum should continue in the position
of Agent in Leicester West. We claim we have shown a spirit of goodwill
and patience in connection with such a matter, although we had and still have
every reason to complain of the way in which we have been treated. We can
only hope that no such an unfortunate occurrence will happen in the future,
but that there will be full compliance with the procedure laid down by the
Labour Party, and full consultation with the Union in the selection of the
candidate, especially when, as in the case of Leicester West, we have been
paying an agent for some considerable time and thus giving full financial
responsibility to keep the machinery in order.
DAVENTRY.
In the Daventry Division of Northants we felt that a circular issued by
Captain Fitzroy, the Conservative Candidate, was worded in such a way that
if it was not absolutely over the line then it was very close to being contrary
to the law regarding such cases. We therefore took the matter to the Chancery
Division of the High Court on Tuesday, the 4th inst. The case was heard
by Mr. Justice Astbury, and it is interesting to record a remark made by the
Judge :-" It seems to me this is a most improper circular to have issued.
But I do not know that that is enough to give me jurisdiction to stop it."
The fact that we took the matter up so promptly had a very beneficial
effect upon the said candidate as is shown on page 743 of this report of a state-
ment published by Mr. Fitzroy.
The state of the Poll on the 11th inst. was:-
Labour Party 
Liberal Party 
Conservative Party..
Others
To be Elected
191
158
254
7
5


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
728
The position created by the election shows that no Party has a clear
majority. As a result it has been, and is, the cause of all sorts of rumours
being circulated as to which Party will take office, or whether the Rt. Hon.
Stanley Baldwin, M.P., will carry on, and go to the country again in a
short time.
At the time of going to Press the position is one of great uncertainty, and
one which is calling for full consideration, especially from the point of view of
the Labour Party and their acceptance of office. The decision as to the policy
to be pursued under such circumstances clearly must rest with those whom
we have elected to represent us in the House of Commons, having regard to
the circumstances by which they find themselves surrounded. We therefore
trust that whatever decision may be arrived at that it will be loyally accepted
by the Party as a whole, because it is quite clear that the circumstances are
such as to prevent the Party fully carrying out its policy should they decide
to take office. The situation is one which will put to the test the principles
underlying the Labour Party, and we appeal especially to our own members
to do their part in keeping alive full interest in the movement and the objects
for which we stand, so that when another election comes, whether in the
immediate future or not, it will find us fully prepared, and with such machinery
placed at our disposal as will materially increase the number of members on
the Labour side of the House of Commons.
Further references will be be found elsewhere in this issue.
PARLIAMENTARY AGENTS.
In view of the resignations of the General President and General
Secretary as Parliamentary Agents, named below, whilst the resignations
have been accepted, we purpose holding over the nominations to fill the
positions until February, 1924.
FELLOW COLLEAGUES,
11th December, 1923.
As reported last month, in my report, I have definitely decided that
my work as General President is more important than that of a Parliamentary
Agent, and as has been explained before I decided to relinquish the latter
position.
Yours fraternally,
T. F. RICHARDS,
General President.
To the Members of the Executive Council.
FELLOW COLLEAGUES,
7th December, 1923.
I have been considering for a considerable time past the position
of my being one of the Parliamentary Agents, and the rules bearing upon the
same, more especially bearing in mind the discussion which had taken place
at the Union's Conference this year. It is quite clear to me that if I consented


---
729
upon to resign my position as General Secretary to the Union, but with our
present procedure this would also mean cutting me off from my Industrial
work in connection with the movement generally.
matter.
This I am not prepared to do, believing as I do, that I have been of one
use to the general movement. The decision of the Conference and the state-
ment in the rules make it quite plain that I ought to declare myself upon the
I have given very careful consideration to the matter and have now come
to the conclusion that it will be best for me to retire from the position of one of
the Parliamentary Agents of the Union, and ask you to accept this resignation.
This would have been done in time—if I had known we were going to have a
rush election—to enable the Union to take a vote to fill the vacancy created.
My reason for not resigning sooner was because of the fact that the next Union
voting will not take place until February, and I did not wish to put the Union
to the expense of having a Ballot Vote to fill this one position, hence my
reason for not resigning until now.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary;
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
GREETINGS.
We wish every member the Compliments of the Season, and trust that
1924 will be brighter and happier than 1923 has been.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
It is with great pleasure that one has to record the wonderful suc of the
Labour Movement at the Polls. To those who have been associated with the oldest of
Socialist movements-the Socialist League-it is a great relief to feel that the workers
are being aroused, and have given the Labour Party a much heavier vote than they did
last year. With one hundred and ninety-one members (including six Co-operative
members) receiving the Labour whips
upon to form a Government, they should do so, and thereby prove to the movement
that they are prepared to carry out (if permitted) the promises they have made to
the electorate, and should at once abolish all taxes on food as the election literature
has shown all parties agreed on paper on this matter; amend the Old Age and War-
time Pensions, and amend the Unemployment Benefit Act, and make them more
adequate, remove anomalies and bring in the Agricultural Labourer and Domestic
Servants; advance loans to local bodies for housing and road widening on garden
city or other lines, and pay as per present arrangements, sixty per cent. from State
funds; open up trade with Russia; press France to deal justly with Germany by an
international conference; beg all industrialists to prefer arbitration in labour disputes:
apply the Sankey Award to the mines and miners, and supply the Parliamentary Debates
at Id. each to the general public.
Members will be aware ere this of the retirement of Ald. A. Hill from Parliamentary
work, and the Local Labour Party, for reasons best known to themselves, refused to allow
the matter to be postponed for three days whilst the Executive of our Union were consulted
as to a candidate. Although the rules of the Labour Party demand that all component
bodies shall have the right of nomination, our Union was denied this right. I learned that
Mr. Hill had decided to retire on the 14th Nov., when he asked me could he say that I
would go into nomination, and I replied next day that I should stand by the Presidency
of the Union. The following day the Executive of the Leicester Labour Party decided
on a candidate, and thereby refused the Council of the Union the opportunity of proposing
a nomination, which had we been permitted to nominate, we could then have had no
ground of complaint. As it is there is a very grave breach of faith by not observing the
general rules of procedure.
The result of the Leicester elections is everything to be proud of, as also are all the
other wins and efforts of the Party. My contribution to the local Press two days before
the election was as follows:-
"This country has tried Liberals and Tories. Both agree in their hearts that to settle
the Unemployed problem by giving all men and women work would not help them to
govern the country to their liking, and may even lose them power and pelf: the workers of
the country may prefer to govern themselves. After so many years, surely the time has
arrived when another party, hitherto untried, should be given a chance. Let us hope that
no boot and shoe operative can in his or her heart vote for either Liberal or Tory
on the 6th."
My political activities on invitation took me to the DAVENTRY DIVISION OF NORTHAMP-
TONSHIRE, where Mr. Len. Smith was a candidate. I am sorry he has not won, although
we expected the sitting member was well entrenched, and it was very largely an agricultural
area. Still, Mr. Smith's supporters thought he had a very good chance, and the meetings
in the shoe areas were very enthusiastic, and I believe very loyal at Daventry and Long
Buckby. I also addressed meetings at FINEDON and IRTHLINGBOROUGH, and attended a
very large and enthusiastic meeting at Rushden in the WELLINGBOROUGH DIVISION, and felt
from the tone of the meetings that Mr. Cove was bound to win as the Tories were running
a candidate this time, instead of being content to back the Liberal. Mr. Cove is now the
M.P., and I trust he will well nurse the constituency for matters point to this being a
short-lived Parliament.
DESBOROUGH was another most solid and enthusiastic meeting for Mr. Perry, the
Co-operative candidate, and the solidarity that was manifest at the meeting was a good
augury that here was another seat won for Labour, and as Mr. Perry has been elected
we are pleased to know that Labour has been true to itself.
The last three days was spent with Mr. Buckle, at ECCLES, and the many meetings
addressed made one feel that in spite of a third candidate, a Liberal being in the field, none
of Mr. Buckle's supporters felt any dismay, and in the end the majority was larger than on
the last occasion, which means that the Liberal made no difference. The whole result
has made the Labour Movement very proud of its achievements and bids fair for the future.
Disputes have been attended to at various places, such as Crick's, LEICESTER, where
the firm had not advanced the clickers the amount due on the last rise, but as trade is
so bad and the men, although on day labour, are working dead to Statement, the employer
---

---
732
the per cent. has been added to the Statement there is no advantage being taken by
the atm, but if they get more trade he will have no objection to giving the extra right
way.
We have also visited the form of Crane's, South Wigston, where one half of the recent
trouble has been sottled, and the firm advised that the other portion must be strictly
adhered to, and we shall advise the men accordingly. It is these (come in at the war-time
period) shops that are giving the most trouble, but constant and persistent attention will
ultimately bring them into line.
WELLINGBOROUGH. We have three firms here who are causing us some very close
attention, all of the same order as those just referred to. One of them, who is making
the lowest priced man's boot I have heard of, is paying wages not satisfactory to
us, and
we are, even at great risk, claiming the proper rates, and shall press them to the full. We
cannot protect non-unionists who will make their own terms not caring a jot for their
fellows, and encouraging firms just as neglectful to take labour below its market value.
The other two firms have not yet met our requirements on the Holiday Scheme.
whether the business will continue for several reasons. We intend holding meetings of
one having postponed the matter owing, he says, to bad trade, and the other is doubtful
the men to ascertain the facts as we get so little information these bad times from men
who fear the unemployment period. If many people who speak ill of the unemployed
person had our experience, they would soon find that the working people of this country
as a whole prefer remunerative employment to the Employment Exchange, and it is only
as a last and desperate resource that they appeal to the Branch Officials for advice and help
when employers put the men to the test of doing as they wish-ignore our Agreements or
leave.
At RUSHDEN an ex-member of the Union, now an employer, has taken this line not
for the first or second time, and we are bound to press this gentleman by all reasonable
means to comply with our Agreement even if we have to resort to stronger measures,
which we prefer not to do, as such action cannot improve any business or establish peace
and concord.
The GENERAL FEDERATION are getting their usual crop of disputes, and the experience
of other Unions are much akin to our own in all businesses. The suicidal policy of lower
wages has a great tendency to reduce living to a mere existence. Employers of labour
need lessons in political economy.
I visited FINEDON and made inquiries into the question of a case which had been
before the Magistrates at Wellingborough, and where the complainant's wages was reported
as 52s. per week; the Employers' Federation wondered whether this was general. My
investigation, after seeing officials and firm proved that the man was being taught a
machine of which he was without any experience, and himself forfeited his situation,
and the cost of the labour performed by the man during a very short time, viz., two weeks,
was 30 per cent. less than the Statement called for, the quantity and operation being taken
into account. On this firm of Parker & Cooper's, we found that the firm had not tried
to get cheaper labour than Statement calls for.
The Highfields Shoe Co., Finedon, was also visited for a similar reason to the above, viz.,
men receiving less than the minimum, and here we found men engaged on junior operations
such as lower priced labour could perform, and we are bound to consider value if firms
are generous to some men on some operations, because they would rather have an operation
done by an expert, or are prepared to pay a little more than Statement, it is not our wish
to prevent a member from receiving the benefit.
We also visited the firm of Norton & Langley, Finedon, who are struggling young men,
having been in business since the war, and have worked overtime without the extra of
time and a quarter. We were not satisfied with the attitude of the firm on the point, and
arranged for a meeting of the operatives. Such has been held and all instructed to refuse
to work overtime.
I went to WOLLASTON and saw Messrs. Phillips Bros., and afterwards felt that, owing
to much illness and breakdown in machinery, that the firm had not exceeded the overtime
clause of the Agreement. In the same place, at the firm of Nutt & Rice (another firm of
recent growth), the employers argue these men have made no claim, consequently they
accept the position as being satisfactory. A meeting of the operatives is here essential
as the firm refuse to pay time and a quarter as they cannot afford it, they say. We advise
no overtime and must instruct the members accordingly. A meeting was afterwards held
at Irthlingborough, after we had made another visit to Finedon to get the final attitude
of the firm of Norton & Langley, with the above result, that we must act through the
membership.
The operatives from Perkins & Bird did not turn up in such numbers as we have the
right to expect, but we got information from the men, women and girls as to the attitude
we are to assume when we meet the firm, who had withheld for one week the 24 per cent.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```
733

to the Piecoworkers, although the Dayworkers had been paid. They yesterday dea
work on one system. The men were unanimous, the girls want many improver to
to pay the money due, we in the meantime to see the operatives and suade te to all
before they can consider it. We agree their claim is a reasonable one
work, and organisation. in such a manner that the girls can give the system a start,
assured that no one will be displaced, because there is at the present time more me
per cent. of uppers being closed off the premises, and the firm wish to have the cone do
on the factory. A trial will be given when all is ready, and the system tested before
adoption.

FINEDON. - LANGLEY & NORTON. - We have also held an open-air meeting out ade
the works, and advised the operatives as the firm, a small one and non-federated, who
refuse to pay time and a quarter for overtime not to work overtime, and we will defend
with the situation. The girls are advised by us to seek employment elsewhere if the firm
them if they do then we must call a meeting of the whole of the shops in the town to deal
refuses to give the advance. Many on this firm among the girls are relations, and perhaps
to adopt a Black List at the local offices wherever we find this trouble, as the only means
interested in the firm, a posion often found as attached to small firms. We shall have
of saving our funds and preventing such firms to get any good men and women.

At all meetings I feel bound to press for the continued support of the Daily Herald,
and the position occupied by the movement to-day ought to make its success assured.
As our members don't seem to respond to our appeals to wear Stamped Shoes, will
they see that Branded Boots are best, as by such brand we can tell them the makers.
although there is no doubt with co-operative productions.

7. MECKLENBURGH STREET.
LONDON, W.C. 1.
IIth December, 1923.
Yours fraternally,
ihards
General President.

COST OF LIVING.

Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923
January 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78
February 15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88 77
March 15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 86 76
April 15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 82 74
May 20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 81 70
June 25 45 75-80 100 105 150 119 80 69
July 25 45-50 80 100-105 105-110 152 119 84 69
August 25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 71
September 25 50 80-85 110 115 161 120 79 73
October 30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 110 78 75
November 30-35 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 80 75
December 35 65 85 120 125 169 99 80 77
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1910 Agreement,
:920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (19221
Agreement, and present date.

TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. -Membership of Unions reporting at end of November, 1923,
75.538. Unemployed at end of November, 1923, 4,171; percentage, 5.5. Increase in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.4; Increase in percentage
as compared with a year ago, 1.3.- Ministry of Labour Gazette, December, 1923.
C
```


---
7.34
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. Trade is failing to pick up with us yet, and even our best
factory in Carmoustic has started to put members on short time. Very little
which was quite unexpected. When we were interesting ourselves in some of
as vet, and affecting two departments only, but it seems to show a decline
the conditions of this place a few months ago, there seemed to be plenty of
orders with the firm, but our hopes have gone beyond the facts. Whether as
the result of our efforts or not, three girls and two men have been discharged
here, and the unfortunate thing about it is that the members in Carnoustie
have not taken steps to compel an inquiry. Mr. Richards and Mr. Bleakley
to slip, and matters will be worse another time. We are alarmed to think of
any future effort which may be made to investigate into conditions when
members can be punished with impunity, and no protest be forthcoming.
to say that such a spirit will not make our Union as influential as it ought to be.
This was not the spirit which built up the National Union, and we venture
No member can afford to stand back and wait on another raising the question
of elementary rights. If we cannot all go in for justice, there is something
wrong, and our Union is the weaker accordingly. Our members were very well
pleased to get the increase owing to the increase in the cost of living, but we
find a difficulty in getting all the young folk to report their ages in order to get
proper wages. There seems to be a diffidence-quite unusual and quite
uncalled for among the youths and girls, and we must insist on our members
to keep all the young workers up to the scratch in this matter. When the age
is not handed in it simply means a present to the employer, which they neither
expect nor need. The hurry-burry of the General Election has caused great
excitement here, as elsewhere. Labour was faced by a united enemy in this
area. In spite of pretended differences Tory and Liberal agreed to work
together to defeat Labour, and unfortunately they succeeded. The would-be
champion of "sane and steady" government in the person of the Liberal
Candidate, broke down before the fight was well begun, but although safe
in the seclusion of the hospital he got the majority of the votes cast. This
is the second time this brilliant advocate of "sane and steady" government
has collapsed before the guns of Labour, but each time the sickly sentiment
of the electors has overcome judgment, and the working class candidate has
gone down. We are glad the National Union had a share in the fight, although
we cannot understand the curious happening on the withdrawal of Alderman
Hill, at Leicester. It was clearly our seat, and a nominee of ours should have
been put forward. Where are our young bloods who shine at our Conferences ?
When the older leaders held back, surely some of our men with youth on their
side could be given a chance. Congratulations to Mr. J. Buckle for his win at
Eccles, but double greetings to Mr. W. R. Smith for his magnificent come-back
at Norwich. His amazing victory there proves he should never have lost
Wellingborough, while the success of his successor at Wellingborough com-
pletes what must remain a mystery. Hats off to Norwich, and may the electors
there never prove as fickle as W. R.'s last constituency. Could the Union
not prepare itself for the next election, which cannot be months ahead, by
having at least five candidates prepared to fight if the chance is offered them.
We have the men, we have the money, and we could get the constituencies
if necessary. The next fight, and the next, will find a dearth of candidates
unless the Unions are prepared to fight for political as well as economic emanci-
pation.
BARNSLEY.---Trade is still good, full time being worked by our members,
and we hope that it will continue as such during the year to come. As this is


---
the last report to be sent up for this year, we wish all members of the
Bright and Prosperous New Year.
BELFAST. - There is a slight improvement in trade, although wit
sowory far from normal. We are drawing to the close of another year with all
ills sorrow's and disappointments. We tender the Compliment of the
to every officer and member of the Union, and sincerely hope that the YEAR
1024 may be bright and prosperous.
still
CHESHAM. - Trade here is still very good. A few more of our members
who have been unemployed for several months have again coromenced work
Our members desire to heartily congratulate friend Buckle on retaining the
seat for the Eccles Division, and also W. R. Smith for the splendid Norwich
gain.
stand on.
as they had not a leg to
CHESTERFIELD - Trade is slightly better, but still we have the un-
employed with us, two of our oldest members are still out of work. We have
also to thank the Council for the assistance of our Council Member in the trouble
in the Finishing Room at Dronfield & Co. Mr. Alex. Smith dealt with the case
We are pleased to see the Labour Party report progress. In the
and the firm dropped the matter for the time being
Liberals, and the Tories left their candidate and supported Mr. Barnett Kenyon,
I.L.P. It was a splendid fight. The Tories had the "wind up" as well as the
Chesterfield Division we ran Mr. G. Benson, the General Treasurer of the
the Liberal miners' leader, to help to keep Labour out. With all the trickery
to all our members, and we hope that next year will see an improvement in
we think the Labour Party hold the game to-day. Compliments of the Season
trade, and peace to the whole world.
EDINBURGH. - Trade still very quiet. Like the rest of the country we
are in the midst of a General Election. Edinburgh have two candidates
forward with a reasonable chance of both being successful. We are watching
the progress reported in connection with our own members who are standing
in their respective Divisions. We are sorry to hear that Mr. Alfred Hill has
been compelled to stand down owing to health reasons. We hope our friend
Mr. John Buckle will again be returned to participate in the good work, also
Repairers' Committee to go fully into the latest proposals of the Wages Trade
Mr. W. R. Smith and Mr. Len. Smith. The Branch have set up a Special
Board. They fail to see any justification for Piece Rates to be interfered
With on five points reduction in cost of living, whereas Time Rates are con-
sidered only on a drop of ten points. The time has now arrived in our opinion,
when there should be some effort made to compile a Quantities Statement
in conjunction with machinery in the Finishing Departments of the Repairing
Trade. If it should be considered necessary we could produce figures which
would astonish our members of the Trade Board. The pace set by some firms
is nothing short of slavery. Scottish firms are pressing the officials to have
prices fixed up in connection with Channelling Machines, Rough Rounder
and Leveller. As our side have already tried to fix prices for Finishers with
machinery, and the employers don't think it workable, we, on our part, don't,
in the meantime, think it advisable to fix a rate for these new machines in
conjunction with the benching.
GLASGOW.-Trade is quiet with us, and a considerable amount of short
time is being worked by the members, also our unemployed list is increasing.
As for the repairing trade, it is passing through a bad spell of slackness. One
feels hope of improvement is in vain until the shipbuilding gets going. We
wish all officers and members the Season's Compliments, and trust we shall
have a better time in the coming year.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. -Trade has been fairly good during the
month. We have had some little trouble with the coming in of the new increases


---
in work
736
A few cases have been dealt with by Local Officials, but in one or
wasemed, who dealt with them in his usual straight and conciliatory manner
120 m Lances the asistance of Mr. T. E. Richards, our General President.
so that no stoppage was threatened. The Shops Meetings which he addressed
have not only done good to the firms directly, but it has also had a beneficial
effect on the firms in the immediate neighbourhood.
fairly
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. Trade has remained with us
very welcome improvement
being reported from our Paulton Section. We are hopeful that the new year
will open more promising than has been the case during the past three years,
good, and much better than was expected, a
and wish all officers and members a Happy New Year.
LEICESTER No. 1. Trade is still very quiet. We have still a good
number of members receiving Out-of-Work Benefit, and the majority of those
job, are only working part time. We take the opportunity of
congratulate our friends, Messrs. J. Buckle, W. R. Smith and F. Gould, on
wishing all our members a Happy and Prosperous New Year. We desire to
who have a
their splendid victories in the Election.
LEICESTER No. 2. At our Branch Meeting on the 12th inst., a resolution
was unanimously passed congratulating Messrs. W. R. Smith, J. Buckle and
F. Gould, upon their election to the House of Commons. The officers and
members join in wishing our three comrades success in all they undertake.
to them. We are
say that trade is somewhat better with us ir Leicester, and the number of
ressened. Still trade is far from being what it used to be at this period of the
members both on Suspension and Out-of-Work Benefit has considerably
year. We have still sufficient local help to meet the demands of the employers.
We extend to the General Officers, Council Members, and members in gen
the Compliments of the Season, and sincerely trust that 1924 will bring better
general,
times.
LIVERPOOL.-Boot repairing has been very quiet during the past
month, and is not likely to improve this year. Now the Elections are over
and Protection has proved to be an unpopular method of "raising the wind,"
everybody is speculating
board. Will the Premier resign? Shall we have another Coalition Govern-
culating and discussing what will be the next move on the
ment? How long before we have another General Election :
What we want
ncw is proportionate representation, that is, a certain number of voters allotted
to each district, then we should get a true record of democracy, and not as at
present, as the aristocrats, by a certain amount of manipulation, are able,
under normal conditions, to obtain a working majority, and yet poll consider-
ably less votes than the Progressive parties.
MAYBOLE. We are pleased to report trade is very steady, most of our
members working full time. We are pleased to see that the Labour Party
have increased their numbers considerably, and we are hopeful that the next
time the workers will get a try at governing. We again returned Mr. James
Brown for this constituency. We are sorry to have to report the death of one
of our members, D. Watson. To his wife and family we extend our heartfelt
sympathy.
MIDSOMER NORTON. May I, through the medium of the Monthly
Report, thank all our local members who so faithfully stood by me, worked
and voted for me, in the recent General Election; also to our General Council
my thanks are due for the visit and splendid work put in by our General Secre-
tary, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., and to all who since the poll was declared, from
many branches in the country have sent congratulation to me on winning
a seat in the sleepy south. May I, in a word, say that we appreciate most
highly your kindly greetings. I will show my esteem by
to the cause of the common people.-F. GOULD.
a faithful devotion


---
NORTHAMPTON. - Trade remains quiet here, no influx of trade;
new industries, little prospects except slump. Wealth production rather
than effective demand, less earnings, less purchasing power (Capitals win).
Miss Margaret Bondfield elected M.P. by good majority, great hope of practical
measures to deal with unemployed problem. A great step towards new order of
society, bound to come someday, let us hope soon. Congratulations to Mr.
J. Buckle, M.P., Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., and Mr. Fred Gould, M.P. Wave of
enthusiasm on our side for the grandest and greatest step in human history
(Socialism). Make haste, but don't get panicky. Best wishes to Officers and
Members for a more prosperous New Year.

NORWICH. - Trade in Norwich was slightly worse during November
taking the city through (although an improvement was observable in two
factories), consequently a larger number of claims for unemployed benefit
were registered with the branch. Just a few firms are running very well, and
at full pressure, while the major portion seem quite unable to maintain a steady
trade for long at a time. The result is that a portion of the operatives are
doing exceedingly well, whilst the greater number are finding it difficult to
earn sufficient to enable them to live. Just one of the many illustrations
shewing the inability of capitalist-owned industry to serve the human needs
of its people. We must "wait and see" what 1924 has in store; certainly if
political force has any bearing on social life the new parliament should encourage
us to hope for an improvement in the coming months. Hearty congratulation
to Johnny Buckle on his second victory, with hats off to Northampton and
Norwich on their fine achievement with Bondfield and Smith. The shoe
operatives of both towns have certainly risen to their responsibilities, an can
feel much satisfaction with a result to which they have so largely contributed.
Wishing officials and operatives as happy a Christmas as the times will allow.

NOTTINGHAM. - Trade is very quiet in this part, most of our members
only working three short days a week, while in the repairing short time is also
the rule, with no signs of a change for the present. Our members find great
difficulty in keeping up payment of their contributions.

PLYMOUTH. - Since our last report we have witnessed one of the most
stirring election campaigns ever experienced in the old town of Plymouth.
In each of the three divisions, Sutton, Drake and Devonport, the Conservative
Party has been challenged and the fight was fast and furious. The retiring
members were well entrenched with three local papers behind them, one blazing
away every morning at sunrise, another at sunset, while the third was brought
up once a week to do the long range firing ; the ammunition they fired did not
appear to be British manufacture, some being labelled Russian and some German.
Yet, it was designedly created to produce a great psychological effect, fear of
the Capital Levy hitting the poor man with a few pounds to his credit, fear of
a reduction or a complete loss of their service pensions, fear of the Bolshevicks
who had served their fellow men, good and true, for nearly half a century
as town councillors or trade union officials, and last, but not least, the fear
of the working man of one of his own class. This is more widespread than
most Labour men realise and can only be removed by more education, more
charity and service consecrated to the well-being and uplifting of our fellow-
men. It is regretted that we did not send at least one Labour man to West-
minster and secure a fair representation of opinion from the old town that once
stood four-square for the rights of the people and defied all the forces of class
and privilege hurled against it. But that was before the time of daily news-
papers, when men formed their own views upon politics and did not get them
handed out ready made by two noble gentlemen, made of paper.

SHEPSHED. - There is a slight improvement in the trade here, and it is
to be hoped that it will keep so.


---
738
SOUTHAMPTON. Trade still slack. We are hoping that the spring
months from April onwards will show a great improvement.
STAFFORD. We are pleased to report a slight improvement in trade
in this centre.
WATERFORD. Trade slack.
WHITWICK. We have only been making four days per week for a
considerable time, but we are hoping that when the year 1924 comes in it may
bring with it a better state of affairs as regards the boot and shoe trade; also
that the problem of unemployment may be solved so that all willing workmen
and women may be working full time, and so give the workers more purchasing
power and do away with that unpleasant worry of how one is going to make
ends meet when the week-end comes round. With the Compliments of the
Season
GREAT YARMOUTH. -We are thankful indeed to see the progress of
the Labour Party's success in the General Election results. The majority of
the workers, we are glad to see, are beginning to realise the power they could
hold for the realisation of a better condition in this struggle between Capital
and Labour.
THE POLITICAL SITUATION.

PARTY IN DEADLY EARNEST.
The Labour Movement yesterday threw down another challenge to the Government-
a challenge on behalf of the great army of Unemployed.
At the Joint Meeting of the General Council of the Trades Union Congress and the
National Executive of the Labour Party the attention of the Tory Cabinet, which is
awaiting defeat, of the Liberal Party, which is manœuvring for position, of the Labour
Movement, whose leaders are ready to take office, and of the electors throughout the
country, was drawn sharply once again to the issue on which Labour fought the Election.
The joint resolution, embodying the challenge, runs :-
"In view of the rejection, by an overwhelming vote of the electors, of the Govern-
ment's 'solution' for the problem of unemployment, and the declared intention of
the Government not to meet the newly-elected Parliament before January 8th,
"This joint meeting of the General Council of the Trades Union Congress and the
National Executive of the Labour Party, mindful of the intense suffering now experi-
enced by large numbers of the workless and their dependents, requests an immediate
public announcement of the Government's plans for dealing, adequately and effectively,
with the problem that continues to be the gravest confronting the nation."
This resolution embodies the deep feeling throughout the movement that failure to
deal with the present appalling situation is little less than criminal.
Labour is too conscious of the misery and sadness of an army of men, women, and
children, willing to work, and yet prevented from so doing, to countenance delay or hesi-
tancy in meeting their needs.
For full three years the official figures of this army have never been
less than 1,000,000. At times they have risen to over 2,000,000, and to-day
they stand at 1,194,700.
To these "official" figures have to be added many hundred thousands of those not
covered by the Insurance Act, those wearied with the constant search for work and driven
to despair, those on short time or casually employed.
The total of those who to-day are directly affected by the breakdown of Capitalism,
the chaos at home and abroad, is not less than 2,000,000.
"This joint meeting registers its complete confidence in Mr. J. Ramsay
MacDonald, M.P., as Leader of the Parliamentary Labour Party, being
sure that should he be called upon to assume high office he will in all his
actions consider the well-being of the nation in seeking to apply the principles
of the Labour Movement."
Only through the application of those principles can there be any real betterment
of the lot of the workless; only with their full application can there be any permanent
cure. Daily Herald, 14th December, 1923.


---
BASIS OF REPRESENTATION FOR JUBILEE
CONFERENCE AT STAFFORD, 1924.
Nominations to be taken at February Meeting Night and
Voting at MARCH Meeting Night, 1924.
Glasgow
Aberdeen
Arbroath
AJT
Dundee
Edinburgh
Glasgow No. 2
Kilmarnock...
Maybole
Higham & Rushden
Kettering
Kettering No. 2
London Metro.
Norwich No. 2
Kingswood
Leicester
No. 2
Women's...
Norwich
Northampton
No. 2
Street
Wellingborough
Stafford
Leeds
Hinckley
Desborough...
Wolverhampton
Bristol
Kendal
Bristol No. 2
Daventry
Stone
Chesham
Leeds No. 2...
Mansfield
Derby
727 1
104
382
88
186 2235 2
479
358
282
7457 7
2767 3
2 (2400)
(each 2348 4748 5
(each 1340) 2980 3
9399 9
4249 4
3123 3
4577 5
5394 5
6596 6
1226 1
2489 2
11399) 2803 3
(each 1401
590
696 1848 2
562
549 1013 1
464
951 1
422
401 1160 1
337
346
194 733 1
193
Ipswich
Colchester
Sileby
Heckmondwike
Newcastle
104
35
248 742 1
204
151
Chesterfield
Hull
Halifax
Nottingham
Sheffield
Shepshed
Whitwick
York
Bromsgrove
Barnsley
Bishop Auckland
Lincoln
Yarmouth...
43
27
18
81
30
107
26
22
167
10
23
16
578 1
Belfast
Burnley
Cork
Liverpool
Oldham
Waterford
Manchester
161
54
186 698 1
60
10
14
213
Plymouth
Midsomer Norton
Worcester
Reading
London South
87
63
295 621 1
5
171


---
```text
740
REPORT OF MAJOR STEVENS
(On the Cases he has under his Treatment) respecting Union Members
suffering from Tuberculosis.
Patient's Name.
Case No.
A., Mr. Thos.
B., Mr. W. E.
B., Mrs. I.
B., Mr. G. T.
B., Mr. L.
B., Mr. H.
B., Mr. Wm.
B., Miss L. M.
Remarks.
5183 Not taking medicine regularly, but already feeling fairly
well.
1579 Reported in last letter. " I have never felt better in my
life." Weight, 7th Aug., 8st. 3 lbs. 12th Nov,
2621
502
9st 3lbs.
July.
Was unable to continue with treatment. Passed away in
Has only had one month's treatment during last six months.
Have written to him on four occasions without getting
a reply. When last heard was feeling fairly well.
248 Has been free from cough for some months and reports is
feeling fit and well. Should like to have an opportunity
300
of seeing personally, to say whether in condition to
give up the treatment.
Oct.. that chest was a lot clearer. Gaining on an
average ilb. a week.
1235 No letter received since sending a month's treatment in
leugust. Have written on three occasions for a report.
9596 New case.
9999 Have written two requests for a report, but no reply.
2801 Very much better, awaiting doctor's report.
2614 Has recently had a setback, owing to a severe cold.
3252 Would not continue treatment on account of nerve trouble.
3356 General improvement in condition, breathing better,
appetite good and now able to remain at work.
Patient's Name.
H.. Mrs.
H., Mr. A.
H.. Mr. T.
I., Miss E. E.
J., Mr. A.
J., Mr. A. A.
J., Mr. I.
K. Mr. T. G. R.
K., Mr. C. E.
L., Mr. J.
L., Mr. W.
McK., Mr. A.
M., Mr. A.
M., Mr. B. W.
P., Mr. E. A.
P., Mr. G.
P., Mr. A.
P., Miss P.
R., Mr. W. J.
S., Mr. A.
S., Mr. H.
S., Mrs. A.
S., Mr. W.
T., Mr. A. T.
T., Miss E.
W., Mr. F.
W., Mr. H.
W., Mr. A.
W., Mr. P.
W., Mr. E.
Case No.
741
Remarks,
361 Has recently had a bad cold, but otherwise still progren
3014
very favourably and able to follow occupation after
being unable to do so for a year.
Feeling stronger, able to walk better and longer distances.
8127 Is feeling better than he has done for nine months. Previous
2701
to commencing treatment it took him
400 yards, can now do it in 25 minutes.
Feeling better, but severe case.
making good progress.
hours to walk
287 Has had bad attack of influenza, but previous to this
760 Has very severe stomach trouble regarding which doctor
suggests X-Ray examination. Am now awaiting
result of same.
Apart from this doctor marked
medical card "considerably improved."
9381 Already feeling much better and breathing improved.
1048 Is back at work again after being off for two years.
9433
New case, but already looking better.
38 Still at work. Expectoration only half the amount of
twelve months ago.
7479 Cough not so troublesome, general improvement. Examined
last week, doctor says no activity.
4185 Progressing favourably.
294
Had a favourable report upon condition from doctor.
684 Still improving, no report since October.
484 Progressing favourably.
ΙΟΙ Very much better, although cannot get him to take medicine
regularly.
493 Progressing satisfactorily.
..4026 Severe case, repeated attacks of hæmorrhage, but gradual
improvement.
5246 Has not felt better for years.
5818 Very susceptible to colds, but otherwise improving.
5944 Did not take advantage of treatment.
86 Is at work and progressing favourably in spite of fact that
she has had several colds lately.
27 Doctor says a wonderful improvement. Steadily gaining
8306
weight.
Difficulty in this case is asthma. Awaiting report re last
medicine sent.
9047 Has gained 5lbs. since commencing treatment, is now always
ready for meals, general improvement.
305 Has had trouble with legs, but now feeling better.
865
B., Mr. W.
B., Mrs.
P., Mr. G.
B. Mr. E.
B., Miss A.
P., Mr. A.
B., Mr. J.
Progressing favourably.
C., Mr. E.
2741 Progressing favourably.
C. Mrs. L.
feeling stronger.
2405 Cough a lot better, general health improved, gaining weight,
R., Mr. W. J.
S., Mr. A.
C., fr. P.
2459 Improving. Breathing not so troublesome, able to walk
S., Mr. H.
C., Mr. B. H.
5380 Generally improved and gaining weight.
further without exhaustion. Gained rolbs. in weight.
S., Mrs. A.
C., Mr. T.
Progressing
satisfactorily.
S., Mr. W.
C., Miss A.
able to do household duties for some time.
7342 Examined by specialist, 28th Nov., good report. Has been
T., Mr. A. T.
D., Mr. G. R.
D., Miss D.
2907
2907 Going on well.
D., Mr. Geo.
D., Mr. H.
931
Still keeping very well.
591 Have written five letters but received no reply. No reason
given for having discontinued the treatment. Last
report received in June was progressing satisfactorily.
Progressing favourably. Able to remain at work. Would
like to see personally before deciding whether can now
discontinue treatment.
Progressing favourably. Able to remain at work. Would
like to see personally before deciding whether can now
discontinue treatment.
T., Miss E.
D., Mr. A.
short time.
.. 9218 Far more comfortable, although only had the treatment a
W., Mr. F.
W., Mr. H.
W., Mr. A.
2316
D., Mr. A.
.. 9218 Far more comfortable, although only had the treatment a
W., Mr. P.
8555
F., Mrs. W.
906 Feeling fairly well. No report for some time.
W., Mr. E.
692 Very much better. Weight increased from 7st. 10lbs. to
9st. 12lbs.
F., Mr. C. W.
692 Lungs very much better, progress of disease checked.
8475 Only had small quantity of medicine but already improving,
B., Miss N.
in spite of fact that he has to rely on parish assistance
G., Mr. A. V.
and unable to have sufficient nourishment.
678 Has had stomach trouble and hæmorrhage, but now
appears to be progressing again.
C., Mr. J.
R., Mr. W.
148 Has a chill at present time, but previous to this progressing
I., Mr. A. E.
S., Mr. W.
J., Mr. I.
F., Mr. A.
G., Mr. G. R.
G., Miss A. E.
G., Mr. W. F.
H., Mr. J. H.
favourably and able to keep at work.
3926 Progressing favourably. Temperature normal for more
3637
than three months. Regained normal weight.
Working full time and feeling very well. Had not worked
for four months previous to commencing treatment.
Gaining weight.
952 Able to keep at work and not lost any time since com-
mencing treatment. Feeling very well.
W., Mr. F.
H., Mr. G.
F., Mr. C. A.
W., Mr. G. H.
H., Mr. I.
M., Miss V. H.
Progressing favourably.
2119 Doctor certified now fit for work. County Doctor says he
is cured.
Has temporarily given up treatment while being treated
for asthma.
Still able to do work, is feeling very much better.
9490 Was confined to bed for eight weeks previous to com-
mencing treatment. Now able to get up for a short
time each day. Appetite improved, sleeping better,
throat not so troublesome.
1579 Did not take advantage of Union's offer of treatment.
7497 General improvement in condition, gaining weight.
1390 Progressing favourably.
395 Has recently had bad attack of pleurisy, previous to which
progressing fairly well, but not taking medicine
regluarly.
876 Already feeling an improvement in condition.
5839 Still making good progress and working full time.
9336 Progressing favourably.
9381 Breathing very much easier, general improvement in
condition.
487 New case.
8014 Died, only had treatment a few days.
2044 Hopeless case, complicated with stomach trouble when
commencing treatment. Died in September.
```

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**TRADE BOARD MINIMA.**
Magistrate and Non-Unionist. Employer Fined.

"I wonder if any of these men belong to their trade union. Do they know that by
Act of Parliament they are entitled to a minimum of £3 a week?"
This comment was made at Tower Bridge Police Court yesterday by Mr Waddy
when hearing summonses under the Trade Boards Act.
Charles Henry Hoskins, boot repairer, of Peckham, was stated to have advertised
for "a partner with £50." Three men made agreements to work for £2 a week and 25
per cent. of the profits. For some weeks they got the £2, eventually the money was
reduced to odd sums and the men in despair, gave up. They were owed £17 3s. 2d.,
£18 0s. 8d. and £24 1s. 4d. respectively.

**Magistrate's Rebuke.**
One of the men said he did not know about the £3 minimum. He did not belong to
a trade union because he was a disabled soldier and a learner.
Mr. Waddy: You tell me you don't know, but I know what workmen trade unionists
talk about when together; but you chose to take £2 a week and a chance getting 25 per
cent. of the profits. You might sue in the County Court, but I see no reason for these
men make these agreements with their eyes open.
Later, the magistrate said: "These summonses give rise to a question of considerable
public importance. The Statute under the Act has fixed a minimum wage, and these
men entered into a partnership agreement in one sense, and, I think, there is no doubt
that both workman and employer knew the meaning of the Act.
"I am asked to make an order on the employer to repay the difference between the
wages he paid and the minimum, and this seems to me inequitable. If they had received
their money and 25 per cent. of the profits they would have said nothing. The business
fails, and they now ask for the balance of wages they would have been entitled to under
the Act.
"With regard to defendant, the point is different. He was under statutory obligation
to pay the minimum, and he knew it was illegal for him to make such a contract, and that
it was a direct breach of the law. Defendant must pay a penalty of 40s. and 21s. costs
on each summons, £9 3s. in all, or in default 21 days' imprisonment."
Time was allowed defendant to find the money. - The Daily Herald, 28th Nov., 1923.

**TRADE BOARD MINIMA.**
Mr. T. F. Richards, General President of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Opera-
tives, writes relative to a report under the above heading which appeared in our issue of
the 28th inst., where a Boot and Shoe Repairing employer was fined under the Trade
Boards Act, that in the evidence of one of the employees it is reported that the reason
"he did not belong to a Trade Union was because he was a disabled soldier and a learner."
Mr. Richards wishes our readers to know that so far as the National Union of Boot
and Shoe Operatives is concerned, no bar has ever been placed upon disabled soldiers
becoming members, and doubtless if the employee named in the report had made applica-
tion to one of their seventy-one branches, he could not only have become a member of the
Union, but received invaluable advice upon matters relative to Boot and Shoe Repairing
and the Trade Boards Act. Many thousands of Boot and Shoe repairers in various parts
of the country are already members of that Union.
(The above was sent to the Daily Herald on the 28th November, 1923.-T. F. RICHARDS,
General President).

**CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st DECEMBER, 1923.**
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included .. 77 per cent.
Food only 76

During November there was a further advance in the average level of retail prices of
food. Eggs, butter, sugar, potatoes and milk were dearer at 1st December than a month
earlier. On the other hand, fish and bacon were cheaper, while the remaining articles of
food included in the statistics showed no substantial changes in prices, on the average.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of
food included in these statistics rose to about 76 per cent. at 1st December, as compared
with about 73 per cent. at 1st November. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, December, 1923.


---
743.
CHARGE OF IMPEDING THE DUE EXERCISE OF THE FRANCHISE.
SMITH v. FITZROY.
(Before MR. JUSTICE ASTBURY.)
Serjeant Sullivan, K.C., and Mr. L. R. Lipsett moved, ex parte, before Mr. Justice
Astbury, this afternoon, on behalf of Mr. Len. Smith, Labour candidate for the Daventry
Division of Northamptonshire, for an injunction to restrain Captain E. A. Fitzroy, the
Conservative candidate for the division, from impeding the due exercise of the franchise
by the publication of a circular contrived to mislead the electors.
SERJEANT SULLIVAN said that the defendant had issued to the electors an address,
which contained a copy of a ballot paper, on which the defendant's name was printed
in very prominent letters, and below there was written: "Do not sign your name or put
any other mark than a X. which must be placed in the space to the right of Captain Fitzroy's
name, as shown above, or your vote will be lost." Counsel read an affidavit by the plain-
tiff's solicitor, who stated that the voters of the division included a large number of persons
in a humble position and of limited education, who were likely to be deceived by the unfair
and misleading terms of the document and that unless the circulation was restrained
incalculable harm would be done to the plaintiff in the constituency.
MR. JUSTICE ASTBURY asked what jurisdiction he had to grant the injunction.
SERJEANT SULLIVAN said:- Under the ordinary jurisdiction to restrain an improper
act to the detriment of the person applying.
In answer to a further question, he said, that he had no authority on the point, but
election law, was like any other part of the law of the land, and his Lordship had ample
jurisdiction to restrain a circular which would exercise undue influence. It did not require
a precedent to restrain a wrongful act.
MR. JUSTICE ASTBURY said that he had no general jurisdiction to restrain people from
committing wrongful acts. He had no doubt that the circular was an improper one, and it
might result in a risk of the election's being declared void. But this application was made
when only one day remained before the election. It appeared that the circular was
issued about 20th November, and he was not satisfied that it had not come to the plaintiff's
notice shortly afterwards, and the plaintiff might have made the application at once.
He declined to grant an injunction at this time, which would be of no use to the plaintiff,
but the plaintiff could go to the Court of Appeal if he wished and try to persuade them
to grant the injunction.
Solicitors.-Messrs. Kenneth Brown, Baker, Baker, and Co.-The Times, 5th Decem-
ber, 1923.
To the Electors of the Daventry Division.
Fox Hill,
West Haddon, Rugby,
5th December, 1923.
Yesterday evening my attention was called to a report in the Evening Paper that
Mr. Len. Smith had applied to the Court for an Injunction to restrain me from issuing
to the Electors any more copies of my Election Address, on the ground that the Instruc-
tions as to how an Elector should record his Vote for me, so that there should be no chance
that it would be lost, were misleading.
This report was the first information that I received that Mr. Smith had any intention
of taking this course, and consequently I had no opportunity of being represented in
Court, or of informing the Judge.
(1) that my first intimation that objection had been taken to anything in my
Election Address was sent to me on Saturday morning, 1st December, by Col. Kerr's
Agent.
(2) that immediately I was aware that a different construction to that intended
had been put upon the words referred to in the Address, I gave instruction (at Col.
Kerr's request) that a statement making the meaning still clearer should be read
at each of my public meetings, and a letter to every Elector to that effect has been
issued with the least possible delay.
From the report of the proceedings in Court, it would appear that the Judge (Mr.
Justice Astbury) made comment on the words about which the complaint was made, of
which no doubt political use will be made.
I must leave it to the Electors of the Daventry Division to form their own opinions
as to whether I have on this or on any other occasion intentionally done anything to
mislead them, and further to form their opinion as to the methods that have been adopted
by my opponents to endeavour to lead them to this conclusion.
E. A. FITZROY.


---
```text
about 47 per cent.
745
force in all cases, but special inquiries in regard to the extent to which the permiable
increases are actually being collected indicate that at the beginning of December, 1923,
they were operative to the extent of over 95 per cent. The actual increase in the grows
rents of working-class dwellings in Great Britain since July, 1914, is thus found to average
landlord and the tenant pays an inclusive sum, known to him as the "rent" which covers
to the cost of living given on p. 440. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, December, 1923.
* In the great majority of cases, rates on working-class properties are paid by the
rent plus rates. In this article this inclusive sum is described as the gross rent, and the
rent exclusive of rates is described as the net rent.
+ The principal provisions of these Acts were summarised on page 354 of the Labour
Gazette for July, 1920, and page 278 of the Gazette for August, 1923, respectively.
in actual possession of the landlord on 31st July, 1923, or subsequently, are, except in
f Rents of new houses and of the relatively small number of houses or parts of houses
certain circumstances, not subject to the control of these Acts.
This percentage has been utilised in compiling the statistics relating
WAITING TO BE DONE.
Reforms If Labour Party Accepted Office.
and Shoe Operatives.
"Labour should take office," says Mr. Richards, president, National Union of Boot
"It should remove food taxes, amend pensions and include agricultural labourers
and domestic servants within the scope of the Unemployment Insurance Acts.
"It should grant loans to local authorities for houses and work, and open trade with
Russia.
the Award,
restore the grant of milk for necessitous children, and appeal to France on the ground of
humanity to secure the restoration of Europe.
"In the event of any obstacles being put in the way of carrying out this policy there
able to purchase copies
of Hansard for a penny." - Daily Herald, 11th December, 1923.
PROSECUTION OF EX-INSURANCE AGENT FOR MAKING A
FRAUDULENT CLAIM FOR OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
John Williams, of 13, Gainsborough Road, Liverpool, was summoned at Dale Street
on November 1st, 1923, at the instance of the Incorporated Insurance Industry Unemploy-
ment Insurance Board, for having made a false representation for the purpose of obtaining
out-of-work benefit.
Defendant, in the first instance, pleaded not guilty.
Mr. Paxton, prosecuting on behalf of the Board, said that this was a first prosecution
of its kind by the above-mentioned Board, which administered the Insurance Industry
Unemployment Insurance scheme approved by the Minister of Labour under Section 18
of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920. Defendant, recently employed by the United
Friendly Insurance Co. Ltd., applied to the Board for unemployment benefit, and in his
formal application alleged that he was not in receipt of sick pay nor a member of an approved
society, whereas in fact he was a member of the Hearts of Oak Benefit Society, and had
been in receipt of sick pay for some time before the application was made, and was still in
receipt of such pay at the time of the application.
It appeared that defendant admitted that he had been in receipt of sick pay at the
time of the application.
On the advice of his solicitor, defendant withdrew his plea of not guilty.
Mr. H. J. Davis, defending, urged that defendant did not realise the connection
between sick pay and unemployment insurance benefit.
The magistrates stated they were quite satisfied that the defendant knew perfectly
well what he was doing, and that he had deliberately made a false representation for the
purpose of obtaining benefit. They fined him £5, allowing him, on his application, one
meath to pay. - National Insurance Gazette, December 15th, 1923.
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
710
FROME.
E. 30,028: M., 21,024; W., 15,604.
Gould, F. (L.tb.)
Hurd, P. A. (1.) ..
..
..
..
Labour majority
LABOUR GAIN.
1922 :-U., 15,017; Lab., 14,311-U. majority, 706.
15,902
13,306
2,596
MR. FREDERICK GOULD started work at 12 years of age as a shoeblack. Later he
entered a boot factory in Midsomer Norton, and became secretary locally of the Boot
appointed agent to the Frome Division Labour Party, and about ten years ago was elected
Operatives' Union, attending in that capacity many national conferences. He was
five years he has been chairman. He has also been a member of the Clutton Board of
as the first Labour member of the Midsomer Norton Urban District Council. For the last
Guardians.-The Times, 8th December, 1923.

THE BOILERMAKERS' DISPUTE.
Success has crowned the efforts of the General Council of the Trades Union Congress
in regard to the overtime and nightshift agreement. It has been a long and difficult
to settle the disastrous dispute between the boilermakers and the federated employers.
task, requiring in the three mediators appointed by the General Council, Miss Margaret
Bondfield and Messrs. E. L. Poulton and Fred Bramley, a high degree of diplomatic skill
and delicacy of touch. There has not often been an industrial dispute in which the issues
were so complicated and many-sided; it involved inter-union relations of a very important
character as well as the relations between employers and employed. The autonomy of
unions, the sanctity of agreements, the principle of Trade Union federation, and the unity
of the organised industrial movement were all brought into discussion. Where the official
negotiators of the Ministry of Labour, and the unofficial mediators representing the civic
authorities in the towns chiefly affected by the prolonged stoppage, failed to secure a
settlement, the spokesmen of the Trades Union Congress succeeded. They succeeded
because they worked with a single eye to the interests of the workers directly concerned
and of the whole Trade Union Movement whose welfare they had at heart. The terms
of settlement were signed by Mr. John Hill and Mr. Mark Hodgson on behalf of the boiler-
makers, and by Mr. Leonard Roper and Sir Charles Sanders on behalf of the Shipbuilding
Employers' Federation. Here we have only to congratulate the Trade Union Movement
on the ending of a dispute which has lasted for many months, and which at times seemed
to baffle all efforts at a solution which would leave the Trade Unions most directly con-
cerned with their essential unity unimpaired. Not only has unity been maintained,
but we believe it has been strengthened; and certainly the wisdom and practical states-
manship of the General Council of the Trades Union Congress has been proved.-The
Labour Magazine, December, 1923.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-Estimated number of persons in insured
industries at July, 1923: Males, 93,620; Females, 50,230; Total, 143,850. Number
of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 26th November, 1923: Males, 10,484;
Females, 3,397; Total, 13,881. Percentage Unemployed at 26th November, 1923:
Males, 11.2; Females, 6.8; Total, 9.6. As compared with 22nd October, 1923: Males,
increase, 0.4; Females, increase, 0.4; Total, decrease, 0.2.-Ministry of Labour Gazette,
December, 1923.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
ADMIRALTY-BOOTS, SEA: Adams Bros., Raunds; R. Coggins & Sons Ltd.,
Raunds: John Horrell & Son, Raunds; Owen Smith, Raunds.


---
747
OUR OVERSEAS TRADE.
Increased Exports of Footwear to South Africa and Australia-Larger
Imports of Boots and Shoes.
We give below an abstract of the Board of Trade Returns for November, so far as the
shoe and leather trades are concerned.
It should be noted that, as from 1st April, these accounts include the trade of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland with the Irish Free State. From the same date the direct
foreign trade of the Irish Free State has been excluded from the accounts.
Exports of Boots and Shoes.
Month ended 30th November.
1921.
Quantities.
1922.
1923.
1921.
Value.
1922.
1923.
Doz.
Doz.
Doz.
Pairs.
Pairs.
Pairs.
£
£
£
Of leather-
To Sweden
404
146
71
Germany..
5
72
1
2,681
504
428
Netherlands
3,005
3,573
Belgium
732
2,716
17,634
900
11
France
695
719
195
14,062
8,451
Italy
46
1,597
311
5,819
6,845
1,493
*Egypt
7,258
17,946
3,830
Argentine Republic
22
608
904
*Egypt (including
109
72
377
979
944
Anglo-Egyptian
Sudan)
756
2,144
British South Africa
15,372
6,514
13,554
19,673
57,198
105,022
101,501
*Anglo-Egyptian Sudan
124
1,006
British East Indies
923
1,296
1,932
8,550
7,640
9,866
Australia..
495
1,463
4,105
6,342
3,827
7,306
New Zealand
2,318
11,398
7,653
16,663
64,232
50,697
British West India
Islands (including
Bahamas)
and
British Guiana
2,341
4,982
3,876
12,750
20,283
16,283
Other Countries
6,912
11,289
50,290
50,796
69,553
288,579
Total (of leather)
26,129
54,160
91,923
193,255
325,347
495,815
Of other materials (ex-
cept rubber)
8,831
9,544
8,462
22,280
17,686
14,957
Of rubber
10,555
16,296
19,915
22,892
28,042
37,328
Grand total
45,515
80,000
120,300 £238,427 £371,075 £548,100
* Egypt and Anglo-Egyptian Sudan are now shown separately.
Imports and Re-exports of Boots and Shoes.
For the eleven months ended 30th November, 1921, 1922, and 1923, the exports of
British boots and shoes of leather, rubber, and other materials were valued at £2,559,105,
£3,051,820, and £4,467,002 respectively.
Month ended 30th November.
Quantities
Value
1921.
1922.
1921.
1923.
1922.
1923.
Doz.
Doz.
Doz.
Pairs.
Pairs.
Pairs.
£
£
£
Of leather
6,149
12,134
21,668
76,269
86,127
115,828
Of other materials (ex-
cept rubber)
5,233
18,787
29,533
17,645
35,431
49,652
Of rubber
3,396
3,279
4,316
12,276
11,251
9,665
Gross imports
14,778
34,200
55,517
106,190
132,809
175,145
Re-exports
1,226
2,288
2,649
6,621
14,470
15,400
Net imports
13,552
31,912
52,868 £99,569 £118,339 £159,745
For the eleven months ended 30th November, 1921, 1922, and 1923, our imports of
boots and shoes of leather, rubber, and other materials were valued at £1,077,687, £1,397,250
and £1,617,777 respectively.
Our re-exports were valued at £164,622, £118,549, and
208,726 respectively. —The Shoe and Leather Record, 21st December, 1923.


---
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT
AND SHOE OPERATIVES
Branch
This Volume of the Monthly Reports
is issued by the Council for the use
of the Officers and Executive of the
above Branch of the Union; the
Branch Secretary for the time being
to retain possession, and upon his
retirement it must be handed over
by the Branch Committee to the
future Secretary.
By Order of the Council
THE GRANGE
Seat of Government
EARLS BARTON. NORTHAMPTON


---
Parliament—that there must be provided First Aid Equipment in all factories,
the clause in the Act being hereunder:
FIRST-AID EQUIPMENT.
A First-Aid box or cupboard must be provided in every factory, and
where more than 150 persons are employed, one such box or cupboard
must be kept for EACH 150 PERSONS, fractions to be reckoned as 150.
The number of boxes required must be calculated on the largest number
of persons employed at any one time.
Each box or cupboard must be placed under the charge of a responsible
person, whose name must be stated in a notice affixed in every workroom.
Where an ambulance room is provided, and arrangements are made
for the immediate treatment of all injuries occurring in the factory, the
Chief Inspector of Factories may issue a certificate exempting the factory
from the above provisions to such an extent as he may decide.
The carrying out of the requirements of this Clause in the Act should be
of considerable help in minimising the danger to health owing to any accident
which befalls an operative. Should the above paragraph not be carried out
in any factory where our members are working, we hope they will report the
matter to the branch officers to enable them to secure compliance with the law.
THE NEW PARLIAMENT,
as members are aware, met on the 8th inst., and proceeded to the election of
the Speaker, the Rt. Hon. J. H. Whitley, M.P., he being unanimously re-
elected. The House opened for the business on the 15th inst. The position
is one of constant change, surrounded by a good deal of complexity. If one
was not aware of the circumstances of the recent election, and the result to
the Conservative Party, one might easily imagine from the reading of the
King's Speech that the Government was likely to remain in office for a con-
siderable time, and that they were really going to deal with a great many
subjects, when as a matter of fact it is as certain as things can be that within
a few hours from the time of our going to Press with this paragraph, that the
Conservative Government will be defeated, and a new Government will have
been called into being. The new Government so far as one can forecast will
be a Labour Government. It is true the Labour Party in the House does not
command a majority of votes therein, nor does the Liberal or Conservative
Party. This will undoubtedly add to the difficulties of a situation, which in
itself would not be an easy one, but a situation which we are fully convinced
Mr. J. Ramsay MacDonald, M.P., as leader of the Labour Party, will surmount
and overcome, backed up—as he will be—by the Party as a whole, with the
members in the House, and millions of the masses outside. We bespeak for
our colleagues full consideration under the abnormal circumstances under
which they will take Office, because whilst we have no doubt that all will be


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
6
done that it is possible to do to improve the conditions of the people, as also to
bring about a better understanding with other nations, nevertheless, it must
be patent to all who give one moment's consideration to the actual position
that the Labour Party will not be in a position to carry out at the present
time many of its objects which are so badly needed to be put into operation.
It is therefore, incumbent upon all members of the Labour Party to do their
part in defending those of our colleagues in the House of Commons, especially
at the present time, resting assured that if support is forthcoming, the present
is only a beginning to a fruitful and beneficial period, not only for the people
of this land, but for those in all European nations.
For information, day by day, about the actual position, read the
DAILY HERALD.
REGISTRATION.
The time for registration for the new voting list of burgesses has once more
arrived, and we beg to urge upon the members their duty to see that their names
appear upon the voting lists published from time to time in all districts, so that
when members are called upon as citizens to exercise their vote they will not be
precluded from so doing. This is an important matter, because it has been
found upon more than one occasion when persons have been to vote, their
name did not appear upon the Register. We know of instances where not
odd cases, but considerable numbers were omitted from the list, and were thus
deprived of exercising their vote. The lists may be examined at places of
worship, local post offices or town halls, and if it is found that your name does
not appear thereon, application should at once be made to the Local Labour
Party to enable the matter to be put right.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION CASE.
We have pleasure in recording that the Union, through the Union's
Solicitor, Mr. Evan Barlow, has secured for E. B., of Leicester No. 2 Branch,
a lump sum of £75 and 5 guineas costs for an accident that occurred in February,
1923.
NOMINATIONS
for the following MUST be taken at the February meeting nights, and Voting
take place in March :-
National Organiser.
Two Parliamentary Agents in place of General President and General
Secretary, resigned.
Delegates to Conference.
Delegates to Trades Union Congress (British and Scottish).
National Labour Party.
Women's Labour Party Conference.
Scottish Advisory Committee.

---
DEATH OF MR. GEORGE STANDEVEN.
It is with deep regret that we record the death of MR. GEORGE
STANDEVEN, Secretary to the London South Branch for over 28 years.
Mr. G. Standeven has been a member of the Union for over 40 years,
and was a quiet, unassuming member, always anxious to do what he could
to help forward the work of the Union, and so improve the conditions of
the workers generally. Mr. G. Standeven died on the 16th inst., and to
his family we offer our sincere sympathy.
The funeral took place on Tuesday, 22nd January, and we were
represented by the General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P.
Now that another Union stalwart has joined the Great Majority we
trust his life work will have so influenced the younger generation as to
induce them to carry on the work which Mr. G. Standeven has had to
lay down.
DEATH OF MR. J. SPEIGHT.
Shortly after the telephone message was received at the Central
Office intimating that Mr. G. Standeven had passed away, Mr. J. Wescoe,
of Leeds, telephoned to say that MR. J. SPEIGHT, Secretary to the Leeds
No. 2 Branch, died suddenly on the 16th inst., he having been at work
in the factory on the 15th inst. Mr. Speight was Secretary to the Leeds
Branch for about ten years, and was at one time the Leeds representative
on the Executive Council. Mr. A. J. Dobbs represented the Council
at the funeral.
To Mrs. Speight and family we have sent our sympathy, and trust
that the example of Mr. Speight will act as an incentive to the younger
members to carry on the work.
DEATH OF KENDAL PRESIDENT.
MR. J. T. ROOKE, the President of the Kendal Branch, has also
passed away during the month. To his relatives we tender our sincere
sympathies. Further references will be found on pages 49 and 63.
HALF-YEARLY ACCOUNTS.
The Statement of the Half-yearly Accounts is presented herewith, and
we venture to suggest that upon the whole the financial position of the Union
is satisfactory. It is true there has been a slight decrease in the Trade Fund,
but when we remember that in out-of-work benefit and contributions allowed
to unemployed members over £24,000 has been paid to the members during
the half-year, we feel sure the members will endorse our statement that the
Funds have borne the strain remarkably well. Moreover, the increase in the


---
12
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS, The article this week by the Labour Correspondent of the Daily Herald, in
Saturday's issue, again brings to the front the wisdom of the Trade Union element of this
country in making their purchases at only well-known fair houses, who have the reputation
of giving fair conditions to their employees, whether resident or non-resident. If this
was done, a well-known multiple firm with business premises in nearly all towns, and
whose recent principal was reputed to be a millionaire (at one time in the City of Leicester)
and was alleged by a girl over 20 years of age to be paying a wage of ros. per week
For that reason the writer has never entered one
of their premises. For the above reason we ought to make the fact known that we have
a Trade Union Stamp for all houses making honest goods, and as only fair and honest
houses already have our Stamp, we should make it part of our Union Stamp Contract
that the houses using the Stamp are fair business people, and by this means revive the
demand for Trade Union Stamped articles. Further, as the employers have failed to come
to an agreement as to a Standard Shoe, then the operatives and the general public ought
seed sowing shoe off the market. One wonder how far the and multiple shopkeeper
to take a hand and see whether they cannot at least drive the pocket picking, consumptive
is responsible. I have an inherent suspicion of the non-producing factor.

Trade is on the whole rather quiet so far as business is concerned, but the usual crop
of troubles await us, mainly due to the awkward position in which War Time firms made
their appearance, with a few who came into being since the War. This makes those who
have to build up a reputation, get and hold a good type of operative, give confidence to
their customers in so short a space of time, makes their task a colossal one, and no wonder
that temptations are great to take orders at almost any price and expect to get their
material and labour on similar conditions. This is sufficient to keep the Officials of the
Branches and Union alive to the situation, and these gentlemen, in their anxiety to get on,
are prepared to accept the offer of that weak operative whose strength is so weak as to
in their illgotten employment; anybody could employ men for a week or so if they were
permit himself to offer himself at less than Union rates. These few men are shortened
prepared to sell their labour at less than cost, but such a method would be short-lived,
and we should and must claim loyal adherence to the National Agreement that governs
both bodies, and an Agreement which has worked better and been respected more than
any previous Agreement, proving that we are gradually, if slowly, connecting the non-
federated firms to respect the Terms of Settlement equal with the federated firms. In this
we are very successful, but should like to be able to record the fact that there is no trouble
with federated employers. As a matter of fact the few who have businesses either in
another area, or an auxiliary business, we find these few members as hard as brads. In
fact they would have liked to have ignored the National Terms and put up a case asking for
complete exemption, but as we impose, according to our strength, successfully these con-
ditions, and gradually but surely all our employers are coming to the conclusion that our
vigilance will not permit the wages bill to be reduced, and it is not to the credit of any
section of manufacturers that any attempt to reduce wages should be made in face of the
National Agreement that makes no provision, only on certain terms and lines. Any
attempt to depart from that must first of all get the consent of the Joint Standing Com-
mittee.

SOUTH WIGSTON. At the time of writing I have just completed a settlement of a
case at J. W. Black, South Wigston. Rather than strain the relations that exist, and
taking into consideration bad trade and the fact that the employer has businesses in three
other towns where he is looked upon as a fair employer. I should certainly have advised
the strongest pressure possible, but as the men had been lax and slow in making their
claim, we feel that we ought not to pull the chestnuts out of the fire for those who put
them in. This case has caused four personal visits, besides numerous letters, and an offer
of arbitration that was declined. I earnestly ask all our members to be prompt in their
demands and to let the Officers know immediately. We can then claim, otherwise members
may find that there may be a claim by the Union against them for a dereliction of duty.

LEICESTER WEST. At the Council Meeting on the 17th and 18th December, 1923,
as you will have noticed by the Report, the further consideration of the pilfering of the
Leicester West Seat from the Union was discussed. There is no doubt that a small body
of would-be Members of Parliament became excited because Councillor Adnitt and Coun-
cillor Baum (the latter being the Agent of Alderman Hill) were the nominees, and they
decided to refuse the Union the right of nomination. Three members of the Union were
present as members of this body, but their action on the matter is not known to me.
I am sorry to learn that Councillor Baum is now among the unemployed as the
should certainly be surprised to learn that they had acted contrary to the interests of the
new Member for Leicester West has not decided to employ Councillor Baum. At this
---

---
13
Agent and to pay him direct from our own funds, thereby ensuring his position.
I am not surprised, as the offence committed by the Union was to insist on a full time
has always been a bone of contention with these gentlemen, who feel that you should pay
out your contributions and allow them a free hand. In fact a non-unionist middle class
member put that view to us as a deputation when Alderman Hill was first adopted.
with us.
RUSHDEN. The firm of Nicholson's, Rushden, was visited by Mr. C. Bates and myself
prior to Christmas. The firm refused to pay, and at the end of the week handed the men
a week's notice to apply separately on December 26th. I wrote to the firm telling them
otherwise we should have to advise them not to apply for work until the firm settled
that we hoped some settlement would be arrived at before the men left for the holidays.
Result: The employer decided, as he was putting in machinery, to pay up all
dues and demands, and start as many as possible after the holidays and give the seven
men for whom he could not find a place at present a legal week's notice. The men have
been met and we are in hopes that some of them may get a start in a few weeks. The
change in the firm is certainly due directly to the men's loyalty not to give up the Holiday
Fund.
WELLINGBOROUGH. Another firm, Odell & Dixon, had intimated that he was not
grace owing to the illness of his partner, and we are having to take the necessary steps to
enable him to comply with the Terms and the slightest inconvenience to all concerned.
TRADE BOARD. For two days in December we attended the Central Trade Board
Meeting at Whitehall, for the benefit of the Hand-sewn Making and Repairing Operatives
of the country. What with making out and agreeing to prices, passing the Registration
of Apprentices, granting permits to those crippled persons not capable of doing work
equal to the normal operative, seeing members of the Ministry and advising on questions
non-unionists on the District Trade Committee, we were kept fully employed, if only to
see that the well known opposition to Trade Unions makes no headway. I have already
seformed the Minister that if he appoints non-unionists I shall advise that our men do not
ict with them, and have asked Mr. Brennan, of the Amalgamated Society of Boot and
Shoe Makers, and also Mr. Orchard, of the N.U.D.A.W. and the Co-operative Employees,
sho also have many members working at the Trade, and they have all joined with me in
sending on a vigorous protest. We appear to gain a foot and lose two if these natural
enemies of Trade Unions, who appear to be strong at present, are in the Ministry of Labour.
FINEDON. The Highfield Shoe Co., of Finedon, has again been visited and matters
are far from satisfactory. We have already made many claims for adjustment and are
sorry that the firm do not appear as yet to locate the seriousness of the situation, but as
we informed them they will comply with all our National Conditions before we withdraw
our attention. There is a lot that wants putting right, and as they have had our case
for a week now, we must press for compliance.
NOTTS, AND DERBY BOARD.-The Mansfield, Nottingham and Derby Statements
have all been printed, proofed, and checked, and visits have been paid to Mansfield and
Leicester for this purpose, and a Board Meeting is to be held on the 17th inst. at Nottingham
for the adoption of these Statements and their application to the branches for which they
have been compiled.
GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS. On the 20th December I attended my
last meeting of the General Federation of Trade Unions, and with my deep regret severed
a connection that was of a very laudable nature and character, and after the many many
years (more than thirty) when the Movement thought, and still think, that united action
is a power, and that we have rendered help and succour to those worse off than ourselves.
We are proud and rejoice in the fact that we have measured our regard for many years by
the financial help we have given, and prefer this to the recommendation suggested and
implied that we have paid more than we have drawn out.
Once again may I appeal, strongly appeal, to all our members-women and men,
girls and boys-to think of the future before us, of the prospects of Labour having a chance
to place their well considered humane plans for the redemption of mankind, stripped of
boastfulness, cant or arrogance, but based on the one plan and plane of equality in treat-
ment to all, friend or otherwise.
7 MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
16th January, 1924.
Yours fraternally,
W. H. Richards
General President.


---
47

BRANCH REPORTS.

ARBROATH.-Our report must begin again with a lament about bad
e. All our members have lost time, and the New Year holidays were of
extended nature. Whether it will ever be our pleasant duty to report
trade again is on the "lap of the gods," but this long depression is testing
our trade in remote parts of the country, and the wonder is that it can
trade in this district to its foundations. It has never been easy to carry
ist in the teeth of such prolonged difficulties. One factory in our area
been experimenting with an Association of its workpeople to further welfare
recreative objects mutually. Practically all the employees have joined
50 per cent. to the income weekly. By this means a fund has been built
have a few pence deducted from their wages each week, and the employer
which is used to meet the expenses of social gatherings, or to buy prizes
competitive events. This unique combination has lasted for a year, and
ertainly growing more firmly rooted. The fund as it increases is to be
for making grants to members in cases of hardship, and educational
is to be taken up as well. The work of this Association is helping the
a kind of Whitleyism, which is helping
better understanding between both sides and preventing disagreements
y serious trouble. We understand such Associations exist in
land, and shall be glad to learn from any of our fellow-members if their
ities are always properly directed. Speaking of the difficulties of manu-
rers in out of the way places, we are sometimes forced to think that in
land some of these are created by the tendency to copy English styles
English methods. Our factories have established a name for footwear
slightly hardier type than the typical product of the Midlands, and it
as wrong altogether to forsake that standard in order to imitate what the
ands are incomparable in producing. After all, the centre or home of the
- in Britain is not a thing of yesterday's growth, and the ingrained experi-
of generation after generation following the same pursuits, culminates
craftsman who cannot be rivalled easily. In Scotland, on the other hand,
and girls drift into a shoe factory in a haphazard fashion. They have
ork for a living, and too often the first kind of vacancy has to be accepted.
the training or skill of the shoe-worker is often the first training in the
which his family line has had, and while it can hardly in most of the cases
the acquired or hereditary skill of the Midland operative, it says a great
for the Scotty that he has done so well at the trade in certain lines. But
kill in the Scots style of footwear is thwarted again when he is forced to
ate English models. It is like beginning all over again. Our girls and our
can adapt themselves wonderfully if given time, and we don't fear the
t, but introducing such disturbing changes at a critical time is dangerous.
he face of it, it seems the wiser course to specialise in the lines which give
ots factory the best chance, and when the operatives have already reached
od standard of skill and speed, this quality should not be wasted on vain
ts to accomplish what is only possible where "hereditary" and "technical
ing" influences are helping. A well made Scots boot on Scots lines would
re greater success for our Scots factories, when faulty imitations of typical
ish modes will only produce greater insecurity. We hope our Union
profit by reading the letters from our General President and General
tary in last month's report. We must be prepared to pull our whole
nt politically on the workers' side, and as the result of those resignations,
e a policy which will put reliable and able members at the disposal of


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

48

Labour Parties throughout the country. We cannot afford to be without
six or more prospective candidates to carry the banner of the National Union
into the political cockpit in order to hasten the dawn of industrial salvation.

BARNSLEY. There seems good prospect of our members starting the
New Year with plenty of work, instead of as last year. Working short time
was their prospect last year, and it continued as such for some months. We
hope to have a better year as regards sickness, having had four members on
during the year on the sick fund, but we are clear at the present, and hope
to continue so for a long time.

BELFAST... We regret that we have nothing of an encouraging nature
to report. Trade still continues to remain very quiet, especially in the manu-
facturing end. We are very much disappointed that the workers in the
Repairing trade do not appear to appreciate all that our Union has secured
for them in the way of increased wages and improved working conditions.

CHESHAM.—Trade here is getting quiet again. Several members have
been discharged through lack of orders and a good number are working short
time.

EDINBURGH. — Trade here has been far from satisfactory during the
month. Our largest Repairing Factory—St. Cuthbert’s Co-operative Society—
which employs over 50 hands are removing to new and up-to-date premises.
They are installing a new plant of the latest machinery, not only for Finishing,
but also in conjunction with Benching as well. The Directors originally
intended putting all on a weekly wage basis, but owing to certain information
coming along that the representatives of the old Hand-sewn Body had arranged
a settlement and fixed prices for those machines with Birmingham firms,
which had been well advertised throughout Scotland, with a frenzied desire to
establish same conditions here, St. Cuthbert's offered to adopt these prices
in conjunction with their machines, but the Special Committee which had been
appointed to deal with the matter along with our Council Member, C. Bleakley
(who has been of considerable assistance to the Committee throughout these
negotiations) absolutely refused to consider the figures named. We were
then asked by St. Cuthberts to submit another Statement, which we very
soon did, but this was immediately turned down, and not until after several
meetings were we able to arrive at a figure which is undoubtedly an improve-
ment on the Birmingham Statement. We are giving same a three months'
trial together with a 46½ hour week against the present 48 hour week. We
appeal to other Branches in Scotland or England to accept nothing of this
Statement. We know that several firms in Scotland are anxious to have
prices fixed for this work. Reports to hand say that good money can be made
on the Birmingham Statement which has an hourly guarantee rate given.
If wages can be earned why do employers not give a weekly guaranteed wage.
They would lose nothing in the transaction according to their information.

GLASGOW.-Trade with us is fair, the factories on restarting after the
holidays are running full time. Members working on the Repairing are having
a very bad time of slackness.

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Trade remained fairly good right up to end
of year, some factories working right up to Christmas Eve, and then reopening
on 31st December. Trade is also much better in the Army District. Trouble
had arisen with one small Rushden firm on account of refusal to recognise
Holiday Scheme after middle of November, but this has now been settled by
negotiations between the General President and Branch President and em-
ployer. At Finedon trouble was experienced at one firm. Shops meetings
were held and matter taken up by Branch President and General President.
We wish the General Officers and Staff a Happy New Year.


---
KENDAL. - It is with much regret that we have to record the very
sudden death of the President of the Kendal Branch, MR. J. T. ROOKE.
Apparently quite well during the Christmas holidays, he went to work
on Wednesday morning, 2nd January. He took ill immediately on
arriving at work, and had to return home. He suffered great pain
during most of the week, but on Saturday evening appeared quite nicely.
He had a relapse, however, and passed away during the carly hours of
Sunday morning. The funeral took place on Wednesday, 9th January,
and was attended by a good number of mourners. The first part of the
service took place in the Parish Church, and was conducted by the vicar,
choir, of which Mr. Rooke had been a member for upwards of thirty
The Ven. Archdeacon Lafone, assisted by the Rev. G. C. Dunning. The
years, sang appropriate music, and to the strains of the Dead March
the procession left the church. The commital prayers at the graveside
were read by the Rev. E. H. C. Bowers. Members of the Town Council.
funeral, also Mr. A. C. Somervell, a Director of Messrs. Somervell Bros.,
of which Mr. Rooke was a Labour Member for three years, attended the
where deceased was employed, officials of the local branch, and a number
Mr. Wescoe, the Leeds Secretary, our Council Member, Mr. Dobbs, was
of his fellow workers, who acted as bearers. Owing to the illness of
unfortunately unable to attend. Mr. Rooke leaves a widow, two sons
and one daughter.
KETTERING. - December witnessed a striking and significant spectacle
in the boot and shoe trade in Kettering - that of three or four firms working
overtime. The event was so unusual a happening during recent years as to
warrant some comment in this report. Did the circumstances arise merely
out of the Christmas rush, or was it the upward turning point in the sloth of
one to think that the latter may be the actual fact. There is a better and
much brighter spirit prevailing, and out of it one can at least hope that 1924
will be generally much better for our members than the last two or three years
have been.
ELECTION. - The success which attended the recent Parliamentary Election
in this Division reflects considerably on the political sagacity and high purpose
of the members of our Union. We are by far the largest organised body of
workers in the constituency, and everywhere our members were to the fore
striving to attain the splendid victory which resulted. The necessity for
political activity inside the Trade Union movement was, however, never more
evidenced. On all sides one heard this and that doubter questioning the policy
of Labour or of the Labour Candidate on this or that question, and determining
a vote on a simple fractional issue. As Trade Unionists we have one practical
principle before us: "The attainment of a status in Society which shall give
us security from want, and freedom to obtain from life the maximum service
and joy." The realisation of our principle, we have bitterly learned, can only
be obtained by strong workshop organisation and in and by national legislation.
It is pure folly, then, to believe on the one hand in Trade Unionism, and, on
the other hand, to permit a petty issue of minor importance to split our influence
on the political field. Let us look to the big thing always, the small jobs will
then complete themselves. However, congratulations to all our members
who did the thing well.
It is our very great pleasure to report that one of our oldest members,
now residing in Australia, but still paying his contributions to the Branch,
has forwarded a donation of £3 for the purpose of helping one or two of our
distressed members at Christmas. The sum was disbursed, and, true to the


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
50
to the recipients. This is true comradeship and the essential spirit of our
hope of the donor, brought some small measure of comfort at the festive season
movement. May our friend long live and prosper to continue his beneficent
influence.
LIVERPOOL. Trade is quiet, but we hope it will improve as the New
Year advances. We are looking forward to the 15th to see what is going to
happen in Parliament.
MAYBOLE Trade has fallen off a bit at the end of the year, most of
our members getting two weeks' holiday. We hope that 1924 will have some-
the death of another of our members, 40342 James Hannah. To his widow
thing better in store for all the workers. We are also sorry to have to report
and friends we extend our deepest sympathy.
&c. As a
MIDSOMER NORTON - We feel that we should like to place on record
into which he
the many activities of our esteemed member. Mr. Fred Gould. M.P. for the
full of energy and tact. He was a staunch co-operator, serving on the Com-
mittee for to years, was also member of the Managing Board for to years,
he helped to institute the Education Committee, formed various classes and
propagandist and speaker was constantly in demand in the
South West, including Bristol and Bath. He greatly assisted in forming our
own Local Branch of Boot Operatives over 22 years ago, and has been secretary
ever since that time, also being on the District Wages Board. He was our
first Labour representative on the U.D.C., heading the poll 14 years ago, and
has continuously been a member. In 1919, under his leadership secured a
Labour majority on the Council, was elected Chairman, which office at that
time carried a great responsibility, being faced with so many problems-
housing and unemployment relief schemes-which were carried out under his
chairmanship very successfully, and great credit was due to him for his integrity
and ability, which the townspeople, including the Chamber of Commerce, has
fully appreciated. He is also on the Clutton Board of Guardians, and has been
over five years, heading the poll at the last election in 1922. He has taken a
very active part in politics during the last 20 years; assisted to form the Frome
Divisional Labour Party seven years ago, and was appointed Secretary and
Agent in 1923. During that time he has, through his honest and straight-
forward manner, endeared himself to many, and made many friends, even
amongst those who are politically opposed to him. That is why we in the
Frome Division are justly proud of him, and the magnificent victory that was
achieved on 6th December last. In conclusion, on behalf of our Branch, we
sincerely thank the General Secretary for the work he did for us in the Frome
Division. We also extend our hearty congratulations to Mr. J. Buckle, M.P.,
and Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., trusting that they, with our own member, will
enjoy the best of health to carry on their Parliamentary work for the masses.
PLYMOUTH. The year 1924 has arrived with a chilly blast, and the cry
of the wolf still at the door; bad trade, short time and unemployment has not
been rung out with the old year, or better times rung in with a merry peal.
The great problem of "how to live" is still with us, and perturbs the minds
of the toilers. We must remind our Statesmen that the problem was not
solved with the opening of the ballot box, or by their return to Westminster,
but will take many months of patient work and organisation to make the
industrial machine properly function to the needs of human life. We rejoice
that the question has at last been faced and nearly two hundred Labour men
'h many others, sent to Parliament with definite instructions to get on with
job. We shall watch the future development of the political situation
added interest now that Labour has been given greater opportunities
ake its power felt in the great council chamber of the nation. To our
Union members, Mr. J. Buckle, Mr. W. R. Smith and Mr. Fred Gould,


---
Here's the text extracted from the image, formatted for readability:

"we extend our hearty congratulations on winning such brilliant victories for
the cause of humanity, and while asking them to give of their best we must
undertake to follow their efforts in the true spirit of comradeship through the
columns of the workers' own paper, *The Daily Herald.*
STAFFORD. - We are pleased to report a slight improvement in trade in
this centre.

WELLINGBOROUGH. - The last month of the year has been one of
interest and activity for our Branch. Mr. Len Smith, the National Organiser,
has been in the district and very effective work has been done. New members
have been made and many things have been done that have increased the
strength of the Branch. The comments of Arbroath in last month's report
have caused some discussion in Wellingborough. The writer excuses Arbroath
for not returning a Labour Member owing to the united enemy, but fails to
understand that the enemy may be united in other constituencies. Perhaps
when he has finished raising his hat to Norwich, and he again becomes normal,
he will understand political workings. We congratulate all constituencies
who returned Labour Members, and give good cheer to those who failed, and
urge them to still go forward until they achieve success.

YORK. - Trade has improved in York and our members have had a better
year than the previous. We hope the improvement will continue, and that
the country will attain to a prosperity which will brighten the lives of the
of the power of the vote, as reflected in the Parliamentary Elections, and look
forward to the time when the people shall rule the country in a manner that
will give the greatest good to the greatest number.

OPENING OF THE TECHNICAL SCHOOL AT KETTERING.

What Ald. Bostock said at the opening of the Technical School
at Kettering on Saturday, 12th January, 1924.

Ald. Bostock said one often heard people ask what they had to do with the people
who came after them. He believed that we had everything to do with the people who
came after. We were the inheritors of the past; we were not owners, but trustees, and
it was up to us to see that that inheritance of ours was passed on, wider and larger, to
those who came after.

Making Life Worth Living.

One of the great drawbacks of the industrial era had been the extent to which, in the
pursuit of wealth, we had been indifferent to the waste of human life, and our disregard
of the conditions which made life worth living. When the factory system was introduced
child life was exploited, and towns were allowed to grow up badly planned. Even now
we disregarded the smoke evil; but there was a greater evil than that in that nine out of
every ten young people of the country went uneducated during the really critical years
of their life. We gave them the key of knowledge, but did not teach them how to use it.

A school such as they now had at Kettering was of inestimable value to any neigh-
bourhood. Technical education was very important, and was, indeed, invaluable to
those who were not content to remain at the bottom, but aspired to be managers and
foremen.

It was important to-day to see they made good use of their leisure. We were living
now in times of revolution. He was not one of those who feared revolution: there had
been many silent revolutions in English history. But power was passing into the hands
of democracy, and if that power was to be properly used we must see that it went, not to a
partially educated, but to a fully educated democracy. In that scheme of education
the new school would play its part.

Trade Command.

The educational work being done at Kettering was part of a process that was giving
them a better command of a trade when, as a trade, they had been lamentably ignorant
of the materials they used."


---
PARLIAMENTARY AGENT'S REPORT.
Since the last report appeared above my name, much water has flowed under the
bridges, many changes have taken place, and once again I find myself a member of the
Labour Party in the House of Commons. While always viewing the political situation
with interest and anticipation, it did not seem but a short time ago that the country would
pass through a General Election before 1923 had passed out.
The fact that such has happened does but emphasise the uncertainty of politics,
and calls for the greatest of effort at all times whereby we may not be caught unawares
by any sudden development. There is nothing that is more difficult to forecast than a
future political situation, and in few matters appertaining to national life are the possi-
bilities more prolific.
With these in mind it is pleasing to reflect upon the success of the Labour Party in
the recent General Election. We hoped for much, but few amongst us thought we should
do so well. Not because we did not deserve the success that has come our way, but
because of the many forces and influences that are against us. Our own Daily Herald
is a solitary oasis in a desert of journalism. Everything possible was done to misrepresent
us in the eyes of the electors. If the people were not frightened at the coming of the
Labour Party that certainly was not the fault of the Trust Press.
We must learn from this election the importance of a strong Press of our own, and
while one is glad to note the improvement in the position of the Daily Herald, we must
not rest until we have not merely one paper, but a powerful Press of our own circulating
in all parts of the country.
So far as my own contest was concerned, we had a very good fight. The local move-
ment feel very proud of the achievement; they have reason to be, for it was a splendid
result, and it was well worked for by all sections of the movement. But though we are
satisfied with what we have accomplished, there are those who feel very sore and are already
talking of what will happen the next time. It is up to us to see that the next will be a
repetition of the last. But I have reason to know these things are somewhat uncertain.
The happenings since the election have been both amusing and instructive. At one
time we were a helpless, hopeless crowd, too incapable for words, deficient in ability,
lacking in experience. It was a huge joke to imagine that Labour could ever become the
Government of the country. But now that the Party has faced the situation with courage
and sagacity, those who belittled us before, now turn and beg for a Coalition of others
against us, whereby we may be prevented from taking office, and put into operation the
changes which are long overdue, and which are possible within the limitations of the
situation in which we shall find ourselves. As has been often stated before, it was not
because of our shortcomings that these people opposed us, but because they fear the
advent of Labour, and the attack it will make against the ranks of class interest and
privilege.
If, as appears almost certain, Mr. MacDonald is called upon to form a Government
within the next few days, it is well that it should be understood it will be under circum-
stances that can hardly be termed favourable. I suppose it is true to say that were we
free agents, we would not seek it. As MacDonald said at the Albert Hall on the 8th of
this month, "it is a bankrupt estate that we have to take over." We shall come into
office following upon the most hopeless bungling in our political history. There is scarcely
one phase of the situation that can be termed satisfactory, either at home or abroad.
But we have never hesitated to claim for our Party that at least it is equal to any
other, and that it could and would govern if the opportunity presented itself. We are the
heirs in succession as far as parties in the House go, and because of that, we shall accept
the responsibility of office if the present Government is defeated, and resign.
But this will call for the best that is within us, and the movement in the country
must trust those whom it has selected to fight its battles in the House of Commons. Under
any circumstances it would be difficult, but under present conditions it will be doubly so.
It is well to remember we shall be in office, but not in power, that there is no guarantee
that any of our proposals will be carried in the House; but while that may be so, it is well
to understand that there are other ways in which things can be done, and it is safe to say
that every effort will be made to secure ample reforms within the limitations imposed
upon us.
There will, at any rate, be one great advantage, we shall be gaining experience which
will be useful when the time comes for Labour to be in power as well as in office. With
a generous confidence from the movement outside, and loyalty inside, we shall hold our
own and lay the foundation for greater things later on.
It is not without some regret that I pass once again from the industrial to the political.
The former sphere always appealed to me, and just now the field for work is fairly wide,


---
53
but as we pass from one to the other, our places can be taken by those who will carry on
with credit to themselves and advantage to our members. It will be my endeavour in
the years ahead may be more fruitful to the people for the coming of Labour
my new sphere to render the best service that my abilities will permit, in the hope that
will always be in the forefront of the fight for the cause of the people
I thank those branches who sent me congratulatory messages, and I hope our Union
14th January, 1924.
WALTER R. SMITH.
ORGANISER'S MONTHLY REPORT.
The chief item of interest this month has been the enforcement of the National Terms
had been paid 58s. per week, the 2s. above the minimum being in lieu of Holiday Fund.
recognise Holiday payment. Interviews took place, and the only reply to our queries
upon the firm of Mr. G. Odell, Wellingborough. Previous to November, 1923, the men
When the increase became due, not only did Odell refuse to give the 60s., but refused to
until the meeting held on 4th January, 1924, that the whole of them attended. A resolution
was passed at this meeting, that notices be handed in, in order to enforce Union conditions.
was a blank refusal to pav. Five meetings of the operatives were called, but it was not
offering to meet and discuss the whole of the circumstances. Two days later, after the
This was done, and as nothing was heard of the intentions of the firm, a letter was sent
Branch monthly meeting had been held, and the operatives had decided to levy themselves,
gone into separately. The twelve men were brought up to the minimum, 10 youths given
3 phone message was received, asking for an interview. At this interview each case was
over the minimum, and staff men, were not dealt with so far as increases were concerned.
from 3s. to 5s. increase, four of whom had previously been given 4s. The men receiving
Four cases were left over for future consideration. Odell agreed to pay Holiday Scheme
on condition that the men collected their share. This the men agreed to do, the Branch
to receive the money each week and bank it in the name of the appointed representatives.
We feel that this settlement is a good one, not only from the operatives' point of view, but
also from the influence it will have upon the employers in the district, who were ever
ready to throw this firm against the officers in any negotiations that were taking place.
tion. This Section received a serious set-back during the slump period, for well over
I visited the Olney Section of Wellingborough Branch for the purpose of re-organisa-
Prospects are bright, and in a short time I hope to see the section at its previous strength
two years the whole of the operatives were practically unemployed. Trade is now much
better with them, and steady progress is being made in building up our membership.
obtained before this aspect of the position can be tackled.
The appointment of Shop Presidents is now being proceeded with, five shops having
adopted the system. This will enable us to find the strength of our membership in each
factory, and tend towards a more complete organisation. It is a pleasing feature that the
members are taking this matter up with enthusiasm, and the indication is that the whole
of the factories will have a Shop President in a short time.
Owing to the death of Mr. Dixon, of the firm of Odell & Dixon, negotiations are
temporarily suspended in relation to increase of wages.
UNIONS IN 1922.
Finance Reflects the Slump in Employment.
LEN. SMITH.
The number of registered trade unions at the end of 1922 was 514, says the annual
summary by the Registrar of Friendly Societies, issued yesterday. The total is a reduction
of 10 compared with 1921.
Income from members during the year 1922 was £8,865,344.
11,314,400.
In 1921 it was
Payments in 1922 included £8,654,247 for unemployment, travelling and emigration
(towards which the Ministry of Labour contributed for unemployment insurance
£5,448,721).
Dispute benefit was £1,133,085, sick and accident benefit £906,971, political fund,
$266,984. "Management and other expenses" totalled £3.752,514.
Funds in hand at the end of the year were £9,861,317, a reduction of a million pounds
on the year. Daily Herald, 17th January, 1924.


---
54
THE WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACT, 1923.
The New Workmen's Compensation Act came into operation on 1st
January, 1924.
COMPENSATION ON DEATH.
The maximum compensation payable to dependents in the case of fatal
accidents under the 1906 Act, is £300.
Under the New Act the maximum compensation payable in the case of
fatal accidents for a widow without children remains at £300, but where children
are left under the age of 15 years further compensation is added on a sliding
scale, but the whole compensation payable to the dependents on death must
not exceed £600.
The minimum compensation payable in the case of death has been raised
from £150 to £200, and in no case can it be reduced below this limit by deduc
tions for payments made to the workman.
The amount payable when no dependent whatever is left is increased
from £10 to £15.
TOTAL INCAPACITY.
The New Act repeals the War Addition Acts which increased the maximum
weekly compensation from £1 under the 1906 Act to 35s. Od. under the War
Addition Acts.
The New Act now substitutes 30s. Od. for £1 a week as the maximum
payable to a person totally incapacitated, that is, he is entitled to half his
average weekly earnings not exceeding 30s. Od. a week, but in case his weekly
compensation is less than 25s. Od. an additional payment must be made repre
senting one-half the difference between the actual weekly compensation, and
the sum of 25s. Od., or the average weekly earnings whichever is the less.
For example:—A workman earning 30s. Od. a week, would be entitled
to half this amount, namely, 15s. Od.; plus half the difference between this
figure, that is 15s. Od.; and 25s. Od., in short, another 5s. Od. So he would
be entitled to £1 per week, that is 66% per cent. or two-thirds of his wages.
Compensation shall be payable under the Principal Act if the injury
disables the workman for more than three days, but shall not be payable in
respect of the first three days, unless the incapacity lasts for four weeks
or upwards.
The 1906 Act provided that if the workman was disabled for 14 days
the compensation would include the whole period of two weeks, thus covering
the first three days, which are now excluded unless he is totally incapacitated
for at least four weeks.
PARTIAL INCAPACITY.
Compensation for partial incapacity is also increased. If for total in-
capacity the weekly compensation payable was 25s. Od. or more, the com-
pensation for partial incapacity is to be one half of the difference between
the average pre-accident weekly earnings and the average of what the workman
is earning or able to earn in some suitable employment or business after the
accident.
If, however, the maximum amount of compensation payable during total
incapacity is less than 25s. Od. the same percentage is to be applied for partial
incapacity as that applied for total incapacity.
To give an illustration:—
A workman earns 30s. Od. a week. He receives during total incapacity
£1 a week compensation—that is, the 66% percentage referred to in the example


---
Here is the extracted text:
55
for total incapacity. He returns to light work at 15s. Od. a week. The com-
pensation payable in addition to the wages would be 66%, or two-thirds of the
difference between the present earnings of 15s. Od., and his pre-accident earnings
of 30s. Od., that is, two-thirds of 15s. Od., which equals 10s. Od.
Under the Principal Act compensation is not payable to persons employed
per annum. Under the New Act all such persons are included provided their
otherwise than by way of manual labour whose remuneration exceeds £250
remuneration does not exceed £350 per annum.
ACCIDENTS “ARISING OUT OF” THE EMPLOYMENT.
Numerous decided cases in the Courts show that no compensation is
payable if the workman's injury has been due to or caused by his action in
contravention of regulations or the orders of his employer or to his acting
without instructions. After 31st December, 1923, an accident so caused will
be deemed to "arise out of and in the course of his employment," if the act
was done for the purposes of and in connection with the employer's trade or
business, and the result is death or serious and permanent disablement.
EVAN BARLOW,
Solicitor to the Union.
BATHS OF PARAFFIN WAX.
Rheumatism Cure at Leeds Tannery.
The treatment of rheumatism by immersing the affected limbs in hot liquid paraffin
wax has interested a number of institutions, which have installed baths.
Perhaps the first person to introduce the treatment into this country was a layman,
Mr. W. L. Ingle, the governing director of Messrs. W. L. Ingle Ltd., tanners, of Churwell,
Leeds, and added interest is now given to the subject by the installation of a new bath
at the firm's works.
Mr. Ingle first read of wax bath treatment in a French paper, and it was purely a
philanthropic motive, and the fact that he had the wax at hand, which led him to put up
the first bath in the country.
Since then many cases have been treated at the works free of cost, Mr. Ingle being
happy to have been the means of relieving pain.
The principle is a simple one-merely that of heat treatment. It has been found
that patients can endure a much higher temperature in the liquid wax than in water,
and that whereas the heating effects are lost almost immediately with water, the stimulus
to circulation caused by the wax bath continues for five or six hours.
In an interview Mr. Ingle said :-
"We use a large quantity of paraffin wax for waterproofing leather in our works,
so that when I first read of a bath of this material, which was being used with success in
Paris, I decided to try one in Leeds.
"Since then numbers of cases have been dealt with here, and some wonderful cures
have been effected; on the other hand, there have been numbers of disappointments.
For example, we find that it is no use in arthritis cases.
"From among others I recall two special cases. One was of a man who, through
rheumatism, had lost his situation. He had had to sell his furniture, and got down and
down until he and his wife lived in a common lodging-house. He was brought to the
works on crutches, but after his bath he carried them away under his arm. He persisted
in the treatment until it made a new man of him, and he got his home together again and
found work.
"The other was of a man who, through rheumatism, found himself and his wife and
ten children in one of the workhouses in this city. The authorities allowed him to come
here and take baths, and now he and his family are out of the workhouse and in their
own home.
"The treatment was also given with benefit to soldiers during the war, though at
first I had some difficulty in getting the military authorities to accept my offer. The
matter was clinched, however, when American officers brought two ambulance loads of
men to the works."


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
```text
56
Mr. Ingle added that since then he had heard of people bathing their feet in wax at
their own homes, and it had given considerable relief, especially in the cases of chilblains
and swollen feet. Shoe and Leather News, 20th December, 1923.
INDUSTRIAL.
MR. W. L. INGLE,
Messrs. Ingle Ltd.,
Tanners, Churwell, Leeds.
34. GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
21st December, 1923.
DEAR SIR. I note in the Shoe and Leather News, page 38 of this week's issue, you have
installed in your works, baths for the treatment of rheumatism, by a special method of
hot liquid paraffin wax, and give a number of instances of it being of value. The con-
cluding paragraph states:
"Mr. Ingle added that since he had heard of people bathing their feet in wax
at their own homes, and it had given considerable relief, especially in the cases of
chilblains and swollen feet."
Would it be asking too much if you tell me the method these people adopt in the
treatment in their homes to make the wax hot, and the amount required for each bath,
to be taken advantage of.
apart from a complete cure of rheumatism, it ought
Thanking you in anticipation of your reply.
Yours sincerely,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
W. L. INGLE LTD.,
TANNERS,
MR. E. L. POULTON,
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
MILLSHAW LEATHER WORKS,
CHURWELL, LEEDS.
24th December, 1923.
DEAR SIR.-Replying to your letter of 21st December respecting the application of
melted paraffin for the hands and feet. Usually a cheap galvanised pail is obtained for
the purpose, and it requires about 18 lbs. of wax. The wax is semi-refined paraffin,
118/120° melting point. The pail containing the wax is placed either on a gas stove or
in an oven, and heated slowly until it is melted. The temperature should be about 125
Fahr. The feet or hands are immersed in this for about twenty minutes. The treatment
may be repeated daily, if required, but generally about twice weekly is sufficient. The
advantages of the wax treatment over hot water are, first, a much higher temperature
can be borne of the melted wax than of water, and secondly, the increased circulation
that is set up after the wax treatment continues for five or six hours, whereas after hot
water an immediate reaction takes place. We supply the wax at 21/2d. per lb., which is
about the cost price. The wax can be used repeatedly, because no germs can live in it.
This matter was tested by the Military Authorities when they adopted it for the treatment
of wounded soldiers. Any of your local members can come up to our Works and give it
a trial free of charge.
Yours faithfully,
W. L. INGLE.
MR. E. L. POULTON,
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
W. L. INGLE LTD.,
TANNERS,
MILLSHAW LEATHER WORKS,
CHURWELL, LEEDS.
2nd January, 1924.
DEAR SIR, - Replying to your letter of Ist January. We have no objection to your
printing our letter in your monthly report, but the last sentence might be modified, as
follows:-
"We shall be pleased for any of your local members to come up to our Works and
give the treatment a trial, if they will write to us and make an appointment. We have
a full-sized bath, in which the whole body can be immersed in the wax where it is necessary.
We do not make any charge for the treatment."
Yours faithfully,
W. L. INGLE,
Governing Director.
```

---
58
EXTRACTS FROM MR. RAMSAY MACDONALD'S SPEECH.
On Labour's Plans for Office, at a Meeting held in Albert Hall,
8th January, 1924.
Establishment of Peace the First Duty.
I think it is perfectly proper to describe this as a great victory demonstration. We
we come back 102, and amongst the 192 I am very glad and very proud to say we have
have been in battle, we have brought back the trophies.
We have four million and a half electors standing solidly behind us in the country-
three women.
a very good beginning, but not an ending, by any means.
toinly risks on every side, risks behind, before us, to the right of us and to the left of us.
that comes to us in the course of the evolution of our movement. There are risks, cer-
Why will we take office ? Because, my friends, we are to shirk no responsibility
Ah! But there is more than risks there is a call.
"Party of Idealists."
We have built our final habitations away on the horizon. We are a party of idealists.
We are a party that away in the dreamland of imagination dwells in the social organisation.
"One step enough for me." One step.
That is true, but we are not going to jump there. We are going to walk there. We
are upon a pilgrimage; we are on a journey.
Yes, my friends, on one condition--that it leads to the next step.
If we shirked our responsibilities now, we ourselves would be inflicting upon ourselves
the defeat that our enemies could not inflict upon us.
So we accept our responsibilities.
My task, and my colleagues' task, is going to be to mobilise all men and women of
good will and safe judgment.
We have in our minds, we have in our hearts, proposals, ideas, suggestions, which
we believe will contribute to peace, and we defy these Liberals and Tories to range them-
selves against us in that work.
The first great duty we put our hands to is to establish peace and create the conditions
of peace.
I believe that a Labour Party occupying Downing Street, staffing the Government,
is the one thing required to give strength to the morally courageous, and power to the
peace forces of all sections of Europe.
That is our first great task. In connection with that we shall do our best to complete
the structure of the League of Nations, to use it without reserve as the main instrument
for securing international justice and thereby creating the conditions of international
peace.
Unemployment Problem.
I believe myself that every decent-minded man and woman in this country is unhappy
about this question. I believe that every decent-minded man and woman would welcome
a Government producing a solution for it, a scientific scheme for meeting this problem.
I believe that the Governments hitherto have failed to do their duty regarding this
problem. We want greater care, first of all in understanding what the problem means.
Ah! my friends, for the first time in the history of this country a Labour Government,
a Labour Department, staffed by men of Labour experience, and women of Labour experi-
ence-experience and knowledge, spirit, insight and capacity, to put themselves in the
shoes of the unemployed and the unemployed children for the first time such an adminis-
trative staff will consider the problem of unemployment from the human point of view,
and not merely from the wage-earning point of view.
An essential part of that is housing. Again, how can the people, for instance, who
llve within a stone's throw of this hall, if they know anything at all, go to bed to-night
having said their prayers in sincerity of spirit declaring that God is the Father common to
them and to the people of Mile End-how can they after their religious exercise go to sleep
comfortably whilst men, women, young men and maidens, children, are all huddled
together in one room to-night, while there are homes, so-called, that have not a cheery
and comfortable fireside, while young men and women who are just married and in whose
minds "the glorious glow of love is still undimmed," have got to face poverty, deprivation,
dirt, sordidness ?
I done it.
Now, my friends, I have no intention of delivering a programme speech nor have


---
59
deal with widows-I should have had to deal with old-age pensioners.
If I had I should have had to deal with the ex-Service men: I should have had to
But what I have done to-night is this: I have tried to show you the spirit in which
the Labour Government, if it comes into being, will carry on its work, and I have used
one or two big things as an illustration on how we would apply that spirit.
I am not thinking of Party. I am thinking of national well-being.
I want a Labour Government to repair the damage that has been done since 1914
promising growths making for peace, for happiness, and for contentment in the world.
to the homes, minds, the education, and the politics of our people. I want to encourage
I see no end. thank God to those things, I see my own horizon. I see my o₩11
skyline, but I am convinced that when my children or my children's children get there.
there will be another skyline, another horizon, another dawning, another glorious beckoning
from Heaven itself.
That is my faith, and in that faith I go on, and my colleagues go on doing in their
own lives what they can to make their addition, to contribute something substantial
to the well-being, the happiness and the holiness of human life. Labour Press Service,
10th January, 1924..
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out:-
SICK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1922 598,886 9 3
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1922 270,614 8 4
January, 1923 2,872 12 4
January, 1923 4,768 13 9
February 2,399 13 0
February 3,992 5 9
March 3,050 12 2
March 3,621 8 9
April 3,902 6 2
April 4,427 12 3
May 2,669 1 4
May 3,410 18 0
June 2,610 16 0
June 2,923 17 3
July 2,728 15 0
July 3,566 18 0
August 2,303 0 10
August 3,880 3 9
September 2,217 12 0
September 4,100 9 0
October 2,725 1 10
October 5,135 11 3
November.. 2,131 10 6
November.. 3,774 5 6
December.. 2,472 6 10
December.. 3,446 14 6
2630,969 17 3
£317,643 6 1
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
BENEFIT GAPS.
MR. STEPHEN asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Labour what
steps he proposes to take to abolish the gap under the Unemployment Insurance Act;
and what he proposes to do in the meantime to obviate the distress among the many
thousands of people on the gap, and in consequence in absolute want.
MR. BETTERTON.-The "gap," which is of three weeks' duration is a provision laid
down by Act of Parliament, and cannot be abolished without legislation. The Gap does
not apply to covenanted benefit, and only those who have drawn uncovenanted benefit
continuously from the 18th October onwards are at present affected by it. After the gap
a further 14 weeks of uncovenanted benefit is available.-Extract from Parliamentary
Debates, Vol. 169, No. 6, Thursday, 17th January, 1924.


---
60
DAILY HERALD CIRCULATION PROGRESS.
BY GEORGE LANSBURY, M.P.
(Reprinted from the Daily Herald, 29th December, 1923).
Very often this page has been used by me to tell our readers of the difficulties connected
with the publication of this paper. To-day, at the end of 1923, it is possible to give a
more hopeful story.
Those friends who, in the autumn, were writing obituary notices or prophesying our
early decease have been gravely disappointed, and what they supposed to be a decomposing
corpse has become a very healthy young thing, destined daily to grow in wisdom and
stature. As was said of Mark Twain by Mark Twain, "The news of our death was grossly
exaggerated."
400,000 Reached.
Of course, there are dangers and pitfalls ahead. As the song says, we have still
" a long, long way to go," but with your continued help it is now certain we shall arrive.
We shall need money, all the money that unions can raise, if we are to develop as we should
is their paper, and that all who support other papers in preference to their own are, whether
do. We have still to raise millions of trade unionists to the fact that the Daily Herald
they know it or not, acting the part of blacklegs.
For all this, we are entitled to rejoice that, after years of effort, we are now steadily
and surely winning our way to success. New advertisers are coming in daily as those
whose business it is to advertise are finding the Daily Herald a first-class medium for
advertising.
Our circulation, which at the end of August was 290,000, is to-day 378,000, an
increase of 88,000. Our advertisement revenue has increased at least 75 per cent., and the
number of unsold returns has also decreased. On one or two days during and after the
election our print was over 400,000. In many districts thousands of these were bought
by election agents for sale or free distribution. This circulation was, of course, not normal,
and is mentioned to show how much was done by our friends during the electoral fight to
assist our work. Two weeks ago we were printing 373,000; to-day the figure, as stated
above, is 378,000.
500,000 Should Come Soon.
In addition to increased sales and advertisement revenue, we have ruthlessly cut
down our expenses. All our costs are down. It may be said with perfect truth we are
working at high pressure with a minimum staff in every department, consistent with
loyal observance of trade union rules and conditions.
The net result of our efforts during the past three months is that, leaving out of
account expenditure incurred in paying out notices and other charges, which would have
been payable had the paper ceased to exist, we have been able to get through this three
months without drawing on the General Council for the full amount of its guarantee.
Our actual requirements amounted to £4,380, as against £12,500 allocated to us by the
Congress. For the first time during the twelve years of its life the paper has been published
for some weeks without a subsidy from anybody.
We are all very thankful that we have arrived at this position, and, in putting these
facts before our readers, I would like to repeat again and again the thanks of all connected
with the paper to those who made this possible. Especially would we all like to thank
our ever loyal friends of the Miners' Federation for their action at Plymouth, and our
friends on the General Council and the Labour Party Executive Committee. In saying
this, I am voicing not only my own sentiments, but also those of Arthur Henderson, our
chairman, and all my colleagues on the Board of Directors.
It is certain also that the Leader of our Party, J. Ramsay MacDonald, will join the
directors and the staff in urging on all concerned the need for still greater effort. In life
account expenditure incurred in paying out notices and other charges, which would have
we cannot stand still. We must move onward and still onward.
is the figure we want to reach before the Labour Prime Minister takes his place on the
Treasury Bench. Then we must press on until we reach a million, and so onwards until
we are able to say that all his words and those of his colleagues reach the home of every
worker throughout the three kingdoms.
And Why Not 1,000,000 ?
Five thousand
How shall this be done? Only the same old way. Talk about our paper; make
people understand it is an ordinary newspaper with all the news contained in other papers,
but is also the official daily mouthpiece of our mighty Movement. Buy extra copies


---
whenever you can afford to do so. Get a friend to buy one from you every day. A thing
paid for is always more valuable than a thing received free. Help the secretary of your
Labour Party to organise a house-to-house canvass of all those who voted Labour at the
last election.
Do not leave the job to someone else. Take for your slogan, "One million readers
for the Daily Herald."
However hard and difficult a job this may appear to be, take comfort from the thought
that three months ago our obituary notices were written that today, because of the
enthusiastic, devoted work of people like you, while not yet quite out of the wood, we are
out of immediate danger and therefore the task before us is lighter, more hopeful than
ever, and, as is always the case, they succeed who believe they can succeed. Faith and
hard work will accomplish all we can desire.

COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OF EYE.
Award to Northampton Man. Question of Average Earnings.
At the County Court, Northampton, to-day, before his Honour Judge Savoley-Hill
Mr. A. M. Troup (Messrs. Phipps and Troup) applied on behalf of Arthur William
Mason, 35, Queen's Road, Northampton, for compensation (under the Workmen's Com-
pensation Act) for injury sustained while in the employment of Messrs. W. R. Davies & Co.,
railway wagon builders and repairers, 1, Tithebarn Street, Liverpool. Mr. W. W. James
(Messrs. Heygate and James, Wellingborough) appeared for respondents.
It appears that the applicant was a wagon repairer, and on the 20th of June last year,
whilst engaged at respondent's premises at the Castle Station, Northampton, he was
chopping a bolt to remove it from a piece of iron, and a fragment struck him in the eye.
As a result his eye had to be removed, and he was claiming compensation for permanent
partial incapacity. The average weekly earnings of the applicant were 50s. during the
months previous to the injury.
Mr. James suggested that, seeing that the standard rate of pay was now 48s. instead
of 50s. a week, compensation should be in proportion to 48s. The man was now earning
30s. a week.
Mr. Troup said that the drop in wages had already taken place at the time the man
The average for the twelve months previous to the injury was still
50s. During the last week he was earning £3 4s. 6d. on piece work.
sustained his injury.
His Honour referred to the case of Tones v. Rimley Iron Co., and said that the words
which appeared to be material were that the Arbitrator must still give compensation
estimated on the average earnings of the workman in the best manner available to him.
The best available basis upon which to come to a decision in this case was on the wages
for the year June 1922-23. There was a small matter of 2s. between the parties. It
was a matter, perhaps, of more importance to applicants than to respondents, but he was
not going to decide the case on that. Justice had to be done whether the case was between
and a pauper. Although there had been a drop in wages, the best
evidence he could act on was the average wage plus the fact of the last week's earnings.
He came to the conclusion that the proper standard rate of wages was 50s. a week. He
awarded compensation at the rate of 10s. from September 12th, this being half the difference
between 30s. and 50s.-Northampton Chronicle, 9th January, 1924.

CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st JANUARY, 1924.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included . . . . . . 77 per cent.
Food only . . . . . . . . 75 "

FOOD.
During December there was a fall in the average prices of eggs and bacon, partly
counterbalanced, however, by advances in the average prices of butter, milk, fish, sugar
and potatoes. The other articles of food included in the statistics showed relatively
little movement in prices.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of
food included in these statistics fell to about 75 per cent. at 1st January, as compared
with about 76 per cent. at 1st December.
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, January, 1924.


---
Here is the extracted text:
63
ENTITLED TO THE PARLIAMENTARY VOTE.
THE WIFE OF A MAN POSSESSING ANY OF THESE QUALIFICATIONS IS ALSO
qualify the wife.
NOTE. - The absence of the husband on military or naval service does not dis
NOTE. A woman aged 30 years or over on the 15th December, 1923, and engaged
qualified under (a), (b), (c) or (d) but for such service, is entitled to the
on any of the services mentioned under "Absent Voters," who would be
Parliamentary vote.
The stipulations respecting qualifying dates are the same for women as for men.
TO GET A LOCAL GOVERNMENT VOTE,
A WOMAN must be 21 years of age or over on 15th December, 1923, and possess any of
the above qualifications-(a), (b), (c) or (d), except that for the Local Government franchise
no value is fixed for (d) occupation of land or business premises; or
provided she is 30 years of age or over on 15th December, 1923.
The Wife of a Man Qualified to be Registered for the premises where they both reside,
absent voters can claim up to 24th February, 1924. (Scotland, 25th February, 1924).
LAST DAY FOR CLAIMS: - 10th February, 1924. (Scotland, 15th February, 1924)
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACTS.
Decision Given by the Umpire.
CASE NO. 6006, SECTION 7 (I) (iii). - SUITABLE EMPLOYMENT, NOT UNABLE TO OBTAIN-
JOB LOST BY DELAYING APPLICATION FOR IT FOR ONE DAY.
The applicant, who had last been employed in his usual occupation as joiner for two
weeks ending 11th August, 1923, was on Monday, 13th August, offered local work as joiner
with a building contractor at the standard rate of wages. The offer was made at 10 a.m.,
and the applicant was told that if he went to the job at once he would probably be able
to start work in the afternoon of the same day.
The prospective employer, who had asked the Employment Exchange to supply
engaged because it was not known that he had been sent by the Exchange. If the applicant
men, stated that the applicant applied for work on Tuesday, 14th August, but he was not
had produced his Introduction Card from the Exchange and had reported for work as
instructed, he could have started on the Monday afternoon. There was no vacancy for
him at the time of the employer's report.
but he had to see a friend about another possible job on that day. When he went for the
job on Tuesday he forgot to produce his Introduction Card and was rejected.
Recommended by the Court of Referees that the claim for benefit should be allowed
on the ground that a disallowance of the claim would impose hardship on the applicant.
The Insurance Officer declined to accept the Court's recommendation. His view
was that the applicant, who had been employed for only seven weeks since September,
1922, should have gone to the job offered at once. Through the delay of one day he
had lost his chance of obtaining work.
Decision.-" On the facts before me my decision is that the claim for benefit should
be disallowed. If the applicant had applied for the job at once, as he was instructed to
do, he would probably have secured it. He does not satisfy me that he was unable to
find suitable employment." - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, January, 1924.
MR. JOHN ROOKE, KENDAL.
Mr. John Rooke, a former member of the Kendal Town Council, died suddenly yester-
day from heart disease.
Mr. Rooke was highly esteemed in Westmorland, and by his kindly disposition and
broad-mindedness had made himself popular with all classes.
At the time of his death he was president of the local branch of the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives, and was vice-chairman of the Netherfield Workers' Committee
the Westmorland County Hospital.
In early years he was a well-known Rugby football player. He was an ardent Church-
man, and a member of the Kendal Parish Church Choir. Aged 62 years, he leaves a widow,
two sons, and one daughter. - Yorkshire Post, 8th January, 1924.


---
64
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.

LABOUR CONDITIONS AT SEA.
International Meeting in London.
A joint international commission of shipowners, seamen, and representatives of the
International Labour Office of the League of Nations, will meet at the Ministry of Labour,
Montague House, on Monday, 17th December, to consider questions affecting the con-
ditions of life and labour of seafarers.
Mr. Arthur Fontaino (French Government), as President of the Governing Body of
the International Labour Office, will preside over the Commission, which will be composed
of the following members:---
Representing the International Labour Office: M. Lococq (employers, Belgium); and
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.JP. (workers, England).
Shipowners' Representatives: M. Deckers (Belgium); Mr. Cuthbert Laws (Great
Britain); M. Nordborg (Sweden); Mr. Robb (Canada); and M. Hori (Japan).
Seamen's Representatives: Herr Döring (Germany); Signor Giuliotti (Italy); Mr.
Havelock Wilson (Great Britain); M. Nilsen (Norway); and M. Rivelli (France).
The Commission was created more than three years ago to assist the International
Labour Office in dealing with questions of maritime labour. Its constitution and functions
were laid down by the Governing Body of the Office in March, 1920, and those of its
members who represent shipowners and seamen were appointed by the International
Labour Conference at Genoa, in July, 1920, the nominations being made by the ship-
owners and seamen's delegates respectively. Two meetings have already been held:
at Geneva in November, 1920, and at Paris in March, 1922.
At next week's meeting the Commission will receive a report from M. Albert Thomas,
Director of the International Labour Office, on action taken as a result of decisions of the
previous sessions. This report will include a survey of the progress made in various
countries in connection with the ratification and application of Draft Conventions and
Recommendations of the International Labour Conferences of 1920 and 1921 affecting
juvenile employment in ships, unemployment indemnity for shipwrecked sailors, hours
of work in the fishing industry, &c.
Reports will also be presented on social insurance for seamen, the regulation of dock
cargoes, and the international codification of laws affecting seamen.
Discussion will be raised on the questions of the international regulation of hours of
work in the mercantile marine, the prevention and treatment of venereal disease among
seamen, and the compilation of statistics of shipwrecks and accidents at sea.
The Commission will also be asked to advise the Governing Body of the International
Labour Office on the question of placing on the agenda of a future meeting of the Inter-
national Labour Conference the subject of the inspection of labour conditions in ships.
In this connection the Commission will be invited to express its opinion on the desirability
of holding-not before 1926-another special session of the Conference, comparable with
that of 1920, to deal solely with problems of maritime labour.
It is anticipated that the session of the Commission will occupy two days.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANISATION.
A YEAR'S PROGRESS.
Steady progress has been made in 1923 by the International Labour Organisation
of the League of Nations in its various fields of activity. The following brief summary
surveys the more important events connected with its work during the year.
Factory Inspection.
The Fifth Annual Session of the International Labour Conference was held in Geneva
in October, 122 delegates attending from 42 countries, the largest number up to the present
time. Dr. ADATCI, Japanese Ambassador at Brussels, presided, and among the distant
countries represented were South Africa, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chili, China, Cuba,
India, Japan, Siam and Venezuela, while for the first time the Irish Free State sent dele-
gates. The Conference devoted its time to discussing "general principles for the organisa-
tion of factory inspection" and a detailed Recommendation touching every aspect of this
question was unanimously adopted.
Progress of the World Labour Law.
Ninety-two "ratifications" (formal signature as a treaty) of decisions adopted Ly
the Conference have been received up to 31st December, and sixteen have been authorised


---
65
in various countries but not yet formally communicated, as against sixty-three "ratifica-
tions" and sixteen authorised at the beginning of the year. The grand total of measures
in the various countries for ratification and application of decisions was 511 at the beginning
of the 1923 Conference as compared with 324 in 1922.
Reforms in the East.
Striking progress has been reported from the East during the year. Important
changes in Indian mining legislation were embodied in an Act passed in February which
contained sections, relating to hours of work and the employment of children, to give
effect to decisions of the first Session of the International Labour Conference as far as they
affect India, and the legal enactment of the weekly rest day, a decision thereon having
been taken at the third Session. Japan has ratified a decision of the second Session
regarding the employment of seamen and ratification of the Convention fixing the minimum
age of children employed at sea has been approved in principle by the Japanese Privy
Council. The first steps towards State regulation of labour conditions have been taken
in China. Special labour sections have been created at Peking in the Departments of
Agriculture and Commerce, Communications and the Interior, and provisional factory
regulations have been promulgated dealing with hours of work, minimum age of children
and maternity benefit for women workers.
Disabled Ex-Service Men.
Important resolutions concerning the employment of disabled ex-Service men covering
questions of wages, tenure and other conditions of work, were adopted by a committee of
experts from thirteen countries which met at the International Labour Office in Geneva
during August. This was the second meeting of such a committee, the first having been
held in the previous year, following requests from important national organisations con-
nected with the disabled, to consider questions relating to medical treatment and the
provision of artificial limbs.
Agricultural Questions.
In the same month was held the first session of the Joint Advisory Committee on
Agriculture set up by the International Labour Office and the International Institute
of Agriculture at Rome to ensure effective collaboration between the two organisations
on questions affecting the workers. Three representatives attended from each, and among
the experts also present were Mr. Rowland R. Robbins, C.B.E., Chairman of the Labour
Committee of the National Farmers' Union, and Mr. R. B. Walker, General Secretary
of the National Union of Agricultural Workers.
Industrial Health.
Experts from nine countries were present in Geneva at a sitting of the Advisory
Committee on Industrial Hygiene held in September. The question of organising research
in various countries into processes for the disinfection of hides and skins infected with
anthrax was carefully examined and the Committee also studied the work undertaken
by the Office in connection with the study of unhealthy processes.
World Labour Statistics.
Representatives of official labour statistical services in different parts of the world
met in conference at Geneva at the end of October. This meeting was prompted by the
feeling that if statistics could be drawn up in such a manner as to render them inter-
nationally comparable, the scientific study of labour questions from the world point of
view would be greatly facilitated. The conference discussed the classification of industries
and occupations for the purpose of labour statistics; statistics of wages and hours of
labour; and statistics of industrial accidents.
Conditions at Sea.
The Joint Maritime Commission, which assists the Office in dealing with questions
affecting seamen, met in London in December and discussed such questions as social
insurance for seamen, dock cargo regulations, international codification of the laws affecting
seamen, and the prevention and treatment of venereal diseases among seamen. The
Commission consists of five representatives each of shipowners and seamen and two of the
Governing Body of the International Labour Office. An unanimous tribute was paid
to the value of the scientific research work done by the Office in preparation for this meeting.
World Unemployment.
Two subjects have claimed the particular attention of the Office during the year.
Firstly, the collection and comparison of information on world unemployment has been
steadily continued, in co-operation with the Economic Section of the League of Nations.
Secondly, the question of social insurance and the present world position with regard
to it is being examined in detail preparatory to the discussion of general principles of
social insurance at a future session of the Conference.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
for the printers.
68
ORGANISER'S REPORT.
My report for the December number of the Monthly Report was sent in too late
I wish to mention a little of what I wrote then. I refer to Mr. Buckle's
election at Eccles, I was there from the Adoption Meeting to the day of the poll. I
never saw a cleaner or better fought election than this was at Eccles. There was no
fishing for Liberal support on the part of Johnny, or of any of his local speakers. It was
good educational work on Labour and Socialist ideals from start to finish. I believe
Liberal candidate was beaten from the beginning from lack of attendance and enthusiasm
that Johnny can now hold the seat against the united efforts of both the old Parties. The
at the meetings. If there were no Liberal candidate the rich leaders of the Party could
not get their working class supporters to vote as a body for the Tory against Labour.
Branch besides taking part in the election. At the firm of Gregg's, where time and a
movement and to see it grow to its present strength. I did some work for the Manchester
It is a pleasure to have worked for many years for the despised and maligned Labour
quarter pay was not being paid for overtime, we got the matter put right. Irregular
It is easier to make members at Manchester than to keep them. We made about 45
members between the factory workers and the repairers, but I am afraid that in a few
months some of these will have dropped out again. The distance from the Office and want
of collectors account largely for so many not paying regularly. deductions in wages which were being made had to cease.
During the past few weeks I have been at Atherstone, Nuneaton, Syston and London.
The factory at Atherstone is full of little boys and girls. A firm at Syston has an interest
in this concern. Mr. W. Warner did all he could with me to thoroughly organise the three
shops at Nuneaton, but for short time at one factory we could have made the place 100
per cent. strong. The females at one factory gained by our efforts considerably more than
they are paying to the Union.
Since the Council meeting, January 22nd, I have been organising in London, and
alone there are about fourteen factories, and there are only three of them well organised.
attending meetings. London is a baffling puzzle for ever. In the Bethnal Green area
Mr. Bleakley and I have gone to as many of these factories as we could in the time. We got
many promises to join and requests for indoor meetings. Two very old members of the
Union were buried this week in London, Mr. J. Gibson, a trustee of the London Metro.,
and Mr. George Standeven, Secretary, London South. They were Yorkshire men, and
consistent fighters for the Union. Mr. Bleakley and I accompanied the remains of Mr.
Standeven to the grave.
D. MCCARTHY.
L. AND J. WEBER AND PHILLIPS.
Lower prices are presumably the cause of the small decline of £2,804 in net profit
shown in the accounts of L. & J. Weber & Phillips, the wholesale boot and shoe manu-
facturers, for 1923. In having earned a net amount of £46,663 the company has done
quite well, and can comfortably continue to pay a dividend of 15 per cent. on its share
capital, which distribution absorbs £27,900. The directors are again putting £10,000 to
reserve and increasing the balance forward (subject to corporation profits tax) from
121,004 to £26,701. In the trade circumstances a fall of £20,961 in stocks, to £31,618,
is scarcely surprising. Creditors have come down from £35,295 to 19,479, at which
figure they are within £3,628 of the debtor total. The cash position is a strong one, the
holding being only a trifle smaller than before at £55,503, in addition to which the company
has a War Loan investment of £60,303, the latter showing an increase of over £20,000.
In comparison with other asset items, goodwill at £60,586 looks to be somewhat high.
It represents more than 21 per cent. of the total assets. Financial News, 14th January,
1924.
LATE-TO-WORK LAW.
When a young man asked Colonel Pinkham, the Willesden magistrate,
to-day for a summons against his employer for discharging him without
notice he admitted he arrived late for work.
The Magistrate. Then you have no claim in law. A man who
cannot keep his time is not entitled to a week's notice, but can be
diamissed forthwith.


---
69
ENGLAND THROUGH AUSTRALIAN EYES.
Mr. Harry Wild. of Sydney, New South Wales, who has returned home after a six
Journal some impressions of his visit. The outstanding impression made on him was the
month's business and pleasure trip to England, has been giving the Australian leather
wonderful opportunities for enjoyment the English roads offer the enthusiastic motorist.
Referring to trade matters, Mr. Wild said that at the present time there did not appear
and Continental houses had built up, AND BY THE FREE TRADE POLICY OF BRITAIN.
disadvantage also because of the superior distributing facilities which the English, American,
to be much opening for Australian leathers in England. Australian tanners were at a
-The Shoe Trades Journal, 11th January, 1924.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES. - Estimated number of persons in insured
industries at July, 1923: Males, 93,620; Females, 50,230; Total, 143,850. Number
Females, 3,620 Total, 14,109. Percentage Unemployed at 21st December, 1923 Males,
of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 21st December, 1923: Males, 10,489;
Females, increase, 0.4; Total, increase, 0.2. - Ministry of Labour Gazette, January, 1924.
11.2; Females, 7.2 Total, 9.8. As compared with 26th November, 1923: Males, nil
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of December, 1923,
Unemployed at end of December, 1923, 4,191; percentage, 5.5. Increase in
percentage as compared with a year ago, 0.7. - Ministry of Labour Gazette, January, 1924.
70,287.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
WAR OFFICE. -BoOTS: Adams Bros., Raunds: St. Crispin Productive Society
Ltd.. Raunds; Walter Lawrence Ltd., Raunds; Regulation Boot Co. Ltd., Raunds.

HE WHO SERVES.
He has not served who gathers gold.
Nor has he served, whose life is told
In selfish battles he has won,
Or deeds of skill that he has done,
But he has served who now and then
Has helped along his fellow men.
The world needs many men to-day;
Red-blooded men along life's way,
With cheerful smiles and helping hands
And with the faith that understands
The beauty of the simple deed
Which serves another's hour of need.
Strong men to stand beside the weak,
Kind men to hear what others speak,
True men to keep our country's laws,
And guard its honour and its cause;
Men who will bravely play life's game
Nor ask reward of gold or fame.
Teach me to do the best I can
To help and cheer our fellow man;
Teach me to lose my selfish need
And glory in the larger deed
Which smooths the road and lights the day
For all who chance to come my way.
--Guest.


---
71
A NOTE OF WARNING.
ALIENS SWINDLED.
New York, 8th December. - In the last few years foreigners have been swindled out
of $12,000,000 by a gang of real estate sharks who sold undeveloped marsh lands within
a 50-mile radius of this city, according to testimony before the state legislative committee
that is investigating immigrant exploitation.
The sharks would supply free tickets for a Sunday inspection trip to a tract of land.
Each guest would draw a lot, but was charged $49.50 to cover legal fees for transfer of
property. The figure of £49.50 was set to keep within the petty larceny limit of $50.
Miss Marion K. Clark, chief clerk of the alien division of the state labour department,
restified that aliens in mines and labour camps in this state are living under conditions
that amount almost to peonage. She stated that the victims are without legal protection
because the state bureau of immigration, established in 1910 by the Hughes committee,
was abolished by the legislature in 1911.
STATE PROTECTION FOR ALIENS URGED.
New York, 8th December.— "With all the education in the world you can not make
good Americans out of aliens who have been disillusioned and embittered," said State
Industrial Commissioner Shientag in suggesting the creation of an advisory council to
protect aliens.
A state legislative committee has uncovered methods by which aliens are wronged.
They are fleeced by swindlers and are robbed in labour camps, employment agencies and
by steamship agents.
"The problem of how to deal with our immigrants, of how to protect them against
fraud and exploitation, is as difficult as it is important," said the commissioner. "Our
own citizens, many of them highly educated, lose millions of dollars every year as the
result of stock and land swindlers alone. It is apparent therefore, that the immigrant,
helpless and ignorant of our ways and language, is subject to even greater exploitation."--
American Federation of Labour Weekly News Letier, 8th December, 1923.
FOOT IN THE COGS.
Accident at Kingswood Factory. Foreman Fined.
A serious accident which occurred at the premises of Messrs. Edwards & Co., boot
manufacturers' of Wood Lane, Kingswood, on 16th October, 1923, led to the appearance
of the foreman, Albert Victor Stone, aged 35, at Lawford's Gate Petty Session, yesterday,
charged with an infringement of the Factory Act. Mr. W. J. Robinson pleaded guilty on
behalf of the defendant.
Mr. J. Owner (Factory Inspector) said it was incumbent on the occupier of every
factory clearly to fence in dangerous parts of machinery. In the factory was a guillotine
ranging machine, and Messrs. Edwards & Co. had complied with their statutory obligations
by providing fencing round the machine. The defendant engaged a boy Box, and had
occasion to use the ranging machine. The boy stood with his body closely adjacent to
the running shafts of the cogwheels, and his right foot became involved in the cogwheels.
The act was committed without the knowledge of the employers. Defendant was a man
who bore a good character, and except for this error of judgment he had not given his
employers the slightest trouble, and was told that he would not lose his employment.
The defendant was exceedingly sorry for what had occurred. He had been accustomed
to that kind of machinery for the past 12 years.
Machine Fenced.
The Chairman, Mr. Kossuth Robinson, said he had received testimony from the other
magistrates as to the good character of the defendant and taking the facts into considera-
tion they would only fine him £5 and costs. The Chairman went on to suggest that possibly
some change might be made in connection with the machinery. One of the Bench (pre-
sumably Mr. A. G. Randall) was an expert in leather machinery and he would like to have
a conversation with Mr. Owner when an opportunity presented.
Mr. Owner stated that immediately after the accident the firm had the whole of the
back of the machinery in question fenced and it was now possible for a workman to stand
at the back in perfect safety. - Western Daily Press, 18th January, 1924.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
TEL. ADDRESS: NATUNISHOP, PHONE, LONDON."
AT TELI 1438 MUSEUM, LONDON.
SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
34, GUILFORD STREET
LONDON, WC.I.
ionationa Boot & Shoe Operatives
Affiliated to the Trade Unions Congress, the General Federation of
Trade Unions and National Labour Party
Approved under the State National Health Insurance Acts. Approval No. 281
General President
T.F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
E.L. POULTON J.P.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
25TH FEBRUARY, 1924.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
STATE OF TRADE
has slightly improved during the month, the figures given in the Gazette issued
by the Ministry of Labour being as follow:-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment during January was again only moderate on the whole, but the improve-
ment which was noticeable during the larger part of the previous month was fairly well
maintained. In many districts a considerable amount of short time was still worked ;
but conditions were generally better than in January of last year.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 9.5 on 28th January, 1924, as compared with
9.8 on 21st December, 1923.
In London employment was still bad, though slightly better than in the previous
month. A further improvement occurred at Leicester, and employment was fair; there
was less short time working than in the previous month, and overtime was reported in a
few cases. At Northampton, however, a considerable amount of short time was still
worked, and employment remained only moderate. At Kettering there was no marked
change as compared with December, and employment remained generally moderate,
but at Desborough less time was lost and employment improved. In the Wellingborough,
Higham and Rushden districts employment remained fair on the whole. Although short
time was worked in a number of factories a few workpeople were on overtime during the
month. At Hinckley a slight decline in employment was reported. There was practically
no change at Leeds, but at Stafford employment again showed a slight upward movement.


---
89
PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS.
In last month's Report we stated, amongst other matters, that within a
few hours from the time of going to press we felt certain a new Government,
and that a Labour Government, would be called into being. Such declaration
has fully materialised, and we now have as the head of the Government the
Rt. Hon. J. Ramsav MacDonald, P.C., M.P., whom we heartily and sincerely
congratulate. Mr. MacDonald has taken upon himself the arduous and difficult
task, not only of Prime Minister, but also that of Minister for Foreign Affairs.
It is quite evident that Mr. MacDonald has endeavoured-in forming his Govern-
ment-to give consideration to all sections of thought in the Party, and the
ministerial appointments show-especially those appointed who were not
members of the Labour Party-not only tolerance, but a sincere desire to
make the Cabinet a national body.
It is indeed matter for congratulation
that we have at last a Labour Government in office. Whilst we know the
Labour Party does not command a majority of the votes in the House of
Commons, nevertheless we feel confident their tenure of office will be distinctly
advantageous not only to Great Britain but also to the workers on the
Continent. Already one sees the evident determination of Mr. MacDonald to-
if possible-bring about a settlement of European Affairs, and thus accelerate
the pace by which nations will be able to devote themselves to those internal
matters which so loudly call for attention. In connection with the appoint-
ments in the Ministry, we rejoice exceedingly that one of our colleagues-
Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., J.P.-has been appointed Parliamentary Secretary to
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. Mr. Smith's knowledge of agricul-
ture is extensive, and his ability has been shown upon more than one occasion
by the way with which he has handled agricultural problems, especially those
relating to the National Union of Agricultural Workers. We heartily and
sincerely congratulate our colleague, and hope he will have good health, and
thus be enabled to successfully cope with the strenuous work in front of him.
At the same time we look upon the honour thus conferred as an honour partly
belonging to the Union, in that one of its members has been appointed to
a high position in the State.
We beg to repeat part of what we said last month :-" It is incumbent
upon all members of the Labour Party to do their part in defending those of
our colleagues in the House of Commons, especially at the present time, resting
assured that if support is forthcoming, the present is only a beginning to a
fruitful and beneficial period, not only for the people of this land, but for those
in all European nations." We have decided that so as to ensure our colleagues
full support we shall not call upon them to leave their duties in the House for
Union work.
It must be apparent to those who take consecutive interest in politics
that defence of our colleagues was never more needed than at the present
time. A tremendous amount of leeway has to be made up to deal with
those questions we have been talking so long about the unemployment


---
Here's the extracted text:

problem, housing, hours of labour, foreign affairs, &c. Equally it is clear that
drastic dealing with these matters will arouse opposition. It is, therefore,
that support which will enable the fight to be successfully waged inside the
the more necessary for those of us outside the House of Commons to give
in the many resolutions passed within recent years, both at the Trades Union
House and thus translate into Acts of Parliament the proposals contained
Congress and the Labour Party Conferences, resting assured if we do that not
to deal successfully with the problems they will be called upon to deal with
only shall we benefit, but it will be made much easier for the younger generation
when in their turn they take our places as citizens.

For information, day by day, about
the actual position, buy and read the
"DAILY HERALD."

QUARTERLY BALANCE SHEETS.

In spite of repeated applications certain Branches have failed to forward
to the Central Office, the Quarterly Balance Sheet. It is clearly laid down
in Rule 127 that the Branch Secretaries shall ". . . prepare a Balance
Sheet once a quarter, or more often if required, such quarter to end
on the last Saturday in February, May, August, and November, and
under the heading of Offences and Penalties, Branch Secretaries, says :-
"Failing to send a Quarterly Balance Sheet to the General Secretary
to be fined 2s. 6d." If, in future, the Rule 127 is not strictly adhered to,
we shall have no alternative but to enforce Rule 302.

VOTING

for the following positions MUST be taken at the March meeting nights, and
the results posted to reach the Central Office by first post on the 15th prox. :-
National Organiser.
Two Parliamentary Agents in place of General President and General
Secretary, resigned.
Delegates to Conference.
Delegates to Trades Union Congress (British and Scottish).
National Labour Party.
Women's Labour Party Conference.
Scottish Advisory Committee.
Votes should not be counted until the 12th prox.

JUBILEE YEAR CONFERENCE.

The resolutions received for the Jubilee Year Conference appear on
page 94. The Agenda is now closed, and in accordance with rule when
the Voting for delegates is complete, a copy of the same will be issued to the
successful candidates.


---
BANKING.
Quite recently cases have come to our knowledge where Branch Secretaries to save trouble, loaned monies to the Branch for Union Benefits, and then paid all the Branch Contributions to their own personal Banking Account.
This-with the change of Branch Secretary brought about complications, and we wish to make it IMPERATIVE that ALL Union monies MUST be banked in the name of the Union. Branch, and thus obviate any unnecessary trouble.
We are sure, upon reflection, it will be seen that this is not only the better way, but also the proper way of dealing with Branch Funds.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.

TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped Footwear."

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
A. W. LYNE.
I. H. JOHNSON.
C. MAYES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.


---
92
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
THE LABOUR GOVERNMENT, It is pleasing to note that the work of the Labour
Government has started well with the action of the Pensions Minister in removing the
stigma from the men who had offered their lives to their country, and through losing their
understanding, of being relegated to a pauper institution. The Prime Minister's action
in opening up a human understanding with Russia, advocating the inclusion of Germany
into the League of Nations, and also pacified France that the L.S.D. Governments have
been replaced by a more humane Government, is bound to help, rather than retard, the
proper safeguards urgently needed to continue the peace of Europe. The Health Minister's
hanging over the head of this Socialist body, whose great and unenviable lot, and at the
cancellation of persecuting the Poplar Guardians has put an end to the Sword of Damocles
same time laudable action of theirs, of making the Poor Law more reasonable and more
sensible than the last three Extremists wished. These Dives, who have no love for Lazarus,
and who failed to put in force their own order, reminds me of this same type of politician
who put our Union, without our knowledge, into an Act of Parliament, and who had not
ment Act to us, at a time when we could give better benefits for a less contribution than
the courage to prosecute our Union for not obeying the law which applied the Unemploy-
the Government, and when the first Minister of Labour was pressed by the Board of Trade
from doing their duty, because of the unpopularity of such an Act, and ultimately, like
introduced into the House of Commons to free us from any further annoyance. Now we
Poplar, we were left alone, although in our case an Amending Act of Parliament was
selves, carried in December, 1919, in which we advised, and the Department agreed to
must ask where are the Home Office resolutions agreed to by that Department and our-
adopt, for the present shoe factories to conform to, such as better light and ventilation.
&c., and also for new factories to be only used or new shoe businesses to be only permitted
when such factories were above ground, and no artificial light to be used between sunrise
and sunset, the control of Outworkers by registration, and these workrooms to be under
the inspection of the Factory Inspector, who is a national and not a local officer?
to prosecute us, declined to be the catspaw of a Department
who had wilfully abstained
OFFICE for the purpose of pressing these reforms. Although the Home Secretary has not
The time has now arrived for the trade, including ourselves, to interview the HOME
for Burnley, because Mr. Henderson is without doubt a tower of strength to the Prime
Minister, and we must have all our men working and helping. We are bound to get some
yet got a seat, we hope by the time these lines are in print he will have been elected Member
good work done by the Home Office in future, but we must help them by telling them
what we want.
This brings me to the work of the TRADE BOARD, where we have just spent three
days revising prices for all grades of Piecework and amending some of the Day Labour
daves for Juveniles, in order to graduate them and make them fit in better than has been
physical infirmity, and we have registered juniors and also apprentices, and last but not
the case in previous orders. Permits have been granted to those suffering through some
least, sent out a trial set of prices in conjunction with the Rounding and Channelling
Machine, already introduced into the trade and attempts to set up a price without the
Board's permission, with the result that the same is to be tried until the next meeting
of the Trade Board, which may be quite a month hence.
but for stripping and fastening half sole right across waist, done with all other sizes in
The price for Men's is, as per trial, 6d. per pair, no channelling, no rubbing down,
proportion. Thus, those firms who have more than this amount must go on as though
nothing had happened until the meeting of the full Board, when we are likely to agree to a
price for all shops using this machine. The minimum rate for the operatives may also
be fixed at that meeting, and this note is an invitation to all those working in conjunction
with the machine to let us have the result of their experience, as we may then be in a
position to say what is the price for any operation performed in conjunction with this
machine.
NATIONAL AGREEMENTS. We have had to attend immediately to a well respected
firm in our trade attempting to introduce into the industry a scheme to absorb the Juvenile
Labour, but after going into the matter, we were bound to advise the unwisdom of such a
course unless Clause 17, restricting the Boy Labour to that requirement, and upon this
attitude being paramount, the firm decided not to proceed with the idea.
Piecowork, a system we look upon as pernicious, and upon our pointing out the danger
We were also confronted with the policy of putting children under 16 years of age on
to the youth, this is being ended as soon as possible.
The firm are yet unconvinced as to our attitude respecting the 45s. minimum for
Standing Committee if there is any doubt about our attitude. In fact the firms I have
we are pressing


---
Here is the extracted text:
93
met lately all seem to have got back to the idea, although we have and do strenuously
oppose it. The employers think that men must be on the premises the full hours without
the guaranteed wage, and unless our officers quietly, but firmly, press for this, we shall
get once again into a slovenly condition. It therefore remains for our officers, who are
naturally affected by local members, to press this point to its ultimate and logical con-
clusion, and to see that employers are not in the position to inform a National Officer
that they have had an agreement with a certain local officer who knows all about it, even
when no documentary evidence exists.

STREET. - The girls at Messrs. C. & J. Clarke's Ltd. struck work because they were
informed that all girls who failed to earn their wages at the employer's price would be
discharged, and as they had left the factory, and we were informed that the men had been
warned that they would be stopped, unless the girls returned, this caused me to immedi-
ately depart for Street on Saturday morning, the 16th inst., reaching there at 4 o'clock
in the afternoon. We held a meeting lasting three hours, when the girls unanimously
decided to take the advice given them and return to work on Monday morning, the 18th
inst., at 8 o'clock, and we would see the firm and place before them the whole of the com-
plaints, and to this end the two local officials with the three representatives from the
Closing Room, on the Menday morning sojourned to the factory and met four members
of the firm, to whom we conveyed the minds of the operatives, and as they claimed they
had discharged no one for several years, they felt that the present girl, only sixteen years
of age, who had been complained of on several occasions, was not fitted for the
industry, and therefore they must part. We are sorry for this, but cannot do other
than accept the inevitable, I have made two visits to this place in Somersetshire, the
two visits having occupied seven days, the distance and railway facilities making the
journey a long one.

NORTHAMPTON ADVISORY COMMITTEE met at Rushden on the 19th ult. and received
a very good report, which I hope will be included in our Report. With deep regret the
Resignation of the Secretary, Mr. S. J. B. Barnes, J.P., Desborough, who has been a very
good officer, was received. Mr. G. Chester was pressed to assume the position, and can
only do so, he says, if he can get relief from other work.

FINEDON. - The Highfield Works has again received a further visit from us, and
many advances obtained with a very definite promise to try and end matters at the end
of the next few weeks.

EARL SHILTON has again been visited owing to the competition of some firms in that
district being charged with unfair advantages on Labour costs. We again interviewed
the men and the firm, and set up prices that gives an adequate return to the men at a cost
to the firm at not less than Leicester prices; this should at least save Leicester firms.

BURTON-ON-TRENT was then visited and a factory found some hundred and fifty
yards long, with approxmately 180 girls and men employed on White Canvas Louis Heel
work beautifully made and finished for such a class of shoe. Such work is a credit to the
firm. Some of the operatives belong to us, and the others we hope to influence later,
but all depends whether they are members of the Rossendale Slipper Union or not. If so,
then we may find it not to our wishes that we should tamper with them.

EARL SHILTON was again visited, and the ro per cent. deducted from the operatives'
wages was, at our request, removed, and the other matters referred to the head of the firm,
who is away in South Africa.

THE TRADES UNION SPECIAL COMMITTEE, set up by the General Council for the settle-
ment of disputes between Co-operative Societies and the Operatives Union, met at the
Eccleston Square Offices with representatives of the Co-operative Union, and we have
endeavoured to find a way out of the difficulties, and after several hours we have not yet
found agreement, We are likely to meet again to further consider the troubles on these
matters. This cost us two days' serious work, and I am afraid will cost many more until
unity is found.

"DAILY HERALD." - May we again beg of all our members, male and female, old and
young, weak and strong, to read the Daily Herald, the best newspaper in the country
for Workers, and may all those workers wear only Trade Union made Boots.

7 MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1,
19th February, 1924.
Yours fraternally,
M. J. Richards
General President.


---
Here is the extracted text:
94
THIRTY-SIXTH CONFERENCE
(1924).
JUBILEE YEAR.
Agenda.
1. COUNCIL'S ADDRESS.
2. KETTERING NO. 1 BRANCH. "This Conference, believing that Education
is essential to the full development of the Trade Union movement,
recommends this Conference to discuss the problem in its widest
aspect, and to determine that, as soon as the Educational Policy of
the Trade Union Congress is issued, this Union will do everything
possible to develop such policy amongst its members."
3. LEICESTER NO. 1 BRANCH. "To ask the Council to meet the Manufacturers' Federation with the view of altering the age when members
become entitled to the full Minimum Wage from 23 years of age to
21 years of age; also the Graduated Scale to be altered accordingly."
4. LEICESTER NO. 1 BRANCH. "That owing to the increase in the amount
of work involved in the administration of the State Unemployment,
Branches shall receive not less than 6d. in the pound."
5. LEICESTER NO. 1 BRANCH. " That the Executive of the Union press the
employers to consider the wisdom of curtailing the Juvenile Labour
in our trade to one male person under 19 years to every five persons
over 19 years, as we are convinced that on the basis of 1 to 3, the
industry has been incapable of absorbing the Juveniles when they
have passed into the Adult stage."
6. LEICESTER NO. 1 BRANCH. "This Conference asks the Council to press
for the abolition of Overtime, or claim double time for same."
7. LEICESTER NO. 1 BRANCH. "This Conference asks the Council to strongly
press for a reduction in the hours of labour from 48 per week to 44
per week."
8. NORWICH NO. 1 BRANCH. "That the Executive Council do approach the
Home Secretary with a view to securing legislation demanding a
reasonable standard of light, air, and general cleanliness in all workshops and factories used for the manufacture of boots and shoes."
9. STAFFORD BRANCH. "That this Conference instructs the Executive
Council to arrange an Educational Scheme with the National Council
of Labour Colleges under which free classes and Correspondence
Courses would be available for our members, such scheme to be paid
for by an allocation of 3d. per member per annum from the funds of
the Union."


---
FELLOW MEMBERS, 25TH FEBRUARY, 1924.
ORGANISER'S REPORT.
was with me some days and we made things so lively at two factories that the police came
to see what was the matter. We had a peculiar experience, from a trade union point of
view, at a meeting of clickers from a shop in Bethnal Green on 23rd January. The Council
were prepared to support the clickers in demanding the London Statement prices. Mr.
Mason and Mr. Woodward, of the London Metro., and Mr. Bleakley and I appealed to the
men for over two hours to pluck up courage and give us permission, by their vote, to see
their employers and make a demand for the Statement. Our logic and eloquence only got
us one out of twenty-five in favour of the resolution I moved. None voted against and Mr.
Mason declared the resolution carried. The proprietors were written to and asked to give
us an interview. This was granted. On 4th February Mr. Mason and I visited the firm
and had a long meeting with the directors, the outcome of which was an advance of 6d.
a dozen on several lines on outsides, and 1d. a dozen on fittings. They further agreed
to meet us again in May with the view of considering the Statement. I can imagine
what these clickers would say if they asked their local or national officers for advice and
help if they got as cold a response to their appeal as they gave us. We got increases for
them against their will. Their only excuse was that there were other shops as bad as
I thought
the trade, and not to use some employers arguments who aim at the standard of the poorest
paid shops. We held many meetings of other shops where the position of the clickers
was nearly similar to the one mentioned, but I am pleased to say we had the unanimous
support of the men in these shops. On five lines we got advances of 6d. a dozen and 3d.
on six others at a shop in Hackney. This firm is to be seen in May on the full acceptance
of the Statement. In 1920, when the Clickers' Statement was first applied, the majority
of the clickers were getting good weekly wages and they did not trouble about protecting
themselves by seeking to get this excellent Statement applied to all the factories in London,
hence the present trouble.
The bosses' Statements are meant to be good dividend-making instruments, and the
trade union ones are intended to make happy and healthy homes.
In a recent report I pointed out that while we had a voice with the manufacturers in
fixing conditions of labour, we had no understanding with the big factors and multiple
shop-keepers. There are certain factories in London where the conditions are very low,
and the operatives of any calling where wages are low and the workshops ugly and mean,
they gradually become in outlook and character something like their conditions. They
are scarcely able to respond to appeals for a higher manhood. I noticed from time to time
that the motor lorries of some noted multiple shop-keepers called at a few of these poor
factories and took cases of boots with them. Unbridled competition is a scourge and those
who talk loosely of trade unionism being played out do not realise the mischief they are
doing. Trade unionism has never been applied to the full extent in any industry yet.
I paid a visit to Manchester over a firm's prices for Closing not giving the machinists
the agreed wages, and also to claim some back money for irregular deductions made last
year. This business is not yet settled.
D. MCCARTHY.
"THE LABOUR WOMAN."
The Labour Woman for February contains a very striking article on the life of women
tramps. This is one of a series of three dealing with Casual Wards and based upon informa-
tion from a woman who has been on the road for some time. It is to be hoped that this
very startling description based on first-hand experience will have some result in drawing
the attention of the Ministry of Health and the Poor Law Authorities.
The picture of Labour's three women M.P.'s taken on the Terrace of the House of
Commons is the special illustration for this month, and Miss Susan Lawrence's maiden
speech on the Feeding of School Children has been included because, as the Editor points
out, it marks the historical occasion on which the House of Commons was first addressed
by a Labour Woman M.P.
This monthly journal is increasing its circulation very rapidly, and during the first
two months of 1924 has put on four thousand copies. Price 2d.


---
96
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. The members here are still on short time, many not even
averaging half time. Rumour has it that the factory in Arbroath which closed
this time she so often is, because there are members who may find it extremely
difficult to get employment at the trade again unless we have this place started
once more. The one-factory town is a menace in other ways, and all members
are interested for their own sake. While the dearth of business reflects itself
in an excusable apathy regarding industrial matters - we suppose members
over the country feel the uselessness of striving for an extension of trade union
desires when work is scarce - yet we find an atmosphere of enthusiasm regarding
things political since the election kindled the fire of hope. It is not too much to
revival. If the Labour Government can vitalise the League of Nations struc-
hope that through political influences may come the long awaited industrial
ture, open up the markets of Europe by means of a sensible and virile foreign
policy, there can be little doubt but trade will show a remarkable improvement.
We are on the threshold of stirring times, and history will awaken envy in future
generations when they read of the happenings of our day. And yet we treat
it in prosaic fashion. Apart from the newspaper headlines - and these are
that has occurred in our political institutions during those recent months.
wonderfully quiet - a stranger would little understand the momentous evolution
Where are the terrors and exaggerated anxieties which the opponents of Labour
helpful schemes from the new Government to meet the clamant evils of to-day.
pretence it was. Already everybody seems to have settled down to await
the Banbury crowd may yet be placing carpets for them to enter on. We are
apply, and so instead of Coldstream Guards to clear them out of Parliament,
of those who wish immediate attention to anomalies in Unemployment Insur-
ance benefits. Every friend of the idle worker should demand abolition of
gaps, and further, it should be still regarded as an emergency payment and not
tested on the rights of claimants measured by contributions, past or pro-
spective. The volume of idleness is far too great to deal with as they have been
dealing with it since the new benefit year began. Our members have had so
much to do with Labour Exchange benefit that it is natural we should wish
helpful alterations introduced into its administration. After a considerable
amount of trouble we have at last secured a representative of the Court of
Referees for our area, and along with this has come a widening of panels which
has permitted four workers' representatives being appointed. In view of former
neglect it is a big step forward, especially if the old regulations continue,
whereby so many are disallowed benefit in order to let the Court test the validity
of claims. Our experience was that our Court failed utterly to bring out
important and essential information in many cases, just because the panels
were obsolete, and too much was left to the discretion of the neutral chairman.
We also know of a great deal of injustice arising unnecessarily in connection
with claims, simply because so many claimants are ignorant of what to do.
Our own official is constantly approached by textile, iron, and casual workers
for help on this or that question, and when suspensions or disallowances are
not seen to, equity is a bad second. May the Labour Government continue
till wrong is made right.
BARNSLEY. - Trade has fallen off here very much lately. The reason
is that many of the country people are doing their own straight jobs and
repairing, and working at their own work, and bringing the rougher repairing
to the Co-operative to do, thus robbing the workmen at the Co-operative

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
97
Stores of their ordinary work. These are called good Union men and good
co-operators. Several of the repairers are down with sickness, but they belong
to the old Union, so we have a clean bill of health at present.
BELFAST. - We are unable to report any improvement in trade.
BURNLEY. - We are sorry to report the death of Mr. Daniel David
Irving, M.P. for Burnley, to the regret of both supporters and opponents, at
whose funeral, for the first time in Burnley's history, all business was stopped.
Our members request me to write to invite the opinion of the branches on the
following question : " Seeing that the boot repairing industry is a distinct
think it would be advisable to have either a distinct department for the same
governed by boot repairers, or alternatively, direct representation on the
conditions there is no headway made, either in numbers or improved con-
branches which have always been considerably above them.
CHESHAM. We regret to report trade very quiet, a number of members
signing the out-of-work book, and the future not at all hopeful.
CHESTERFIELD.-Trade is bad, most of our members are working
9 till 4. This is about the run in Chesterfield, about four months full time
and then the other eight months short time and out of work, which is, for most
of our members, a bare existence from year end to year end. Some of our
members have not got a start at all since the firm closed down last Easter.
There is no prospect for these members at all.
EDINBURGH.-Trade still very quiet. One of our shops has been given
an ultimatum re our accepting what is termed the Birmingham prices for
working in conjunction with benching in repairing, or else time rates. The
members concerned, also the Branch, have decided to accept nothing less than
we have been able to obtain from St. Cuthbert's Co-operative Society, which
is the largest repairing shop in the district. Owing to negotiations still being
held we think it advisable meantime to say nothing further, but trust our
representatives on Administrative Committee of Wages Trade Board will
uphold the position which Edinburgh has secured. Edinburgh and District
are trying to have a Labour weekly newspaper started. Well, according to
the members which claim to represent Labour interest on public bodies, this
adventure has certainly some field for propaganda. Let us hope it will succeed.
We offer our congratulations to Mr. W. R. Smith on the position he has attained
in the first Labour Government.
HIGHAM & RUSHDEN.-Trade remains fairly good. One small firm
at Finedon has ceased work, but generally trade is fair. The trouble at the
Highfield Shoe Company, Finedon, is nearer settlement. This we expect to be
finally cleared up by the next visit of the General President. Show Card days
have been held at several factories, the Branch Officials acting as scrutineers.
This method has resulted in bringing into line a few non-unionists at the
factories dealt with. We heartily congratulate our friend, W. R. Smith,
upon his promotion.
KINGSWOOD & DISTRICT. - We regret to report trade very quiet, and
no immediate prospects of improvement. Our sick list is also very heavy,
due largely to a mild form of influenza. We are continually on the move,
as attempts are made to encroach on the wage conditions of the operatives.
We propose to make application for an organiser when a suitable oppor-
tunity presents itself. At present a number of factories are almost closed for
lack or orders.
LEICESTER No. 1.- We are pleased to report a slight improvement in
trade.


---
LEICESTER No. 2. At our February Monthly Meeting a discussion
carried the following resolution: "That this meeting of the Leicester No. 2
arose on that part of the General President's Report respecting the Leicester
Western Parliamentary Division, and the members present, by a large majority,
in the mud again in his Monthly Report, believing the same to be detrimental
Branch regrets the action of the General President in dragging West Leicester
suggests that the time has arrived when this subject should be allowed to drop."
to the best interests of the Union and the Labour Party, and respectfully
It was decided that the resolution be inserted in the Monthly Report.
LIVERPOOL. We are having a quiet time lately in so far as the repairing
trade is concerned, but hope it will soon improve. We note that Labour have
decided to let the country see whether they are "fit to govern" or not by
accepting the reins of office. It is now a case of "wait and see." We note
branch twice as Council Member. Mr. Standeven we have never seen in the
with regret the demise of three branch officials. Mr. Speight visited this
flesh, but some years ago we had some very interesting correspondence with
him, in which he mentioned that as a young man he worked in Liverpool,
giving the names of firms that were in full swing about forty years ago. These
which makes all the world akin. To
their relatives we tender our deepest sympathy.
LONDON METRO. Pleased to report there is an improvement in trade,
but principally in the machine shops. Our hand workers have had a very
trying time for the last twelve months, and the outlook is a very poor one for
them. London could do with the spirit that used to be shown in defence of
Statements, for where there is a charter of wages and conditions, it is up to the
men to observe them, and not, as in several shops in the East End, refuse to
work to Statement, because their poor employer, if he had to pay would not
be able to undersell fair-paying houses and they, perhaps, would experience a
slackness between the seasons instead of working seven days a week with a bit
of overtime thrown in. We had Mr. Bleakley and Mr. McCarthy with us for
a few days, and think that our Scotch friend was rather surprised at what he
saw and heard. It is with regret that we have to report that one of our oldest
members, Mr. J. Gibson, has passed away. He was for many years a trustee
of the branch, and one of the fighters of days gone by. The branch is the
poorer for his passing.
LONDON SOUTH. At the Monthly Meeting held on 6th February, 1924,
there was a large attendance, the best for some time. A vote of condolence
was taken for the late Secretary, Mr. G. Standeven, who has served the Branch
faithfully for many years, and has worked hard for its members and kept
them together. We, the members of the South London Branch, know that
in the loss of Mr. G. Standeven a valuable asset of the Branch has gone. The
new Secretary elected is Mr. J. Rawlings, 111, Gloucester Road, Peckham,
London, S.E. 15, who will be only too pleased to hear from old and new members,
and at the same time trusts that all members will rally round and attend the
meetings and take part in the business of the Branch, and not be members in
name only, but become active members, and thereby let others know that there
is a branch in South London.
MAYBOLE. We are sorry to have to report trade very bad, most of our
members working short time. We are pleased that the firm of J. Lees & Co.
have arranged to work three days each week, and so allow the members to
sign three days at the Labour Exchange. The Secretary attended the Scottish
Advisory Committee meeting at Glasgow, on Saturday, when the business was
relating to introduction of machinery into repairing shops and fixing of prices
for operations. We feel that much good will be done with this Committee.
We have to again report the death of one of our members, 152679, A. McKay.
To his relatives we extend our heartfelt sympathy.


---
NORTHAMPTON NO. 1. - Trade remains slack for this time of the year,
most firms losing time. Some departments more than others. Let us hope
260 people out of work. There can be no doubt that society has got to be
that the Spring trade will give us a lift up. One firm ceased business throwing
before poverty caused by unemployment can be eliminated. Sickness is heavy
reorganised on the basis of communal ownership of the material means of life.
just now, but not so bad as about two years ago.

NORWICH. - Trade in Norwich has shown considerable improvement
during the month, especially in the machine-sewn section. Claims on un-
employed fund have diminished accordingly, and we hope, judging by the present
improved position, to show a much reduced claim for February. Taking advan-
tage of the trade spurt the officials have tightened up organisation in one or
two weak spots, and have secured one hundred and thirty new members in
the month of January (mainly females), as a result of organising meetings.
While trade holds good - we intend to continue this work and so make Norwich
completely solid (100 per cent. membership we are aiming at), enabling us to
withstand the encroachments employers make when the cycle of bad trade
comes once more. Norwich feels mightily pleased with MacDonald's first
efforts at Labour Government, and we hope the Union may share the additional
pleasure at knowing of Walter Smith's recognition in the first Labour Adminis-
tration. Throughout the country shoe operatives recognise his sterling worth,
and we earnestly wish the same degree of success in his new sphere as has
characterised his official association with our Union.

NOTTINGHAM. - Trade has slightly improved. Members on new work
are now employed about three-quarter time, while in the repairs there is little
change to report.

PLYMOUTH.- Trade is still on the quiet side here, but with the accession
of Labour to the Seat of Government a change is manifest. The spirit of gloom
no longer broods o'er the murky waters, but a ray of sunlight flits around.
There is a bright hope of things to be, and a keen expectancy of springtime
and fragrant flowers. The reins of Government, held strong in the hands of
Labour for the first time in the history of our nation, with its Ministers hailing
from the pit, the factory and the ploughtail, has captured the popular imagina-
tion. The spirit of faith and hope once more beckons us onward and upward
to freedom and peace. True, the Slough of Despond has left its mark, the
burden is heavy and the hill called Difficult, but from the Delectable Mountains
we have already caught a glimpse of the Celestial City, and by the help and
co-operation of all who believe in building the New Jerusalem in England's
fair and happy land, the foundation stone may be true and firmly laid. If
fate is kind to the new Government and Mr. Asquith continues to guide his
Liberal team with that spirit of true magnanimity which characterised his
attitude to Labour taking office, then we believe the hand of fate holds peace
and prosperity for the humblest as well as the highest members of the com-
munity. Success to the new Government.

SOUTHAMPTON. - Trade still slack.

STREET. - Trade here is not what we would like it to be, although the
large factory is working three-quarter time generally, but we are looking for
improvements which seem long in coming. We are glad to report that we have
had a visit from Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards during the month to investigate
conditions of employment and rates paid in our Closing Department at the
large factory of Messrs. C. & J. Clark Ltd., as we could not get the firm to
recognise certain things that are contained in the National Agreement. We
are certain that with her help we shall be able to bring our Closing Department
up to a standard of comfortable working and a decent wage at the end of the
week, which is more than they have received for some little time. Our best
---

---
```text
the
100
thanks are due to the Council for kindly sanctioning the visit of Mrs. Richards.
a visit which we feel confident will be of great assistance to us and a financial
benefit to our female members. We are sorry to report that we have had to
lose the services of our worthy secretary, Mr. J. H. Hooper, P., during all this
month, owing to illness which necessitated him having to go to the Royal
Infirmary, Bristol, for a serious operation, but we are glad to report that at
time of writing the operation has proved very successful and our Secretary is
on the road to recovery.
LEGAL PROBLEMS SOLVED.
Your Queries Answered by an Expert,
If so, send particulars to Legal, Daily Herald, 2, Carmelite Street, London, E.C. 4.
Have you any difficulty in connection with the law on Workmen's Compensation,
housing, old age pensions, or any other subject ?
If you want a reply by post, enclose a stamped, addressed envelope. Otherwise
the reply will be given in the Daily Herald.
State your facts clearly and briefly, and give your full name and address
M. A. W. (Falkirk). - As you have been paid full compensation, you were not entitled
to draw national insurance sickness benefit at the same time.
A. E. G. (Catford). - If you have been given a week's notice you must work for the
week if required, or you must be paid a week's wages.
F. C. L. (Walworth). - If you do not pay, as demanded by the Council, you will be
summoned, and a judgment will be obtained.
R. J. (Rhyl). - As your sons refused the work offered they could be penalised by the
Labour Exchange.
A. T. (Kidderminster). - You cannot claim a lump sum for your son, and as the loss
of his toe has not affected his earning capacity, he is not entitled to further compensation.
-Daily Herald, 14th February, 1924.
THE INQUIRY REPORT-AND THE FUTURE.
recommendation of the Court, and our task is now and in future to get a medical service
It is no use making a fuss about the award of 9s. to the doctors. We have to accept
worth 9s. It is not worth it at the present time. But it can be made worth it, if
approved societies and insurance committeee do their duty. The 9s. should also encourage
the doctors to improve the service not only by their own goodwill but by precept and
example from high quarters. A generous fee, such as gs. undoubtedly is, entitles us to
hope that some of the deficiencies which now exist will be removed, and should encourage
insurance committees to impose a higher standard, and to insist on fair play being given
by certain doctors who are both remiss in their medical duties and negligent in the accom-
modation they provide. Approved societies, too, may hope for a higher standard of
certification, and in general a more frequent examination of insured persons. There is
at the present time too cursory and too infrequent an examination made. We do not
say this applies to all doctors; on the contrary, we believe the service given by a majority
of the doctors to be of quite a good class, and if we could be assured that stern attention
would be given to the percentage of indifferent doctors, and more so to the percentage of
real black sheep, we could reconcile ourselves more comfortably to a gs. fee-especially
It will be the duty, at any rate, of all of us to weed out the unsatisfactory and undesirable
if the whole of the doctors felt satisfied and anxious to co-operate with all concerned.
practitioners. These individuals must be given definitely to understand that they must
improve or clear out. One advantage of the 9s. fee will be, we hope, that in the poorer
parts of our industrial centres more doctors will be induced to settle. The service in some
the
of the practitioners in the neighbourhood. But it is unwise to generalise on the subject
of medical benefit, and we are quite sure that in many towns the service is of a most reason-
service in any way possible to them. - The National Insurance Gazette, 2nd February, 1924.
satisfied with the result, and we may anticipate from them a strong effort to improve the
able character. One good thing about the Enquiry is that the doctors seem to be well
```

---
117
ANNUAL REPORT
Of the Northamptonshire Joint District Council of the Boot and Shoe
Trade, as presented to the Annual Meeting, held at Rushden,
18th January, 1924.
In compiling a record of the history of the growth of movements or organisations,
the feelings of the historian are affected somewhat by the perusal of the records he is
examining. At times he is thrilled with pleasure, anon moods of depression are his.
Actually his thoughts, as he sifts the records of the past, are touched and tinctured with
a mingling of both experiences. Pleasure is his, as the records reveal performances, that
give him an indication that hopes are being realised, that the organisation is doing the
things for which it was brought into being. On the other hand there are moments when
depression overtakes him, as he discovers, that in some directions progress is not being
achieved. When this is the case, he must search for causes that indicate where progress
has been hindered, and where the work of the organisation has been retarded.
So much by way of preface to my third Annual Report. I will now endeavour to tell
you the story of the past year.
Statistics.
I will deal in the first place with the statistics of the organisation, things dry in them-
selves, but when clothed with their implications, either give us thoughts for encouragement,
or cause feelings of depression. Let me say at once, that my reading of our figures is an
encouraging one, because they indicate growth.
In the eight branches that form the four districts that together make up the Joint
District Council, we have 29,900 members, more than one-third of the membership of the
Union. These figures show an increase of 272, not very large, but when compared with
the 1,842 reduction of last year, they show that the tide has turned and is with us. Daventry
Higham and Rushden, Kettering No. 1, and Kettering No. 2 branches all show a slight
increase. Kettering No. 2 having the best record with an increase of 261. On the other
hand the Desborough, Northampton No. 1, and Northampton No. 2 branches show a
small decrease, while strange enough, the figures for the Wellingborough branch are exactly
the same as last year.
Let us hope that when the report is given next year, that all branches will show an
increase.
Perhaps the most noticeable feature which gives greatest cause for encouragement
is to be found in the fact that we have 388 more probationers than last year.
The actual figures of the district are as follow :-
Males. Females. Probationers. Totals.
September 30th, 1922 ... 18,867 9,470 1,291 29,628
November 24th, 1923 ... 18,896 9,325 1,679 29,900
These figures show an increase of 29 males, a decrease of 145 females, while probationers
show an increase of 388. The net increase being 272, as compared with a decrease of
1,842 last year. Certainly it gives more pleasure to record the increase than it did to
chronicle the reduction.
Formation of Another District Council.
Another pleasurable incident I have to record this year is that another District Council
has been formed. Scotland has now followed in the wake of Northamptonshire, largely,
I believe, through the persistence of our friend Reid, of Arbroath, coupled with the fact
that the Union in Conference last Whitsuntide decided to pay the expenses of District
Councils. We congratulate our Scottish friends on their wisdom in following us in the
formation of a District Council, and can only hope that similar good results will follow
their decision.
Further, may we express the hope that other districts will forget something of the
bias of local feeling, give the question the earnest consideration it deserves, judge of the
work and possibilities of the usefulness of District Councils as shown in our Annual Reports,
then decide to do likewise. Because, whatever our United Council may not have done,
it has splendidly vindicated itself in this connection, that it has given us in the Northamp-
tonshire branches a better understanding of one another's local circumstances, and a keener
appreciation of each others difficulties.
I well remember that when we first met together, the chief occupation seemed to be
to try who could best score off another district, until some began to get heartily sick of
the whole business. At this time we were in danger of shipwreck.
To-day, however, with the growing influence and wisdom of tolerant minds, together
with the gathering experiences of the results of our mutual help, we have emerged almost


---
Northampton, Kettering, Higham
tions, we have become comrades true, realising, I believe, everyone of us, that the good
of the whole is of far greater importance than the self-asserted glory of a part. That
the period of self-assertive youth if you like, and as a result of our meetings and associa.
and Rushden, Wellingborough, or even Desborough or Daventry in particular, but on the
ntirely from the half-developed state of growth that reveals itself in self-glorification.
is everywhere, where loval officers and members are striving in their own
way and to the best of their local circumstances to uphold the honour of the Union we
the cream of the Union does not belong exclusively to No
other hand
are all proud to belong.
State of Trade.
On the whole it has been fair, or
to discover.
result of keener business
work.
perhaps it would be better to say, from poor to fair.
Trade during the year has certainly been an improvement on the previous two years.
Some districts have done considerably better than others, the cause of which is difficult
lower wages being paid, as some vehemently assert, or whether on the other hand it is the
Whether the cause of good trade in some districts is the direct result of
ss enterprise and smarter workmanship, I will leave for each district
to decide. But certainly one hears at Arbitration Board Meetings and in one's interviews
with employers, that every other district, and nearly every other factory is undercutting
organisation, that the only difference is in their labour costs. It is in this particular
where honest unbiassed information from cach branch might help us considerably in our
hem. They assert that they are just as keen buyers, and perhaps a little better in their
During the year under review, the operations of the National Agreement have resulted
in a reduction, and in an increase of wages, so that to-day, from the point of view of the
minimum wage, we are in the same position as we were a year ago. There has been a little
<difficulty in some directions in getting the increase to all operatives in the same easy way
that the reduction was put into operation. Let me observe here that the manufacturer
who takes advantage of reductions, but has to be compelled to fall into line when an
increase is due, ought to be refused permission to continue in this or any other trade.
in fact they ought never to be allowed a position of authority over anyone. I do feel
employers could not exist. For this reason, one regrets that the Trade Union Congress
that some compulsory powers ought to be possible, so that these degenerate down-grade
could not see its way clear to agree to Trade Agreements having legal standing, and there-
fore capable of legal enforcement, which decision killed the understanding that had been
tion of our National Agreement, which would have made it binding by law. This is done
arrived at between our Union and the Manufacturers' Federation in regard to the registra-
by the machinery of Trades Boards, and why it could not be done in a similar way with
ordinary Trade Agreements I do not know.
I will now deal with the attempts we have made as a Council to try and carry out the
objects for which we were formed, viz., to establish and develop Educational, Political.
and Industrial policies throughout the Union.
Industrial Work.
the National Agreement.
have been given over to the consideration of Industrial questions, and their relations to
I will deal in the first place with the Industrial side of our work. Two of our mectings
At Wellingborough, Mr. W. Townley, of Northampton, opened a discussion on "Day-
of Daywork and Piecework in the trade, and spoke of the dangers that arise when a firm
work and Piecework in relation to the National Agreement." He traced the development
who have been working Piecework go back on to Daywork methods. The evident desire
being to secure the intensity of production of the Piecework system with a minimum
wage regulated by Daywork. He suggested that, to avoid the possibility of this happening,
that when the next agreement is negotiated, an effort be made to insert a clause, making
it obligatory for an employer to give six months' notice to the Trade Union officials if
he contemplated changing from one system to the other. This time could then be used in
instructing the workpeople how to work, and in negotiating where the suggestions would
adversely affect some of them.
Then in view of the attempts of the Northants County Manufacturers to reduce the
Northants County Clicking Statement, Mr. S. Barnes, of Desborough, opened a discussion
at Kettering, on the subject of "The Revision of Statements in relation to the National
Agreement, with special reference to the Northants Clicking Statement."
He dealt with the building up of the statements in the County and spoke of the pioneer
work of the Kettering branches in the preparation of Clicking and Lasting Statements.
He showed the effect of the operation of the Statements on the minds of the operatives
result wages were much higher, the consequence being that manufacturers began to agitate


---
119
In the first place they asked for a reduction of 30 per cent., this was reduced in steady
stages down to 20 per cent., 15 per cent., and finally 5 per cent., while now even this has
partly disappeared in some directions, while it has considerably increased in others.
The contention of the manufacturers to impose a flat rate reduction has been contested
all along in accordance with Paragraph C, Clause 10 of the National Agreement, where it
speaks about revisions in the following language: " Local Boards of Arbitration are
recommended to exercise their powers of reviewing, on the request of either side, existing
piecework or quantity statements, for the purpose of adjusting any specific anomalous
item or items, whether favourable to employers or employed."
Many meetings have been held, but upon this position we are determined to stand,
with no thought of yielding in the slightest degree, for as an historic person said upon a
celebrated occasion, "We can do no other." Somebody will ultimately have to give a
ruling as to what this Clause really means, but we shall never agree that anomalies exist
only on one side.
Educationally.
I am afraid that in this direction we have hardly done as well as in previous years.
and the present indications are such, that from the point of view of Educational Classes
we shall do worse this season. In other directions, particularly in the form of Educational
Conferences, we hope to do much better.
Three educational classes have been held during the year, one at Kettering, where
Mr. George Chester conducted a class of 23 on "The Law relating to Trade Unions."
At Rushden, Mr. Arthur Allen dealt with the subject of " Political Theory " to a class of 14,
while at Northampton a class was held at which the subject of "Economic Science"
engaged the attention of 26 students, the tutor being Mr. P. Cowen, M.A.
In regard to the present season, classes are being held at Rushden and Northampton
with an approximate attendance of 42.
It is just one of those strange things in life that we cannot understand, why so few
people are personally interested in the question of educational achievement. If men
and women would but realise the incalculable difference that an educated and cultured
mind adds to the fulness of life, then many more would avail themselves of the oppor-
tunities that come to them. Be that as it may, and deeply though we may deplore the
lack of real interest in education, we are very glad that even the small number attended
the classes arranged by our branches. To these, at any rate, we trust has come something
of the joy of acquisitive knowledge, which in the days that are coming will reveal itself
in well-ordered minds, that will be able to grapple and deal with the great problems that
await us. Labour is slowly but surely coming into power, and we shall want all the applica-
tion of intelligent minds to the difficult problems around us, if we are going to live up to
even the suggestion of our reiterated ideals.
In furtherance of our educational efforts, an educational conference was held at
Kettering in February, when our General President, Mr. T. F. Richards, introduced to
a very good attendance of delegates, Mr. J. M. Mactavish, General Secretary of the W.E.A.,
who gave a lecture on " Education and the Working-class Movement." The lecture was
thoroughly appreciated, and we were well rewarded for our efforts to arrange it.
The idea behind these lectures is to stimulate Adult Education in the Trade Union
and Working-class Movements. Possibly several will be arranged in the coming year.
Already we have arranged for Mr. W. G. Cove, M.P. for the Wellingborough Division, to
give a lecture on 9th February.
In educational matters, as in many other things, we have to keep pressing on in the
work, regardless of setbacks or indifference, realising that it is only in persistent endeavour
that we shall be able to realise our ideal of securing an educated democracy and an intelligent
people.
Political Work.
At our previous meeting held at Desborough, we agreed to hold the Annual Meeting
on the first Saturday in December. Had nothing intervened, I am afraid that my remarks
on this head would have been very brief indeed. Instead, however, of meeting together
at our Annual Meeting, we were in the throes of a General Election.
Mr. Baldwin, the Conservative Prime Minister, had seen some of the actual effects
of unemployment in the country. Then, presumably, he had had a vision of the world
put right by the magic influence of Protective Tariffs, and like the honest man he says
he is, thought the country should have an opportunity of saying whether they could see
the vision in exactly the same way. He therefore dissolved Parliament, and, like a knight
errant of old, went forth to slay the giant of unemployment, armed with a Tariff in one
hand by means of which he was going to keep manufactured goods out of the country,
while in the other hand he held an enormous money bag, that was going to hold the monies
that would considerably increase the revenue of the country as a result of the imposition
---

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
electorate, and after the
fight, but failed to secure election.
120
of a tax on the goods that came in that the Tariff was going to keep out. It was either
ineptitude, be funked his job, Whatever the cause, the General Election gave us an
this, or else realising their dificulties increasing as a result of their own incapacity and
opportunity of once again fighting for our cause by presenting our principles before the
the poll had been declared, where the clectors had given expression
the cause of Labour. Among the victories, particularly welcome to us here, were North-
and the remote rural areas, came the inspiring news of great and wonderful victorics for
to their desires, from North, South East and West, from the populous industrial districts
jumpton, where Margaret Bondfield, at the third time of asking, had won a brilliant victory,
cornered fights, it is true, but Labour showed itself to be much the stronger of the three
Mr. W. G. Cove at Wellingborough, and Mr. Perry at Kettering. All of them were three-
parties, In South Northamptonshire, Len. Smith, at very short notice, fought a gallant
In other districts, Mr. John Buckle increased his
majority, while our old friend, W. R. Smith, astonished us all by his brilliant win in his
Apart from these, Mr. F. Gould, a Union Branch Secretary, successfully
triumphed over his opponent, and was returned by a big majority. Altogether, 191
members have been returned pledged to support the Labour programme. Under these
circumstances I am very glad that I was not called upon to give my report early in Decem-
Northants. Two of the three constituencies that were won had for Agents two of our
ber. It would be interesting to place on record some of the efforts made by our Union in
in South Northants, Len. Smith, a Northampton member, was the candidate. At North-
officials, Mr. George Chester at Kettering, and Mr. Lionel Poole at Wellingborough; while
meetings. They also provided speakers to assist Len. Smith in his fight. The Higham
ampton our branches there undertook the responsibility of arranging 24 dinner-time
as we have said, two of their officials, while the others carried on in their absence. At
Desborough and Daventry the secretaries were the leaders in their own districts, waging
and Rushden branch rendered yeoman service, Kettering and Wellingborough released.
the good fight, and during the contest we were greatly helped by our General Officers,
own town.
Mr. T. F. Richards and Mr. E. L. Poulton coming to assist.
Last year, we were discussing causes of defeat. This year, we are celebrating in songs
What wer the challenge comes again, whether it be quick, or whether it be delayed, we shat
What we have to do now is to keep what we have won, to so consolidate our force, that
of victory, and to all who took part in the contests, I think we can say "Well Done"
be ready, yea, eager to meet it. We have to keep what we have got, build up on these by
be read further seats, so that power to carry out our purposes shaihtinuts, and so I say
to all," Keep it up, keep it up." We have a cause that is worth fighting for. Our ideas
are as big as humanity's needs, and our desires to carry them out are only limited by this
limit of human endurance.
Politically we must go on with our educational work, steadily building such a demo-
cracy, that the time will come when the causes that result in want will never be tolerated,
that hungry children and homeless men and women will never be allowed, and when
idleness shall be exorcised from the earth.
Let me now conclude my report with just a personal note, which to me is the most
difficult to express. For twelve years I have been Secretary of the branch at Desborough,
nearly nine of which I have been a full-time official. Seven of those years I have filled
the post of Secretary of the old Northants Advisory Committee, and the Joint District
Council, and to-day is the last of my official connection with you. I have certainly tried
to take my part in the stirring times of the last few years, and although I may not have
been as brilliant as I would have liked, at the same time I have done my best. For twelve
years I have breathed the very spirit of Trades Unionism, and I believe that in the Industrial
and Political development of the future it will fill a great and important part. To all of
my friends I have an affectionate regard that has grown with the passing years, and all
that I can quite feebly say to express my thoughts, is, that I have been privileged to
associate with you. Many of you I am deeply indebted to, you have helped me much.
I want to thank you, and to express the fervent hope that the sun will shine upon your
work, and that under its beneficent and warming influence you may see the harvest of a
glorious fruition.
STEPHEN J. B. BARNES,
Secretary.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
industries at July, 1923: Males, 93,620; Females, 50,230; Total, 143,850. Number
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-Estimated number of persons in insured
of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 28th January, 1924: Males, 10,704;
Females, 2,992; Total, 13,696. Percentage Unemployed at 28th January, 1924: Males, 11.4
Females, 6.0; Total, 9.5. As compared with 21st December, 1923: Males, increase, 0.2;
Fomales, decrease, 1.2; Total, decrease, 0.3.- Ministry of Labour Gazette, February, 1924.


---
124
CABINET AND LEGAL 48-HOUR WEEK.
Considering the Ratification of the Washington Convention.
Minister of Labour's Sympathetic Reply to the Trades Union Congress
Deputation.
the British
and the
of
is
is 100 the Minister of Labour, yesterday received a deputation from the
Council of the Trades Union Congress, which submitted reasons why
ratify the Washington Convention on the eight-hour day
The Minister replied sympathetically, and said the Cabinet would consider the matter
tom at an early date.
The putation, introduced by the acting-chairman of the General Council, Mr. J. B.
ked that immediate steps be taken by the
Government to give effect to the
placed on record in the Peace Treaty of Versailles; in the findings
of the National Industrial Conference convened by the British Government in February,
October rote, in the draft convention of the International Labour Conference at Washington,
in the pledges of Ministers which have been placed on record from time
and in numerous Trades Union Congresses' resolutions.
The Demand.
long standing demand for the principle of the eight-hour day or the 48-hour week, made
Mr Fred Bramley, secretary of the General Council, in his statement, outlined the
by successive Trades Union Congresses since 1885, and the decisions of the 1919 national
industrial conference, at which representatives of Capital and Labour were present, repre-
senting industries in which over 12,000,000 workers are employed.
agreement with the Government, however, the draft Bill was suspended.
At this conference, Mr. Bramley stated, general agreement was reached between
employers and trade union representatives regarding a draft Bill. On account of dis-
Moral Obligation.
Mr. Bramley reminded the Minister that Great Britain took part in the Washington
conference, which formulated an international Labour charter. Article 12 of this charter,
he said, made provision for the establishment of a legal 48-hour week, and the convention
was adopted for ratification by the countries represented, in accordance with the Labour
clauses of the Peace Treaty.
it was under a moral obligation to give effect to the findings of the convention.
Mr. Bramley pointed out that, as the British Government was directly represented.
Mr. Bramley alluded to the disappointment felt by British Labour that the Govern-
ment had taken no action to honour its obligations. Great Britain's refusal to ratif
the convention, added Mr. Bramley, had encouraged other nations to do likewise, and
he quoted in support of this speeches made by legislators in Austria, Belgium, Finland,
the Netherlands, Denmark, Poland, Switzerland, Italy and other countries.
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., the Workers' Representative on the Governing
Body of the International Labour Office, then said:
The points to which I beg to call your special attention, apart from the statements
made by my colleagues, are as follow:-
On page 16 of the rules of the International Labour Office, Article 427, it states:---
"They recognise that differences of climate, habits and customs, of economic
opportunity and industrial tradition, make strict uniformity in the conditions of
labour difficult of immediate attainment. But, holding as they do that labour
should not be regarded merely as an article of commerce, they think that there are
methods and principles for regulating labour conditions which all industrial com-
munities should endeavour to apply, so far as their special circumstances will permit."
On page 17, the fourth item, it states:-
to be AIMED at where it has not already been attained."
"The adoption of an eight-hours day or a forty-eight hours week as the standard
Knowing the points put up against the Convention being put into operation in this
4, and 6 of the Convention itself,
whereby in my judgment if advantage is taken of the said Articles, any difficulties which
serious because-rightly or wrongly-countries are making excuses for not registering
---

---
refuses so to do. This was explained at the recent meeting of the Governing Body of the
this Convention because Great Britain, one of the great industrial countries, persistently
International Labour Office, particularly as regards the serious position in which the
Bondfield on behalf of the British Government at the said meeting, which statement was
It was, therefore, with additional pleasure I listened to the statement made by Miss
of such a character as to give reason for hope that within the very near future the Con-
vention will be in working order in Great Britain.
For myself, I am very confident of the great moral effect it would have upon the
would the excuse be taken away from any Government or section of employers as to the
continental nations, especially if an Act was passed for this country, because not only
application of the Convention, but it would give the workers themselves renewed hope
and determination to still more persistently work for the attainment of the Convention
German workers find themselves placed to-day.
being applied in their countries.
I am the more encouraged in my expectations when I recall that you, Sir, whom we
are pleased to see holding such a responsible position to-day, was chairman of the Com-
mittee in connection with the hours question at Washington in 1919, and am still further
whom we are delighted to see in such a position, was also a member of the Committee
inspired to know that your Parliamentary Secretary Miss Margaret Bondfield, M.P.
dealing with the subject at Washington.
Might I remind you, Sir, that twelve months ago (on the 5th February, 1923) the
General Council of the Trades Union Congress waited upon your predecessor Sir Montague
considerable part in dealing with the subject at that particular period. I need not go
Barlow-in connection with this same question, when it was my privilege to take some
into the answers given by Sir Montague Barlow, as I doubt not you are fully aware of the
same. I should like, however, to emphasise, because of the unique position in which we
find ourselves regarding the matter, a statement made to Sir Montague Barlow by Miss
Bondfield, at that interview, which is as follows: -
MISS BONDFIELD. The point that I should like to emphasise about Washington
is this and it should be remembered. It was the English section that forced the campaign.
I do feel that in the eyes of the world we have a position to justify from the International
standpoint. It was the British section at Washington that got this Convention through,
and we are in the absurd position, among the great industrial countries, of being one of
the exceptions. It is an impossible position. It is no use saying that the people at
matter through the International Office and get it settled."
The said statement is so appropriate to the present occasion that it needs very few
more words of mine to enforce our particular point of view regarding this very important
question. It will be noted Miss Bondfield stated: "The English section forced the
campaign, and we are " in the absurd position of being one of the exceptions" to the
ratification of it.
The position is an impossible one, and one which becomes less justifiable, especially
when we remember the Industrial Court set up by an earlier Government, comprising
both employers and workmen, unanimously signed a report in favour of the 48-hours week.
Our hopes are necessarily raised very high at the present time, and we trust, and feel
confident, those hopes will not be dashed to the ground once again, but that we shall
be enabled in the not distant future to be able to say that the British Government has
fully honoured the Resolutions agreed to by its representatives in Washington in 1919,
and has thereby added one more ratification to those which we hope will be many, in helping
to bring about a better industrial condition of affairs.
The Minister, in reply, expressed his sympathy with the objects of the deputation,
and said the whole question would be favourably considered by the Cabinet at an early
date.
SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.-Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 26th
January, 1924, 51,887; Increase on a month ago, 1.7 per cent.; Increase on a year ago,
3.9 per cent. Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 26th January, 1924,
117,628; Decrease on a month ago, 1.4 per cent.; Increase on a year ago, 3.3 per cent.-
The Ministry of Labour Gazette, February, 1924.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
WAR OFFICE. BOOTS: W. Nichols & Sons Ltd., Kettering. BOOTS, SPECIAL
CHROME LEATHER: St. Crispin Productive Society Ltd., Raunds. The Ministry of Labour
Gazette, February, 1924.


---
126
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
HOURS OF WORK AND REPARATIONS.

Miss Bondfield at Geneva.
The Governing Body of the International Labour Office, whose meeting Miss Bondfield
is attending as representative of Great Britain, discussed on the 30th January the problem
of promoting a more general ratification of the Washington Convention on Hours of Work.
in order thereby to arrest the tendency in various countries to prolong the working day.
The question was examined thoroughly and dispassionately in all its aspects, including
the relation of the recent extension of the hours of work in Germany to the Reparations
Problem

During the discussion Miss Bondfield referred to the fact that the present Minister
of Labour was Chairman of the Committee on Hours of Work at the Washington Con-
ference, and said:

"That in itself may I think be taken as a guarantee that the British Government
will leave no effort untried to secure further consideration of this question and the
ratification of the Eight-Hour Day Convention. The British Government recognises
that this is not merely a national but an international question, and that it is of vital
importance to get stabilisation for the life of Europe. The British Government
will endeavour to remove the reproach under which some of us feel we have lain in
this matter of what we regard as our duty in view of statements made at the Washing-
ton Conference on behalf of the British Government."
Miss Bondfield added that the Government would endeavour to promote practical
means to secure simultaneous ratification of the Eight Hours Convention by various
countries.

"SAFETY FIRST."

Another paper by Lt.-Col. J. A. A. Pickard, D.S.O., General Secretary of the British
Industrial Safety First Association, discusses "Safety and Protection in Industry," and
reaches the conclusion that the value of the "Safety First" movement has not yet been
fully realised in this country. By some it is thought to be a campaign of cranks, but the
roll of its followers quickly disproves this fallacy. It numbers among its members most
of the leading and progressive undertakings, and it should not be impossible that, in a
not too distant future, every industrial undertaking worthy of its name should follow in
their footsteps. As a national humanitarian movement it is one in which all interests
should harmoniously pull together in the common aim of lessening one of the heaviest
burdens imposed upon civilisation.

PROTECTION OF LIFE AND TRADE.

Mr. Stevenson Taylor calls attention to the economic advantage of standardising
internationally the Safeguarding of Industrial Machinery. In this country agreements
have already been made between the Factory Department and representatives of employers,
operatives, and machine makers with regard to the safeguarding of dangerous parts of
the machinery used in certain industries. Similar agreements might be made by the
makers of other classes of machinery, so that every maker would only supply machines
with standard forms of safeguards. This would eliminate the bogey of competitive prices
based upon the cost of the guards so far as the makers in this country are concerned, but
it would not eliminate the competition by machine makers of other countries. This is
therefore a matter for international agreement and worthy of consideration. Moreover,
the standards of safeguarding machinery vary in different countries; this involves addi-
tional trouble and expense to machine makers, because different types of guards and other
fittings are required on similar machines. Mr. Taylor argues that although standardised
safeguarding for all dangerous parts of the vast number of different machines now in use
may be an impossible ideal at the present moment, a beginning might nevertheless be made
with the more obviously dangerous parts.

Other papers contained in the pamphlet issued by the International Labour Office
relate to "International Co-operation in the study of Industrial Fatigue" (by Mr. D. R.
Wilson, Secretary of the Industrial Fatigue Research Board), and to Industrial Disease
and Injurious Processes, by Professor Collis, of the People's League of Health, and Dr.
Legge, Senior Medical Factory Inspector.

The International Labour Office points out that though the Conference before which
these papers were read was national and not international, the importance of the subjects
comprising as they do much information upon the subjects of industrial hygiene and
safety.


---
torparations. These statements marked a stage along the path to economic peace.
The Drector noted also the declaration of the German Government and German em-
of hours o
128
plover representatives concerning the essentially temporary character of the prolongation
International Labour Office to acquiesce in a departure from the limits fixed by the
of work in Germany. At the same time, no one could contemplate asking the
Washington Convention As had been pointed out, it was possible to get greater output
that the anticipated increase in production in Germany would actually be used, as was
alleged, for the payment of reparations, that the German workers should not be the only
hours, Finally, and above all, there was a desire for some guarantees
Germany to bear the charge, and that they should not find themselves making
sacrifice which, from the point of view of the peace of the world, was in vain. If all the
States had already ratified the Washington Convention, no anxiety would have existed
en this point. Possibly Germany might have invoked Article 14 of the Convention.
without longer hou
people in Germa
which permitted departure from its general provisions
emergency endangering the national safety."
had the duty and the power
guarantee given by their mutual engagements.
" in the event of war or other
In that case, the other States would have
of scrutinising the conditions of such departure, under the
The debate, added the Director, revealed
Labour Organisation, and the need for pursuing with vigour the work of obtaining ratifica-
more clearly than ever the value of a regular and full functioning of the International
tions. To this task the Director would address himself ardently and without ceasing,
strengthened by the unanimous support of the Governing Body.
vote, a resolution instructing the Director to continue his efforts to obtain the ratification
At the close of the discussion the Governing Body adopted, without a dissentient
of the various Conventions, adopted by the International Labour Organisation; and
to draw general attention to them by means of suitable publications explaining the reasons
which led to their adoption, and by the dissemination of all available information as to
Miscellanea.
of the application of these
The Governing Body decided that the following items should be placed on the Agenda
for the 1925 Session of the International Labour Conference:
(1) A general report on social insurance;
(2) Workmen's 's Compensation.
The resolutions referred to the Governing Body by the 1923 Session of the Conference
were examined, and instructions were given to the Director on various matters arising
out of them.
The questions of relations between the Saar territory and the International Labour
Organisation was brought before the Governing Body, and the Director was requested
to submit definite proposals on the subject for consideration at the next session.
Reports of the results of various Commissions which have met since the previous
session were received by the Governing Body.
The next session will be held in Geneva on 8th April.

WOMEN M.P.'S AND WORLD LABOUR CONDITIONS.

An Unique Document.
An unique document has just been issued in leaflet form by the International Labour
Office of the League of Nations as a "Message to Women," for it has been signed by all
the eight women M.P.'s.
No stronger evidence could be found of the non-partisan character of the International
Labour Organisation than the fact that this call to support its work should be thus endorsed
by members of all three political parties.
"The International Labour Organisation of the League of Nations," says the message,
"has given a strong impetus to the realisation of many of the aspirations of the women's
movement, and should be actively supported by women of all countries and of all classes,"
and the signatures run:-
NANCY ASTOR.
KATHARINE ATHOLL.
MARGARET G. BONDFIELD.
DOROTHY JEWSON.
VERA TERRINGTON.
A. SUSAN LAWRENCE.
MABEL PHILIPSON.
MARGARET WINTRINGHAM.
of the
have put any of these measures into operation.
questions affecting women and children, and a statement of the various countries which
To the message has been added, by the International Labour Office, a concise summary
with


---
129
THE EIGHT-HOUR DAY.
Austrian Approval of International Convention.
Steady progress has already been recorded this year in the ratification by the different
States which are members of the International Labour Organisation of the League of
Nations of the Draft Conventions adopted by the annual sessions of the International
Labour Conference, and news has just been received that a committee of the Austrian
National Assembly has unanimously recommended the ratification of the Convention
adopted at Washington in 1919 on the question of the eight-hour day and forty-eight
hour week.
At the meeting of the Governing Body of the Office at the end of January the repre-
sentative of the Polish Government announced the ratification by the competent authorities
of his country of thirteen Conventions, while the Italian Government representative
announced the forthcoming ratification by Italy of all the Conventions adopted by the
International Labour Conference, with the exception of that on the eight-hour day, which
has been submitted to Parliament.
Japan has ratified the Convention dealing with the minimum age of employment of
children in agriculture, the main provision of which prohibits the employment of children
under fourteen years in agricultural work, save outside the hours fixed for school attendance.
Effect has also been given in Japan to Conventions fixing the minimum age of employment
at sea at fourteen and making annual medical examination of youths under 18 employed
at sea compulsory.
The Danish Government has been authorised by Parliament to ratify the Convention
on the minimum age at sea, and also the Convention fixing the minimum age of young
persons employed as trimmers and stokers in ships at eighteen; the latter Convention
has also been approved by the Finnish Parliament and will be ratified this year.
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION OF THE WORLD.*
International Labour Office Report.
The International Labour Office (League of Nations) announces the publication in
French of the second volume of a report containing information, collated and analysed,
concerning industrial production throughout the world.
The report, which will be completed in four volumes in French, embodies the results
of an inquiry into production throughout the world undertaken by the Office in accordance
with instructions given by its Governing Body in June, 1920, the initiative having been
taken by Mr. Pirelli (Italy) on behalf of the group of employers' representatives.
The second volume deals with the general movement of production in the period
from before the war until 1921 or 1922, and the corresponding movement of the average
output per worker. The two succeeding volumes will deal with the explanation of the
crisis of production and with the remedies proposed and experiments made.
This volume contains 1,356 pages, with 665 tables and 330 diagrams. Nearly a
thousand pages are required for the survey of the general movement of production. This
survey covers a considerable number of articles classified under the following heads :—
mineral, fuel, ores and metals, chemical products, agricultural products for industrial
purposes, agricultural products for food purposes, agricultural implements, manufacturing
industries, building.
The comparisons which are made are based on statistical data relating to the various
countries which are published in the report. The method adopted in making these com-
parisons consists in giving first of all for the whole of the period under consideration a
general account of the movement of production, and then in following the movement of
production for each of the four following groups of countries: belligerent countries of
Central and Eastern Europe; belligerent countries of Western Europe; neutral European
countries; extra-European countries. Finally, an effort is made to indicate the changes
which have taken place in the case of each of the countries.
The articles which are taken into account include the following :—coal, oil, iron, copper,
lead, zinc, aluminium, mercury, silver, gold, manures, sulphur, rubber, cotton, wool,
silk, linen, hemp, jute, beetroot, sugar cane, sugar, wheat, rye, maize, rice and ships.
The part of the work dealing with the output per worker is divided into three sections
concerning respectively :—problems of method; output per worker in various countries;
supplementary information on output in agriculture.
* Inquiry into Production: General Report, Volume II. Published for the International
Labour Office (League of Nations) by Berger-Levrault, Paris (25 French francs);
obtainable from the International Labour Office, Geneva (12.50 Swiss francs).


---
Here is the extracted text:
131
C.W.S. TRADE, 1923.
The figures for the total trade for the C.W.S. for 1923 have just been issued. No
details are given, as these will be dealt with in the half-yearly report to be issued in con
totals show that the trade transacted by the C.W.S. with retail societies amounted to
nection with the next quarterly meeting of the society, which takes place in April. The
166,120,000, this being an increase of £215,188, or 0.3 per cent. on the returns of 1922.
It is significant that of this amount £53,446,500 was for groceries. The supplies
from the C. W.S. productive works amounted to 16,257,460, this, of course, being included
increase of £71,789, or 0.3 per cent. The increase given is the first to be recorded since
in the £66,120,000 as stated above. The supplies of C.W.S. productions represent an
the trade depression which set in three years ago, and is regarded as indicating a turn
towards better trade in the co-operative movement.
The C.W.S. hopes to be able to pay a dividend on purchases in its next balance sheet,
which it has not been able to do since 1920. Of course, it has always paid interest on
capital.
TABLE TALK.
This is the time of the year when butter is at its highest price. In comparing prices
it should be remembered that there is more of butter and less of water in best Danish
than in any other.
Blended butter is now in much demand. Blended butter is not a mixture of butter
and margarine as some suppose. It is all butter. "Blending" simply means mixing
butters from different parts of the world to produce standard qualities. But a C.W.S.
blend should be insisted upon.
During the last six months of 1923 the C.W.S. sold about 1,000,000 pounds weight
more tea than in the last six months of 1922. The English and Scottish Societies thank
own societies.
The most disturbing new year fact for the housewife was the continued increase in
the price of sugar. The Statist, reviewing the situation, sees no hope of lower prices for
some time to come. Apart from the high sugar tax, the reason for high prices is the state
of Europe, which last year again resulted in a poor production of beet sugar.
Looking at food prices generally, while sugar, potatoes, rice, butter, and lard are
"up," there are rather lower wholesale prices, as compared with a year ago, for bacon,
ham, dried fruits, oatmeal, and flour. Where the difference is not enough to affect the
retail price, co-operative members get the benefit at the quarter end, through the dividend
on purchases.
There are 249 directors of public companies in the present House of Commons, and
59 of these are associated with the Federation of British Industries. In the House of
Lords there are 425 directors. Of these, 70 are associated with the Federation of British
Industries.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out:-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1923 630,969 17 3
January, 1924 3,358 8 4
£634,328 5 7
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1923 317,643 6 1
January, 1924 3,653 6 9
£321,296 12 10


---
Here is the extracted text:
132
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE.
Court of Inquiry into the Remuneration of Insurance Practitioners.
WI, the undersigned, being the Court of Inquiry appointed by a minute of the Minister
into the matter mentioned in such minute, and IHEREBY REPORT that the amount
of the Capitation Fee per insured person per annm the basis of which the Central
Regulations, 1924, should be calculated as from 1st January 1924, so as to afford adequat
Practitioners' Fund under Article 19 of the National Health Insurance (Medical Beneft)
remuneration for the time and service to be given by general practitioners under ate
conditions set out in those Regulations in connection with the medical attendance and
the Regulations hitherto in force (such Capitation Fee not to include any payment in
treatment of insured persons due regard being had to the service in fact rendered under
respect of the supply of drugs and appliances nor any payments to meet the special con
ditions of practice in rural and semi-rural areas) is nine shillings.
In the course of the enquiry it was stated on behalf of the Minister of Health and the
Secretary for Scotland and on behalf of the British Medical Association that our finding
was only intended to be binding for the year from January 1st, 1924, to 31st December
1924, but that both parties desired the Court to make a recommendation covering such
longer period as we should think fit.
WE therefore recommend that the Capitation Fee of nine shillings so found by us
should remain in force for a period of three years from 31st, December, 1924.
R. H. CROOKE,
Secretary to the Court.
-The National Insurance Gazette, 2nd February, 1924.
T. R. HUGHES.
F. C. GOODENOUGH.
GILBERT GARNSEY.
23rd January. 1924.
TRADE WITH SOUTH AFRICA.
The following table gives the 1922 imports from overseas :-
From United Kingdom
"
Australia
MEN'S
Pairs.
361,893
158
565
Value.
£
277,453
162
674
"
Switzerland
"
United States of America
6,609
8,164
From United Kingdom
"
Australia
"
Switzerland
WOMEN'S.
877,629
513
528,024
411
"
United States of America
111,176
76,897
31,853
35,485
From United Kingdom
"
Australia
"
Switzerland
CHILDREN'S.
256,698
83,216
"
United States of America
8,081
2,891
3,545
788
SLIPPERS.
From United Kingdom
"
Australia
"
Switzerland
"
United States of America
228,603
35,168
12
3
620
193
5,208
1,048
The table clearly shows that the British manufacturer holds his own in men's and
children's footwear and in slippers, and that it is in the women's section that the weak
point lies. This no doubt will receive the attention of those interested.--Extract from
The Shoe and Leather Record, 8th February, 1924.

---
153
DISPUTES.
For some time past the General President and also Mr. Len. Smith (National
Organiser), along with the local officers, have been trying to get the firm of
Messrs. Odell & Dixon, of Wellingborough, to honour the National Agreement.
The firm refused to comply, and the matter having been in hand since last
November we felt compelled to declare a strike, and notices were handed in on
the 1st February, 1924. After the operatives had been out on strike ten days
the Ministry of Labour intervened, and negotiations were re-opened with the
firm. Certain offers of the firm were conveyed to the operatives by Mr. Len.
Smith. Ultimately it was agreed that the arrears due under the National
Agreement and adjustments in wages should be paid from the second pay-day
in November, 1923. Having, therefore, secured compliance with the Agree-
ment the strike was closed, and the operatives returned to work on the
eleventh day.
Whilst we may regret that such a course had to be adopted to secure
compliance with the Agreement, nevertheless we are determined so far as it
lies in our power, even if extreme measures have to be taken to ensure
National Agreements being honoured both by federated and non-federated
firms. A letter upon this subject appears on page 156.
It does not follow because under our methods of arbitration that the
activity of the Union is slack. On the contrary, the National Officials, as also
the Branch Officers, are constantly dealing with adjustments of wages due to
altered methods of manufacture, or new patterns of boots and shoes that come
into the market. The great advantage to the member is that these adjustments
nearly always take place under the machinery by which the trade is governed
without loss of time, and therefore, without loss of wages to the
member.
DAYWORK METHOD OF EMPLOYMENT.
We would call the members' special attention to the following copy of
a circular which was issued on the 12th inst.:-
We beg to call your attention to an important point in connection
with the policy and procedure of the Union regarding daywork methods
of employment.
Some employers appear to be under the impression that once daywork
is the method of employment, the piecework statements are not the basis
for measuring the wages paid. It cannot be too clearly pointed out that
the policy of the Union has always been, that if daywork is the method
by which wages are paid, then the amount of work done for the wages
paid MUST be based upon the quantities' statements which have been
drawn up from time to time by the Boards of Arbitration, and which,
therefore, can easily be applied as to the output when on daywork.
B


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
154
For instance, supposing an employer pays an operative 62s. per week.
such 62s, should be measured by the statement as to the number of pairs
of operations to be done for this wage.
It has not been unknown
that some employers have expected that for males) the 62s. paid
the amount of work done would be nearer 70s.
So far as
women operatives are concerned it has been known that some
employers expected for 37s. per week. paid as wages, 45s.
worth of work
as judged by the Statement.
We trust NO
MUST be governed by the statement according to the wage
paid to an operative on daywork. This must also apply to
youths' wages on the Graduated Scale, which MUST be governed
member will be under any misapprehension that the output
by the Piecework and Quantity Statements.
on the one hand, nor that an
We would remind the whole of the membership that it is a duty thrown
upon them to at once report any evasion of agreements or methods of working
finding out cases, not because of wilful disregard of rule by the member
that may come under their notice. We state this because we are constantly
employer always knows of a deviation on
the other, but modern methods are such that enable evasions to take place
quite easily and they are not reported. This may be allowed to go on for
In this connection we would call the attention of members to the following
some time, and when it is found out it is all the more difficult to adjust matters.
extracts from the rules:-
156. Each member of the Union must report to the Secretary or
President of his Branch if any employer attempts to reduce wages, or
introduce a new system or class of work that is not provided for in the
Statement in existence in the Branch; or if the workshop is not fit,
healthy, and proper; or in case of any tyrannical or improper conduct
by the employer or foreman towards the member; such case or cases
must be reported as soon as possible to the officials, and before any action
is taken by the member or members.
157. It is the duty of each member to see that he is being paid the
proper rate of pay whether on daywork or piecework. Failing to secure
proper rates he must report the real position to the Branch Officers, who
will advise him as to the course which should be pursued in the matter.
VOTING
results for the various delegations will be found on pages 165-180.
ORGANISER.
It will be seen from the result of the voting on page 175 that neither
of the nominees has secured a clear majority of votes. Consequently
vote will be taken at the April meeting night, votes to be counted on the 12th
prox., and the results posted to reach the Central Office not later than first
post on the 15th prox., otherwise they will not be counted in the final cast.
a second


---
155
POLITICALLY,
the situation is one, not only of great interest to the members, that is being
dealt with daily in the House of Commons, but it shows the Labour Govern-
ment are indeed striving to put into force those principles which for so many
years have been enumerated from Labour platforms. We are aware that one
can point to some things which do not appear to be strictly in accordance with
the policy of the Party, but as previously stated, the Party is in a minority in
the House itself. Nevertheless, the daily record as named in the Daily Herald
goes to prove that our colleagues are endeavouring to bring about a better
state of affairs whereby the lot of the worker may be made brighter, casier,
and freer from care.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION CASES.
We are pleased to record the fact that several cases have been settled,
during the month, by our Solicitor, Mr. Evan Barlow, of Leicester :-
Mrs. E. H., Leicester Women's Branch, secured £25 and part costs.
Mr. J. R., Leicester No. 1 Branch, secured £75
Mr. T. G.,
"
"
"
£50
"
"
"
"
We would, however, remind members that lump sums are NOT obtain-
able by law, and if members desire the help of a Solicitor should they
unfortunately meet with an accident, immediate application must be made
to the Local Branch Secretary.
FIVE-WEEK ΜΟΝΤΗ.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."


---
157
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
SHODDY FOOTWEAR.-The time seems to have arrived when each industry should
at least see, as far as they possibly can, that we give the public value for money. In this
connection one is constantly brought up against the " shoddy" that is being palmed on
to the general body of working men and women, whose income is so small that they are
practically compelled to take articles at a price to suit the size of their purse, and generally
the caterers for the lowest-priced article are the bugbears in the trade, and bring a certain
amount of contempt on the industry where we see cards and advertisements emblazoning
goods at prices for the finished article less than the labour cost alone of an honest product.
Rumour has it that it is bankrupt stock; or is purchased at a great sacrifice? One
wonders who does the sacrificing, the workers, the employer, the multiple shopkeeper,
or the factor, and we also wonder how far these firms are interested in the welfare of the
trade.
It has been my lot to get an expression of opinion from many members of the trade,
both Manufacturers and Repairing Employers, and all without exception are unanimous
in their statement that the most honest article produced by our trade during the past
twenty-five years was the War-Time Boot and Shoe, when all had a fair living, all con-
sumers had an honest article, and even the Government of the day, who supervised the
production, were content with the effort made to give value for money.
It is very disturbing to find that some very notable firms are placing orders with
firms who do not recognise or pay our National Conditions in their entirety, and although
we are very reluctant to create a disturbance, yet we must protect the National Terms,
and it is being fast borne in upon me that we shall soon have to consider whether the time
is not over-ripe when we should name and advertise those firms we can trust to be loyal
to our National Terms, and also give a written guarantee with every pair of boots or shoes
sold, that they are of a certain standard of quality and free from adulteration. This
method of guaranteeing an article is already done, and for a number of years the firms
adopting such a course have no regrets. The Labour Government could help us by making it
illegal to cover up or hide the insole of any boot or shoe and an Industrial Tribunal to check
adulteration and protect the public from men of a poor type rolling in wealth in a few
years, whilst operatives who cannot pocket their conscience, go on working day by day,
and they and their children are trapped into Consumption by wearing " shoddy boots,
bought as " shoddy," and sold as though they were honest goods. Oh! that our advocacy
of factories of our own and multiple shops we advocated in 1892 had been listened to with
more sympathy and respect; we could have worked out our own salvation. To those
members who know nothing of this effort, we shall have a résumé of the attempts to become
our own employers given in the early future.
PIONEER BOOT WORKS, NORTHAMPTON. -I am sorry to learn that the Pioneer Works,
Northampton, of which Mr. James Gribble is Manager, have decided to give up business;
this will still leave sixteen boot and shoe factories owned and controlled by the workers
employed and their friends and the Union's branches.
NATIONAL AGREEMENT BREACHES. -Little by little we are straightening out the
departures made by some firms from the strict letter of the National Agreement, and it
will be most pleasing when we can rely upon the members of the Federation seeking advice
from their own officials, before making or attempting drastic changes, without incurring
the risk of troubling the Union official. The attempt recently of some firms trying to
start Juvenile Factories or Departments is entirely impossible, and yet we are told the
responsibility is ours! True, we are perfectly willing to accept all the responsibility and
to give the employer who would like to introduce such a system, the following information-
that this firm could not guarantee that our industry has not more boys to adults than any
other industry; that already we are creating blind alley employment; that if we agreed
to the suggestion it would outrage the National Agreement, Clause 17, and when the
boys become adults in five or seven years, can any firm guarantee employment or promise
the boys that they will not become the indirect cause of their fathers' discharge ? Industry
is never parochial but national and international.
CO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES. Several more meetings have been held in connection
with the General Council's Special Committee and the Co-operative Union, but I am sorry
to say that the Co-operators want to tie the Trade Unionists down to the policy that all
rates of wages shall be fixed by the Hours and Wages Boards, and not by any arrangement
with a single or local Society; a policy not yet granted to private employers, and one,
when it is, causes more friction than a little by this method. Everyone is dragooned and
people are called upon to fix a price on a matter they may not have seen, and further the
tendency to compel all disputants to work under protest until the price is settled. In
fact they admitted we have no right to ask them to settle a price as individuals, but only


---
158
as a big crowd from everywhere.
depends upon the amount of service given for the wages. I know in our industry, a good
I think we, as consumers and members of the movement.
statement and no work is far worse than a reasonable statement and a fair amount of work.
operative Congress. Both sides are reporting our side to the General Council; the Co-operators to the Co-
ment, should set up a Panel of Umpires and decide beforehand that we would, in the
event of a dispute, rather than have a lockout or strike, refer the matter to this tribunal
we were badly treated, and another two firms we impeached and claimed damages-all
vivid recollections of two appeals to a tribunal of workers, and in both instances claimed
duction of the Statements into the factory with a minimum of friction, and we hope with a
MANSFIELD has had several visits from me during the month and meetings have been
beneficial effect to the operatives. As a whole this work is rather slow, but will be of
held of the Clickers, Closers, Lasters and Finishers, in endeavouring to help the intro
the Agreements are carried out, but the same need cool, calm, deliberate attention by our
lasting good, if we could only get those affected to realise the actual benefits conferred when
members who, in the main, must be held to their responsibilities, equally with officials,
without avail
so at least we have had four disappointments.
if success is to attend their efforts.
Shoes and Slippers, Turn-shoes and Veldtschoens, all require much time, attention, and
Statements for Canvas for all Departments are required, and Statements for Ward
work, but we shall ultimately reach our goal, I hope.
MINISTER OF LABOUR.—As we have been asked many times to nominate our side for
and having asked the Minister to meet me, he advised, owing to work. I should see Miss
the fourteen District Trade Boards connected with the Hand-sewn Making and Repairing
Bondfield, and this was done. I pointed out we could not agree to our representatives
coming to represent us, according to their residence or occupation; we preferred repre-
sentative men and permanent officials where possible, and we resented the Department
telling us we must not nominate representatives from Co-operative Societies, and further.
we should not sit with Non-Unionists on District Trade Boards, but if they would abolish
official idea that the Minister must have the last word. I agree, but hope his view will not
District Trade Boards they would do some good. The Minister listened and stuck to the
we will support
the Central Board or the N.U.D. & A.W., rather than have a nondescript on the Beardhe
TRADE BOARD'S DECISION.—Many of our members will, by this time, be aware that
owing to the rapid introduction of the Rounding and Channelling Machine, that we have
tentatively agreed for some prices to be tried before the next meeting of the Board, and we
Let us hope that only a reason-
want a fair view of the benefits of the machine to the men.
able view will be taken by the men affected, and that the suggested prices will be taken
enough. Let all our members remember that before a machine is put upon the market,
on their merits, and any effort not to do the right thing will cause more trouble than
that its capacity is well known by the maker.
We have trouble in some branches owing to certain firms offering reductions in wages,
and in this case we have a member of the Federation guilty of such, but think we shall
stem the tide by an appeal to the best instincts, failing which we shall have to do our
painful duty by "spanking" the offender.
NORTHANTS ADVISORY COMMITTEE. We have held another meeting of the above
and Chesham sent their representative for the first time. Mr. Townley opened the meeting
with the important question of Juvenile Labour, and traced the same from years back to
the present. All agreed at the end of the meeting there is no 10yal road of"
Discussion on early Pensions, Limiting the Hours, Raising School Age, Allowance to
Parents, resulted in one of the best debates the Committee has had.
one to five."
We regret to announce the resignation of Mr. S. J. Barnes, J.P., who has been a
splendid Secretary, but rejoice in the fact that Mr. G. Chester was unanimously elected
to fill his place. Mr. Barnes is going into business with his brother, and has already given
up the Branch Secretaryship, and so we pass on.
The Daily Herald is still the best paper for Labour, and Trade Union Stamped Boots
are still for sale-I hope without "compo."
7 MECKLENBURG STREET,
LONDON, W.C. I.
18th March, 1924.
Yours fraternally,

hard
General President.


---
```text
159
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. — Our members are still on short time and there seems to
be little hope of spring trade in our district. What we wrote last month
about the re-opening of Colin Grant's Ltd., in Arbroath, still remains at the
“rumour” stage. We also learn with regret — a selfish regret, really that
the S.C.W.S. are seeking power to spend a large sum on the extension of their
present factory at Govan. Inquiries have been made in the past by the
Directors of that body as to what facilities they might have in opening a factory
in our part of Scotland, and we had strong hopes of their acquiring the above-
mentioned factory in this town. We were confident they could run it with
success and profit in every way by such an enterprise. The proposition of
the Directors to confine their shoemaking developments to Govan kills the
one hope of our industry being saved up here. " The writing is on the wall,”
extinction of the trade in new work. Be it long or be it short, we have had an
interesting history, and without doubt the few remaining factories on the East
Coast of Scotland will make a strong effort to overcome their difficulties yet.
Naturally we want them to succeed, although as indicated, we sense it to be
a struggle against the inevitable. How far employers are to blame for the
increase of their own difficulties remains a moot point, but recently we sug-
gested their policy was at fault. We have no reason to change our opinion,
and events in our quarter serve to confirm our statements. It would be well
spent time if employers in Scotland would confer more with their workers,
and encourage suggestions and statement of views. An unwise kind of secrecy
seems to stand in the way of this. Employers will not believe their employees
are capable of co-operating with them on such matters as factory management,
or that they could offer helpful advice as to how their business should be
conducted. A Whitley Committee should operate at every factory of any
size, and it would be up to both sides to prove their respective worth. Failing
such machinery, several factors of recent growth are likely to produce trouble
in two of our factories, and we are deeply concerned about it. The Agenda
of our Jubilee Conference contains useful matter. Proposals which do not
interfere with rules are difficult to devise, and it is well to have our large branches
in a position to put forward such practical suggestions. Kettering's resolution
should meet with a warm welcome. The importance of educational work
cannot be ignored, and it certainly behoves our Union to emphasise and vitalise
the policy of the Trade Union Congress, as and when declared. Stafford
Branch can afford to accept the above policy, and the champions of real educa-
tional work within the Union's ambit, should join forces in order to reach a
profitable agreement. Leicester Branch will rally many friends on the points
submitted in its name, and ultimate success will attend those demands. If
carried at the Conference by a strong vote, our Council may be relied upon to
make a stern fight for the inclusion of those intended for insertion in the National
Agreement. We wish our Jubilee Year to be marked by a great advance.
Fifty years of endeavour on the part of workers in any industry deserves
fitting reward, and the National Union can look back over an unique historical
period. We trust the Council are contemplating issuing a survey of the Union's
work, coupled with a description of the transformation of the industry itself
in those restless and progressive years. Such a souvenir would enlighten the
public, and also stimulate the members as to difficulties overcome, and others
to be met. We can say our fifty years are past, and who knows what the next
fifty have in store? How long will it be before our Union is managing the
Boot and Shoe Industry of Britain on behalf of the Government, and for the
good of all the people?
```

---
BRISTOL No. 1.—Sorry to report a very heavy run on sickness, with
siderably lighter, and trade improved, which we hope will continue, as it is
six deaths during the past three months. Our out of work, too, has been heavy
trade. At time of writing we are glad to report the number of sick is con-
with still a good number of members out of work or suspended through bad
BRISTOL No. 2.—Trade is bad in the Kingswood area, no factory working
full time. The prospect of an early improvement is very small. Our list of
unemployed members grows longer each week. The better weather we are
long overdue.
now getting, will, we hope, have the effect of shortening our sick list, which
has been above the average for a long time past.
CHESHAM. Trade here is getting worse. There are a large number of
to influenza. This we hope will improve as the weather gets better.
members signing the out-of-work book. Sick list is also heavy, chiefly owing
CHESTERFIELD.—Trade is still very bad and the firm here has been
talking again of closing down if members did not accept the Green Book prices.
We have had Mr. A. Smith down over the matter, and when he left here everyone
thought the firm was going to close down last week-end, but on Friday they
decided to carry on the same as usual, three part days per week. The firm
has no idea what the Green Book prices are, and they think they can put work
the men to accept same, never thinking what the men are going to earn. There
through six and eight sizes to the dozen, and even worse than that, and expect
like the minimum wage at the present time, and when we have told them this,
are not quantities going through for any man on a machine to earn anything
they say we cannot get any more orders because we are beat in the market
the firm what they ought to do, but they don't make any effort to put the
by firms paying less than they do. We have tried our best, and tried to show
firm on a basis at all. They think all the members are there to do as they bid
them, and if you try to show them the right way they think you are telling
them the impossible.
DUNDEE.—With the passing of the month of February, no one associated
with the boot trade in this centre will feel a pang of regret, as the conditions
of trade prevailing at present are exceedingly bad. The one and only boot
factory extant in Dundee, and that a bantling, has found it necessary to dis-
charge a fourth of their employees. Truly, over the portals of the city might
now be written, "Ichabod," so far as boot manufacturing is concerned. Yet.
there was a time, not far distant, when our good town could boast of four
fair-sized boot factories, employing several hundreds of workers. Such are
the changes which relentless time brings in its train. As a consequence of the
stagnant condition of trade, our unemployed register is on the upward grade
numerically. It is pathetic to hear some of our members who have had long
periods of unemployment, speak of the dire effects it has upon their manhood:
the deterioration; the moral fibre is weakened; the physique and mentality
is worsened; that, briefly put, he is not the man he was. Economically his
value as a productive unit is very much lessened, and when we take into con-
sideration the million and a half of unemployed men, the annual loss to the
nation must reach a fabulous sum when measured in terms of money.
EDINBURGH.—Trade in this district still very quiet. St. Cuthbert's
Co-operative have now removed into their new premises, but are not working
the Rounding Plant. When reporting the suggestions at our Branch Meeting
of Advisory Committee to Trade Board, and the officials of the Branch having
agreed to give the scale a trial until the full Board had a meeting. Well, we
would not care to put the language on paper what our members think of this
proposal. One thing they do say is, "that Edinburgh, and especially the
Committee who compiled the St. Cuthbert's Statement, have been very badly


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
161
let down." On Trade Board Schedule there is Id. allowed for closing
channel and levelling bottom, with 4d. deducted from men's for rough rounding,
channelling, opening and closing, levelling bottoms. If you take the id
allowed as per Schedule this leaves 3d. for the rough rounder and channel.
When one considers the amount which new workers receive for this operation,
either the new worker has not enough allowed, or else the repairing employer
were pleased to see that other branches besides Edinburgh are of the opinion
wants their price of machines cleared off in double quick time. Our members
that the repairing trade at least does want a special Organiser. This Branch
wants to know others opinion re our suggestions in last month's Report.
Council Member for Scotland is a practical boot repairer, but if we go on sectional
lines the factory worker in Scotland could say, "Well, we are not represented
at intervals, but our experience is that any suggestions forwarded from these
Committees are never given any consideration whatever. In this District
on our Council." There are District Committees of Trade Board which meet
employees' side are all men working at repairing trade.
HIGHAM & RUSHDEN. - We heartily congratulate Mr. Bates, our
Branch President, on his twenty years' service in that office. In reviewing the
twenty years, we see that wonderful advances have been made in the interests
of the workers of our trade. Twenty years ago our membership was 708, now
7,820. Branch funds then £700, now £12,200. Wages and conditions have
improved. Clickers were paid 26s., Lasters and Finishers 27s., Pressmen 22s.,
Closers IIS., I2S. and 13s. No minimum in Shoe Room. Now National
Conditions obtain. We are also pleased to note that Alfred Crouch was on
the Committee then, and is now a member of Committee. There is no doubt
the result is largely the work of Mr. Bates and Mr. W. Bazeley, J.P., our late
Secretary, so far as the organisation of the Branch is concerned, with the help
of Messrs. Richards, Poulton, W. R. Smith, Buckle, and J. Gribble. Trade
remains fair in the district. Several factories have been visited for Show Card
days, in addition to the ordinary dispute and wage enquiries.
LEEDS No. 1.-Trade here is not as good as last month. Our sick and
out-of-work lists are much heavier than last month. During the past month
influenza has been very bad here, but we are hoping that with an improvement
in the weather our sick list will be considerably reduced. We would once
more urge upon our members that when declaring on sick, that as far as possible
the member's Union Contribution Card should accompany the doctor's note.
We would also urge upon our members who are in arrears with their contribu-
tions, that an effort be made, if at all possible, to reduce such arrears, and thus
be entitled to all Union benefits should the same be needed.
LEICESTER No. 1. - Trade is a little better than last month, but we still
have a good number of members unemployed. We are pleased to report
that our President, Mr. T. Adnitt, and Secretary, Mr. G. Parbury, were returned
by overwhelming majorities in the recent City Council Election. We desire
to congratulate Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards on her splendid fight in the Humber-
stone Ward.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S.-The Leicester Women's Branch have to report
a two weeks' organising campaign, which has been very successful from an
educational point as well as added membership. The Branch invited the
services of Mrs. Harrison-Bell, of the National Labour Party Executive, and
for two weeks we have held dinner-hour meetings every day, also evening
meetings indoors. A meeting was held one Sunday afternoon at which the
General President, Mr. T. F. Richards, spoke on loyalty to our Union. Friday,
the 14th, we finished up with a Social Gathering, Dance and Whist Drive,
which was crowded with our own members. Our President, Mrs. Bell-Richards,
having had an invitation to fight West Humberstone Ward for a seat on the
C


---
162
City Council, the women of the Branch turned out in large numbers to work
for her success. The seat, however, was won by a Conservative. Mrs. Bell-
Richards being second with a vote of 1,024. We hope for better luck next
time.
LIVERPOOL. - Trade has been very quiet, but we hope in our next
report we shall be able to report an improvement. We are pleased to report
to obtain an advance of ten shillings and sixpence per week for one of our
that by a little judicious correspondence, local and central, we have been able
cessions from the local Co-operative Society in the matter of holidays with pay,
young members. We have also to report that we have obtained certain con-
cards and see that the arrears do not under any circumstances exceed the eight
by similar methods. This only goes to prove that the pen is often mightier
weeks' limit, otherwise we shall have to refuse payment of benefits, as the rules
than "the glittering sword." Will members please examine their contribution
are very clear and emphatic on this point. Some members sail so near the wind
the Trade Board have issued new Schedules, D24, D25, D24, to come into
that they are often driven on the rocks by stress of circumstances. We note
operation on 3rd March. We hope our members on surgical work will be able
to get better rates than those contained in the schedule. It is rather a remark-
able thing that there were only about eight objections lodged against these
sweeping reductions. We also note that the inspectorate has been decentralised
The Divisional Offices for the North-West Area include the counties of Cumber-
shire, Carnarvonshire and Anglesey. Address: Ministry of Labour, Trade
land, Westmorland, Lancashire, Cheshire, Flintshire, Denbighshire, Merioneth-
Boards Inspection Section, 77 Shudehill, Manchester.
LONDON SOUTH. - On 5th March a very large gathering for the usual
monthly meeting took place. Mr. Owen, the President, took the chair, and
after the minutes were read, a discussion took place on the Repairing Machinery
at Freeman, Hardy & Willis, and the members that work at the above-named
firm have decided not to work in conjunction with machinery under any
circumstances on a statement that is less than the three firms that are working
in conjunction in London - namely, Mansfield's, Hart's, and Lyn's - which
they consider is plenty taken off for the process, considering that pre-war
employers contended that a penny to do it by hand was an exorbitant price.
Furthermore, according to Statement, they are only stopping 1½d. for work
prepared for machinery in rivetted class over 2's, under 2's, 1½d. They also
hope that the repairers throughout the country will send in their opinions by
letter to the Board of Trade (Mr. Popplewell, 1 Whitehall Gardens, Whitehall).
If not, by reading the suggested statement, they will find out that they will be
losing their minimum if they accept the terms that are in the clause, where it
states the employer should guarantee 1s. 3d. per hour for five hours' work on
full day, four hours on a half-day, less percentage according to price of living.
They will be worse off than before the war. Sorry to have to announce the
death of Mr. A. Pearson. A vote of condolence was taken on behalf of the
family.
MAYBOLE. - Trade is very slack and sickness very heavy, also funeral
claims heavy. Since our last report we have lost two members, 130935 Mary
Watson, and 40402 Thomas Baird, late Secretary to this Branch for many years.
His death was very sudden; he died sitting on his chair listening to a wireless
concert. Mr. Baird was a quiet, unassuming man, a faithful servant to this
Branch during his term of office, and an honest man. He was laid to rest on
Friday, 7th March, and his funeral was attended by representatives of the
Town and Parish Council, the Elders of the Parish Church, all of which he was
a member or ex-member. The Secretary represented the Branch. To both
of these families we tender our deepest sympathy.


---
163
NORWICH. - Trade in Norwich has continued to improve during the
month and prospects seem to be brighter than for many months past. Fancy
M.S. is forming the larger proportion of our trade just now, although Turnshoe
is improving.
PLYMOUTH (REPAIRING). We were interested in the Burnley report
for last month and the questions put forward for discussion, but we find our
selves unable to give any considered judgment upon the matter before further
information is available. We desire to know how many boot repairers the
Union is catering for, and what branches are wholly or mainly repairing branches.
We have often thought how useful this information would be to an organisation
such as our own. In general this does not appear difficult to obtain, and would
be most interesting to repairing branches. At present we read the different
reports and are unable to tell whether manufacturing or repairing is being
referred to, except when the subject is specially mentioned; even then we
know not whether the branch is wholly or mainly employed in repairing.
Possibly the Council would know, if so, some arrangement should be made to
pass the information on for the benefit of members. This may be done by
placing the word "repairing" after the name of the branch as now appearing
in this report, or placing Repairing Branches under this heading. The Branch
Reports should be one of the most useful and interesting features of our Monthly
Report, and it is a matter to be regretted that every branch does not send in a
report each month.
STREET.-Trade here is worse now than it has been previously, especially
in the Turnshoe Department, where nearly all the operatives have been sus-
pended. This we cannot understand when the work done in that grade is of
the finest and is very high-class, both in design and workmanship, and we are
looking forward to a revival of that class of goods in the near future. We are
glad to report that we have had two more visits from the General President
and Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards, and we are glad to report that as a result of the
latter's visit there is a decided improvement on some of the operations in the
Closing Department of the large factory, due to the suggestions of Mrs. Richards.
The operatives are in some cases earning higher wages than before. We had
a stoppage of the girls in that department on 16th February, owing to a girl
being discharged, and the threat used that unless some of the other operatives
did not earn the minimum rate they would have to go also. This was dealt
with by the General President, and the girls returned to work on the Monday
morning pending an interview with the firm, who at that meeting gave us the
assurance that there would be no more discharges until each and every case
had been fully discussed and gone into. There are other cases here which will
occupy the time of our National Officers and Mrs. Richards for some little time,
although it may be done by correspondence seeing we are so far away from the
large centres, and we do not want other branches to think we are monopolising
the time of our National Officers, but we know we shall get their very able
assistance. We are glad to report also that we have our worthy Secretary,
Mr. J. H. Hooper, J.P., back in Street again, but not able to start duties yet
as he needs some amount of recuperation. But still we are pleased to see him
amongst us again, and are hoping for him to have a complete recovery soon.
WELLINGBOROUGH.-Trade has shown a considerable falling off
during the past month, again bringing forward the problem of the elderly
operative. One of the tragedies of our modern industrial system is the fact
that the cry of "too old at forty" still holds the field. What a blot upon our
industrial advancement, that when a person has given the best of his life
and skill to industry his reward is the scrap heap. Here is a problem for our
leaders and politicians. We must still press for pensions at an earlier age than
70, in order to in some part help solve the problem. Our branch is still showing
renewed life and activity. We now have twenty-one shop presidents, which


---
Here is the extracted text:
164
system we have found to result in increased membership. We have had a
strike upon one small firm, the result being, although perhaps not all that we
to the Council for the services of Mr. Len. Smith during the past weeks.
WOLVERHAMPTON. Trade keeps quiet; some firms that have been
doing full time on heavy work now on short time, and a few members discharged
Sickness is rather heavy.
CO-PARTNERSHIP WORKSHOPS.
Crompton Boot.
The sales for the half-year were £16,570 and the profit £1,018. Of this £296 goes to
the shareholders for interest and dividend. The workers receive £260 as dividend on
wages at Is. in the £. and £367 goes to the customers as dividend on purchases.
Glenfield Boot.
The sales for the last half of 1923 were £12,072 and the total profit £566, of which
£220 goes to the shareholders in interest and dividends. Customers receive £100 at 2d.
in the £ on purchases, and the workers £100 at 6d. in the £ on wages. The Reserve is
increased by £50, and £15 goes to both Provident and Education Funds.
Kettering Clothiers.
Customers receive £5,250 as dividend on purchases at 9d. in the f. Workers receive
The sales for the second half of 1923 were £147,072, an increase of £24,646. The
profit is £13,650, of which £1,913 goes to the shareholders for interest and dividends
£4,506 as dividend on wages at 2s. in the £. The Interest Guarantee Fund is increased
by £1,500, the Provident Fund by £500, the Pension Fund by £250, and the Educational
Fund by £200.-Co-partnership, March, 1924.
Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Limited.
The Sales of the Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Ltd. for the half-year amount
to £24,287 12s. 8d., an increase of £884 17s. 6d. compared with the corresponding period
of last year. The total Sales for the year amount to £48,891 10s. 4d., a decrease of
£453 6s. 5d. compared with the previous year. After providing for Interest on Share
and Loan Capital, which amounts to £981 11s. 4d., and depreciating Fixed Stock, Buildings,
&c., £1,073 16s. 8d., there is a surplus of £346 os. 3½d. We recommend that this amount
be carried forward to next half-year.
During the half-year 2 new members have been added, 6 have withdrawn, the present
number of shareholders being 520.
We are glad to report that trade during the last four months of the half-year has been
remarkably good in most departments and Branches, and we think that the figures given
above indicate that the improvement shown during the previous half-year has been more
than maintained, and that the result is very satisfactory considering all the circumstances.
LONDON BRANCH. The new development, of which a preliminary announcement
was made in our last report, is now an accomplished fact, and in the early part of the half-
year we removed to our new premises in Gough Street, Gray's Inn Road. Events have
more than justified this important step, and already we have found it necessary to purchase
additional machinery to cope with the steadily increasing volume of work. It will be
noted that some of the preliminary expenses involved in the removal and fitting up of the
new building and the legal costs and commissions in connection with the sub-letting have
been written off the current expenses of the half-year.
KETTERING BRANCH.-Considering the small staff here the number of orders which
have been executed, although they consist principally of the smaller variety, has been
unusually good, and it may be mentioned here that the Branch acts as a very good agency
for the larger orders which are transferred to Leicester.
BOX DEPARTMENT. The Sales for the half-year amount to £5,199, a decrease of £148
compared with the corresponding period of last year. This decrease, however, is more
boot industry is now being reflected in this department, and the outlook is considerably
brighter.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

184
In toto series of measures, including one providing for an eight-hour day in industrial
remain in abeyance until similar measures were passed by the other Provinces of Canada
undertakings, were introduced and enacted by the British Columbian legislature to give
Labour Conference at Washington, with the reservation, however, that these Acts should
Various Bills have been introduced since that time to remove this condition but have
tffect to the Draft Conventions and Recommendations adopted by the International
The new Hours of Work Act was, however, introduced as a Government
measure in the last session, and passed.
been defeated.
The Act will take effect from 1st January, 1925.
GLASS WORKERS' WEEKLY REST.
Consideration at Next International Labour Conference.
national Labour Conference which opens in Geneva on Monday, 16th June. These ques-
of the League of Nations to the series of questions which, according to custom, are asked
Replies are being received from Governments by the International Labour Office.
hem in connection with the items on the agenda of the sixth annual session of the Inter
tions are framed to elicit the opinion of Governments as to the best international decrion
to be taken on the variens questions.
work for twenty-four hours in glass-manufacturing processes where tank furnaces are
One of the subjects to be considered by the Conference is the weekly suspension of
glass works, but it was not possible to interrupt the work of maintaining the heat of the
used. In suggesting that this subject should be placed on the agenda the French Govern
ment expressed the opinion that it was purely a financial question. From the technical
furnaces. It was, therefore, a question of burning fuel for twenty-four hours without any
point of view it was possible to suspend manufacture for twenty-four hours in tank furnace
was that a problem of this nature could only be solved by means of an international agree-
ment among the different manufacturing countries, and that the International Labour
production, the cost price of the product being increased accordingly. The conclusion
Organisation was well qualified to deal with the question.
that a weekly suspension of work for twenty-four hours in tank furnace glass works would
The International Labour Office points out, in its communication to Governments
also establish in the simplest and most practical way a working week in these undertakings
not only secure an adequate period of rest each week for the workers concerned, but would
not exceeding forty-eight hours.
WORKLESS OF THE WORLD.
Increase Reported from Various Countries.
The latest comparative figures of world unemployment printed in the current issue of
the International Labour Review, the monthly publication of the International Labour
viously noted continued during the last months of 1923, though, with the exception of
Office of the League of Nations, show that the upward movement of unemployment pre-
Germany, the general situation has very much improved during the past year, and unem-
ployment in nearly all countries shows a marked diminution in December, 1923, as com-
pared with the end of 1922.
GREAT BRITAIN is the only country for which the figures show a slight but steady
improvement during the last quarter of 1923; the chief industries which showed the
greatest decrease of unemployment at the end of December were iron and steel manu-
facturing, engineering, ship-building, and cotton and wool textiles.
In ITALY substantial increases in unemployment were recorded amongst agricultural
workers and in the building, textile, and chemical industries.
A further slight increase of unemployment in SWITZERLAND was shown by the figures
for December, both for wholly and partially unemployed, chiefly in the building, textiles,
and metal industries. On the other hand, noteworthy decreases were registered in
domestic service, commerce, and the paper, leather, and watchmaking industries.
During the last two months of 1923 unemployment in AUSTRIA, after steadily decreas
ing since the beginning of the year, has shown an upward tendency. Although most
were to a very great extent responsible for the upward trend of unemployment.
industries have experienced slight increases in unemployment the open-air industries
previous month an increase of about 7,000 unemployed, or 12½ per cent.
In POLAND unemployment showed at the end of November as compared with the
a marked contraction as compared with September.
The latest figures received for CZECHO-SLOVAKIA refer to October, 1923, and indicate


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
187
SOME QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

1. WHAT HAPPENED IN THE GREAT WAR?
NINE MILLION MEN were killed.
MILLIONS MORE were crippled and maimed.
WOMEN AND CHILDREN were starved to death in their thousands.
FLOURISHING CITIES were levelled to the ground.
GREAT TRACTS OF FERTILE LAND were devastated and made barren.
HUGE AREAS OF COUNTRY are now lying idle: WHOLE POPULATIONS
are destitute and ravaged by disease: FAMINE has been raging throughout the Central
States of Europe.
OVER 30,000 MILLIONS OF MONEY absolutely wasted.
2. Is ANYONE TRYING TO STOP THIS HAPPENING AGAIN?
YES. THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
When peace was signed in 1919, Great Britain and more than forty other nations
made a League to work together for the good of all, and to prevent war. There are now
fourteen more members of this League of Nations, including Austria, Hungary and
Bulgaria, who were against us in the war.
Fifty-four nations altogether, over three-quarters of the world's population.

3. WHAT HAVE THEY AGREED TO DO IN ORDER TO PREVENT IT?
(a) To try to reduce their armies and navies so that they will not be afraid of each
other, and will save the money to spend on better things.
(b) To make no more treaties or alliances in secret.
(c) To settle disputes by arrangement. Never to go to war till they have talked
things over for nine months.
(d) To protect small and weak nations, and not to bully them or make money out
of them.
(e) To end injustice and to fight disease throughout the world.
(f) To stand together so that no nation in the League dare break its word.

4. WHAT THE LEAGUE HAS ALREADY DONE.
(a) Stopped one War; and prevented four others.
(b) Registered and made Public over 300 Treaties.
(c) Insisted upon a strict account of all Mandated territories.
(d) Repatriated 400,000 Prisoners of War.
(e) Successfully fought Famine and Epidemics in Europe.
(f) Suppressing Traffic in Opium and Drugs.
(g) Suppressing traffic in Women and Children.
(h) Conventions signed to simplify Custom formalities and provide better treatment
in Ports and on Railways.
(i) Restored Austria and now restoring Hungary.
(j) Assisted Greece in Repatriation of a million refugees.
(k) Strongly supported humane Labour conditions all over the World and helped
Social Progress in every possible way.

5. WHY HAS NOT MORE BEEN DONE YET?
Because public opinion-YOUR OPINION-was not mobilised and made to tell.
THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS UNION provides you with an opportunity of "pulling
your weight" for peace and a better world outlook.
If you desire better things-as there is no doubt you do-then join the League of
Nations Union and help to form a strong Public Opinion which is the greatest Weapon
of the League.
The League of Nations is a Machine-and a very Great and Wonderful one-but
that is You and I, have to provide the DRIVING POWER to make it work.
If we all lend a hand we shall have a glorious result.
THE LEAGUE IS ABSOLUTELY NON-POLITICAL AND NON-SECTARIAN.


---
188
COMMERCE AND CONSCIENCE.

We are not by any means prepared to contend that in all commercial transactions
and relationships there is an absence of what is termed conscience, but in very many it
can doubtless be said that the faculty or attribute is well stretched, if not non-existent.

If the ruminations and ramifications of business life (in all trades) were scrutinized
and analysed thousands of instances would be found daily wherein as the final result
unsuspecting men are the prey of "clever" dealings.

Let us take as an example some recent happenings within our knowledge in connection
with certain classes of leather. In citing them we simply aver that the effects are un-
economic, unsound, and to the detriment of the industry dependant upon the commodities
in question.

During the past few months and particularly the last few weeks-there has been an
increasing shortage, for instance, in the supplies of sheep leathers-whether in the pickled,
crust or finished state-and sensational advances in prices have resulted.

To the users of these materials this fact alone, even in its natural form, has been
serious enough.

But with the opportunity-as has always been the case-the vultures have
swarmed the markets and accentuated the difficulties. Speculators scoured
every warehouse and bought up all available supplies-holding again for big
second, third, or even fourth profits on original costs.

Illustrative of this point we are informed on good authority that in a number of recent
transactions as many as three and four profits (and by no means small ones) have been
taken on the same parcels of leather in one day between merchants within a few hundred
yards of each others' warehouses-and even then the goods have not found their
way to the ultimate consumer. Prices have often by these means been raised twenty
per cent. and more against the next buyer.

Be that as it may, we are convinced that when by such methods prices have in many
cases been doubled in a short space of time those methods should by some means be broken
down.

By whom and how is it to be done?

These reflections lead us to wonder how it is so generally the case that, on a rise in
the market, a known and positive scarcity of the particular class of leather, and almost
certain further advances in prices, the shoe manufacturers (or the leather dressers, as the
case may be) allow the speculating merchants invariably to steal a march on them and
manipulate the market to their injury in the way we have described.

But-we shall be told- "business is business" and it is up to anyone to make a profit
wherever and however possible-conscience, economics or the final welfare of the trade
do not enter into the question. Well, perhaps so! Yet, we frankly deem it a pity that
such conditions can continue to obtain in our trade.

Are our methods obsolete?

Think of the absurdity of one specific transaction (and there are many such) where a
considerable parcel of leather sold three times in one day was actually booked to the fourth
party before it was bought from the first. The offer was made from A to B, from B to (
and then from C to D-each time, of course, carrying a profit. When D ordered the goods
the transactions were carried out in reverse ratio-by 'phone-in comparatively a few
minutes. Meanwhile, of course, in the process of the operation the price had been enhanced
by fully 15 per cent.

Does not the possibility of such incidents and their recurrence clearly indicate that
there is a screw loose somewhere ?

Is it that there is a lack of intelligent and efficient "touch" between supply and
demand-between the producers' and the consumers' markets ?

We have no desire to moralise regarding the "iniquities of profiteering," or attack in
any way the legitimate operations of the "middle-man" (who, in the general way, we are
convinced, functions to the total good of trading), but there can, we believe, be only
harm resulting from such processes of merchanting which allow it to be possible that several
middle profits are extracted before the material reaches the ultimate user, who, after all,
is faced with the hardest task of all, namely, producing and marketing the finished article for
sale to the public at competitive prices against the manufacturers of the whole world.

For that reason we shall be pleased, if by any alteration in existing conditions these
uneconomic factors can be eliminated.


---
Here is the extracted text:
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
HAT TELI 4438 MUSEUN, LONDON TEL. ADDRESS: "NATUNISHOP, PHONE, LONDON."
National Union Shoe Operatives
Boot & Shoe
Affiliated to the Trade Union Congress,
and National Labour Party
Approved under the State Memal Heath Insurance Act, Approval No 201
General President
T.F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
E.L. POULTON J.P.
SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
34, GUILFORD STREET
LONDON, W.CI.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
STATE OF TRADE.
28TH APRIL, 1924.
Trade has fallen off during the month, the claims on our Out-of-Work
Fund being considerably higher than of late. As a matter of fact, in round
figures, we have been paying from the Union's Out-of-Work Fund at the rate
of £1,000 per week for many weeks past. To this extent the Union is helping
to keep intact the homes of those members who, but for such assistance, un-
doubtedly would find their economic difficulties much greater than they do
now. We would also point out to the members that in this connection, they
might quite well do some good organising work for the Union in pointing out
the distinct advantages that accrue to those in membership with us. We
desire to increase the membership to such an extent as to be able to say the
whole of those who are eligible to join the Union, are included in its member-
ship. The figures given in the Gazette issued by the Ministry of Labour are as
follow :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment in March was only moderate, and, taken as a whole, showed little change
compared with February; the heavy boot section, in particular, was still very quiet.
Employment was, however, somewhat better than in March, 1923. Although overtime


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
208
was worked to a small extent in one or two centres, a considerable proportion of the industry
was still working short time during the month.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
Exchanges, was 0.5 on the 24th March, 1924, as compared with
Jodged at Employment Exc
9.1 on the 25th February, 1924.
month. At Leicester it was fair: only a few factories were on short time, while here and
In London employment was still very slack, though a little better than in the previous
necessary at some factories; employment was considerably better than in March of last
there overtime was worked. Employment at Northampton showed a slight improvement:
some firms were still on short time. but, on the other hand. overtime was occasionally
Desborough, Higham and Rushden, and Wellingborough districts employment was slack,
vear. At Kettering there was a further decrease in short-time working, and employment
centres. At Leeds employment was still very depressed, short time being again in general
was fair and somewhat better than in February.
and in the
In the Hinckley district
pe working was prevalent in all these
ard worse than in the previous month; short-time
operation. Employment remained fair at Stafford.
A further improvement was reported at Norwich, employment being generally good
and much better than this time last year; there was very little unemployment or short
time, and overtime was worked in some factories. In the Bristol and Kingswood district
time being reported. Employment in the Rossendale Valley was good, some overtime
employment was very poor, and worse than in February, much unemployment and irregular
being reported.
Employment was bad, with much short time, at Arbroath and at Ayr. There was a
slight decline at. Edinburgh and at Maybole but in Glasgow employment improved, and
was fairly good, a little overtime being worked.
The following Table summarises the information received from those employers
who furnished returns for the three periods under review :
Number of Workpeople
Week
ended
29th Mar.,
1924
Total Wages Paid to all
Workpeople
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a
Week
ended
29th Mar.,
1924
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a
Month ago Year ago
Month ago Year ago
Per
Per
Per
Per
cent.
cent.
£
cent.
cent.
ENGLAND AND WALES:-
2,066
0.9
1.4
4,790 + 1.I
- 2.5
London
8,776 + 0.1
- 2.7
22,876
-
I.I
-
7.1
Leicester
Leicester Country District
2,440 +0.2
0.0
5,647 + 1.I
+ 3.7
Northampton
6,487 +0.7
+ 6.1
16,272
+ 2.5
+ 10.3
Northampton Country
District
8,290 0.0
+ 7.6
18,698
0.9
+7-3
Kettering
3,407 + 0.6
+ 6.3
8,863
+ 1.0
+5.1
Stafford and District
2,602
+ 3.2
5,003
-12.6
Norwich and District
4,336 + 4.7
+ 7.9
-18.9
Bristol, Kingswood and
9.470 +5.7 +18.9
District
1,958 2.8
Leeds and District
- 8.7
3,401
1,999
7.3
Lancashire (mainly
0.7 1.8
-16.8
3,954
2.5
1.6
Rossendale Valley)
Birmingham and District
Other parts of England and
Wales
ENGLAND AND WALES
SCOTLAND
4,189 +3.0 + 3.0
994
- 2.0
GREAT BRITAIN
1,543 + 1.8 + 8.0
49,087 +0.6 + 2.8
2,615 2.0 +10.8
51.738 +0.7 +3.2
=
2,954
0.5 +8.2
113,102 + 0.1 + 1.1
5,790 + 1.4 +14.7
118,893 + 0.2 +1.7
March, 1924, showed that nearly 31 per cent. of these workpeople worked short time in
Returns from firms employing about 40,645 workpeople in the week ended 29th
that week to the extent of about 12 hours each on an average.
The exports of boots and shoes in March, 1924, amounted to 97,548 dozen pairs,
or 8,354 dozen pairs less than in February, 1924, but 18,521 dozen pairs more than in
March, 1923.


---
209
The following Table shows the number of men and women registered as applicant
which approximately 73 per cent of the total number of applicants for
for employment at Employment Exchanges at 311 March, in the principal centres, af
the boot and shoe industry were registered.
Department.
employment in
Increase (4) or Decrease ()
on previous month.
3rd March, 1074.
Men.
Women.
Total.
Men.
Women.
Total
Boot and Shoe Manufacture
Making Department
Closing Department
Clicking Department
Preparing Department
Rough-Stuff Department
15.4
15
338
100
12
3
!
7
709
350
10
18
28
37
727
3
31
789
55
820
4
150
Clog Making
Slipper Making
Finishing Department
2,522
+
5
95
1,413
2,617
26.1
+90
5
1 30
589
1,077
1200
133
361
79
212
950
Repairing and Hand-Sewn
43
-135
1
7.3
208
44
903
1
3
4
907
Work.
+ 70
1
1
170
4
TOTAL
6,708
1,589
8,297
70
-113
183
SICKNESS.
We regret to report that sickness amongst the membership has been
heavy for a considerable time past. Here again is shown the advantage of
belonging to such an organisation as ours, the cash payment being of help at
a time when money is necessarily badly wanted to procure those essential
things to ensure restoration to health.
CONSUMPTΙΟΝ.
On Friday, 4th inst., a deputation consisting of the General President
(Mr. T. F. Richards), the General Secretary (Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P.), with
Mr. J. Buckle, M.P., J.P., and Mr. F. Gould, M.P., waited upon the Home
Secretary relative to the question of consumption amongst boot operatives.
Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., J.P., was unable to attend owing to important matters
engaging his attention at the Ministry of Agriculture.
In introducing the deputation Mr. Richards urged the necessity of the
Department including some, if not all, of the resolutions passed by the Joint
Industrial Council in 1919, in any new Factory Bill which it was understood
was to be introduced in the near future in the House of Commons. He also
asked that the Department should appoint additional factory inspectors,
preference being shown for men with a practical knowledge of the trade. Mr.
Poulton presented a table showing the percentage of deaths due to tuberculosis
from 1905-1923, and appealed for the question of lighting also to be considered.
Mr. Buckle called attention to the method of arrangement of the machines
in the closing room and asked that if at all possible that should be altered,
whilst Mr. Gould touched upon the "wretched conditions" obtaining in the
homes of some of the workers in Kingswood, where boots and shoes are still
B


---
Here is the extracted text:
210
intimated that at present the officials of the Department were engaged in
made in wash houses and back kitchens. The Home Secretary, in reply
receive careful and sympathetic consideration, and if it was found practicable
drafting a new Factory Bill, and the points raised by the deputation would
they would be included in the Bill when presented to Parliament.
A full report of the proceedings will be found on pages 221-225.
ORGANISER.
The result of the voting for the position of Organiser will be found on
congratulations to Mr. J. H. Baum, and trust
that his tenure of office will be profitable to the Union, and a happy one to
page 216. We beg to offer our
himself.
POLITICS.
The air in the political world has been electric during the past month
To those who follow the proceedings in the House of Commons, it must be
apparent that no ordinary difficulties are besetting the Government in their
desire to bring into actual practice and law, the proposals which the Labour
venture to say the Party in the House is striving to the best of its ability to
Party has for so long been proclaiming from its platforms. Nevertheless, we
pass such legislation as will ease the economic and industrial position of the
people. We appeal to our members to continue to give full support to the
Party in its various districts. Each one can do something, however smail
that something may be. It is necessary it should be done if the members in
the House of Commons are to be successful. Let there be no standing aloof,
but by unity and goodwill do all possible to strengthen the general position.
In this connection we ask all our members to buy and read the Daily Hera'd_
labour's only paper.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION CASES.
During the month a member of the Higham and Rushden Branch,
C.L.M., has obtained £40 lump sum settlement, in addition to £54 2s. 6d.
weekly compensation. We would again remind the members that lump
sums are not obtainable by law but only by agreement, and branches
desiring the assistance of a Solicitor should notify the Central Office at once
and so secure the necessary sanction.
HEAVY WORK STATEMENT.
On the roth inst., a meeting of the Heavy Work Statement Committee
was held in London under the chairmanship of Mr. T. F. Richards. The
various alterations or amendments made to the Statement during the past
four years are to be included in the reprint of the original Statement. During
the next few weeks it is anticipated that the "Green Book" Statement will
have been reprinted, and copies will be sent to those branches affected by
the same.


---
Here is the extracted text:
211
In addition to the above-named, a matter of some importance to our
members in the heavy work districts is the fact that it was decided the Com-
mittee should meet again during the third week in January, 1925, and any
branch in the particular districts referred to who desire amendments or altera-
tions to the prices, should send the same along to reach the Central Office
not later than the 30th November, 1924.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
This is the paper of the movement; information is often available in
same which is not in other newspapers. It is essential the movement should
have a paper to voice the needs of the workers. DO YOUR SHARE and
place the same beyond all doubt by purchasing the same daily.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
make a success.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
"Union Stamped
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.
We remain,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
A. W. LYNE.
I. H. JOHNSON.
C. MAYES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.


---
212
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS.
SHODDY FOOTWEAR. The general unanimity with which the Press has referred
to Shoddy in our trade goes far to show the will to demand purity of product, or at least
value for money. If the industry is to have manufacturers of " margarine" boots and
shoes, then the sum should be advertised and marked as such, and wrapped up in paper
We are fully aware of the difficulties of making an all leather
the use of pulp heels is not so well known to the general public, and often, when used in
than leather. The demand for lightness calls for wood heels which are fairly well known:
boot and a solid leather boot, and a leather and boot comprised of many materials, other
's, women's, or children's boots and shoes, is wholly out of place,
the life of such goods never guaranteed by the manufacturers or shopkeepers and dis-
ing men's,
hard wearing
tributors. The greatest sinners in this respect are the multiple shopkeepers, who in many
cases do no manufacturing, of very little themselves, but buy very extensively, unmindful
as to the rates of wages paid, or the conditions under which they are produced, and when
their attention is called to the matter, reply with that lamentable excuse
"sweater" is encouraged, the
don't buy this stuff our competitors will," and so the
sweated" still suffer, and the genuine trader is deprived of business because he, with
his small business, is determined to deal with firms of standing and repute who are proud
of their business, and are willing to give a guarantee with their goods.
It is to be hoped that those in any industry who wish to protect and help their fellows
will, where such a policy would be of service, issue a white list advertising the firms we
look upon as fair, and ask the general public to only deal with those houses whose names
appear on the list. As an illustration we could at once recommend to the public that the
co-operative movement, with its sixteen productive factories and its eight C.W.S. factories,
is practically immune from this taint or taunt, with the exception of the ladies' fancy
goods, made principally for evening dancing and dry weather wear.
We hope to be able to send a deputation to the Board of Trade in the near future
to ask for help in the matter, and to adopt other methods of bringing the same before
the public

IN THE MEANTIME, TO ALL PURCHASERS OF BOOTS AND SHOES, SEE THE INSOLE BY
LIFTING THE SOCK BEFORE PURCHASING, AND INSIST ON A LEATHER INSOLE. Without
of consumption, kidney diseases, rheumatics, and all other ailments due to shoddy footwear;
once soaked, never dry, and a damp foot assured as long as the boots last.
HOME OFFICE. A deputation from the Council waited on the Home Secretary, the
Rt. Hon. A. Henderson, to place before him the result of many visits we had made to the
Home Office and the result of much time and discussion we had had with Mr. Williams,
Dr. Collis, Professor Hill and Professor Moore, on that dread disease, Consumption or
Phthisis, in our industry, finding as we do that we hold a most unenviable position in
industrial diseases, being among the worst of all trades affected, and anxious to control
to some extent the health of the operatives who, for the best part of the day, and the greater
part of their lives, are often working in an atmosphere described by the Medical Research
Committee attached to the Home Office as injurious to health. We want a sufficiency of
light, air and ground floor space-no operative to be closer than four feet or more; all
firms to be registered as fulfilling these requirements, and no license granted unless all the
Home Office requirements are met; all workshops, in homes or outside, to be registered
in a similar manner; the abolition of underground workshops andm an yother matters
in keeping with the improvements we are entitled to, as the present Factory Act is more
than twenty years old. We merely sounded the Home Secretary on what we should like
to see, fully mindful of his knowledge of the subject. He thanked us for further interesting
him in a subject he has always had at heart, and hopes when the Bill is drafted, we will
help him to get amendments likely to conform with our wishes. Ultimately we asked him
whether on the question of Phthisis the Home Office was the authority, or the Minister of
Health; the Home Office whilst the operative is in the factory we were told, but they
seemed in doubt We have already written the Minister of Health asking him to receive
a deputation on the point. We think that this good work of healthy homes can easily
be undone by unhealthy workshops. As we have had no reply yet, we await developments.

TRADE BOARD. We have asked by letters (and through some thirty-three thousand
circulars issued last month) for information respecting the help, if any, that the Rounding
and Channelling Machines would be to our members, and whether the prices we tentatively
offer as a trial, and which took six hours to get the employers to accept, are reasonable
or otherwise. Although several weeks have passed by, we have not been supplied with
any information likely to help. We have not been able to give this side of our movement
much satisfaction. We have to remind them that from March 1st this year they


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
returned to 65s. for men and women employed wholly on making Bespoke Handsewn
changes have never brought to the men responsible, to my knowledge, any gratitude.
Surgical work; female workers employed as Managers or Foremen to 74s.; and all these
the combined efforts of three Unions are utilised.
no more than if the same had not been maintained or obtained and we have had, although
LEICESTER NOS. 1, 2 and 3 Branches have a variety of matters tonching them in th
where we find on enquiry there are members of our own Union and the Rossendale Union
starting of a factory at Burton-on-Trent, by the Rossendale Valley family of Fatough's.
in the firm. Those who followed the charge made by the Secretary of the Rossendale
will at once realise we cannot look kindly on the presence of a rival Union in out area, and
Valley Union at Southport Trade Union Congress against our Northampton No. 2 Branch.
we have advised our Derby Branch to give Burton-on-Trent their attention and advice.
On behalf of the LEICESTER NO. 2 Branch I have on several occasions approached the
Manager and Managing Director of Messrs. I. W. Black & Co., who are re-organising the
firm owing to an adverse balance sheet, and some serious changes have been made and
result, although it would ill become us to allow even the dilatoriness of the men affected
others about to be made, that we have tried to soften, but with apparently very little
to influence us in what we believe to be our duty, and we have the satisfaction of knowing
that we have done our duty, according to plan, from which we never depart.
THE WOMEN'S BRANCH have asked me to address meetings for them on the advantages
obtained by the Union, and have complied with this request, and a fairly good meeting of
their Shops Presidents was in attendance.
LINCOLN. - A visit to the ancient City of Lincoln to persuade the members there to
continue their adherence to the Union has met with a good feeling that leaves no snag
behind, but trade has been so bad and the wage so small, that they have been much snag
off than those in receipt of Unemployment Pay, although I feel sure that these men word
much prefer to be at work, than to accept this national payment out of the pocket of
industry.
MANSFIELD has been again visited, and there appears, after a talk with the firm and
the operatives, a much better feeling than appeared on the surface. Let us hope that all
friction will be thus allayed, bringing about a harmony that makes for a trustfulness
which will have a lasting effect.
DESBOROUGH. - A small firm there, less than two years old, has had the misfortune to
have a fire, and as we have had our late Secretary, Mr. S. J. B. Barnes, retire from the
Secretaryship, is an indication that local members have not worried this firm. Promises
were made and not performed. A visit from me produced a very emphatic statement
that they were doing their best, and nothing more can be done, and as their best is not
enough, we have advised them of a further visit after the Easter holidays. In future all
officers must immediately inform new firms they must straightaway comply with National
It is from these ex-small manufacturers who belong to the Federation, and
Agreements.
like the non-Unionist, when he first becomes a member, can see others as he has recently
been with a magnifying glass as big as Greenwich Observatory, we are asked to immediately
pull everybody up to the scratch, although members of the Federation occupy more of my
time than non-members, anxious as one is to attend to the non-federated employers and
the non-unionists. There are a few members of the Executive of the Employers' Federa-
tion whose ignorance (and that's sympathetic) or wilfulness takes up too much of our
time, as the following will show they have had to be told-
when there has been no breakdown.
(a) They cannot work more than 48 hours without time and a quarter being paid
(b) That they cannot have more boys than Clause 17 provides for.
(r) They cannot have persons on their premises under less than Minimum Wage
rates, even if they do nothing.
(d) They have no right to put children 14 to 16 on Piecework at their own prices.
(e) They have no right to allow, and the operative has no right to leave the firm
without their minimum hourly rate, in spite of the veiled threat that unless they earn
their money they will have to be dispensed with.
John Bright once said "You cannot govern by force." In the same sense I say
"You cannot govern by fear."
Federation members should realise that we now have three Organisers and your
humble servant, and in the past two Organisers and your humble have spent 75 per cent.
of our time looking after the saved, and wasting all that time which ought to have been
devoted to the sinners, and will the Federation please remember Kingswood, Chesham,
Eyam and Stoney Middleton, Melbourne, and Preston. What help did the Union get,
except in the case of Chesham; and who is protecting Wellingborough from our claim of
back pay for holidays unpaid? Why does the Federation want to let them off ?
---

---
FELLOW MEMBERS.
215
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
22nd April, 1924.
During the past month I have been to Manchester, Lancaster and Cork. The
trouble at Cork is over the claim of the Lee Boot Company there for the piecework prices
of the Green Book for heavy work. Northamptonshire for men's and boys' light work, and
Leicestershire for women's and girls' work. The operatives contend that a shop like theirs.
doing a variety of trade from heavy nailed to ladies' fine work, is not suited for the applica-
When I went to Cork the previous month, 13th March, I found that the factory had been
closed this year up to then, and that only six weeks had been worked from August to
arbitration. The firm declined the offer. A temporary agreement was come to on 20th
In January of this year the operatives suggested that they submit their differences to
March on the lines that the pressmen and machinists work on weekly wages and that we
get piecework rates fixed for the heavy trade in a month, and for the light work within
two months. The majority of the operatives started work on 24th March, and others
Christmas, 1923.
The firm contended that orders could not be got on the old prices.
were taken on as soon as work was ready for them.
We submitted revised prices to the firm on 15th April, but these were declined because
they did not correspond in detail with the printed prices of the districts mentioned. With
the exception of the Roughstuff department the difference between us was small, and I
The question is going to arbitration now, and the pity of it is that this was not accepted
in January. Needless suffering might have been averted. The Cork Branch is 100
per cent. strong in organisation, and has a spacious clubroom of its own, where the members
are free to go and have games and discussions. When in work a penny a week is paid
by each member towards the upkeep of this. I might say that the wages earned at Cork
on the revised prices of 1919 only gave on the average of what the Council looked to obtain
officers to obtain for their members. My thanks to colleagues at Leeds, Wolverhampton
and Northampton, for information sent to help us at Cork.
D. MCCARTHY.
During March I have been building up and consolidating the organisation in the
Wellingborough area. The Shops President system is now operating successfully and
will be the means of keeping the organisation together, especially in the large firms. The
difficulty here, as in most centres, is the small firms who engage a very few operatives
and are ever on the look out for cheap labour. Long spells of unemployment force men
into taking wages that otherwise they would not look at, and there are certain manu-
facturers who are always prepared to take advantage of this circumstance. In discussing
this position with several of these people one complaint is general, viz.:-some other
manufacturer is making boots cheaper than they are; orders can only be obtained if a
certain price is reached. One manufacturer (who is a fair firm) was perfectly honest
about it; he pointed out that his materials cost him the market price; a certain quality
was demanded, nothing could be taken out on that side, so therefore when it came to
getting down to the price the buyer offered, there was only one point at which he could
reduce costs, and that was labour. Factors by their attitude are indirectly producing
sweated labour, and are an additional enemy to the Union by beating down the manu-
facturers to an economic price, the manufacturers in turn beat down wages and make it
difficult for the National Terms to be fully applied. This side of the problem will eventually
have to be dealt with.
Several visits have been made to Olney, where conditions are not anything like what
they should be. Trade has been very bad for about three years, and as a consequence
many of the operatives have allowed their membership to lapse. With a revival of trade
the membership is steadily being built up again; conditions are also improving. Still,
there is room for further improvement, and with continual visits, and added interest,
there is no reason why a full membership should not be obtained again, and also proper
conditions put into force.
Special attention has been paid to a large firm in Wellingborough who do a variable
trade in Closing, comprising Legging, Strap, Fancy Bag Work, &c., in addition to Upper
Closing. The minimum at this firm is regarded at the maximum; there are about 250
girls working there, and a large number are non-members. Meetings have been held
outside the factory, and evening meetings have been called, but I am sorry to have to
report that very little progress has been made; apathy and indifference is the bugbear,
and only by continual propaganda can the importance of being organised be brought
home to these operatives.
LEN. SMITH,
---

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
218
on short time. In the Guardians Elections which has just taken place, all the
old Labour members have been returned, among them being our Secretary.
CHESH AM. Trade here is still very bad, all factories working short time
and a good mumber of operatives suspended from work until there is more
trade, We are pleased to report the re-election of our Branch President and
who topped the poll in his ward.
Secretary upon our Local District Council.
day or two.
CHESTERFIELD. In sending our returns we have to state trade very
the third Easter that our members have been thrown off in succession, and some
notice to finish on Thursday before the Easter holiday commences. This makes
bad. Most of the day workers at Dronfield & Co. (II in number) have received
C.W.S. working overtime through sickness, while several of our members have
DERBY Trade in Derby is none to good, some departments at the
little or nothing to do. There is only two trade shops in the town, so if a member
falls out he has not much chance of another start in his own trade.
have not started since last Easter, except a catch job for a
DESBOROUGH.--Trade is still slack with us, most of the firms working
short time. We regret the resignation of our Secretary, Mr. S. J. J. B. Barnes,
great changes have taken place at Desborough, and good progress has been made
who has served us in that capacity for the last 12 years. During that time
in trade unionism. Our Branch membership has increased from 70 to 700,
of the Northants District Council and secretary for the Workers' side of the
whilst our Branch funds have increased accordingly. He was also secretary
County Arbitration Board, which positions he filled with marked ability, and
his absence from these meetings will be regretted by all his colleagues. At
of the splendid work he had accomplished and our best wishes for his future
monthly meeting it was agreed to record on the minutes our appreciation
welfare. Mr. S. J. B. Barnes, J.P., thanked the members for their good wishes
and the good feeling they had always shown towards him, and expressed the
hope that we should have even greater success in the future than we had had
Our
in the past.
EDINBURGH.--Trade still quiet in New Workers' section, but the Repair-
ing shows some slight improvement. Members of this Branch are pleased to
see by other Branch Reports that the prices fixed by Advisory Committee of
Trade Board are not meeting with unanimous approval. Re the guarantee
of Is. 3d. per hour for half days, the employers are getting out of this by
suspending employees for this period, only taking enough men into shop so as
they will be fully employed for the four hours. Our members fail to see where
any progress is visible when this is the spirit taken up by employers, even
although they are parties to the arranging of above guarantee. Like London
South, we trust all Branches who have members working with the Rounding
Plant will forward all their information to the officials on Wages Trade Boards,
so that it can be shown that the deductions are too great for the operations
performed. In the meantime it is only so much per pair less for the benchmen
concerned. What about repairers getting paid for holidays on the same basis
as the factory worker? this is long overdue. Co-operative Societies in this
district have nearly all some scheme for payment of holidays. Why not
private firms ?
the month in some parts of the Branch, Wollaston and Finedon suffering, but
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.--Trade has fallen off very much during
the greatest trouble arises in the Raunds and Ringstead districts where a
considerable number of members are either discharged or suspended from
work indefinitely, the cause being no Government contracts from War Office
or Admiralty Departments. While some orders for Sea boots are let in this
district, the Marines and other boots have gone elsewhere. So serious is the

---
Here is the extracted text:
219
position in that part of our Branch that a committee of Enquiry met at
Raunds and decided to send a deputation to the Government Departments
with a view of suggesting that the orders be spread over a longer period and
issued half-yearly.
KINGSWOOD.—Trade is still very bad in this centre, and reminds us of
the worst period of the Great Slump. Sickness also is on the increase among
our members. Much pleasure was expressed by the members on the return
of the Branch Secretary after his illness, nine days of which was spent in hospital.
It is hoped that the convalescent period at the seaside has brought complete
recovery to good health. With reference to the prospective closing down for
good of an old-established firm, it is probable that the firm will be continued
under new management. A very successful Social, arranged by the local
Branches, was held at the British Schoolroom, and in view of the general
expression of satisfaction it is hoped that similar gatherings will be arranged
for in the future.
LONDON SEW-ROUND.—Trade is quiet, more so in the sew-round
than in hand-sewn work, owing to more firms having work made by the machine-
sewn turnshoe, which is a cheaper means of production. Now that we have
become a Branch of this Union we may, with the co-operation of other London
be able to compile a statement to govern
by the turnshoe machine, so that all men, no matter what part of the work they
may do, can obtain a fair wage; also remove the unfair competition to the
hand-sewn maker. We are sorry to report the death of two of our members,
Mr. George Greenslade, one of our oldest members; also Mr. Henry Edwards.
To both families we tender our deepest sympathy.
LIVERPOOL. Trade is showing signs of improvement, although nothing
to boast about yet. We note in the March Report certain repairing branches
are inclined to kick over the traces if the scale as suggested for working in con-
junction with machinery, viz., the rough-rounder and channeller comes into
force. We are not surprised, as the proposed cuts are too drastic and devoid
of reason and commonsense. We do not object to labour-saving machinery,
but we are not out to boom it up at our expense. In reply to our request for
copies of the latest Trade Board orders, the Secretary informs us that they are
not now available for free distribution, but may be purchased from H.M.
Stationery Office, Imperial House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2, for threepence
each copy, and that they are sent out to employers of labour for the purpose of
being posted up in the workshops. They may be purchased from H.M. Station-
ery Office direct or through any bookseller dealing in this class of literature.
On the other hand, if a branch official of a trade union requires copies to post
up in his office he has to dip into the branch funds. We assume this is part
of the economy stunt. What appears to be required is a sharp axe to cut the
red tape.
MANSFIELD.—Trade here is rather good. We have had several visits
from the General President (Mr. Richards), also one from Mrs. Bell-Richards,
on account of putting the Piecework Statement in. Although this work is
rather slow, with the help of the Officials it will be made all right, hoping
to benefit our Union members and also satisfy the masters.
MAYBOLE.—Trade is very slack. Most of our people are only working
three days a week and on the Labour Exchange for three days, and conse-
quently some of our members are falling into arrears. Sickness is still very
heavy, but showing signs of abating.
NORWICH.—Trade has been exceedingly busy during the month, many
factories working overtime after having used all available floor space in the
provision for new labour. Consequently our claims have dropped to nearly
half by the end of the month. This tendency is very satisfactory, especially
so as the turnshoe section is showing progressive improvement, and additional


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
220

operatives are securing employment. The trade outlook gives Norwich the
hope of sharing a measure of prosperity such as we have not enjoyed for many
months past, and we can only hope that such improvement will be shared by
fellow members throughout the country. Sick benefit has increased during
the month, but is not reaching its normal.
PLYMOUTH (REPAIRING) Trade slack during the month. Some of
our members have been on the unemployed list. Fortunately our unemployed
benefit is good, and many of our members have realised the advantages of
union membership during the past four years. But there is another aspect of
the question which seems to us to call for serious reflection, and we should be
interested to hear something of the experiences of other branches, especially
repairing branches, upon the same question. We find the same thing happening
again and again: our members becoming unemployed claim their unemploy-
ment benefit, sign the book regularly until benefit is exhausted (nine pounds
to our organisation, for we find it very rare a member returns to the trade as
written off from Union funds), then something happens much more detrimental
an employee. He generally finds a little shop in a back alley and becomes
what is known as "a one-man business." No one can blame him for this.
Really his effort is commendable and, more often than not, inevitable, but we
invariably lose our member, and that is where the rub comes. Now we think
something might be done to keep these members organised; certainly they
may be still classed as workers, seeing they all work for the public, while many
of them are no better off than a journeyman in regular employment, or a fore-
man paid the Trade Board rate. But our Union contributions and benefits do
not exactly meet their case. We are quite aware that the employers endeavour
to organise these men, and probably that is all to the good as there is a danger
of these people seriously affecting the trade, but do they not rightly belong to
us ?

SOUTHAMPTON. Trade very slack, the shipyard workers' strike having
a depressing effect on trade of all kinds.
STREET. We regret we are unable to report any improvement in the
state of trade, most of our members being on short time and quite a consider-
able number signing our out-of-work book. We have also a long list of members
receiving sickness benefit owing to the influenza epidemic.

TRUTH FOR
YOUR PENNY
DAILY HERALD


---
221
PHTHISIS IN BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Principal Union Officials visit the Home Office.
HOME SECRETARY'S REPLY.
At the request of the Executive Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives, a deputation consisting of Mr. T. F. Richards (General President), Mr. E. L.
Poulton, J.P. (General Secretary), Mr. J. Buckle, M.P., J.P., Mr. F. Gould, M.P., and
Mr. Ernest Bordoli (Confidential Clerk), waited upon the Secretary of State for Home
Affairs-the Rt. Hon. Arthur Henderson-on Friday, the 4th April, 1924, at 10.30 a.m.,
at the Home Office, Whitehall, London, S.W. 1.
Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., J.P., was prevented from attending owing to being engaged
on work connected with the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.
In addition to the Secretary of State for Home Affairs, there was also present from
the Home Office-Sir Malcolm Delevingne, Mr. R. Bannatyne, C.B., Dr. Legge, C.B.E.,
and Mr. C. G. Markbreiter, C.B.E.
MR. RICHARDS: I hope you will pardon us for the brevity of our case. We are well
aware of the gentleman we are addressing, and know the Secretary of State has full know-
ledge of the facts, otherwise we may have gone more fully into detail.
I have known the Secretary of State firstly as a workman, councillor, and during my
brief period in the House of Commons always found him interested in the subjects about
which we have called to-day.
The object of the deputation is to impress on the Department the vital necessity of
incorporating in the proposed new factory legislation, the series of resolutions, the outcome
of a special Conference of representatives of the Boot Manufacturers' Federation of the
United Kingdom, and representatives of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
held at the Home Office in 1917.
This deputation, however, consisting exclusively of representatives of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, particularly desires to emphasise, that although in
agreement with the resolution whereby it is proposed to increase the cubic capacity now
provided in the present factory Act of 250 cubic feet per operative to 500 cubic feet per
operative, that the Home Office will agree to secure a clause in the new Factory Act, whereby
there shall be a minimum space of 4 feet between every operative working in a boot factory
at a machine or bench.
We are emphatic in this recommendation because the Medical Research Committee
in its investigation, having special regard to the boot and shoe industry and the prevalence
of Phthisis, reports on page 6 of its report, as follows :-
"The air space as measured by cubic capacity per person always exceeds as
minimum of 250 cubic feet required by Section 3 of the Factory Workshops Act,
1901, and was found in 100 factories of varying sizes to average 800 to 900 cubic
feet per head."
In the same report it is stated that although the cubic feetage provision in the Factory
Act was in almost every case exceeded there seemed to be a general congestion in the
departments.
Again expert evidence was quoted conclusively proving that for operatives to sit
within three feet of each other constituted a danger zone as far as the disease of Phthisis
was concerned.
This deputation also wishes to impress upon the Home Office the necessity in the
proposed new factory legislation to make provisions whereby it shall be compulsory for
all boot and shoe operatives to be employed in factories. Our reasons for making this
suggestion are because we have knowledge of the fact that there is still a large number
of boot operatives employed in small workshops in connection with their homes, where
factory legislation is evaded, and our great desire is to see that the new proposed factory
legislation eliminates from our industry all conditions which tend to sweating and creating
unhealthy conditions of labour.
This deputation also wishes to strongly urge on the Department the necessity for some
provision being made in the new factory legislation whereby it shall be compulsory for
every employer of labour in connection with the production of boots, shoes and slippers,
or preparing or manufacturing parts in connection with the manufacture of boots, shoes
or slippers, to register or otherwise secure a license to use as a factory any particular
building for the employment of labour under the Act.


---
222
This deputation wishes to express its great dissatisfaction with the inadequacy of
by a factory inspector unless it is in the case of following up an accident which has been
the department staff of inspectors for the enforcement of the Factory Act. The deputation
has knowledge of the fact that scores of boot, shoe and slipper factories are never visited
The deputation, therefore, sincerely hopes that the department will take immediate
seriously suggests that the time has come when expert practical men who have been
thoroughly trained in the industry should be alone appointed, in connection with that
industry, in other words, this deputation wishes to recommend that as far as its own
In the appointment, however, of any additional factory inspectors the deputation
industry is concerned a special staff should be created to thoroughly administer the Acts,
and that staff should consist exclusively of men who have worked and gained their know-
steps to increase its staff to enable it to thoroughly administer the law.
reported.
ledge in the factories.
In connection with this recommendation this deputation suggests that in the appoint
ment of inspectors the ordinary civil service examination should be dispensed with, and
the persons appointed should be appointed on the sheer merit of their practical experience
and knowledge of the industry.
In conclusion, we would respectfully remind you that we speak as a deputation on
showing that boot and shoe operatives dying from all causes between 20 and 45 years of
Committee owing to the fact that the death rate from Phthisis is abnormal, statistic
behalf of the workers of an industry which has been singled out by the Medical Research
age over 50 per cent. die of consumption.
We are anxious that these important matters should be brought to your knowledge.
It would be like taking coals to Newcastle to try and educate you upon the subject. At
this connection, and we certainly hope you will have time to consult them. We trust
a number of meetings we have held with the boot employers, resolutions were passed in
you will give this matter your serious attention. Reports were issued in 1915, 1920 and
1921, through the Home Office which show that your Department look upon the matter
seriously. We hope you will not overlook us when legislation is brought in.
MR. POULTON: I wish to substantiate the statements of the General President.
I believe you already have the report from the Joint Industrial Council, as follows:-
1.-LIGHTING.
(a) Natural:
1. In any new works, underground workrooms should be prohibited.
The definition of the term underground workroom was left to the Home Office.
2. As regards existing works, no underground room should be used as a workplace
after a period of three years unless a certificate has been given by H.M. Inspector of
Factories that it is suitable for that purpose, that in the event of exception being taken by
the owner, occupier, or any operative employed in such factories to the withholding or
otherwise of such a certificate, the case shall be referred by that party to the J.I.C. which
shall be required to investigate and report its opinions to the Chief Inspector of Factories,
Home Office, and further that the Home Office shall take no official action in the matter
pending the receipt of such a report.
3. All windows must be kept clean inside and outside.
(b) Artificial:
Artificial lighting should be adequate and the light should be so placed and shaded
as to prevent, so far as practicable, the rays of light from impinging directly on the eyes
of the workers.
2.-CLEANLINESS.
(a) Walls and Tops:
The legal requirements should be strictly enforced and in view of the number of
existing regulations and the difficulty of strict enforcement, this Council asks that if the
staff of Inspectors is inadequate for the purpose, the Home Office will seriously consider
the advisability of appointing additional inspectors for the boot and shoe trade.
(b) Floors:
in good condition.
1. In order to facilitate cleaning, the floors of all workrooms should be maintained
every 24 hours.
floors of all workrooms should be thoroughly swept by a damp method at least once in
2. Unless efficiently cleaned daily by a mechanically operated Vacuum Cleaner, the


---
the same way.
223
every six months and if practicable the floors of other departments should be treated in
The floor of all Clicking and Closing Departments should be washed at least once in
3. Floors should not be swept while the operatives are present in the workrooms.
Ample and suitable Washing Accommodation (including Soap and Towels) should
WASHING ACCOMMODATION.
be provided.
FIRST AID EQUIPMENT.
Unless a suitable Ambulance Room is established a properly equipped First Aid Box
for every 150 workers should be kept in a convenient position.
PURITY OF AIR.
Gas and Oil Engines should be separated from workrooms.
INFECTION FROM CONSUMPTIVE WORKERS.
Spitting on the floors or walls of factories or workshops should be prohibited.
modern methods of lighting in boot factories was the topic for discussion, and if possible
At a lecture given recently in Northampton to the boot managers, the question of
important indeed, and at the present time there are only two firms who have an up-to-date
method Messrs. Bostock, of Stafford, and Messrs. Truform, of Northampton. It is a
we should like to get your additional help upon the subject. Methods of lighting are very
question of getting the light upon the work rather than in the room. We attach very
great importance to the lighting of factories, because of the effect upon the employees
eves is very great indeed. When I went to America two years ago, I could not help being
way their lighting is
sthan put about the factory. I shall be glad, therefore, if this point can be seriously con
sidered as I am quite sure it would be for the general good of the body.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE: Are most of your boot manufacturing workshops being
used for the purpose for which they were built ?
MR. POULTON: Most of them.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE: Then the light was not properly put in when built ?
MR. POULTON: No! but I should like to respectfully suggest that this question
has not until recently received that consideration which it should have done either by
ourselves, the manufacturers, or Government departments.
I want now to press the point of consumption of which our trade is still a victim.
I believe we are the second or third trade in the country with such a high rate of mortality.
This is a very serious thing, but I wish to say how much we recognise the great help your
Department has always given us, and the great assistance given us by those gentlemen
whom you placed at our disposal and whom we consulted. If you can help us further
-apart from the Factory Acts-we shall be grateful. Here, Sir, I have a table showing
the percentage of deaths due to tuberculosis, the figures having been extracted from the
records of the Union:-
Year ending.
No. of deaths
due to all causes.
No. of deaths
due to Tuberculosis.
Percentage.
81
46.5
1905
174
181
66
36.4
1906
204
67
32.8
1907
1908
193
70
36.2
209
84
40.2
1909
205
78
38.0
1910
::
37:3
190
71
1911
28:0
1912
264
74
88
33 3
1913
264
330
101
1914
306
1915
1916
1917
WAR PERIOD.
!
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
546
506
538
447
I now wish to call your attention to a series of correspondence which has passed
regarding the Barwell and Earl Shilton districts of Leicestershire. When the Health
128
141
128
105
234
27.8
23.7
43.4


---
Insurance Act was passed, the Department itself before it became the Ministry of Health,
was so concerned with the heavy rates of sickness in the shoe trade in this district.
that they held a conference in our Central Office.
We have not been successful in reducing the sickne.
Ship of Sir David Shackleton.
The
or mortality rate.
The Leicestershire County Council have recently held a conference
entitled to ask for that help which will speedily bring about a normal rate. If you have
not seen the copies of this correspondence I shall be glad to leave it here, so that you can
see what we have been trying to do since 1914 down to date. The local body in SOT
respects is somewhat reactionary, because they will not take up the position of doing
what we consider to be their duty, and whilst we feel we have your sympathy we are
asking you to put pressure on, not merely from the standpoint of boot operatives, but ak
from the standpoint of the health of the community generally. I feel certain our appeal
will not be in vain.
MR. BUCKLE: With regard to the expression used by our President of "three feet
apart" this is a very important matter. Phthisis is a very serious matter for us. I think
the discussions which have taken place upon this subject have created much interest.
closely to one another, and opposite each other, and we suggest the operatives should not
You will find in some of the closing departments of our factories that women sit ver
and the question of consumption has been troubling us for many years past. If you
sit facing each other, but have single benches. Upper closing is a very important operation.
place during the past ten years and the smaller factories are very detrimental, particularly
in the East End of London where you have a house with beautiful lace curtains up, and
can assist us in this direction we shall be glad. We know great improvements have taken
the question of space which is so essential if we are to reduce the death rate so far as con-
upon the question of female workers particularly, and hope you will take into consideration
then ten or twelve shoe operatives at the back of the place. We should like your assistance
sumption is concerned.
MR. GOULD I can only speak from the practical side, having only recently left the
boot factory. Our industry is subject to specialisation of machinery. Accumulation of
dust comes into the factory, due to the fact that the absence of proper inspection enables
a firm not to have the fans cleaned out as often as they should be. Very often I have
leave their machine for five or ten minutes to get a breath of fresh air, due to the
clogging of the fan and causing bad ventilation. The cuttings from the clicker's bench
and pressman's bench fall to the ground and are all too frequently spat upon. These
bits are picked up by boys or men, and used by other people in the making of the boot.
You come into contact with the spit and accumulation of dust, and there is the danger
of infection.
Until we have fresh legislation that compels manufacturers-particularly in the
heavy nailed trade in Kingswood and district-from using wash-houses and back kitchens
for making boots, these dreadful conditions are likely to continue, and I hope you will
give us powers to control it. That is one of our problems. I hope you will give attention
to the matter.
The Home Secretary's Reply.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE: Mr. Richards and Gentlemen,-I am very pleased to
have had this opportunity of hearing the case which you have submitted to us this morning,
and can say your visit comes most opportune from the standpoint that we are about to
introduce a Factory Bill. I was very pleased to hear Mr. Poulton pay his tribute to the
officials of this Department, for during the time I have been associated with it I have
had it very definitely confirmed what I knew before, that any matters affecting the health
and safety of the workers, the officials devote themselves, and are devoting themselves to
protect the interest of the workers with commendable zeal. I am rather glad Mr. Poulton,
coming with the weight of his experience in the organised labour movement, should be
prepared to give his testimony, and I am quite sure his colleagues also take that view of
the work which the officials of the Home Office have been doing for a long time past.
Perhaps the coming of a Secretary interested in so many of these questions-as I am-will
enable them through the coming Factory Bill to give expression to some of the laudable
ideas which are at the back of their minds. I can assure the deputation that the points
which have been brought before us will receive and are already receiving-the most
careful consideration.
It is over twenty years since we had a comprehensive Factory Bill, and naturally it
is the desire of all in the Department to avail themselves with the improvements and
developments with regard to the health, ventilation and space as far as we think Parlia-
mentary circumstances will permit, and of course always bearing in mind you can carry
some of the changes advocated without interfering with the continuance of an industry.
The work that is done outside factories is a very important matter. It used to be a very
familiar phrase twenty years ago when I first went to the House of Commons-" the
out-worker." I well remember being on the Select Committee, presided over by the late


---
225
Sir Thomas Whittaker, when we received evidence of the most appalling nature so far as
Committee, it was the information I obtained there that made me so strong to get a change
out-workers were concerned. Although I knew a good deal about it before that Select
in connection with the chain makers at Cradley Heath, which resulted in our getting an
amendment which I moved myself carried and included in the Sweated Trades' Bill.
Both the officials and I are tackling these questions with sympathy and practical experi-
Any new point which may have been made this morning will be made a note of by
Sir Malcolm Delevingne and will receive careful consideration. If they are not already
see they are included. As the Bill goes through the House your own representatives--
in the new Bill and it is possible to secure their inclusion, I shall be only too delighted to
and officials outside the House will be in a position to try and secure their inclusion and
they will be able to consult Mr. Davies or myself as to any amendments they wish to make.
ence.
The case you have presented appeals to me very sympathetically.
MR. RICHARDS asked whether the Ministry of Health would deal with this subject
in addition to the Home Office.
SIR M. DELEVINGNE: It comes under the scope of workshops; tuberculosis as a
general question is a matter for the Ministry of Health, but in the factory it is our business.
DR. LEGGE stated that industrial phthisis was for the Home Office, although the
Industrial Fatigue Board came under the Ministry of Health.
MR. POULTON: If the question necessitated, do I understand that we might be allowed
to consult the gentlemen who have already handled it ?
reported upon the question of lighting,
air, &c., were set up by this Department, yes.
MR. RICHARDS expressed his satisfaction with the view, and intimated that some of
his colleagues thought they should have met the Ministry of Health, although he was
satisfied the Home Office was the Department.
MR. RICHARDS thanked the Secretary of State for Home Affairs and Permanent
Officials for receiving the deputation.
The deputation withdrew at 11.15 a.m.
E.B.
BOOT AND SHOE REPAIRING.
Changes in Rates of Wages, 3rd March, 1924.
Certain classes of workpeople em-
ployed in the boot and shoe repair-
ing trade :-
Male and female workers wholly
or mainly employed in making
bespoke hand-sewn leather
footwear (including hand-sewn
surgical work)
Male learners (other than male
indentured apprentices), and
female learners
Female workers employed as fore-
men and managers
Pieceworkers
Minimum rate of 65s. per week fixed under the
Trade Boards Acts.
New scale of minimum weekly rates fixed under the
Trade Boards Acts, resulting in decreases of Is.
for those of 15 and under 17 years, and of an
increase of Is. for those 19 and under 21 years,
the rates for other ages remaining unchanged.
Minimum rates after change: 14 and under 15,
13s., increasing to 25s. at 17 and under 18, and
to 43s. at 20 and under 21.
Increase of 4s. per week in the guaranteed time rate
fixed under the Trade Boards Acts (70s. to 74s.).
Revised list of piece rates fixed under the Trade
Boards Acts, subject to a deduction of 5 per
cent. for bespoke hand-sewn, bespoke hand-sewn
surgical, bespoke pegged and bespoke riveted
work and certain classes of surgical repair work,
and of 7½ per cent. for repairing (including
surgical repair work other than the above).


---
226
FIGHT FOR THE FORTY-EIGHT HOUR WEEK.
By E. L. Poulton, J.P.,
to the National Union of Boot and Shoe Oberalives, and British Workers'
Delegate to the Groerning Body of the L.L.O., Geneva.
of the resolution in the Versailles Peace Treaty was to enable labour in all
of comployment
of various periods to try, as far as possible to secure uniform conditions
ment to not up to the present done so.
Nearly Dve years ago the first Session of the International Labour Con-
What has been the cause of the long delay, and
brews held in Washington, U S A. and adopted the Hours of Work Convention.
checomtrie: have since that date ratified the Convention, but the British Govern-
toa lumber room in Whitehall? The main reasons why the British Government for four
hos has it come about that in spite of the delay, the Convention has not been relegated
vous took no active steps towards ratification of the Convention were industrial depression
ued political reaction which followed the sanguine expectations which accompanied the
British Labour, however, may justifiably claim the credit for having
prevented the Convention from becoming a dead letter during this period of comparative
AM the Washington Conference, the two Commissions which had to deal with Hours
of Work were presided over by British representatives: whilst the Commission on Special
Countries had Mr. G. N. Barnes, the Government delegate, as chairman, the main Com-
mission being presided over by Mr. Tom Shaw, who attended the Conference as one of the
Workers' delegation. Many observers of the conference have paid a just tribute to the
sides; as evidence of his success it should be noticed that the Report of the Commission
patience and industry of M. Shaw and of his skill in finding solutions acceptable to all
adopted by the Conference after considerable discussion, it is true, but without a
was
nd of the war.
tagnation.
single substantial alteration.
It is interesting to note that it was reported to the Governing Body in June, 1920,
with seamen's questions exclusively, an Hours of Work Convention just failed to secure
moment the tide was perhaps ebbing at the Genoa Conference (July, 1920) which dealt
that in Great Britain a Bill relating to the eight-hour day was in preparation. At that
recognised that the scale was
thense vote of the British Government Delegate. A further note of warning was struck
neth Hours Convention to the conditions obtaining on the railways in this country was
at the meeting of the Governing Body in October, 1920, when the difficulty of adjusting
openly discussed; yet even at that date the Belgium and French (though not, it is true,
the British) employers, declared their intention to honour their signatures and stand by
the Convention. The period of 18 months prescribed by the Treaty expired in January,
1921; nothing tangible had yet been done to ratify the Hours Convention in this country
tion, British Labour began to raise its protest. At that time the position in this country
through its representative on the Governing Body of the International Labour Organisa
of the National Industrial Conference; it is somewhat ironical to reflect that its recom-
was that the Minister of Labour was still negotiating with the Provisional Joint Committee
mendations had been embodied in the Bill of the 18th August, 1919, but received with
criticism, particularly because they did not regulate the hours of work in agriculture
and the mercantile marine.
In July, 1921, the British Government wrote officially to propose that the question
of the Hours Convention should be placed on the Agenda of a future Conference. It
was stated that although about 70 per cent. or 80 per cent. of those employed in industrial
undertakings in this country normally worked 48 hours a week or less, in two respects the
Convention was inapplicable (overtime, and the railwaymen's agreements). At the meeting
of the Governing Body in October, when this letter was discussed and the British Govern-
ment representative recognised the influence of non-ratification by Great Britain on other
countries, the British Workers' Representative, whilst expressing his satisfaction at hearing
that the Government want to keep absolute faith with the Hours Convention, argued
that its proposals practically meant a new Convention and undoing of much valuable
work. He, too, spoke of the influence of British action on other countries, and finally
it was agreed that the Government's proposal should not be accepted, but that the Director
of the I.L.O. should communicate with the governments of the countries where difficulties
had arisen and report to the Governing Body. A full report upon the proceedings to date
was laid before the International Labour Conference in October, 1921, but the oppor-
tunity for discussion was very limited and indeed might in any case have tended to increase
the difficulties of negotiations then in progress. In April, 1922, the Director reported
upon the progress of his negotiations, but there was little to encourage optimism. In the
name of those whom he represented, the British Workers' Delegate insisted that further
as possible a solution
culties and so permit ratification. Little progress was made. The I.L.O. itself was beset
with difficulties; the question of its competence to deal with agricultural labour, and
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
228
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES
Circular No. 326.
FELLOW OFFICERS,
34 GUILFORD STREET.
VOTING.
LONDON, W.C. 1.
2nd April, 1924.
The Council have again felt it necessary to bring before the members the method
under which Voting must take place.
named in the attached memorandum, and thus obviate any irregularities on the one hand.
The Council instruct me to say that ALL branches MUST carry out the regulations
and cause for action being taken by the Council on the other.
Yours faithfully,
[COPY.]
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
REPRINT OF CIRCULAR No. 15. Issued April, 1912.
FELLOW OFFICERS,
for Union Officers, which complaints, upon investigation, have been found to be such as
So many complaints have come to hand recently as to the manner of Voting
say that the following method must in all cases where Voting is necessary for Union
to prove that the Rules have not been adhered to the Council therefore instruct me to
If not, there will be no other course left open but to deal
ing the Vote recorded, or if necessary to disfranchise the Branch for a period not exceeding
with any Section or Branch who fail to conform to Rule in this matter, by either disallow.
positions be strictly carried out
12 months, or order a new Election:
(a) The member must be a Financial member that is, he must have paid 26 Weeks'
Contributions apart from his Entrance Fee.
(b) No Member, though Registered, must be allowed to vote if he is in arrears with
his Contributions more than eight weeks.
(c) Branches can have more than one Polling Station, all of which must be apart
from any Factory.
(d) No Voting Papers must be sent to any member.
(e) Members must come in person to the Polling Station.
(f) Members must produce their cards before being supplied with a Voting Paper.
(g) The person in charge of the Polling Station and Ballot Boxes must examine
the card to ascertain if the member is entitled to vote according to Sections
A and B; if he is not he must NOT on any account be allowed to Vote.
(h) If the member is entitled to vote, he shall be handed a Voting Paper by the person
in charge of the station, who shall date stamp their card to show that the member
has voted.
(i) Voting Papers must not be torn out of the Ballot Book until an applicant applies
for one to record his vote thereon.
(j) The unused Ballot Papers must be returned to the Branch Secretary, who shall
keep the same until at least the next Monthly Meeting of the Branch.
(k) The Ballot Papers used for Voting must be kept intact by the Branch Secretary
for a period of three months after the vote has been declared by the Council.
(l) The person in charge must see that a member who has a Ballot Paper for voting
purposes deposits the same in the Ballot Box before he leaves the room.
Yours fraternally,
(Signed) E. L. POULTON,
The above was issued on 15th April, 1912, 17th July, 1918, and 29th September, 1922.
General Secretary.


---
Here is the extracted text:
229
EDUCATION AND DEMOCRACY.
Report of an Educational Conference held at Irthlingborough, 9th February, 1924,
arranged by the Northants District Council. Mr. W. G. Cove, M.P., for the Wellingborough
Division, gave a lecture on "Education and Democracy."
Mr. W. Taylor, headmaster of the Irthlingborough Council School, presided, and
delegates were present from all branches of the Boot and Shoe Union in Northants, together
with Mr. T. F. Richards, General President, and representatives of other Trade Unions.
Local Labour Parties, Co-operative Societies, Co-operative Guilds, and Working Men's
Clubs.
Mr. W. Langley, J.P., welcomed the delegates to Irthlingborough.
The Chairman added his welcome to the delegates and said that the large number
present spoke well for the interest that was being taken in education by people of all sects
and all shades of political opinion. He wanted the rising generation to be something more
than "receivers and repeaters" of bald facts. Rather they should be "thinkers and
utterers." Knowledge was power and ignorance a curse.
(Hear, hear.)
Mr. Cove, who had a cordial reception, said: My ideas of the practical teacher have
been revolutionary. I have not been satisfied with the methods which have been imposed
on the educational system of this country. I believe that we thought too much about
need for self-government, for the shouldering of responsibility by any class of working
people, that need is quite as present in the teaching world as in any industry in this
country. We have not trusted the craftsman enough-we have not trusted the
enough as far as education is concerned. You have not given the teacher a chance with
all our discoveries in methods and principles, our development along the psychological
line all those scientific principles have been cut across by one simple thing, and that is
great classes of 50 or 60 scholars in the elementary schools of this country
would say to Mr. Trevelyan, as Minister of Education, that the most effective reform, the
most revolutionary reform that he could initiate in the elementary schools of this country
would be to reduce the 60 to 20 or 25. (Applause.) But my subject is "Education and
Democracy." I am not an expert on democracy. I have suffered the ills of democracy.
I am afraid democracy is thought of, in this country, more from the point of view
of form than of content. Democracy is not merely the right to vote; not merely the
constitutional right to have your representatives on your local councils, or a Parliament
elected directly by the people. That is only the form democracy might take, in my
judgment. Further, frankly and honestly, I cannot envisage a true democracy which is
merely political in its expression. I see the industrial aspect in democracy. (Hear, hear.)
True democracy must at least consider not only the political freedom to vote and so on-
there should be not only representative government in the political sense, but it must
include control by the workers in some evolutionary degree over the conditions of work they
perform in the factories, workshops and mines. (Applause.) That is the industrial aspect.
There must be the intelligence to vote as well as the right to vote. There must be going on
behind that an intensive individual culture of the sense of citizenship along educational
lines. I believe that one of the curses of modern democracy is its inertness, passivity, sitting
down to observe-not the activity that the chairman mentioned, "thinkers and utterers,"
but the "receivers and repeaters." We are subject in this country to the difficulties of
our individual citizens not being active enough, not mentally virile enough. Before we
can have an effective democracy we must have an active individual composition of that
democracy. It must be alert, critical, constructive. Democracy not only has these
sides, but it also has the material side. Before you can have a democracy there must
be some material security, economic security. There must be underneath all our endeavours
this fact that man has not to face poverty which prevents him becoming educated, which
makes him wonder whether he will get his meals to-morrow. We have developed to the
point in human society where, for the mass of the people, the adventures of life must be
adventures in the realm of mental things, not in the realm of getting on, or making money
or getting social position, but in creative activity in the arts and sciences. I am firmly of
opinion that the experiences of our youths will not be limited by the house or the home
in which they happened to be born. You have no more right in democracy to prevent a
child entering into the heritage of our literature, of enjoying beautiful pictures, of appre-
ciating the glories of music, than you have to deny the right of food, clothes, and shelter.
(Applause.) These things must be open to the appreciation and enjoyment of all individuals
provided that the personal self-effort is forthcoming. Therefore you must not limit
experience to the homes. True democracy is not the fickle victim of the herd instinct
and mass suggestion. Are we free from that in this country? What is the meaning
of your "trusted" Press ?
How is true democracy to be achieved? It cannot be achieved if you have classes of
60, nor by mere drill. It can be achieved only by education having this philosophy under-
lying it, that the human and personal being is one whole, body, mind and soul, and that


---
prevents that taking
racy.
tion.
forces.
democracy that has hitherto been known.
230
this distinct individuality needs cultivating and nurturing. Any system of society whichh
In a true democracy there is a collective and co-operative effort after something
and there is also an individual effort contributing towards that. A good illustration is
an orchestra which is needed to express the fullest beauty of mind of the composer. But
more than the addition of each individual player. Effectiveness is increased by co-opera-
got from the to operation of the individual players. The sum total of the orchestra is
the best orchestra is made up of the best players and the highest harmonies are those
In democracy co-operation in the social services must be one of the great dynamic
Therefore, if we can get this co-operation in our schools without the need for
material ends and profits, that experience will help to forum better citizens than in any
What are the reasons of the inertness and
Passiveness that exists in modern democratic society? You with your experience of
mechanical kind of individual, that the machine prevents the operation of personality
of personality with wealth production? I hold that the machine has brought about a
factories can help me with your criticisms. How can we get into modern life a harmonising
a man may think more when he is doing automatic work, what does the average man think
and has an uneducative effect, though of course it frees men from much drudgery. Although
is one of your most important men in the boot factory, but even he has a deal of
repetition work to do, and he certainly does not start out from this point of
far as modern machine production has depersonalised human beings it is uneducative
has created something. He merely forms the foundation for the profit of that particular
operation. How many operations in the modern factory demand imagination? In so
Girls and boys are put into factories at 14
ages of 20 and 45 are due to consumption unskilled labour can take their places. What
Incidentally I understand that 50 per cent. of the deaths of boot operatives between the
must we do? Humbug with Continuation or Exchange Schools ? No. We must
raise the school age. Knowledge may be useful in getting away from the machine, but
that escape is going to be more difficult as automisation proceeds toward its logical
conclusion. Such knowledge as the operative comes by in school possesses for him only
cultural value. It does not help him in the least to earn his living but it helps him
then? I rather fancy he is wool-gathering! (Laughter.)
view "How much of myself can I put into this work?"
and turned out at 16 or 18 because cheaper,
immensely to spend his leisure.
I am told that your clicker
He cannot feel that he
ditions of automatic production is education for life. The attendant of automatic tools
Precisely here is the point of my argument. Education for leisure under the con-
which is when he leaves the shop. His task does not call for a fraction of his full powers
does not live while he is on the job; he exists against the time when he began to live.
If he could buy the same
financed leisure as easily in any other way, he would shift jobs to-morrow.
So he comes to his post as a slave to the galley, and leaves with the gladness of a
are given to buy leisure; and in that leisure the operative lives. He lives in his sports,
convict escaping prison. The fact is, that the hours given to tending automatic machines
at the movies, at the theatre, the lecture, the library, in the park, and on the front porch
of his inamorata.
In general, it has ever been true that leisure is the cream of life. We have tried
desperately to build up an immunity to leisure, with our dull gospel of work for work's
sake. There is a glory in creative work; but even that becomes pain and weariness if
we are kept too long at it. All labour produces, sooner or later, weariness and pain-
nature's signal to quit and go a-playing. When does that most stolid of men, the peasant,
live most fully-when he plods the endless furrow, or when, at evening, he sings his songs,
dances, prays, and courts his maiden? When did the skilled mechanic of another
day feel his manhood soar highest above clod and worm-when he was chasing a screw
with a cold chisel, or when he was taking the air in his gaiden, or, perchance, hobnobbing
with his mates in the corner saloon? Is the tireless business man better company when
he is chasing a golf-ball, or when he is chasing a profit? Is the banker best satisfied with
himself when he is figuring interest or when he is hip-deep in the stream, figuring trout?
I think that men of the better sort reach their furthest north in life, not in the hours they
pay for life, but in the hours they spend in living. Certain am I that none but an imbecile
could find such delight in sharing the daily toil of our mill-workers, so mechanised has it
become. Consequently, education for leisure is precisely education for life; and educa-
tion for life comes down, squarely down, to education for culture.
only to the State.
What is the first requirement for the right use of leisure? Self-restraint. Leisure
is liberty from an exacting, definite control-that of the boss. In leisure a man is subject
In "The Inversion of Science, and a Scheme of Scientific Reformation," Professor
Frederick Soddy, M.A., F.R.S., says:" I believe in the capacity of a free democracy
for the many as well as for the few. It must continuously furnish new and more interesting
to live like men, and in the power of education to raise continuously the standard of living


---
of leisure.
231
without purpose or interests, none needing their aid or asking from them a share in the
glorious achievement of their age. Just as people suppose the world is still poor, an
occupations to save the many from the fate, more terrible perhaps than slavery, of living
provided for all apart from a generally much more developed and ambitious public
equally common political mistake made is that useful and profitable occupation can be
life. Production is a finished science: distribution is one that should now offer no
unsolved problem. The real problem of a free democracy is the right and profitable use
The great war revealed, also, the weakness of precepts in the clash of economic interests
and national and racial prejudices. Men cannot be redeemed by maxims neither can
universal goodwill be achieved by preaching. The school provides the social organisation
social service. One of the distinctive marks of modern society is the cleavage between
for the exercise of a concrete morality and the realisation of vitalising, because actual
private and public morality. The ethics of private conduct are not the ethics of our
this cynicism of a commercialised morality, have been fraught with nothing but evil
social relationships or of our foreign diplomacies
I want to suggest that this dualism,
Even now there are cynical old statesmen in Europe whose blighting
ethic is that might is right. The school, in and through its social relationships actively
practised in the concrete, by the reaction of theory upon practice
theory, by the unified development of human personality, will be the strongest force for
ridding the world of this pestilential ethic. The perception of unity of the human per-
sonality is the first condition for the achievement of unity in the human race. The modern
school has a vision of that unity. It sees in human personality, in the sum of its poten-
tialities and achievements, something more than a piece of mechanism, something more
than a mere hand. It sees living personality, in which body and soul are one.
consequences to men.
occupations of the in
cice and practice upon
I am convinced that neither leagues nor conferences of nations can secure a permanent
personality into man physical and man spiritual, into man private and man public. In
politics. The school is the microcosm that must realise itself in the microcosm of the
we have the training ground for social purpose in the spheres of industry, citizenship and
porld. In the unification of physical and mental, in the unity of example and precept,
in the supreme conception of man as the creative and creator of his environment, precepti
provide the world with the practical working faith that will give the world what it so
badly needs the dynamic concept of unity. There can be no doubt that the war has
left the schools and universities of the world with a great choice. They have to decide
or not, whether they will be the instruments of a narrow nationalism, a ruthless and
material imperialism, and a cynical chauvinism. The war has not rid the world of its
damning philosophies and its vaulting ambitions. We still have statesmen who dominate
the politics of Europe, saying that "We can only get what we can force," and who are
applying in enlarged armies the cynical aphorism that the best preparation for peace is to
prepare for war.
We have to decide as educators whether we are prepared to teach this
philosophy in our schools. There can be no doubt that the schools of the world have
been effective organs for the cultivation of national consciousness. They must now
become organs of international consciousness if the efforts towards peace are to be
successful.
We cannot do it by teaching an exclusive patriotism in our schools and colleges.
We can, and must, aid the forces of the peace and goodwill by evolving a world history
and universal geography. Acquaintanceship begets understanding and understanding
appreciation, and the generous mind of youth will respond to our appeal to a common
humanity.
We must girdle the world with the generous imagination of youth.
We must not only scrap our armaments but also our historical text-books. Might
I suggest in this respect, too, that as teachers we can render much aid to the new world
movement for solidarity by ourselves working for the unification of our national systems
of education from the infants' school to the university, by the solidarity and unification
of our profession, nationally and internationally. We have our national councils and
executives, why not an international council? Believe me, such a council, by its efforts
to garner and distribute the world fruits of educational endeavour, would be a more
powerful factor than any Supreme Council" of statesmen in the cause of the world
humanism.
The reaction of the war has left democracy listless. The passions of the past have
left men dry, and it is clear that in Europe, at least, masses of men are merely the
It is our task in the schools to restore vitality and
creatures of blind economic forces.
give direction to the democracies of the world.
An excellent discussion followed, after which the Irthlingborough friends served
tea to the delegates.


---
232
LACK OF FORESIGHT.
Since the cost of living index sent wages down to a level from which they have only
that the rate of workers' earnings generally have got well below a safe economic position.
made a partial recovery we have, from time to time, in these columns given warning
Very little is really understood in this country of working class conditions of life or
comparatively speaking, unenlightened. Men and women take up their life vocations for
do not consider themselves as workpeople, to look on those who do manual labour as,
social development, and it is a common fallacy among the many who, for various reasons,
particularly noticeable, and it is idle to suppose that the brother who works at some kind
executive workers and employers. In the large manufacturing areas this condition is
various reasons, and almost any family in Great Britain will grade into manual workers.
with a firm's samples, to his sister who perhaps teaches at school, or to another brother
That families do sort out into these various employments
the working class" with less intelligence than their
is too well known to need emphasising, therefore it is absurd to credit those who are called.
friends and relatives who, fortunately, or unfortunately, find a means of subsistence
of a bench is of another clay or a different mentality to the one who is "on the road"
who owns his own business.
for the sake of giving them a name,
outside the ranks of those who live by the skill of their hands.
bad living than the workman, who usually has first hand experience of both kinds. In
Perhaps no kind of man is better able to judge the difference between a good and a
this matter he may class as an expert and it is literally of no use for any people differently
situated to assure him that he is having a good time when he knows perfectly well that
he is not. On the other hand, there is just that peculiarity in the make-up of the English
workman which urges him to leave well alone when things are well with him-perhaps
en him and his more prosperous friends and relatives.
ments entered into by his union leaders are likely to prove abortive should they stand in
If he, as a body, considers that he is not getting a fair living for a fair day's work, the agree-
that is the only difference between
his way, just as any poor legislation laid down by a Parliamentary party would be dis-
regarded when once thoroughly disapproved.
are based, it is quite obvious that wholly fictitious values might be placed on the figures
In the working of the cost of living index, on which so many labour arrangements
obtained thereby, from the point of view of actual relation to the cost of a working man's
living. It is a curious fact that most people have a vague idea that the horizon of the
all is well. There could not be a greater mistake. Mere necessities we must all have
person who works hard is bounded by sheer necessities and that once these are obtainable
but they are not the things we carry in our mind's eye when we put up our greatest efforts
in industry. Thus the cost of living index, if truly reliable as regards the price of cabbages
and such articles, is of very little value as an indication of what life, as the workman
understands it, really costs.
An index of the nature of the one in question will prove many things on paper which
are of little value, if the people whose wages are reduced by its agency find that serious
hardship results. Without a doubt this has taken place in most industries during the last
year or so, and the standard of living throughout the whole country has suffered as a
consequence. Trade as a whole has not improved greatly through its workings, not even
export, and the home market has been greatly weakened through lack of purchasing
power all round. It apparently escapes our statisticians that, when the working class is
reduced to bare necessities, most of the manufacturing trades of this country languish as
a consequence.
We have pointed all this out before at one time and another and have endeavoured
to show that this lack of appreciation of actual conditions and the consequent absence
of foresight engendered cannot do other than bring about labour dispute after labour dispute.
It is absolutely useless to attempt the building up of commercial prosperity on anything
but enduring foundations and these are not to be obtained while labour, which is the first
primary essential of all production, is not only uncertain, but justly restless.
It has been our earnest desire without exercising any partiality whatever to show
that from any aspect whatever, the present rate of general earnings is not a safe one for
industry in this country. We have a vast reservoir of the finest labour in the world which
presents the greatest potential commercial possibilities if handled with all due consideration,
but during the last twelve months or so the pressure exercised on it by economic con-
ditions has been so great that not even those in full employment have been able to live
their usual lives. This is not reasonable and the trading associations which have upheld
continued wage reductions as the great panacea for all trade evils are likely to find them-
selves in the position of again having the unreasonableness of the workers to deal with
unless something is done to mitigate conditions. Already we see that strike agitation
is gaining ground, and than this there can be nothing more suicidal to business interests.
We again say that general stabilisation of wages on a generous basis
is not only advisable but necessary if this year's trading is to proceed
prosperously. The Shoe Trades Journal, 4th April, 1924.


---
239
An interesting decision relating to this Convention is the passing of an Eight Hour
Act in British Columbia. This is the first Act passed by any province in Canada for the
unqualified application of this Convention.
It may also be noted in connection with the eight-hour day that proposals for in
creasing hours of labour above the eight-hour level in Switzerland and Belgium have
recently been defeated in Switzerland by a referendum, and in Belgium by a vote in the
Chamber of Deputies.
Action on other Conventions of the Conference.
Important steps have recently been taken in a number of countries with a view to the
ratification of other Draft Conventions of the Conference. A few of these may be men-
tioned.
The representative of the Italian Government informed the Governing Body of the
International Labour Office at its last meeting of the impending ratification by Italy of
all the Conventions of the several Sessions of the Conference, with the exception of the
Eight-Hour Convention, which is before the Italian Parliament.
The Polish Government representative on the same occasion informed the Governing
Body of the recent ratification by the competent authorities in his country of thirteen
Draft Conventions.
First and Third Sessions of the Conference.
The Austrian Parliament has also decided to ratify six Draft Conventions of the
The Latvian Ministry of Labour has informed the Office that the competent Committees
of the Sacima (the Latvian Parliament) have decided in favour of the ratification of some
of the Draft Conventions adopted at Geneva in 1921.
MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF YOUNG PERSONS IN FACTORIES.
The Home Secretary has appointed a Committee to inquire into the working of the
provisions of the Factory and Workshop Acts for the medical examination of young
persons as to their fitness for employment in factories, and to consider :-
(a) Whether the existing requirement of a certificate of fitness, limited to a
particular factory, should be modified; whether any other changes should be made
in the examination and certificate, and what arrangements should be adopted for
the future.
(b) What measures should be taken for linking up the examination of young
persons under the Factory and Workshop Acts with their examination under the
school medical inspection service, and, if considered desirable, with other public
health services of the country.
(c) What arrangements could best be made for providing medical supervision
of young persons (where such supervision is considered necessary by the Department)
during employment in factories or processes where the conditions of work are unfavour-
able to health or physique.
The Committee consists of :---
Mr. Rhys J. Davies, M.P., Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Home Office
(Chairman).
Mr. Gerald Bellhouse, C.B.E., Chief Inspector of Factories.
Dr. R. Wallace Henry.
Mr. J. Moore Murray, secretary to the Warrington Education Committee.
Mr. Sydney W. Pascall.
Mrs. Rackham.
Mr. W. J. Tout, M.P.
Mr. A. H. Wood, of the Board of Education (Medical Branch).
The Secretary of the Committee is Miss R. E. Squire, O.B.E., of the Home Office.--
The Ministry of Labour Gazette, April, 1924.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
241
THE PIONEER BOOT WORKS.
Readers of Justice will be sorry to learn that at a special meeting of the shareholders
of the Pioneer Co-operative Boot Works held on Saturday, 15th March, it was decided
to wind up the affairs of the society. The necessity for this step is due to the fact that the
trade of the Pioneer Boot Works is far from sufficient to enable it to keep going with its
increased powers of output since 1919.
The origin of the Pioneer Boot Works was a suggestion made by certain Northampton
comrades in 1904 that a trade in boots and shoes might be of financial advantage to the
S.D.F. The suggestion was acted upon, a certain number of boots were produced and
sold, and the profit on the sales handed to the S.D.F. The one on whom the burden of the
beginning of this effort fell was comrade James Gribble. He had been out of work prior
to this beginning being made for the S.D.F., and at first he devoted his time and labour
voluntarily to the attempt. So successful was he that in five months a little over £100
was sent to the Central Office of the S.D.F. The following year the Pioneer Co-operative
Boot Works was instituted, and registered in January, 1906, as a Co-operative Society.
Gribble was then definitely appointed manager and operations were carried out at a shop
in Wellingborough Road, Northampton. In 1907 the progress of the Pioneer Boot Works
was such that it had to move into more commodious premises in Clare Street, where there
was not only a small factory but ground behind on which the factory could be considerably
extended. The whole property was bought outright in 1912.
In about 12 years it is
computed that £3,000 had been sent to the S.D.F. headquarters and £3,000 to various
branches and clubs.
With the divisions in the British Socialist Party caused by the war, it was found
necessary to change the operations of the Pioneer Boot Works to those of an ordinary
Co-operative Society, and this change was made in 1917. The war would have undoubtedly
brought considerable business to the Pioneer Boot Works had it been large enough to take
advantage of the opportunities presented. As it was its powers of production at that
time were totally inadequate to meet the demands of its ordinary customers. During
1917 and 1918 it was inundated with orders, less than half of which it was able to execute.
This led to the acquisition of machinery and the extensions of the factory in 1919 and
1920: but before this development could be completed the slump in the boot trade set in,
and since then the Pioneer Boot Works has gradually come to the position wherein it had
the capacity of producing 1,000 pairs of boots a week and at most could not dispose of more
than 500. All attempts to obtain wholesale trade, though successful in one or two quarters,
were rendered almost hopeless by the general depression in the trade and the closing down
of smaller factories due to the fact that the powers of boot production were greatly in
excess of the effective demand for the goods. Seeing, therefore, that to continue on these
lines could only mean that the shareholders would eventually lose whatever money they
had put into it, the Management Committee of the Pioneer Boot Works were reluctantly
compelled to advise the winding up of the Society.
The one above all others who will feel the closing down of the factory at Clare Street,
Northampton, is our old comrade James Gribble. For the last 20 years he has devoted
his energies to promoting the Pioneer Boot Works in which he has been as successful as
it is possible for any human being to be. But the economic circumstances of the boot and
shoe industry to-day are such that Gribble himself has been the first to recommend the
course that has been taken.—Justice, 3rd April, 1924.
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st APRIL, 1924.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included
Food only
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
73 per cent.
67
"
FOOD.
During March there was a substantial fall in the retail prices of several of the principal
articles of food, largely owing to seasonal causes. The price of eggs fell to an average
of 1½d. each at 1st April, as compared with 2½d. at 1st March and 3½d. in December. The
price of milk was reduced by 1d. or 2d. a quart in many towns. The average price of butter
fell during the month by over 2d. per lb., and that of cheese by 1d. per lb. There were
also smaller but appreciable reductions in the prices of fish and bacon. Potatoes showed
the only appreciable increase in prices during the month.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of
food included in these statistics fell to about 67 per cent. at 1st April, as compared with
about 76 per cent. at 1st March.—The Ministry of Labour Gazette, April, 1924.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
242
DEATH OF "ANSTEY" MOORE.

An Ardent Labour Worker.
The Leicester Labour movement has lost one of its oldest and most ardent supporters by the death on Tuesday last of Walter John Moore. He had only been ill for six days, and died suddenly from heart trouble.
"Anstey" Moore, as he had been known to his friends all his life, was 58 years of age. His life was spent in service for the Labour movement. He joined the I.L.P. in the early nineties, and has rendered yeoman service in Labour's cause. He was a member of the Board of Guardians for many years.

Trade Union Worker.
A boot and shoe worker, he was actively connected with his union, and was a member of the local Arbitration Board (Finishing Committee).
His work for Labour was sustained to the last, and he acted as agent for Coun. Adnitt in the recent by-election in the Latimer Ward.
A man of strong and earnest character, who has been a familiar figure at Labour gatherings for a generation, "Anstey" Moore will be sadly missed by his many colleagues in the trade union and Labour world.- Leicester Pioneer, 4th April, 1924.

RUSHDEN'S "CHIEF."
Urban Council Honours Mr C. Bates for the Second Time.
At Rushden the "man of the week" is Mr. Charles Bates, who on Wednesday evening was for the second time in his career appointed Chairman of the Rushden Urban Council.

Though distinctly popular among all sections of the public, the appointment gives an especial degree of pleasure to trade unionists, since for no fewer than 20 years Mr. Bates has been president of the Rushden and District branch of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives. In that responsible office he has established himself as a labour leader of the finest type-one in whom courtesy, reasonableness and earnestness are both apparent and actual. Few trade union officials have a longer or more creditable record of service in the interests of the workpeople and of industry itself.
Mr. Bates can claim 22 years' experience of Urban Council work-and decidedly useful work it has been.
Mr. Bates is naturally proud to think that during his twenty years of service as president of the Rushden Branch of the Boot Operatives' Union the membership has risen from 700 to eleven times that number, and that the funds have increased from £700 to £12,000. His share in the work of forming branches throughout the district, in the memorable events of 1905 (when the Union secured a minimum wage of 28s. and a 56-hours week), and in the negotiations which have resulted in steady improvement in working conditions and wages, is a story in itself.
Patience and good humour have helped Mr. Bates to achieve a great deal in the interests of the boot operatives. The same qualities will enable him to serve the town equally well.- Northants Evening Telegraph, 19th April, 1924.

BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
To December, 1923 £ 630,969 17 3
January, 1924 ... 3,358 8 4
February ... 3,185 9 6
March 3,631 10 2
£641,145 5 3
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
To December, 1923 £ 317,643 6 1
January, 1924 ... 3,653 6 9
February ... 3,207 0 3
March ... 3,264 18 3
£327,768 11 4


---
243
ORGANISER'S REPORT.
(Continued from page 215.)
During the past month I have been endeavouring to improve the membership in the
London area. I find that the Clickers are the best organised section, and the result is
that this section have good working conditions, both as regards Statements and general
earning capacity. The Clicking Statement is worked to in practically all the factories, and
the few exceptions where it is not being worked to in its entirety are being dealt with.
So far as the Closing Department is concerned, there is a need for sustained efforts, many
shops where a large number of girls are employed, having no members of the Union.
Varying methods have been tried in order to induce them to join, but the results have
been small up to the present moment. Inquiries have been made as to their wages and
conditions, and the evidence proves there is 100m for improvement. With the Making
and Finishing Departments, where the organisation is fairly good, the whole of the em-
ployers work on similar lines, good wages being paid to operatives on the most important
operations, whilst those engaged on less important, either get the bare minimum, or
graduated scale, and in some instances less. Many meetings have been held for the
purpose of gathering information on these points, also in relation to the application of the
Holiday Scheme. I find there are three large factories where the scheme has not at present
been put into operation. These are being dealt with. But the most disturbing factor is
that the firms supplying the orders have a reputation for fairness and good working con-
ditions in their own productive factories, the National Agreement being fully observed.
Why do these people place their orders with firms who they know are breaking the Agree-
ment? The Union will have to adopt some method whereby the public can be informed
upon this matter. Some form of advertisement might be useful.
So far as membership is concerned, steady progress is being made, about 100 joining
during the month, and given time I feel this can be considerably improved upon. More
assistance should be given by those who are already members, and who are in continual
contact with their shopmates. With a greater interest taken, and conversation, the work
would be made easier, and much better results would be obtained.
LEN. SMITH.
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
LEATHER WORKERS (FRANCE): The National Federation of Leather Workers held
its ordinary Congress at Paris on 6th April. It now comprises 71 unions and its member-
ship is steadily, though slowly rising. In spite of the fact that 79,318 frs. have been paid
out as strike pay. the funds of the federation amounted to 50,076 frs. In 32 localities
the leather workers succeeded last year in securing improved working conditions without
a strike. Of the 16 strikes, 10 were successful. The Federation places in the forefront
of its programme the maintenance of the eight-hour day, and the principle of paid holidays.
LEATHER WORKERS (SWEDEN): The Swedish Boot, Shoe and Leather Workers'
Union raised its membership in 1923 from 8,278 to 9,064. The number of branches has
also increased from 53 to 56. Unemployment among the members is decreasing, although
it cannot be said that the normal standard of employment has yet been attained.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH month.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924
January.. 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78 77
February 15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88 77 79
March .. 15-20 35-40 70 90-95 115 130 141 86 76 78
April .. 15-20 35-40 70-75 95-100 105 132 133 82 74 73
May .. 20 40-45 75 95-100 105 150 119 81 70
June .. 25 45 75-80 100 105-110 152 119 84 69
July .. 25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 71
August 25 45-50 80 110 115 161 120 79 73
September 25 50 80-85 115-120 164 110 78 75
October.. 30 50-55 75-80 120-125 125 176 103 80 75
November 30-35 60 85 120 125 160 99 80 77
December 35 65 85
Figures in bold type show the cost of living
1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 Feb
Agreement, and present date.
tir '919 Agreement,
"
(1922)


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
NAT TELI 1438 MUSEUM, LONDON.
TEL. ADDRESS: "NATUNISHOP, PHONE, LONDON"
National Union
of
Boot & Shoe Operatives
Trade Union Congrom,
and Malna Labow Party
Approved under the Stats Normaal Host unce Acta App201
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
General President
T.F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
EL POULTON P
SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
34, GUILFORD STREET
LONDON. W.CI.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS, 26TH MAY, 1924.
THE STATE OF TRADE
has slightly improved during the past month. The figures recorded in the
Gazette issued by the Ministry of Labour are as follow:-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment showed no marked change during April, and on the whole was only
moderate. For some days before the Easter holidays factories in a number of districts
were busier than usual, and overtime was worked; but during the greater part of the
month short time was worked in most centres. A considerable number of factories closed
for extended holidays at Easter.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 10.2 on 28th April, 1924, as compared with 9.5
on 24th March, 1924.
Returns from firms employing about 42,000 workpeople in the week ended 12th
April, 1924, showed that nearly 31 per cent. of these workpeople worked short time in that
week, to the extent of about II hours each on an average.
There was a further improvement in employment in London during April. At
Leicester there was not much change, employment being fair generally, and very good
with women workers; some overtime was worked, more particularly during the week
preceding the holidays, but a few factories were still reported as working less than full
time. A good deal of short time was still worked at Northampton, and employment
was only moderate; though most of the factories were busy immediately before the
Easter holiday. At Kettering there was a slight improvement before the holidays, but a
number of factories were still working less than full hours, and some closed down for a
week or ten days at Easter. In the Hinckley district, at Wellingborough, and in the
Higham and Rushden district employment was generally slack, with much short time.
There was general slackness at Leeds in the heavy boot section; short time was general,
and the holidays were extended by many firms; those engaged in the light boot trade,
however, were well employed. At Stafford employment was fair, and showed an improve-
ment.
At Norwich employment continued good; a large proportion of the operatives were
on overtime, and practically no short time was worked. In the Bristol and Kingswood
district there was a further decline, and employment was considerably worse than last
year; there was much unemployment, and short time working was general throughout


---
267
THE BUDGET.
Although it is some weeks since the Budget was introduced in the House
of Commons, we make no sort of apology for reviewing it here, inasmuch as
this being the first Labour Budget, it will be of historical value to look back
upon as to what such Budget contained. It must be remembered that the
Labour Party had only been in office three months when the Budget was
introduced, and to that extent it is the more creditable that upon its financial
side there has been such a real attempt to reduce taxation, especially for the
section of the community whose income is the lowest.
The total cost of the reductions in taxation proposed will be £34,050,000 this
year and £40,443,000 in a full year.
The following are the reductions :--
SUGAR.-11d. per lb. from to-day.
TEA.-4d. off standard rate per lb., and consequently 31d. off Empire grown
tea from 5th May.
COCOA.-11d. per lb. from 29th April.
COFFEE.-2d. per lb. from 5th May, and Chicory 2d. per lb. from 5th May.
EXTRA DRIED FRUIT DUTY. - Abolished.
ENTERTAINMENTS.-No tax up to and including 6d. admission, reduction of
tax up to and including Is. 3d. admission. The tax up to the Is. 3d. price will be :
7d. seats one penny, 8d. seats three-halfpence, 8d. to Is. 1d. seats twopence, Is. 1d.
to Is. 3d. seats threepence.
SWEETENED MINERAL WATER AND HERB BEER TAX.-Abolished.
INHABITED HOUSE DUTY.-Repealed 30th June.
CORPORATION, PROFITS TAX of 2½ per cent.-Repealed.
MCKENNA DUTIES.-To expire on 1st August.
Income-tax concession to widowers, with children, who keep housekeepers.
A Bill has been introduced to restore the powers and efficiency of the Land
Valuation Department, originally set up under the 1909 Budget.
Concessions are made in the licence costs of motor vehicles. There is to be a
reduction of 11d. local telephone call rates to 1d. and 21d. rates to 2d., and a slight
reduction in trunk calls between the hours of 7 a.m. and 2 p.m. up to a 35-mile radius.
The Deadweight Debt of the country, Mr. Snowden announced, stands at
£7,680,484,000, and the interest costs annually £305,000,000.
The Labour Party is to be congratulated upon the way with which it has
dealt with its first Budget. We can only hope they will continue, not only
in office, but in real power, and thereby have further opportunity for placing
the burdens of finance upon the backs of those best able to bear the same.
The Party in the House has again been dealing with problems that not only
affect the welfare of the people of Great Britain, but which have a vital bearing
upon the relations of this country and those of other nations. The constant
attempts of the Prime Minister to deal with for instance the situation in
France and Germany which is one of the very great difficulties and beset with
all kinds of pitfalls. It does, however, appear that real headway has been
made to come to a better understanding with France so as to make easier a
settlement of the Ruhr position.


---
268
EDUCATION.
We would also call attention to the more humane policy which is being
pursued by the Ministry of Education, and to the necessity of using to the
utmost the powers which are already very large in the interests of the children.
As the Minister of Education the Rt. Hon. C. P. Trevelyan, M.P.-recently
stated:
“All our people outside the House should do all in their power to appoint members
upon the local education authority with a progressive type of mind. If this is done.
a better opportunity of fitting themselves for fulfilling their duties when later on they
so many reforms can be brought about under the existing laws and give the children
have to take their part as men and women."
FACTORY ACTS.
Another matter upon which we feel very strongly is the question of the
Factory Act to which we fully referred last month, and which has been raised
several times in the House of Commons since. The Home Secretary has
now introduced a Bill to deal with many of the matters that from time to
time labour organisations have placed before the Home Office, and amongst
them subjects we ourselves named. In this connection we would call special
attention to the following answer given on the 15th inst., in the House of
Commons:—
LORD HENRY CAVENDISH-BENTINCK asked the Home Secretary how many
workshops and factories have not been visited by His Majesty's factory inspectors
for more than a year, and how many for more than two years ?
MR. HENDERSON : The figures for 1923 were, in the case of factories, 24,005.
and 1,776; in the case of workshops, 59,948 and 35,280.
On the same day the answer was supplied, a discussion took place in the
House of Commons itself, regarding the lack of inspectors of factories. During
the course of the debate it was shown that there are now fewer factory inspectors
than during the war. It was stated that there were 205 factory inspectors
for 283,542 factories; which means each inspector has to deal with 1,383
factories. No wonder so many factories are not visited during one, or even
two years. When one remembers the number of hours the workers have to
spend in factories, it does indeed become largely a mockery to talk about
"efficient factory inspection" under such circumstances. We, therefore,
urge all members to use their influence in their various districts, not only to
create a live opinion upon these matters, but to as far as possible use such
influence with their Member of Parliament as to insist upon an adequate staff
of inspectors being appointed to deal with this important work.
TRADE BOARDS.-CAVE COMMITTEE.
On the 7th inst., Mr. Betterton asked the Minister of Labour whether he
proposes to introduce legislation to give effect to the recommendations of the
Cave Committee. The following reply quoted officially from the Parliamentary
Debates will, therefore, be of interest to our members :-
MR. SHAW: I have no immediate intention of introducing legislation of the
character referred to.
Following is the reply :—
It is presumed that the recommendations of the Cave Committee to which
reference is made in the question are those concerning (i.) the establishment of district


---
Here is the extracted text:
269
(iii.) the reduction of the number of appointed members to three on any one board:
boards for the distributive and retail making-up trades (ii.) expediting of machinery;
(iv.) the limitation of the proportion of officials appointed to membership of boards
on which learners' and apprentices' rates should be fixed; (vi.) the presentation to
without practical experience of
of the trade in question to 25 per cent; (v.) the basis
Parliament of an annual report on the working of the Acts.
(1.) I am not satisfied that in general this recommendation should be adopted.
(ii.) The following steps have been taken to remove the difficulties under this
head to which the Cave Committee drew attention:
(a) Consultation with Boards between the proposal and fixing stages enables
the Minister to transmit his decision on the question of confirmation within
fourteen days of the receipt of notification of the rates.
(b) A regulation has been made dating the period of objection from the
publication of the notice instead of from the date of its issue to the trade.
(iii.) The opportunity has recently been taken to reduce to three the number of
appointed members serving on the Grocery and Provisions Trade Board (England
and Wales); the possibility of effecting a similar reduction in the case of the one
other Board in question will be considered when that Board is next reconstituted.
(iv.) The proportion on the existing boards is in most cases considerably less
than 25 per cent.; discretion must be retained for the treatment of each case on its
merits.
(v.) These recommendations have been put into practice by several boards.
(vi.) A report on the administration of the Acts from 1st January, 1922, to 31st
March, 1923, was published in October last, and it is proposed to publish a report
annually.
HOUSING.
We sincerely hope that the Government will not only be able to produce
the plans, and that speedily, but that they will put the same into operation
and erect houses as quickly as possible, and thereby not only find employment,
but help to remove the great scandal and menace to the health of the people.
Evidence is constantly coming to hand as to the bad social conditions owing
to the lack of houses. The following examples were received at the Central
Office on Monday last :-
"Man, wife, and three children (aged 3, 2 and 9 months), another child expected
in June; living in two rooms and have got to turn out as the house is coming down.
The tenant of the house is being provided with a new house, but it is smaller, and he
will then be unable to take any lodgers."
"Man, wife, and two sons, aged 19 and 18 years; a daughter nearly 17, a youth
15, and another daughter 13, and seven young children (total 14 people) with only
two small bedrooms and three small rooms downstairs, one of which is used as a
bedroom."
"Three families in four-roomed houses (two up and two down) consisting of
three female and one male adults, and nine children, total 13. They are stated to
sleep as follows:-Two mothers and five children sleep in one bedroom, whilst a girl
of 14 years and four other children sleep with parents in the other room. The Health
Visitor reported 'Baby going on nicely; mother careworn and miserable-no air,
very close, and in spite of cleanliness, children all look pale and sickly.'"
"Six-roomed house occupied by seven adults and three children. Have tried
for years to get other accommodation. One woman with a young baby is tuber-
cular."
"Man, wife and three children live in one room of a six-roomed house, in which
there are two other families. There is a total of eleven people in the house, five of
whom are children. One member of the household has never been to bed for four
years, but sleeps on the couch downstairs. Applicants have been married eight
years and never had a house to themselves, and as the family increases it is very
difficult for them."
These, unfortunately, can be multiplied many, many times over. We
only name these in the hope that it may have the effect of speeding up the
B


---
work for dealing with this problem
270
so as to improve the health of the
workers, but also the well-being of the country which is so interwoven with
this question.
WOMEN'S LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE.
During the month a conference of women under the auspices of the Labour
successful conference was held, there being a record attendance of delegates.
Party has been held in London, at which the Union was represented. A very
on the Franchise, Pensions for Widows.
Many resolutions dealing with the phases of the labour movement were discussed.
Education, Emigration, Abolition of War, Food Prices. Further particulars
and resolutions were passed particularly
will be found elsewhere in the Report.
NEW MAGISTRATE.
month. We congratulate our colleague, and feel confident he will carry out
Councillor T. Adnitt, of Leicester, has been made a Magistrate during the
It is with pleasure we record the fact that another of our colleagues.
the duties connected with the office in a manner creditable to himself and
the movement.
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
This is the paper of the movement; information is often available in
same which is not in other newspapers. It is essential the movement should
have a paper to voice the needs of the workers. DO YOUR SHARE and
place the same beyond all doubt by purchasing the same daily.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
271
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d, each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
A. W. LYNE.
I. H. JOHNSON.
C. MAYES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
TARIFFS.
The Dublin correspondent of the Shoe and Leather News writes in the issue of the
8th inst:-
" I heard on good authority that many shops had put on the 15 per cent. new tax
on all goods in stock. One would not be surprised if this were so. Indeed it was rather
to be anticipated."
*
*
*
*
*
"The Manager of Messrs. Winstanley says the tariff is not premature, but inadequate."
"Another Irish manufacturer says the tariff is not big enough to protect Irish goods."
*
*
*
*
"In all Ireland the average family is seven-father, mother and five children. In
families who will be hit by the tariff that is the well-to-do, the independent and rich
who can afford to buy Irish goods the average family is only four-leaving the average
man who cannot buy the untaxed article, saddled with the obligation of buying boots
for ten-with the full tariff on each pair. He can only afford to buy the more popular
imported article."
*
*
*
That is the point I have been trying to make to all those who are interested in this
question-before and since the imposition of the tariff on boots. By those interested
I mean those who will have to pay. The man in South Africa does not have to pay this
tax! Neither does the native of Central America! The rich man in Ireland will not have
to pay it! None of these, then, are interested, except in so far as the tax may benefit
themselves. The man who pays the tax, the hard-working Irish farmer and labourer
with a large healthy family, struggling along on 30s. or £2 a week he is the only one
compelled to shoulder the entire tax and he is the last to be consulted, if indeed he is
consulted at all by any of the super-patriots in Ireland.
*
*
His only hope then is to emigrate! Perhaps this is the result looked for in the present
policy!
*
*
*
*
Sir James Crockett says, "it is perverted patriotism to impose a tariff upon goods
which cannot be produced in the country, as the inevitable result is increased prices to
the consumer."
*
*
*
[It would appear, therefore, that already the tariff has resulted in preventing that
goodwill so necessary between the peoples of the two countries; instead, it has accentuated
difficulties and is driving the peoples apart.-E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.]


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
272
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
SHODDY FOOTWEAR. There is still great need for all concerned to interest
themselves in saving the general public from the imposition of adulterated articles, which
lust obtain money from innocent persons, and then inflict a punishment by introducing
some foul disease into the persons concerned. Although we shall have the prejudice of
one judge going so far as to say there is no such thing as adulteration in boots: it will
be our duty who think there is, to enlighten this mistaken legal divine, and we may perhaps
persuade the makers of all Boots and Shoes to stamp theirs as "Warranted all Solid
Leather" or if adulterated " except the inside middle stiffening and heel" which are
composed of pressed paper. In fact no one has any right to sell the public something
it does not expect, and it is very pleasing to find that the Conference of the National
Federation of Boot Trades Associations, who met this week at Plymouth, had this subject
up for consideration and have very wisely decided to set up a Special Committee with a
view to legislative action. They are also willing to co-operate with our Union as soon
as we can make it convenient to arrange a meeting. We therefore, can depend upon their
help, and we may also get the help of the Employers' National Federation later when we
on the outsole for the purpose of protecting the public. There is a guide to help us in
have, as a Union, decided upon the course of action most likely to bring about the elimina.
tion of adulteration in Boots and Shoes, unless properly described in large legible characters
tions, held on 9th December, 1920, and such specification could be used as a groundwork.
or guide, and some such should be given as a warranty or guarantee with every pair of
Boots or Shoes sold, as one is compelled to hear that the multiple shopkeepers, who do
not manufacture, but buy all their goods, often although many of them occupy positions
of trust and power-are the most guilty and often the prime movers in the introduction of
this course of deception which is a real art to them. Many of them are Justices of the
Peace, who often sit in judgment on others; whereas an enlightened public would certainly
require an improvement in their business methods. Let us hope that we may contribute
towards, and to hasten, such an end at no distant date.
HOME OFFICE. - Another visit to the Home Office has taken place on this occasion
as part of a deputation on behalf of the Hand Sewn Boot and Shoe Making and Repairing
Board, and on this occasion we were received by the Under-Secretary, Mr. R. J. Davies,
M.P., in the absence of the Home Secretary. Our visit was to :—
1. Ask for access to the list of Outworkers obtained by the Local Health Authorities.
2. To ask for Factory Acts to apply to Outworkers.
3. That wages lists for pieceworkers be hung up in Workshops.
4. The prohibition of Underground Workshops.
5. The registration of all workplaces for health reasons.
6. Apply the Shop Acts to Boot Repairers.
The Under-Secretary said they would do their best to help us, and that the new
Factory Bill would meet most of the points mentioned, but he could see great difficulties
in applying the Shops Act.
MINISTER OF LABOUR. — A deputation met the officials of the Ministry of Labour
owing to the Minister being busy. This is a great mistake for Labour Ministers to be too
busy, as some of us do not believe in leaving the running of the Department to officials.
These people have already in the Government Departments tried, and have been successful
in some instances, by being able to control Ministers. Labour men must be wary. We
went to first object to the limited experiment of putting boys to Boot Repairing for an
hour per day, as the idea would only lead boys to think they could repair boots and would
cause a few of them to take ultimately the work of able-bodied men.
We advised two
members of the deputation to visit at least the two towns where this system is being
carried on by the Local Authority.
MINISTER OF HEALTH. - We have found that the Minister of Health had the power
referred to him by a special Order in Council, as far back as May, 1921, to take control
of Infectious Diseases, and we are, as a consequence, pressing the Minister to see the same
Deputation from the Council of the Union that saw the Home Secretary on this subject,
so vital to our industry, the health of the operatives being of most profound interest.
TRADE BOARD. —We have spent another three days on this work, and find that we have
a very large congregation who contribute nothing to organised labour, which gets these
people the benefit they enjoy, and as recent events prove, there are many who belong to
the organisations who are still discontented with all that has been done for them. This
kind of appreciation has the effect of easing off the representatives' interest for the work,
and as a consequence, the grumbler gets less and less. We have sent out a trial statement,
and the evidence supplied by the men to the officials of all the Unions affected has been


---
273
very small indeed. The employers gave us the hours worked, the wages received, and the
actual hourly rate ; this has to be met. I again ask our members to send on to me for our
private use the actual benefit to them of the Rounding and Channelling Machine, other-
wise we shall be forced to deal only with the meagre information we have in hand at
least our own men ought to be candid.
The back money obtained during the year 1923 amounts to £895 11s. od. I sometimes
think that if our National Agreement had the power of the law behind it, our members
would have a lot of back money to draw. Some employers are very slim and look upon
the worker as good game.
GLASGOW. - Glasgow has been visited because the Scottish Co-operative Wholesale
Society have twenty boys too many in their Lasting Department. They want us to define
in than they can find permanent employment for. We are told that the Shipyards do not
take boys until they are 16 years of age, so the school boys go
and then co-operators get the value of the cheap juvenile labour for two and sometimes
three years, and as we do not fix a wage until the boys are 16, they have a considerable
advantage over others outside Glasgow, and they claim the protection of the Board.
The irony of it is that co-operators throw themselves on to the mercy of the private traders
against the claim of the Union officials. The matter has been in abeyance for about six
months-we expect a settlement now in a few days.
DESBOROUGH has again been visited, and we are bound to press our claims on the
small firm there who have been unable, up to the present, to give us that satisfaction
we expect to be our due, and hope that our coming visit will be met with success, and thus
avoid any friction.
ADMIRALTY. A deputation of our Union members and M.P.'s waited on the Parlia-
mentary Secretary, Mr. Ammon, M.P., when we placed our views before him for a better
distribution of the work needed by the Department. Mr. Ammon said they would help us
all they could by taking the position into their most serious consideration.
WAR OFFICE. The same members of the deputation went to the War Office and met
Mr. Lawson, who received us very courteously and has promised to do his best to distribute
the orders as we wished, and to, if possible, give annual contracts and endeavour to meet
more regular employment and not cause overtime. He was extremely sympathetic,
and we hope for good results, but we must not expect the Government to order boots
they don't want. The Tories did that last year, so that the Labour Ministers cannot
even give a reasonable contract because of the stock already in hand.
BURTON-ON-TRENT. We have been to the firm of Eatough's at the request of the
Manager, and have fixed up the price for Pulling-Over and Consol Lasting. We find that
the Pulling-Over and Consol men belong to us, and the others belong to the Rossendale
Valley Union. We are sorry for this and hope that the strained relations now existing
between the two Unions will be assuaged, and not rendered more aggressive. The last
letter from Mr. Taylor to me was indeed written in a very good spirit, and, we hope, may
heal our differences later on.
Will all our members please be loyal to the Trade Union Stamp and those making
honest goods, and be loyal to the Labour Movement by taking the Daily Herald-your
own property.
7 MECKLENBURG STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
20th May, 1924.
Yours fraternally,
W. F. Richards
General President.
KINGSWOOD AND IRISH TARIFFS.
The Kingswood Branch unanimously passed the following resolution at
their May meeting:-
"That this meeting of Kingswood boot operatives views with alarm the proposal
of the Government of the Irish Free State to impose a tariff on imported boots and
shoes, inasmuch as Kingswood supplies large quantities of strong boots to Ireland,
and the loss of this business to Kingswood will intensify the already large percentage
of unemployment among Kingswood boot operatives. Therefore this meeting urges
His Majesty's Government to make strong representations to the Government of the
Irish Free State with the object of maintaining the present commercial relationship
of reciprocity, and this failing, to use its best endeavours to get a substantial modifi-
cation of the proposed tariff on boots and shoes."


---
ARBROATIL. Our trade conditions remain bad, and our members suffer
accordingly. Not only so, but the cost of living gives us serious concern too,
as the drop of five points last month seems to point to a similar experience
or less during April we lose the four shillings again in June. We suffer by not
last April figure was 74. and this past April has been computed at 73. Recently
the workers have been somewhat startled to find this " cost of living" basis
for wages is fundamentally wrong. Since the Budget introduced helpful
reductions on foodstuffs they can all realise that instead of securing any
advantage by such means, it will only react against their wages. Beneficial
legislation designed to relieve the worker of a grievous load, is to miss the
worker altogether, and be the means of pulling down his wages still further.
We hope our Council will put up their strongest case against continuing this
arrangement when the National Agreement is under consideration, and instead
of basing wages on the cost of living, aim at wages based on value of work done
plus the ability of the industry to pay. Our industry can pay good wages,
although in its eventful history it has not been distinguished in this respect,
We don't think it would be a hardship on employers to make them pay a much
ruthlessly any improvement in their employees' wages, yet go out of their way
to pay fancy wages to experts called from far-off parts ? We have had this
experience frequently in our district, and it is generally an insult to the other
workpeople employed. It may be a legitimate effort to improve the productive
capacity of a factory, or to introduce better principles of manufacture, but our
considered opinion of all that has been tried in this direction is that the money
has been wasted. There are few things more provoking to workers than to
have their qualities overlooked, and strangers welcomed and applauded on the
slightest grounds. If instead of spending large sums on management, staff,
and would-be instructors, manufacturers did a little more to give their rank
and file workers a good percentage more than the dead level of a minimum,
we are confident their efforts would be rewarded more satisfactorily. It is not
by showering money and appreciation on a few ornaments at the top, that the
necessary harmony and enthusiasm permeates the employees in a modern fac-
tory. All must live, and all are beginning to feel a greater desire for a better
life, and the finest encouragement workers can get is the tangible appreciation
of better remuneration. Our industry can pay better all over the country,
and we hope to see better wages established in our next Agreement, and not
on any mere "bread and butter" basis. Let each Council member absorb
the inspiring address by Mr. W. G. Cove, M.P., which was reproduced in last
month's Report, and which ought to be read and re-read by every member.
Life means more than work; life means more than gaining a bare existence
from toil; real life expands and blossoms in leisure, and when that leisure is
comfortable, growth and happiness are quickened. Our Council will have
every member behind them in striving to the utmost to get such terms as will
ensure satisfactory remuneration and satisfactory leisure. The old cry of
killing the industry can be ignored to-day. The boot and shoe industry will
never succumb because its operatives are well paid. It could go under if
profits (not regulated by cost of living) are its sole object. Material ambitions
cannot endure, and employers will never succeed who have sordid views.
Let our fight be for "Bread and Roses," particularly for the "Roses," as we
have hitherto only got the thorns.


---
BELFAST. - We are unable to report any improvement in the state of
trade, in fact it is worse than the previous month.
CHESHAM. - There is a little improvement in trade here, but we still
have a large number working short time.
CHESTERFIELD. - The state of trade is bad. All our members making
New Work have been discharged at Messrs. Dronfield & Co.
DERBY. - Trade in Derby is not so good as last month. The two Union
shops, Clemson's and C.W.S., are on short time; the latter's clickers had ten
days' holiday at Easter, then worked ten days, and have now got their Un-
employment cards until sent for. The unfortunate part is that the shops in
Derby and Melbourne that are not organised are busy, and while such people
flood the market with sweated goods, the firm that pays a fair wage does not
get a fair chance.
EDINBURGH. - The repairing in our district was fairly busy during the
past month. Members working under the new Piece Rates for Benchmen in
Wages Trade Board members. We have been fortunate in having some of the
wages earned during the same period last year. There appears a difference on
the wages earned to the amount of, in one case, 11s., and in another gs. 3d.
If this is not a reduction well we don't know what constitutes one, and the Branch
at their last monthly meeting had a very lively discussion on the matter,
trusting our representatives to both the Advisory Committee and the full
Board would see that something substantial would be added to the Statement.
At least the position which this Branch obtained with St. Cuthbert's would be
upheld and nothing less. Seeing this firm are working a three months' trial,
it is up to our men to show that the prices ruling are only ample for the work
performed. We do not apologise for again asking all branches to forward all
information to our officials in time for them getting our case ready when
meeting employers at Board meeting, which should be at an early date.
GLASGOW. - Trade is fair with us. The factories on New Work are running
full time, but must say, with few exceptions, repairers are having much short
time; also we have a large number on our out-of-work book. There is con-
siderable dissatisfaction amongst repairers who work in conjunction with the
Machinery Rounding plant; the deduction to benchmen is found in working
to be excessive and should be reconsidered by the Trade Board.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Following up our report of last month in
respect to Raunds and District, trade has become much worse, and in addition
to the firm who had given notice to their employees, another has discharged
the whole of their workpeople. Other firms have suspended their workpeople
indefinitely owing to the absence of orders from Government Departments
(except Sea Boots), and transference of orders elsewhere. We are pleased to
note that our correspondence with the General Secretary in respect to inter-
viewing the War Office and Admiralty has resulted in some of our suggestions
being adopted, viz., the spreading-over of the contracts for a longer period,
with a view to preventing the periods of short time and unemployment in future.
Also we are glad to note that the departments object to overtime being worked,
and have informed contractors of their objection, and we hope, that as a result
of the deputation to wait upon Heads of Admiralty Department, that some
emergency orders may be issued. In the districts making civilian boots trade
remains fair. We congratulate the Branch President, Mr. C. Bates, J.P.,
upon being elected to the chair of Rushden U.D.C. for the second time.
LEEDS No. 1. - We regret to report that trade here, chiefly the Heavy
and Medium departments, is exceptionally bad. No doubt the tariff of 15
per cent. recently agreed upon by the Irish Free State Government will have a
disastrous effect upon our district, and no doubt this is the chief cause of our


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
of work are concerned we have no
with our Branch.
278
complaint. We regretted to hear of the
unemployment numbers being greatly increased. So far as the lighter classes
request of the members of the Barnsley Branch, we have decided to join them
death of Mr. W. Bowler, the Secretary of the Barnsley Branch, and at the
LIVERPOOL. Now that we are in the merry month of May, when all the
flowers are blooming, we may expect a boom in trade, which will be very
and what has not happened for an age, we have not paid out anything in
welcome after the long period of slack time. We have a clean bill of health.
benefits for a whole month. Operatives from manufacturing centres are
stitchers, &c., to make enquiries through the official channels, or, get the conditions
advised before accepting positions in this district as clickers, pressmen, machine
of employment and wages set out in writing, otherwise there may be weeping,
wailing, and gnashing of teeth. Some men drop on their feet whilst others
are not so fortunate. Union buttons, sixpence each, can be obtained from the
held the second Wednesday in the month at the I.L.P. Rooms, 264 Upper
local Secretary, either at his address, or at the monthly meetings, which are
Parliament Street, Liverpool, at 8.30 p.m.
LONDON METRO. Pleased to report a slight improvement in trade
there being less members signing the Out-of-Work book than there has been
the more unfortunate members to pull themselves together. The trade at
for some months. We hope this will continue, at least long enough to enable
present is of such a variable character, there being no standard styles or designs,
but an ever-changing variety which will not allow manufacturers to stock
down until something comes along. We have had Mr. L. Smith with us for
work, with the result that when the order or orders are completed it is a close
addition to our membership. There is now a greater need for members to see
some time and he has woke up several of our shops with the result of a good
that all agreements that are a mutual pact between ourselves and the Masters'
entirety, and they be as
when it suits him to stand on his dignity. There should be that complete
employer does his share as the employer is that the member conforms, especially
understanding between shopmates which does away with that miserable
want of trust in each other, so often taken advantage of by the employer.
LONDON SEW-ROUND. Trade is quiet in sew-round work, but slight
improvement in Louis heel work. Last month's report should have read:
"Trade is quiet, more so in the sew-round hand-sewn work, owing to more
work being made by the machine-sewn turnshoe method." Sorry to report
the death of one of our members, Mr. Richard Heales. To his family we tender
our deepest sympathy.
NORTHAMPTON No. 1.-Trade, whilst showing a slight improvement,
is quiet for the time of year, when we usually have a decided improvement in
summer goods. Can it be that after all that we have got to look to our own
agricultural workers' industry for an improvement in demand, instead of relying
on export trade? Sickness has been above normal, probably due to the
climatic conditions which is unsettled, like our trade. We have pleasure in
stating that our Vice-President, Mr. A. Birt, has been elected to the Town
Council at a bye-election, the figures being, Birt (Labour), 723; Conservative,
656; Liberal, 372. We hope he will be able to do some useful work.
the past month, which fact does not call for surprise when the weather con-
NORWICH. Sickness has remained slightly higher than the normal for
ditions are taken into account. Trade is showing the same favourable tenden-
cies reported last month, although overtime on machine-sewn work is a
diminishing factor (much to our satisfaction). However, full time is still
general in this section, and the steady improvement on turnshoes indicated


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

```
279
last month, continues, so much so that to answer the query, "How is trade
generally "? one would be bound to reply "Very satisfactory," that is after
making all the allowances for the up-side-downedness and irregularities that
characterise our modern industrial system.
PLYMOUTH (REPAIRING).-Trade is still quiet with us. We were pleased
to find an outline of the Unemployment Insurance Bill No. 2 in our MONTHLY
REPORT, and we beg to draw the attention of members to the effort now being
made to abolish Refunds. Our members do not view this proposal to negative
their right to these compulsory savings with very much favour, neither do
we see the necessity for such a proposal, and why a Labour Government should
contemplate confiscating the workers' compulsory savings is beyond our
comprehension. We can understand other Governments doing this in the
"good old days
of the past, but why borrow the trickery of old parties.
True, the maximum amount standing to a worker's credit when his hair is
turning grey may not be a very bounteous sum, but it belongs to the persons
insured or their personal representatives, expressly stated in the Act of 1920,
and we well remember it being used as a "little sugar to sweeten the medicine."
We congratulate the Government on their splendid efforts, nationally and
internationally, but we do not intend to adopt the attitude of closing our eyes
and trusting blindly to their goodness. Here is a little matter touching the
workers' pockets; paying sixpence per week from the age of sixteen years
to sixty would mean something like fifty-seven pounds, plus 2½ per cent.
compound interest. Probably our Labour Minister would tell us that the worker
who never made a draw upon the unemployment funds would be fortunate
indeed. Undoubtedly he would be, but that is not the point. The insured
worker has a legal claim and his rights should be defended. We did not under-
stand the Capital Levy to commence just here, but were under the impression
that it started higher up the scale. If this Bill becomes law we hope the
Chief Office will make a point of advising all old members how and when to
make their claim.
WATERFORD.—Having been on short time since Christmas we are glad
to report an improvement in trade, hoping for an increased membership in
the future.
WELLINGBOROUGH.-Trade at present in our district is very bad,
many firms not putting in a full week and discharges are frequent. Much
interest has been taken in the General President's splendid lead regarding the
manufacture and sale of shoddy footwear. Wherever this stuff is made it
savours of sweating, and also of course the purchasers suffer. We must do
all we can as a Union to stamp out the manufacturer of shoddy footwear.
Mr. W. A. Wyman, our Secretary, has received many congratulations upon
his recent marriage.
EMPLOYMENT OVERSEAS.
GERMANY. BOOT AND SHOE (Social-Democratic): Membership reported on at end
of March, 1924, 85,000. Percentage Unemployed at end of Month March, 1924, 3.9;
February, 1924, 6.2; March, 1923, 5.7. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, May, 1924.
SWEDEN.-BOOT, SHOE AND LEATHER: Membership reporting on 29th February,
1924, 8,303. Percentage Unemployed: 29th February, 1924, 6.8; 31st January, 1924,
6.2; 28th February, 1923, 7.9.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, May, 1924.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of April, 1924,
Increase in
77,019. Unemployment at end of April, 1924, 4,061; percentage 5.3.
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.6; a year ago, 0.1.-The Ministry
of Labour Gazette, May, 1924.
```


---
Here is the extracted text:
280
National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives.
34 GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C.1.
28th May, 1924.
Dear Sir,
I understand that on Friday the Industrial Council's
Bill is down for its second reading. I hope you will make it
convenient to be in your place, and vote for the Bill. The
principle set out in the Bill is of vital importance to the Boot
and Shoe Industry, and several times resolutions have been
passed by the Executive of the Federated Associations of Boot
and Shoe Manufacturers, and the Executive Council of the
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, approving of
the same.
On the 12th December, 1922, it was unanimously resolved
that "This National Conference of Boot Manufacturers and
Operatives urges upon H.M. Government the desirability of
giving to National Agreements voluntarily entered into and
approved by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity as
awards under the Trade Board Acts, 1909 and 1918, with
the object of ensuring the observance of fair conditions of
labour by all engaged in the industry."
I trust, therefore, that you will be able to see your
way to vote for the second reading of the Bill.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
The above is copy of letter sent to ALL Members of Parliament,
and the progress of the Bill will doubtless be watched with interest.
E.L.P.

---
ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF LABOUR WOMEN, LONDON, 13th-14th MAY.
DELEGATE'S REPORT.
This Conference was to be held at the Guildhouse, Eccleston Square, but owing to
the large number of delegates it was found that it would be impossible, so they had to
find a larger place, and it was held at the Holborn Empire, Holborn, London.
This year there was one thousand and eight delegates. On Tuesday morning there
was a private business meeting for members of the Women's Sections and Co-operatives.
On Tuesday afternoon the Conference started for all delegates at the Holborn Empire.
Mrs. Harrison Bell occupied the chair, supported by Dr. M. Phillips, and other members
of the Labour Party.
A very cordial welcome was extended to all delegates present, and we also had greetings
from fraternal delegates from abroad. Those present represented Holland, Belgium,
Australia, New South Wales, Perth, and Western Australia. France and Austria sending
telegrams with good wishes for the Labour welfare and success.
There were 99 resolutions sent, and owing to so large a number the Standing Orders
This was put to the meeting and the adoption of this resolution was carried.
Then Dr. M. Phillips brought forward the Report, and it was decided to take it para-
Committee decided to group them up that related to the same subject.
graph by paragraph.
Then there was the subject of Education, and a most interesting discussion took place.
No time limit being placed on the speakers it took up a large amount of time. The subject
was opened by Miss Susan Lawrence. She expressed the opinion that we wanted to educt
public opinion. There was a great and growing demand for education of the children.
There were not the schools and there were not the teachers, as half of the children of London
were without schools.
Mrs. Lowe, of London, said if we could only get the proper enthusiasm we should get
the people's support. Education should be elementary till they are 11 years old, purely
elementary up to a certain point; after that every child should have a course of economics,
and also give them complete household and advanced technical education.
Mr. R. Davies (Home Office) said he was pleased to have been there to hear their
views on education. Some of the speakers' views were that primary schools should be
abolished, and that it was a vital need to give the children a good education. We also
had Mr. Morgan Jones to say a few words to us on education.
Penal Reform was the subject of a short discussion. Emigration of Children was
brought forward, and it was suggested that young children should not be allowed to
emigrate unless full investigation was made in all cases to see how they were being treated.
We were doing them a great injustice in allowing them to go until their welfare had been
ascertained.
In regard to the working women of this country we should organise in our trade
unions, and endeavour in our homes to get members, as men are fighting for the expulsion
of the women. We must stand up for our rights, and men and women must confer together
to discuss the question of not standing in each other's way. We must also reorganise
to make our factories better for the children.
The Housing question then arose. Houses should not be built with less than five
rooms and rent not more than nine shillings a week.
There was a lengthy discussion on Maternity and Birth Control, therefore making it
impossible to get through all the propositions on the agenda.
On Tuesday evening there was a vast meeting of delegates at the Royal Albert Hall
to hear some of our Labour Members. Mr. R. MacDonald and Miss M. Bondfield were
accorded a most hearty welcome. Other Parliamentary Members were present to speak.
The London Labour Choral Union, led by the Camberwell Band, gave us a very good
programme of singing, altogether making a very enjoyable and pleasant evening.
(MISS) A. BILLINGTON,
WELLINGBOROUGH BRANCH.
AGREEMENT NEGOTIATED BY OFFICERS OF THE MINISTRY OF LABOUR.
BOOT AND SLIPPER WORKERS: MANCHESTER. - National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives v. Messrs. Gregg & Co., Boot and Slipper Manufacturers, Manchester. Differ-
ence: Complaint by the workers of reductions in excess of those allowed by the National
Agreement. Agreement: It was agreed that the matter in dispute should be referred
to an ad hoc Board of Arbitration. Signed 9th April, 1924. (I.R. 628/1924.)-The
Ministry of Labour Gazette, May, 1924.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

282
IDEAL FACTORY.
NEW C.W.S. BOOT WORKS AT NORTHAMPTON.
Credit to the Organisation.
The new boot works erected by the C.W.S. at Northampton were formally opened on
Wednesday morning. The works are intended to supply retail societies with men's and
boys' boots, and when fully equipped will be able to turn out 15,000 pairs a week. The
architects' department at Leman Street, London, has been responsible for the plans, and
the building department has carried out the constructional part of the work.
Mr. L. Tysoe (manager of the Rushden works) has been entrusted with the super-
vision of the new factory; whilst the management will be in the hands of Mr. H. E. Tysoe
junior.
The factory is pleasantly situated in Ardington Road and is, from an architectural
point of view, consistent with the salubrious and residential quarter of the town. It has
been fitted with the best machinery that can be produced for the manufacture of boots-
an important detail that has had the personal supervision of Mr. Tysoe, senior. The local
operative is famous for his workmanship, and with the best machinery at his disposal
he may be relied on to give co-operators the quality, style, and finish they so much desire
in their boots and shoes.
The whole of the work is carried through on the ground floor, with saw-tooth roof of
northern lights.
The interior of the factory is particularly attractive and inviting to the craftsman.
Brightness has been considered to the smallest detail. The roof and top window frames
are white, with a light frame work of girders painted green. Steel shafts, separately
driven by electric motors, run at equally measured distances across the mill, and in juxta-
position with these are steam-heated pipes with aluminium coating. Everything seems
to have been done not to obstruct, but to reflect, the light.
The factory is electrically driven and lighted, and approaches that condition to which
engineering ingenuity is tending—that is, to make even a large floor of industrial operations
dustless and noiseless. One may add that whilst every means has been provided for
emitting light, all that engineering skill can provide in dust extraction has been applied.
Leather "fluff," which flies from any machine where grinding is in process, is swallowed up
by a system of suction into huge pipes and carried into a cyclone on the roof, and thence
deposited into boilers where it is consumed by fire. The cleanliness of the atmosphere,
light-emitting windows, must suggest to visitors
a remarkable advance in workshop conditions.
Nothing has been overlooked to safeguard the physical health and safety of the worker.
Where there are stone steps you will find them bearing a mixture of carborundum, a silver
substance which prevents slipping and makes them easy to ascend or descend. Other
similar details have not been neglected.
The frontage of the factory is lined with a stretch of green turf and variegated shrubs.
At the back of the building is an acreage of land on which Mr. Tysoe has already planted
a border of poplar trees, and recreational facilities will be provided later. Add to these,
bright dining halls, tea and rest room, and lavatories with all-time attendants, and one is
driven to the conclusion that the ideal factory has come before the ideal home, as far as
the artisan is concerned.
OPENING CEREMONY.
NORTHAMPTON, Wednesday.
In the presence of a representative gathering of directors and officials, Mr. G. Thorpe,
J.P. (president of the C.W.S.), formally declared the premises open to-day.
Mr. Wilkins (director), who presided, on behalf of the board, expressed his satisfaction
at the large attendance. He explained that when the present site was obtained some
residential property owners were worried at the idea of a boot factory being erected there.
A promise had been made that the Board would put up a presentable factory and one which
would not be an eye-sore to the district. This had been observed.
boots were famous throughout the world, and the directors hoped with this new under-
taking to make a definite step forward as far as this factory was concerned. Mr. Wilkins
referred to efforts made in recent years by improved methods to stop dumping of cheap
lines of American boots on the British market.
In asking the President to open the factory Mr. Wilkins referred to Mr. Thorpe's
approaching retirement. The directors had a big lump of admiration for the Chairman,
who was one of the most consistent workers it had been his privilege to be associated
with during the troublesome period through which the co-operative ship had been passing.
During the past five years Mr. Thorpe had successfully piloted it through. His colleagues
were pleased he was permitted to remain until smooth waters were reached.
Northampton


---
284
BOOT REPAIRING TRADE BOARD.
Report on Inspection and Enforcement of Orders.
A report has been issued by the secretary of the Boot Repairing Trade Board, giving
figures in connection with the inspection of workshops and the enforcement of the orders
in regard to wages and hours of employment for the three months ended 31st March last.
At that date the number of boot repairers on the Board's list was 29.410.
During the period under review, 58 firms received a visit of inspection for the first time
and twelve firms were re-inspected where irregularities had previously been discovered.
the total number of inspections being seventy. Of these, 39 were firms employing fewer
than two workers, excluding two firms employing no workers; 25 employers two to five
workers; one employed six to ten workers; and three employed eleven to twenty workers.
No firms in the twenty-one to one hundred or over one hundred sections were inspected.
The total number of workers employed by the firms inspected was 175.
The total number of complaints received during the period was 58, and 61 complaint
including 31 outstanding from 1923, were investigated, of which 28 were dealt with by
correspondence. Arrangements have been made for the investigation of the 30 complaint
outstanding, of which two are outstanding from 1923.
The number of firms visited during the period in the course of (a) routine inspection
and (b) as the result of complaint were 37 and 33 (twelve received in 1923) respectively.
The number of firms on whose premises it was found notices were not posted were (a) 12
Records of time were not kept in (a) 23 cases and in (b) 17 cases, while it was
found that the records kept were inadequate in one case under (a) and one case under (6).
In regard to wages, it was found that records were not kept by twelve firms under (a
and eight firms under (b), while the records of wages kept were inadequate in one case
under (a) and one case under (b).
In the course of routine inspection two firms were found to be underpaying workers,
the total arrears claimed being £2 16s. 44d. The whole of the arrears were paid, the
number of underpaid workers involved being two. In response to complaints, it was
found on inspection that twelve firms were underpaying workers, the total arrears claimed
being £290 16s. 91d., the number of workers involved being twenty-five. Of these twenty-
three workers received £195 14s. 7d. as payment for arrears.
Of the arrears outstanding
£80 8s. 84d. is due from three firms, who are paying by instalments. The remainder
£14 13s. 54d. due from two firms was claimed only recently.
workers, two adult female time workers, 37 male learners and juveniles, and 70 male piece-
The 172 workers in the firms inspected under (a) and (b) comprise 63 adult male time
workers. One adult male worker was found to be underpaid under (a), the arrears claimed
being £2 9s. 4d., which were paid. Under (b) 12 adult time workers were found to be
underpaid, the total arrears claimed being £146 15s. 5d., of which £106 10s. 7d. has been
paid. One female adult time worker was found to be underpaid, the arrears claimed
being £9 4s. 3d., of which £3 has been paid. Under (a) one male juvenile was found to
be underpaid, the arrears claimed being 7s., which have been paid. Under (b) four male
juveniles were awarded arrears of £30 15s. 3 d., of which £24 18s. has been paid.
In regard to pieceworkers, under (b) eight male workers were found to be underpaid,
the arrears claimed being £104 15s. 9d., of which £61 6s. has been paid.
The number of firms inspected in the different divisions under (a) routine, and (b)
complaint, were: Scotland (a) 6, (b) 1; North-Eastern (a) nil, (b) 3; North-Western
(a) 8, (b) 4; Midlands (a) 9, (b) 7; South-Western (a) 7, (b) 3; London and South-Eastern
(a) 7, (b) 15.
In regard to the duration of inspections, 49 occupied one day or less, 19 occupied
two days, and two occupied three days.
In regard to the above report and to the complaints as to the inadequacy of inspection
owing to lack of inspectors, it is interesting to note that in the three months comprising
78 working days, inspectors were occupied for a total of 93 days, so that for the whole of
England and Scotland the available inspectorate would appear to be one inspector occupied
full time and one inspector occupied less than half time. -Shoe and Leather Record, 23rd
May, 1924.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1923 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 93,620; Females, 50,230; Total,
143,850. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 28th April, 1924 (Great
Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 11,479; Females, 3,200; Total, 14,679. Percent-
age Unemployed at 28th April, 1924: Males, 12.3; Females, 6.4; Total, Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, 10.2; Great Britain only, 10.0. Increase as compared with 24th
March, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 1.0; Females, 0.2; Total, 0.7-
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, May, 1924-


---
PRESENTATION TO MR. S. BARNES, J.P.
A large gathering at the Assembly Room of the Working Men's Club, Desborough,
took place on 24th May, 1924, to make a presentation to Mr. S. J. B. Barnes, J.P., who
after 12 years' zealous service as secretary to the Desborough Branch of the National Union
of Boot and Shoe Operatives, has retired.
The gifts to Mr. Barnes were a handsome hanging clock in oak case, with Westminster
chimes, and a barometer.
After tea Mr. Reuben Cox, president of the branch, called on Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P.,
as an old friend, to make the presentations.

Tributes.
This Mr. Smith did in a very suitable speech, remarking on the great work Mr. Barnes
had done, and the esteem in which he was held.
Mr. Poulton and Mr. Richards spoke in a reminiscent mood, referring to their pleasant
associations with Mr. Barnes. The former, who gave an account of the movement's
progress from its inception, said in the 12 years in which Mr. Barnes had held office as
secretary the branch at Desborough had made great headway.
Councillor W. Whymant, the new secretary, also spoke.
In a very fitting reply, Mr. Barnes (who was accompanied by Mrs. and Miss Barnes)
referred to the old stalwarts who in days gone by had done a great deal for the Union,
Later there was another very enjoyable function, when Mr. R. Coe, the president of
the branch, again presided.
Congratulating the branch on the work it had accomplished, Mr. Poulton said it had
had its ups and downs in the 31 years that had elapsed since it was inaugurated.
Although Mr. Barnes had officially retired, he would still assist the branch in helping
to bring about the happier times which some of them dreamed of and hoped to see before
they passed away. (Applause.)

Aim and Object.
“We are looking forward,” said Mr. Richards, “to the time when we shall be one
great human family. Our policy, aim, and object are to see a brotherhood of man and a
universal feeling in the world.” (Applause.) Their motto as boot and shoe operatives
was “May our trade be trodden underfoot by the whole world.”
Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., made references to the work already accomplished by the
Labour Government, and intimated that they would press for the 48-hours week, more
houses, and also deal with European affairs.

APPRECIATION OF UNION OFFICIALS.
The Management Committee of the General Federation of Trade Unions on the
30th April, 1924, presented to Mr. T. F. Richards, General President of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, the Federation's Gold Medallion, and desires by this
presentation to express its appreciation of the loyal, consistent and disinterested service
which Mr. Richards has rendered during his twenty years' official association with the
Federation as Auditor and Member of the Management Committee.
*
*
*
Councillor T. Adnitt, president of the Leicester Branch and Member of the Executive
Council, has been added to the Commission of the Peace for Leicester.
*
*
*
Councillor F. C. Jex has been elected leader of the Labour Party in Norwich.
*
*
*
Mr. A. G. Randall, J.P., Secretary to the Kingswood Branch, has been elected Vice-
Chairman of the Kingswood U.D.C.
*
*
*
Mr. G. Chester, Assistant-Secretary to the Kettering Branch, has been re-elected
Chairman of the Kettering Education Committee.
*
*
*
Councillor C. Bates, J.P., has been elected Chairman of the Rushden U.D.C.
*
*
*
Mr. J. Buckle, M.P., J.P., has been the recipient of an attaché case from "friends in
Yorkshire," in recognition of his services.
*
*
*
Mr. A. O. Birt, Vice-President of the Northampton Branch, was elected to the North-
ampton Town Council at a bye-election on the 9th inst.
---

---
286
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
WARNING!
Worker's International Relief.
Workers' International Relief to collect money on behalf of German Workers, we beg
In view of the persistent endeavours which are being made in Great Britain by the
organisation. The Official German Trade Union Press also issues warnings against the
senting about six million trade unionists, REFUSES TO HAVE ANY DEALINGS with the above
to draw attention to the fact that the GERMAN FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS, repre-
the WORKERS' WELFARE ASSOCIATION, Lindenstrasse 3, Berlin, S.W. 68, which body is
Those desirous of helping impoverished German Workers can send contributions to
Workers' International Relief.
recognised by the German Federation of Trade Unions.
THE RUSSIAN WAY OF HELPING THE GERMAN TRADE UNIONS.
The All-Russian Union of Food-workers has for some months past been affiliated
with the International Union of Federations of Workers in the Food and Drink Trades.
The way in which the Russian Union regards its task of rendering assistance to the German
Trade Union Movement may be seen from the following facts:-
The International Secretariat sent the Russian Union. in common with all the others.
an appeal asking for contributions in aid of the German trade unions. At first the Russians
showed no inclination to give anything. But after some correspondence with the Inter-
of international solidarity. Seen more closely, however, the act is plainly in keeping
national Secretariat, they sent 4,000 Swiss frs. At first sight this looks like a fine gesture
SATIONS AFFILIATED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS. The
with the usual Communist policy, for the money is to be used TO UNDERMINE THE ORGANI-
UNION IS IN SHARP OPPOSITION TO THE GERMAN GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS
money is to be expended for the relief of the German Food-workers' Union. "SINCE THIS
(comprising the largest number of German trade unionists, namely about six million
workers), which is playing the part of a traitor to the working class." Further comment
is needless!
THE COMMUNISTS AGAINST THE EIGHT-HOURS DAY.
The Executive Committee of the German National Trade Union Centre recently
decided to instruct a commission to make preparations with a view to the holding of a
referendum on the subject of the eight-hours day. It came to this decision, partly because
it considered that a national decision on this important question would be the most demo-
cratic method, and partly because, encouraged by the victory of the eight-hours day
both in the Swiss referendum, and in the Belgian parliament (where a Bill to abolish it
was recently thrown out) it is confident that in Germany also there will be a similar success
or the eight-hours day.
The Communists, however, are already beginning to oppose the idea, although it
has not yet even been decided what form the referendum shall take. They say that it
will only mean a referendum on the Washington Convention, and will do nothing to safe-
guard the eight-hours day. This shows, as the Socialist Party organ remarks, that
when the Executive of the Communist Party laid its ban on the procedure, it had either
completely forgotten, or had never really been acquainted with the Washington Con-
but devotes its whole energies to making rowdy disturbances.
It is obvious that the Communist Party of Germany cares nothing for real success,
declaring that the workers must "
"blood and iron." The Political Bureau of the Communist Party has issued a publication
It does not believe in any social achievement which is obtained without the aid of
used are:-" This move of the Socialist Trade Union Centre is nothing but a trick intended
these manœuvres. Not by means of a referendum for the Washington Convention, but
to hamper the impending struggle. The Communist Party will spare no effort to defeat
fight," and not vote in a referendum. The words
only by setting free, organising and increasing the economic power of Labour and by
using it to seize political power will it be possible to safeguard the eight-hours day."
practical use by their local "fights" and their perpetually postponed world revolution.
If only the Communists could prove that they had ever done anything whatever of


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
288
LEICESTER LEADS.
Least Unemployment in the United Kingdom. Remarkable Figures.
There is no town or city of its size in the United Kingdom that can show such
favourable unemployment figures as Leicester."
This challenging statement was made by the acting-manager of the Leicester Employ-
Exchange, to a representative of the Leicester Mail this morning. "In point of
ment Exchang
the figures have never been so low as they are now since the war."
fact.
he added,
At the present time there are 1626 people unemployed, compared with 2,209 in
1923, and 3,588 in 1922; and the figures of those who are working short time are 245 now.
These details, and especially those for 1924, provide a remarkable contrast with those
of the corresponding period in 1921, when, mainly owing to the coal stoppage, there were
350 in 1923, and 400 in 1922.
no less than 25,000 unemployed in Leicester.
The following comparative figures, which have been obtained from the official record,
of the local Unemployment Exchange, will be read with interest.
UNEMPLOYED.
1924
1923
1922
Men
Women
Boys
Girls
Total
1,206
398
II
II
1,626
1,750
407
31
12
2,209
3,266
273
46
3
3,588
SHORT TIME.
1924
1923
1922
Men
Women
Boys
Girls
Total
229
14
I
I
245
233
126
335
65
I
359
400
It should be pointed out that it is usual for employment to be good at this period of
the year, and the figures given may not be maintained after Whitsuntide. Nevertheless,
they provide a striking commentary upon the excellent position which Leicester is enjoying
in the world of trade.-Leicester Mail, 23rd May, 1924.
BOOT TRADERS AND REGISTRATION.
"Shoddy" Footwear Condemned.
The annual conference of the National Federation of Boot Trades Associations, at
Plymouth yesterday, adopted a number of resolutions which dealt with the question of
registration.
Government Measure.
The Secretary (Mr. John Hoyle) said that there was approaching the Committee
stage in Parliament a Government measure for dealing with factories and workshops,
the first for nearly twenty years, and last week a deputation interviewed the Minister
with a view to securing in the bill a clause that would provide for the registration of every
place used as a workshop. The provision would cover the case of a man working for
profit in his own private house.
"Shoddy" Footwear.
The President (Mr. F. F. Sprackling) moved that the council should take action to
protect the public against the ill-effects of shoddy footwear by setting up a special com-
mittee of inquiry with a view to legislative action. If they did not take it up as a trade
it would be taken up by the medical profession, and they could not deal with it without
the assistance of practical workers. It was not only the shoddy boot, but often the
adulteration of leather which caused the mischief to children's feet, and he hoped that
soon there would be nothing but pure leather used.
The resolution was carried.- Western Morning News, 9th May, 1924.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
289
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
"EQUAL PAY FOR EQUAL WORK."
A Committee appointed by the Swedish Government in 1921 to investigate the wages
and old age pensions of female employees of the State has recently presented its report
in a volume of nearly 300 pages.
The Committee suggests a common wages system for male and female employees,
with provision for the application of the family-wage principle. Taking as starting point
the principle that the work done by women in the service of the State should not be more
expensive than that done by men (i.c., equal wages for the same amount of work), the
Committee finds that a certain difference in the wages paid to male and female employees
(1) the rate of sickness among the female employees has been proved to be greater
is justifiable on the following grounds :-
by more than 40 per cent, than that of the men ;
(2) women occupy a special position as regards old age pensions, having regard to
longer average life ;
(3) the ratio between the quantitative output of work of men and women, and
(4) certain other factors, such as the liability of men to conscription and the impossi-
bility of the State ignoring wage conditions on the general labour market.

NEW RULES FOR TRADE UNIONS IN CHINA.
Interesting evidence of the changes in industrial and social conditions which are
being realised in China is afforded by the issue of draft regulations by the Chinese Govern-
ment authorising the organisation of workers into trade unions. Some of the more import-
ant provisions are the following:-
Workers engaged in the same occupation may organise into unions for the purpose
of securing their economic well-being and promoting their common interests. Trade
unions are legal personalities. They encourage mutual assistance among their members
and endeavour to secure an improvement in conditions of employment, they investigate
conditions of labour, make proposals to the Government with regard to labour legislation,
and answer all enquiries of the Government offices. Trade unions may establish branches.
In order that a union may be formed a proposal must be signed by at least 10 workers ;
the proposal, which must contain draft statutes for the union, is to be submitted for
approval to the appropriate local administrative authority. Workmen engaged in national
industries or public services must in addition secure the approval of the government office
in charge of the industry or service. In applying to the Government for permission to
organise a trade union, the promoters must submit, with the application, their own names,
and particulars of their age, native place, occupation, and address.

"SAFETY FIRST" IN WORLD INDUSTRY.
An American Record.
Details of the progress of the safety movement in industry in various countries are
given in the latest number of Industrial Labour Information, the weekly publication of the
International Labour Office of the League of Nations, from which the following extracts
are quoted :-
UNITED STATES.-Employees of the Delaware and Hudson Railroad, working in the
locomotive repair shops at Colonie, are claiming the world's railway shop safety "record."
The 1,035 men employed in these repair shops worked a total of 200,000 hours in the month
of January without a single "reportable" accident (an accident which causes a loss of
more than three days' work), and with no loss of time from accidents.
The railway company officials state that the great success resulting in this claim for
a safety "record" is due to a five-year active safety campaign by officials and men.
JAPAN.-The International Labour Office has recently received evidence of the interest
taken in questions of industrial safety in Japan. An organisation exists, known as the
"Safety Society of Japan" (Nippon Anzen Kyeki), the object of which is to promote
safety in factories and mines and also the safety of the general public.
The society, which works in close co-operation with the Social Bureau, is endeavouring
among other things to set up safety committees in the mines and factories. It is at present
devoting its attention to Marunouchi, an important business district of Tokyo. The
managing director, Mr. T. Gamo, hopes, however, in the near future to organise branches
in Osaka and Kobe.


---
Company has instituted a
bination of these causes.
290
well attended by the workmen they are presided over by mine officials.
campaign against accidents in the mines, holding that fully
two thirds of all accidents result from carelessness, thoughtlessness, ignorance, or a com-
SOUTH AFRICA. The Accident Prevention Committee of the Rand Mutual Assurance
and safe habits. In connection with the campaign, a series of lectures on mine accidents.
under the supervision of the Committee. The lectures are given in the evening, and are
The Committee proposes to combat accidents by teaching the workmen safe methods
ambulance work, prevention of fires, and general health, is being delivered on the mines
work, and special attention is drawn to the necessity for an adequate knowledge of first-aid.
All the hazards incidental to mining are dealt with, particularly those in underground
and for teaching safety in the homes,
FACTS OF WORLD LABOUR.
central" clearing house" of information on industrial and labour questions is shown by
The development of the International Labour Office of the League of Nations as a
In that year the International Labour Office sent detailed replies to 323 requests for
information, many of these involving research on more than one question. This number
figures just issued for the year 1923.
is a record in the history of the International Labour Organisatione
Requests have been received from Governments, employers' associations, trade unions.
universities, libraries, philanthropic and other institutions, belonging to the following
countries:-Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Czecho-slovakia, Esthonia.
America, Lithuania, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Roumania, Spain, Sweden, Switzer-
France, Germany, Great Britain, Holland, Hungary, India, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Latin
land, United States, Yugo-slavia.
The largest number of requests came from Great Britain (50), Switzerland (37).
Belgium (34), France (33), Germany (20), Italy (20), and Czecho-slovakia (16).
Among the subjects on which information was requested were conditions of labour.
including hours and wages, technical education, apprenticeship, vocational guidance.
control and emigration.
insurance, industrial health
The information supplied to Governments is of special importance in view of the
fact that these particulars are frequently needed with a view to the preparation of nehe
national legislative and administrative measures.
ACCIDENT COMPENSATION FOR ALIEN WORKERS.
Information as to the possibility and scope of an international agreement on the
question of equality of treatment for national and foreign workers as regards workmen's
compensation for accidents is contained in a report just issued by the International Labour
Office of the League of Nations.
The possibility of arriving at such an agreement, says the report, appeared to be
considerably enhanced in consequence of the increasing extent to which the régime of
equality of treatment in respect of workmen's compensation has been established during
the last generation, either independently of or by means of special treaties between State
and State, and of the not insignificant similarity at any rate as to fundamentals which
exists between the laws on the subject in the different countries. The replies of Govern-
ments which have been received to a series of questions on this subject very largely confirm
this impression.
These replies, which have come from twenty-three Governments and four provinces
of Canada, are printed in the report and, in the light of them, the International Labour
Office has outlined a Draft Convention for discussion at the sixth annual Session of the
International Labour Conference which opens at Geneva on 16th June.
it undertakes to grant to workers who are nationals of any other State which has ratified
The main provision of the proposed Draft Convention is that a country which ratifies
the representatives of such workers, the same treatment in respect of workmen's com-
and who suffer personal injury by an industrial accident happening in its territory, or to
pensation as it grants to its own nationals, and not to make any discrimination against
ceased to reside in its territory. Special agreements are suggested to cover workers
these workers of their representatives by reason of the fact that they do not reside or have
temporarily or intermittently employed in such territory.


---
291
ITALIAN EMIGRANTS OVERSEAS.
The final statistics for 1923, published by the Italian General Emigration Department
ndicate a heavy increase in the number of emigrants overseas, states Industrial and Labour
nformation, the weekly publication of the International Labour Office of the League of
The total reached 177,853 in 1923 as against 121,410 in 1922, and of these 130,000
ent to the Argentine (93,284), only one-third to the United States (57,686), and the
ere men, 26,271 women, and 21,582 children of under 15 years of age. More than half
nd Central America (1,110). Apart from Australia, where Italian immigration fell by
mainder chiefly to Brazil (15,046), Canada (6,459), Uruguay (2,796), Australia (1,150),
most stationary (57,685 as compared with 44,832), these figures indicate considerable
rogress. The majority of overseas emigrants left during the second half of 1923, especially
ore than half (1,150 as compared with 3,700), and the United States, where it remained
om August to November.
THE WORKERS' SPARE TIME.
be discussed at the Sixth Annual Session of the International Labour Conference of the
The development of facilities for the use of workers' spare time is one of the questions
-the International Labour Office containing the replies of various Governments to a
eague of Nations which opens at Geneva on 16th June, and a report has just been issued
ries of questions as to the possibility and scope of an international agreement on the
bject.
Before it was possible for the Office to consider what should be included in the pro-
certain whether the Governments considered the question of the use of workers' spare
sals to be submitted to the Conference as a basis of discussion, it was necessary to
ne, which is a problem of an entirely new character, sufficiently ripe to be dealt with by
Recommendation indicating general principles and suggesting methods by which pro-
able utilisation of spare time might be promoted.
A large majority of the Governments have replied in the affirmative on this point.
ney recognise that owing to the differences of custom and tradition in the various countries
adoption of definite measures cannot be formally prescribed; but they consider
at identical problems are everywhere involved, and that the discussion might therefore
ad to the adoption of a Recommendation. This would, at any rate, as one of the Gerefore
ents points out, create some form of moral obligation for the Governments and the
mployers' and workers' organisations.
On the basis of these replies the International Labour Office has outlined a Recom-
endation for discussion by the Conference among the provisions of which are the
lowing :-
Each State Member of the International Labour Organisation should consider the
eans of so arranging the working day as to make spare time as continuous as possible
ternation of shifts, shortening of mid-day breaks, adjustment of working hours to the
ason and the like), further, by means of a well-conceived transport system, the time
ent by the workers between their homes and their work should be shortened as much
possible.
Among the institutions which may assist individual development and contribute to
e general progress of the community, those are recommended which have for their object
e improvement of the workers' domestic economy and family life (workers' gardens,
otments, and the like); the development of physical health and strength by means of
mes and sports; and the encouragement of technical and general education (libraries,
ading rooms, lectures, technical courses, educational courses, and the like)..
Attention is also drawn to the necessity of safeguarding the individual freedom of
e workers against any tendency towards obliging them to use any particular institution,
e most practical and successful institutions being those which have been started and
veloped by the workers themselves.
SEAMEN'S CONDITIONS IN JAPAN.
ternational Labour Conventions Approved.
Information has been received at the International Labour Office of the League of
ations at Geneva that the Emperor of Japan has approved the ratification of the Draft
nvention adopted by the second annual Session of the International Labour Conference
(20) fixing the minimum age for admission of children to employment at sea, and the
raft Convention adopted at the third annual Session (1921) concerning the compulsory
edical examination of children and young persons employed at sea.


---
192
upon which members of the same family
In the loom of the first hall convention children under fourteen must not be
ate omploved and chood branshes very hummuster being required to
der of all under toch omployed on board bla vred by t
complarent on work on seeds, other than theyre
children of youm perror cbthteen, shall only
ged on the production of
medical climate and must be mette ally amined once in your
WAGES IN GERMANY,
Effects of Depreciated Currency.
Interesting detalls of the adaptation of wages to the depreciation of currency is
Germany are given in an article by Dr. Fritz Sitzler in the curront one of the Internathemat
Labour Reatore, the monthly publication of the International Labour Office of the
of Nations.
Dr. Sitzler is Director of the German Federal Ministry of Labour, and th
Conference instructing the Office to" make a documentary investigation into the standard
of working class life in relation to the pre-war standard in Germany and other countrie
of this article follows a resolution at the fourth annual session of the International Salkour
adopted or contemplated in such countries for socuring to the workers an adequate living
with a seriously deprocintod exchange
wage."
and to ascertain the means alrea
methods of adapting wages, says the article, when, in spite of its continual fall, the paper
The successive stages in the depreciation of the mark can be followed in the different
mark had not yet lost all meaning as a measure of value for purposes of internal exchange
it was in general sufficient to adapt wages gradually to the falling mark by a pro
of 1923, made it necessary to devise some quite new scheme, and to adopt some form of
negotiation. But the complete collapse of the German currency, which began in the middle
sliding wage scale in the attempt to maintain real wages at a constant level.
The article therefore falls into two parts and is completed by a short account of the
transition to gold wages in the last few months.
the increase of such money in circulation, says Dr. Sitzler. A beginning was made early th
The payment of wages in a stable currency could only be gradually introduced with
was raised progressively in subsequent weeks. In January, 1924, the situation had
November with a small fraction (at first about to per cent.) of wages, and the percenta
already become sufficiently stable to allow a return to collective agreements fixing wages
for a period of a month at a time.
WORLD UNEMPLOYΜΕΝΤ.
Report to International Labour Conference.
Great interest attaches to the report on world unemployment which will be presented
by the International Labour Office of the League of Nations to the Sixth Annual Session
of the International Labour Conference which opens in Geneva on Monday, 16th June.
The report is the result of a resolution adopted at the Fourth Session in 1922 that the
International Labour Office should actively continue its work as regards the collection of
information and international co-ordination in the matter of unemployment. The reso
lution also stated that the permanent documentary inquiry of the Office should be made
to bear on the respective movements of production and consumption of the various classes
of goods; that a special investigation should be made of the causes and remedies of
seasonal unemployment and that, in collaboration with the Economic and Financial
Section of the League of Nations, the Office should make a special study of the problem
of crises of unemployment, their recurrencies and the fluctuations of economic activity,
to collate and compare, in particular, the results of the investigations made in various
countries, and to make known the measures taken with a view to sustaining economic
activity and thus stabilising the labour market.
It will thus be seen that the International Labour Office is studying not only the
particular problems raised by the world unemployment which resulted from the economic
disorganisation following the war period, but also the general question of unemployment
when world industry is in a normal state.
taining a survey of the world crisis of unemployment from 1920 to 1923.
A section of the report which will be read with the greatest interest will be that con-


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

293
POSITION OF THE WORKER IN RUSSIA.
Changes in the Last Six Years.
Very interesting details of the changes in the position of the Russian worker during
the last six years-all the information being taken from Soviet sources
publication just issued by the International Labour Office of the League of Nations, called
“Industrial Life in Soviet Russia, 1917-1923.”
are given in a new
The fundamental differences between the present system and that existing before
1921 are carefully demonstrated not only from the point of view of the State regulations
issued, but also from that of the actual conditions of labour prevailing. This dual method
of treating the subject is of importance when it is realised that there is still a considerable
margin in Russia between laws on conditions of labour and their application.
Since the inauguration of the new economic policy in 1921 the system of labour
legislation has been transformed. The new Labour Code starts from principles which
differ completely from those which were at the base of the former system. Compulsory
labour is, practically speaking, abolished. The engagement and dismissal of workers has
been declared free. The conditions of labour are determined by free agreement between
the parties, and the value of work is determined by the laws of supply and demand. The
central power defines itself to fixing a minimum wage, leaving to the parties concerned
the duty of determining the actual remuneration of labour by collective agreements.
introduced into Russia two years ago have exerted a far-reaching influence," says the
Conditions of work in Russia are at present governed less by the legislation
of the executive authorities, in spite of the considerable change in the principles of such
legislation, than by economic and social conditions, and in particular by the growth of
private capitalism side by side with State capitalism.'
volume.
The fullest details of this remarkable transition must be essential not only to the
student of economics but also to the political observer who is desirous of understanding
the present position in Europe.
TRADE UNION FAMILY ALLOWANCES.
A Belgian Experiment.
The Belgian Confederation of Christian Unions has established a fund for the payment
of family allowances to permanent members of the unions, states Industrial and Labour
Information, the weekly publication of the International Labour Office of the League
of Nations.
Under the scheme which came into operation on 1st April, the unions are to affiliate
to the fund all members who have reached 21 years. Family allowances will be paid in
respect of all children under 16 years of age, beginning with the third. For this year
the allowance is fixed at 500 francs per child per annum. Payments are being made
monthly by postal cheque sent direct to the members entitled to them.
In addition to these regular allowances, a birth bonus of 200 francs will be paid in
respect of each child, irrespective of the number of children in the family.
The unions will pay to the fund 275 francs per member per annum, this figure being
fixed on the basis of statistics of membership.
OWING TO BRITAIN.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in a written Parliamentary answer yesterday,
gave the following particulars of the loans by Great Britain to Allies outstanding :-
France
Russia
Italy..
Serb-Croat-Slovene Kingdom (including Montenegro)
Poland
Roumania
Portugal
Greece
Belgian Congo
£623,279,000
£722,546,000
£553,300,000
£28,481,000
£95,000
£24,778,000
£21,544,000
£23,355,000
£3,550,000
The total is £2,000,928,000.
Interest, he said, is being received at present in cash from the Belgian Congo and on
a part of the loan to Greens in the other cases it is added each year to the principal
of the debt due.—Daily News, 9th May, 1924.


---
295
COAL AS SERVANT.
The Inquiry into the Coal Industry.
From the standpoint of life, even the vast economic gain of the universal adoption
of electric power generated in national stations near the national pits might be the least
part of our gain. Coal, used by our obsolete methods, shortens our lives, lowers our
our cities to ugliness and dirt, and creates in our Black Country a population which hardly
vitality, diminishes by its defeat of sunlight our cheerfulness and our health, condemns
knows the pleasures of sight. But there is no end to this theme- the gain to the house.
to the farmer, the possibility of breaking up congested cities under a national system of
wife in her daily tasks from cheap electricity, the revival of rural industries, the advantage
were to electrify its railway system completely the gain in the cheapening of transport
over our short distances would make our industries irresistible competitors in the foreign
regional planning.
market.
A noted American expert has argued that if the United Kingdom
The Government will soon, we hope, be in a position to produce its con-
structive plan for dealing with unemployment. Our plea to it would be to link up
the problem of unemployment with the vast national problem of the utilisation of our
Let us concentrate in an appeal to the imagination of the country to make of coal
resources, and the equipment of our industries with cheap transport and cheap power.
our servant.
Let us argue not on any narrow platform of class advantage; let us argue on
doubt very much whether we should find in either of the other parties a united
the need for raising our whole national standard of life and efficiency, and we
opposition. We tend to exaggerate their solid resistance. Liberals are not all
advocating the unification of the mines. Lord Milner has urged an experi-
chained to Mid-Victorian individualism. Mr. A. G. Gardiner is steadily
mental advance. The Observer and the Nation argue week by week on lines
not far removed from these. These friendly opponents seem indeed to look
intellectual resources on winning the goodwill of the country, and risk defeat when our
to us for poineering and leadership. We must evolve our plans now, spend all our
plans are ripe. New Leader, 9th May, 1924.
BOOTS AND HEALTH.
Dr. Ethel Bentham and the High-Heeled Girl.
Bad boots are one of the most prolific causes of ill-health, said Dr. Ethel Bentham,
Labour candidate for East Islington, in a speech at Highbury last night.
"It is really an exception," she added, "to find an adult foot that is not more or
less deformed.
"It is enough to make one weep to see the bulgy, swollen ankles and
misshapen calves and flattened toes of the high-heeled girl of to-day."
Unsuitable footwear accounted for one-third of the disabilty of women.
-Daily Herald, 26th May, 1924.
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st MAY, 1924.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included
..
..
..
..
..
71 per cent.
Food only
..
..
..
..
..
63 "
!
FOOD.
Between ist April and Ist. May there was a further fall in the average level of the
retail prices of the principal articles of food, mainly as the result of the reductions in the
tea and sugar duties. By Ist May the price of tea had been reduced 4d. per lb. by the
majority of retailers, the fall in the average price at that date being about 31d. per lb.
price of sugar
These reductions in prices were partly offset by substantial advances in the prices of
potatoes, which rose, on the average, by 2d. per 7 lbs.
retail prices (in
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
food included in these statistics fell to about 63 per cent. at 1st May, as compared with
about 67 per cent. at 1st April. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, May, 1924.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondem.
being men on whom we can rely should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Membera.
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
NAT TELI 4438 MUSEUM, LONDOR.
TEL. ADDRESS "NATUNISHOP, PHONE, LONDON"

National Union
Bat & Shoe Operatives
Affiliated
Approved
Trade Union Congres
and Mabunal Labor Party
the State Mateaal Heath Inoursnes Acta Appeal 2
SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
34, GUILFORD STREET
General President
T.F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
EL POULTON LP.
LONDON.W.CI.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

FELLOW MEMBERS,

MONTHLY REPORT.

23RD JUNE, 1924.
TRADE.
There is little improvement in the state of trade compared with last
month, the figures given by the Ministry of Labour Gazette being as follow :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment was moderate on the whole during May, but was slightly better than
in the previous month. In some centres short time working was still prevalent, though
to a less extent than in April. Compared with May, 1923, conditions generally showed an
improvement.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 8.3 on the 26th May, as compared with 10.2 on
the 28th April.
Employment in London again showed a slight improvement. At Leicester it was
fairly good on the whole; although some short time was worked, the majority of factories
were running full time. At Northampton employment was somewhat better than in
April, but a considerable amount of short time was still being worked. At Kettering
short time was still worked in some factories, and, taken as a whole, employment was only
moderate. It was estimated that about three-quarters of the firms were on full time at
the end of the month. Employment continued slack at Wellingborough and bad at
Hinckley, and the majority of workpeople were on short time in these centres. In the
Higham and Rushden districts, however, although short time was still being worked,
employment improved, and was generally fair. It was still poor in the Raunds district.
At Leeds there was a further improvement in the light boot and shoe scction of the trade,
and employment in this section was very good; but at factories producing heavy footwear
employment continued quiet. A considerable improvement was reported at Stafford,
where employment was very fair. The slipper factories in the Rossendale Valley were
reported to be working full time.
Employment was again good at Norwich, and showed a further improvement; full
time was general and overtime was worked at a number of factories. At Kingswood
there was an improvement; but employment at Bristol was still only moderate, and much
short time continued to be worked. Conditions at Street were fairly good, and better
than in April.
The majority of operatives were fairly well employed during May at Glasgow, Edin-
bargh, and Kilmarnock; but at Maybole and Arbroath employment continued poor,
and a good deal of short time was worked.


---
3'3
MANCHESTER DISPUTE.
It will be recalled that quite recently a dispute occurred upon the firm
of Messrs. Gregg & Co., the operatives ultimately returning to work pending
further negotiations. The case was heard in London towards the end of last
month, Mr. W. Addington Willis (Chairman), Mr. O. Parker, J.P., and Mr.
G. Sedgwick, J.P., being the members of the Court appointed to hear the same.
An adjournment was made and the next hearing held in Manchester on the
4th inst. Mr. A. J. Dobbs represented the Union and placed the Union's
position before the Court.
The Court met in Manchester as stated above, and both sides gave
evidence, after which the Court adjourned, and we now await their decision.
JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL'S BILL.
It will be recalled that_
On the motion of Mr. H. J. Bostock, seconded by Mr. T. F. Richards, it was
unanimously resolved that-
" This National Conference urges upon H.M. Government the desir-
ability of giving to National Agreements voluntarily entered into and
approved by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity as Awards under
the Trade Board Act, with the object of ensuring the observance of fair
conditions of labour, by all engaged in the industry."
The above being passed on the 12th December, 1922.
On the 30th ult., a Bill dealing with this matter, and upon the lines sug-
gested in the above-named resolution, was before the House of Commons.
A letter was therefore sent to every Member of Parliament asking them to
support the Bill as follows :-
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
DEAR SIR,
34 GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. I...
28th May, 1924.
I understand that on Friday the Industrial Council's Bill is down
for its second reading. I hope you will make it convenient to be in your
place, and vote for the Bill. The principle set out in the Bill is of vital
importance to the Boot and Shoe Industry, and several times resolutions
have been passed by the Executive of the Federated Associations of Boot
and Shoe Manufacturers, and the Executive Council of the National Union
of Boot and Shoe Operatives, approving of the same.
On the 12th December, 1922, it was unanimously resolved that
" This National Conference of Boot Manufacturers and Operatives urges
upon H.M. Government the desirability of giving to National Agreements
voluntarily entered into and approved by Joint Industrial Councils the
B


---
314
the object of ensuring the observance of fair conditions of labour by all
same validity as awards under the Trade Board Acts, 1909 and 1918, with
I trust, therefore, that you will be able to see your way to vote for the
engaged in the industry."
second reading of the Bill.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
In addition the General President wired all the Members for shoe centres,
there voted for the Bill, 236; against, 16. Majority for, 220. It is hoped
asking them to vote for its passage. After a full day's discussion in the House
that at an early date this Bill will become an Act of Parliament. Thus will be
added one more safeguard in ensuring that Agreements arrived at by mutual
understandings shall have the force of the law behind them. Further references
to this matter appear on pages 326 and 327.
JUBILEE YEAR CONFERENCE.
The Jubilee Year Conference of the Union was held on the 9th-11th inst.
at the Borough Hall, Stafford.
The Mayor of Stafford (Mr. J. Wheeldon) welcomed the delegates on behalf
of the Corporation and citizens, whilst Mr. Ingle sent a welcome on behalf
of the Labour Party. The General President suitably replied to the same,
and on behalf of the Union presented the Mayor with a copy of the Souvenir
"Fifty Years." The Conference, as is well known, was largely one to celebrate
the Jubilee of the Union. No alteration of rules was discussed. Mr. George
Sedgwick, J.P., who held the office of general secretary from 1878-1886, was
present, whilst the old "war horse," Mr. Harry Moreton, was prevented from
attending owing to illness.
In his presidential address, Mr. T. F. Richards said since the Union was
formed at Stafford in 1874, it had grown in membership from 4,207 to nearly
80,000, and its funds now totalled over £100,000.
They had had 29 years without a national conflict, and both employers and
employed were determined that there should be no conflict if it could be avoided.
They were one of the only Unions in the world which had a mutual
guarantee of £1,000 with the employers against strikes and lockouts.
Dealing with the subject of shoddy footwear, the President said most
poor men and women bought boots and shoes, guided by price rather than value.
They hoped that shortly the Board of Trade would help them in the pro-
duction of a boot, such as once existed in the war-time boot, made under
Government control, and to Government specifications.
That was, if he dared to say so, a socialised product, which was killed by
the distributors refusing to distribute for 124 per cent. and demanding 33
per cent.


---
315
A special committee was to be formed, with a view to legislative action in
this matter.
A good discussion upon the political situation took place, and the absolute
need for strengthening not only the industrial, but also the political work of
the Union, thereby increasing the usefulness of the organisation.
On Wednesday, the 11th inst., the delegates and friends inspected the
many departments of the Lotus Shoe Works (Messrs. Bostock's, of Stafford),
which was a revelation to many, showing as it did, what can be done in a large
up-to-date factory. The visit was much appreciated as also were the remarks
of Mr. Bostock, who stated that he desired for a better understanding between
employers and employed, to make the burden of work as pleasant as possible.
A full report of Mr. Bostock's speech appears on page 338.
We have more than Fifty Years' work behind us. The future is unknown
to us; there is, however, sufficient known as to call forth if we are to take full
advantage of the opportunities our energies so that the next half century
will be more fruitful than the past, and those that live to see the Union reach
its century may still see greater benefits accrue to the Union and the services
of mankind generally.
CONSUMPTION.
As is well known we have for many, many years past followed up the
question of the excessive rate of mortality of shoe operatives, due to con-
sumption. Although some improvement has been made during the past few
years, those members who die at 45 years of age and under still shows a high
death rate of members from phthisis. It is the more necessary that we should
ensure full compliance with any Acts of Parliament which have a bearing
upon the health of the members. If, therefore, there are evasions of the existing
Acts, we hope all members will at once report the same to their local officers,
so that the inspectors may be apprised of the same. We make no apology
for repeating what we stated last month regarding the lamentable lack of
efficient inspectors, and thereby neglect of oversight which is so necessary to
ensure full compliance with the law in factories. We appeal to the membership
not to lose sight of this matter, but to push the matter at their local Labour
Party meetings, and thus bring pressure to bear upon the Government to
increase the number of Inspectors, and thus bring about an improvement in
the condition of affairs.
POLITICAL.
The political situation, especially as represented by the British House
of Commons, is still full of interest. Parliament having re-assembled, there is
no doubt in our mind that real fighting will begin, and it is therefore the more
incumbent upon those of us outside the House to render every assistance to
those members in the House of Commons, and influence, if possible, members
of other parties to vote for the Bills which the Government will present.


---
Here is the extracted text:
316
FACTORIES BILL.
We are especially glad to read the above-named Bill, and to see that many
of the proposals we have ourselves urged from time to time are embodied
therein. We trust that this will become an Act of Parliament, but it is possible
for all to ensure it becoming law to work for it and thus ensure a better
condition of working in the factories.

THE UNION'S SOUVENIR.
We have a few copies of the Fifty Years' History of the Union on
hand. These can be purchased from the Head Office at 10/- per copy (cash
to be sent with order). As there is sure to be a demand, application should
be made at once.

LONDON DISPUTE.
The firm of Messrs. Jackson & Joseph do not work to the National Agree-
ment, although the National Officers, with London Metro. Officers, have tried
patiently for two years to bring the firm to recognise the agreements arrived
at by the Federation and the National Union. About twelve months ago they
left the Federation.
On 4th February, 1924, Mr. A. Mason and Mr. D. McCarthy met the heads
of the firm. A claim was made for the London Clicking Statement, the adoption
of the Holiday Scheme, the Graduated Scale of Wages, the Minimum Wage
at least for Females of 20 and over. The heads of the firm agreed to meet
them in May to see if an agreement could be fixed up.
On 2nd June, a letter was received from the firm, to the effect that their
workers were all satisfied, and refusing any further negotiations with us.
We appeal to all of you who believe in Trade Unionism and standing by
National Agreements, which gives Manufacturers and workers in various
districts a fair deal, to come with us and take their stand with the Union for
justice and fair play.

NOMINATIONS
must be taken at the JULY meeting night for the following positions, and sent
to reach the Central Office not later than the 15th prox. :-
GENERAL PRESIDENT.
GENERAL SECRETARY.
ORGANISERS (three required).
TRUSTEES (five required).
MANAGER-National Health Insurance Department.
COUNCIL MEMBERS (twelve required).

THE "DAILY HERALD."
This is the paper of the movement; information is often available in
same which is not in other newspapers. It is essential the movement should
have a paper to voice the needs of the workers. DO YOUR SHARE and
place the same beyond all doubt by purchasing the same daily.


---
318
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
SHODDY. In addressing you this month I am pleased to report that the interest
taken in the elimination of Shoddy Footwear still finds a place in the minds of the general
public through a very sympathetic Press, who in many instances urge us to proceed with
this matter until some action has been taken to either eliminate the same, cause it to be
altogether discarded, or a description given with each pair. As the matter now stands,
and having gained a fair amount of publicity and notice, it appears the time has arrived
for our Union to consider the matter in all its aspects; not only is it a question of the
construction of the boot or shoe that is being considered, but in addition, the Tanners
are taking some interest in the question as to the purity of the articles that are to be
utilised in the production of a boot or shoe. This is very interesting, when we find that
there is material on the market which is loaded with various substances, not with the
intention of bettering the article, but in the main making the most of the material for the
benefit and profit of the producer, as in shoddy footwear produce, in other words, shoddy
leather. In this connection one is reminded that in Australia, and recently in South Africa,
there are already existing in these two colonies prohibition against the use of varilum or
other deleterious compounds in leather, which is likely to weaken its usefulness.
We are hoping that not only the Boot and Shoe Trades Association, whose support has
already been proferred, will give us their invaluable help, but that we may get the support
of the Employers' Association in a matter of this kind. Even if we went no further than
make a demand that all boots and shoes for men, women and children, should be no less
in quality than a trades specification yet to be agreed upon. The idea that a warranty
with the goods denoting their composition appears to gain favour, and when one realises
that some of the paper insole shoes are sold at considerable profit, or are purchased at less
than half price than they are sold to the public, it gives one a very disturbed feeling that
those who have any power at all do not appear to endeavour to bring about some reform
in this direction. In my remarks in one or two newspapers, which I made at Stafford
there is a misprint, which in itself becomes elusive to us. I said that ink, heel ball, and the
paper sock, covered up a number of sins. A translation has appeared in some papers
translated by anyone who really understood the subject. I hope I may in my next report
be able to say that we have made further progress in this connection.

EARL SHILTON. - Eatoughs Ltd. have again been visited and our request pressed for
the adopted Rossendale Valley conditions, owing to the fact that they construct a shoe, such
as we do not make in this district, of a slipper character, and most of his work is also
Veldtschoens, but the employees are all members of ours. They have had a system of
paying from 1½ per cent. to 2½ per cent. on earnings as an annual bonus to remunerate
the workers, and this bonus was looked upon as being equal to our Holiday Scheme. It
was not paid last year, so that we have no other alternative but to press for our National
Agreement, all the operatives in the meantime having become members of ours. We hope
in a very short time to be able to report that the operatives at their Burton-on-Trent
factory, who at the present moment are in two Unions, i.e., the Rossendale Valley and
our own, and the employees also at Syston factory will become members. We shall then
be in a position to claim the application of the National Award in both cases.

At the request of the CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY, we attended the opening
of their new factory at NORTHAMPTON, which is destined to produce, they hope in the near
future, 20,000 pairs of boots per week. It is a very nice building, being the latest addition
to the industry, and like most of the new factories in our industry - to the credit of the
employers be it said, independent of their activities and actions with us is the last thing in
factories, and if work can be made a pleasure to men and women, certainly this factory is
everything that one could desire. One is not surprised at finding the best in the co-operative
movement, because this is part of our own movement. It is to their credit to say that they
as individual employers build some very beautiful factories, thereby showing that their
sole object in our industry is not to ignore the sources from which their income and wealth
comes.

DESBOROUGH. - It has also been my pleasure with my colleagues, to attend a pre-
sentation, a report of which appeared last month, to Mr. S. J. B. Barnes, when he was
presented with a clock and a barometer, as a memento for his many years services as
Secretary to the Desborough Branch. Be it said that Mr. Barnes, although he has trans-
ferred his life and work now to the manufacturing of boots and shoes, having thrown in
his lot with his brother, all of us who know and respect him, cannot do otherwise than
wish him well in his new sphere of life, believing that he is not likely to give us any trouble
in the future, but may be able to give us, as he has done in the past, some assistance, owing
to the knowledge that he has, not only as a clicker, but of the closing room, which helped


---
319
an increase to clickers of
All my colleagues who were on the County Board well remember how good a case he put
us considerably in the compilation of our Statements in the County of Northampton.
up when we obtained from Mr. F. Sheppard an award giving
Northamptonshire of 131¼ per cent. This in itself was a wonderful achievement, and at
once stamped Mr. Barnes as a very capable colleague. The popularity of Mr. Barnes
was very noticeable by the extraordinary gathering that attended this presentation.
Again it has been my pleasure to attend (at the request of the NORWICH BRANCHES
Nos. 1 and 2), the opening of the best offices we have in our Union, not even exempting
the Central Office. Those offices known as St. Mary's House, are opposite St. Mary's
Church, in Norwich, in a very nice little quadrangle with a grass plot in front. The appear-
ance of this three-storey building with its central door and its two ground floor windows
each side, with its five windows on the second floor and five windows on the top, presents
the appearance of a good old-fashioned Rectory, or rich man's house. The interior has
been thoroughly renovated and cleaned, and is pleasing to the eye. The broad open passage
gives an opportunity for unemployed members to sign the books without going into either
office, and I may say, by the way, that the Clickers' Branch occupies the right-hand side of
rooms, and the No. 1 Branch occupy the left-hand side of rooms on the ground floor, and
that have to sign. This in itself is a great convenience.
may pass in the front and out of the back, according to the size and number of the members
The rooms above these offices will hold at least 200 people, which gives the branch
an opportunity of having all its work done on its own premises. These top rooms are
free to be used for any other purpose they may have, or to let, or do as they think fit,
and I am bound to congratulate the branches on their enterprise. It was probably most
fitting that I had the pleasure of opening these offices, because I had the pleasure of opening
their first I.L.P. Club in Norwich in 1898, I feel sure that all the members of the branch.
and the goodly number that turned up to fill the room with trade union officers and other
permanent officials and members, will be proud of this building and feel that at least the
Norwich Branches of the N.U.B. & S.O. are likely to be an old-time institution.
NORTHANTS ADVISORY COUNCIL. At our usual meeting of the Northants Advisory
Council at Kettering, a very interesting discussion took place on the subject of Boy
which was opened by Mr. W. R. Townley, of Northampton Branch. At the previous
meeting Mr. Langley, of Rushden, Mr. R. Poole, of Wellingborough, and others took a line
of his arguments, and endeavoured to eliminate them, for the benefit of all concerned.
I am perfectly satisfied in my own mind that this subject is of vital importance, as to what
we shall do with our boys, and it is very evident that greater restriction will have to be
put upon juvenile labour coming into the industry, not so much to protect our own industry,
as to protect the boys coming in. The same may, in a very short time, apply to girls,
because every operative who has to work for his or her living feels that they must enjoy
their own economic independence, if such is possible. Our members will not be surprised
therefore to learn that the shoe operatives of this Council consider there are three very
important things. One is, limit the boy labour in the industry; two, try to encourage the
Government to give subsidies to parents for keeping the children at school for a longer
period; and three, lower the pensionable age of persons who are compelled to retire from
business. A very interesting discussion took the whole of the afternoon, and as is usual,
tea was taken later. It was my pleasing duty to have the honour of presenting, on behalf
of the whole of the branches connected with the District Council, who had subscribed for
a presentation in the shape of a very nice gold watch to Mr. S. J. B. Barnes for his eight
years' Secretaryship, which gave me great pleasure owing to the kind feeling and respect
in which I hold Mr. Barnes. Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards had been requested, and made a
presentation of a gold wristlet watch to Mrs. Barnes in a very appropriate manner. Mr.
Barnes responding, on his and Mrs. Barnes' behalf, said he felt overwhelmed with gratitude
and respect with which he had been held, and thanked us from the bottom of his heart
for our good wishes, and hoped he would ever retain that golden opinion. These matters
are too infrequent in our Union, and it is nice to find that at last there are times when the
feeling of comradeship and loyalty comes out and the services of those recognised who have
endeavoured to do their very best.
MANSFIELD.-We are still in contact with Mansfield in endeavouring by instigations
to the firm, and the holding of meetings of the operatives, to get them on a proper footing.
We are improving the position considerably. On the last occasion there were many
members who did not turn up, and it was only the operatives who were really in need
that found it convenient to come to the meeting. This is often the case as soon as our
members get a satisfactory state of affairs. In the workshop they fail even if only asked
once in three months to come to a meeting to come along at the proper time. One is
doubtful whether we are improving the membership by doing so much. If an officer
makes the slightest error, he is reminded quickly. However, our work must go on, whether
the members appreciate it or not, and we hope soon to have this firm, as many others,
working to our satisfaction.
STAFFORD CONFERENCE, I need say little upon. It happened to be our Jubilee, and
the Press have said many things, and a report of the proceedings was taken by our own
A member of the staff takes our report of
staff, and will be presented in due course.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

320
do not have an opportunity of doing.
writer, whichever the case may be.
We had a very enjoyable visit to the Lotus Factory, known as the great firm of Bostock.
The whole of the delegates and their friends were taken round these fine works, and when
produces its own leather, makes its own boxes, lasts, and does most of its own printing.
one realises that not only does the firm make boots and shoes, but that it also tans and
pause in the morning and ten minutes' pause in the afternoon to give the operatives a slight
like all our members to see so vast, so clean are the rooms, and there is a ten minutes'
leads one to understand immediately that it is a vast building, and one which I should
The employers contend it has never given them any cause for regret, showing that
a little rest at the proper moment is beneficial often for the employers themselves. To
try such an experiment is very creditable to the firm. Of course they have their Welfare
say that where Welfare Workers are, Trade Unionism
is robust. But that is not my experience, Welfare Workers are not trade unionists. I say
which gives us a little irritation. Welfare Work is good in itself, if it does not interfere
with the wage conditions of the operatives, or the firm.
management,
TRADE BOARD. We have again spent no less than two days more on this work.
machine, which is being worked in my own knowledge in at least twenty firms, and from
and although I have repeatedly asked for information as to the Rounding and Channelling
have sent opinions of what they think the rate ought to be. This is not helpful to officials
these we have had figures supplied by our members from two firms only, although several
The result of our deliberations has produced an amendment of the figures sent out as trial
when the employers can produce wages lists from half the firms working these machines.
figures, and these will have to go before the full Board for ratification. In the meantime
loyalty to the representatives on the Trade Board by sending on to us at once facts and
the present rates will remain, and we sincerely hope that our members will prove their
Give us actual quantities done, and the time taken to do them, and as near as possible
figures as to what they consider to be fair prices for a finishing statement for repairers.
the general run of the work and the hours worked and the wages received in addition to
the above any other information likely to be useful.
Labour side very fully.
Please purchase and read the Daily Herald, your own paper, and one which puts the
Yours fraternally,
7 MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, WC. 1,
19th June, 1924.
ihards
General President.
STRIKER WINS CLAIM.
Overtime Rates for Boot and Shoe Operative.
A case of considerable interest to trade unionists came before the Old Street magistrates
yesterday, when H. Galliphant, a boot finisher, sued Messrs. Jackson and Joseph, of
Princelet Street, E., for money due to him for overtime.
Galliphant explained that a dispute had occurred in the works of Messrs. Jackson
and Joseph, owing to trade union conditions not being complied with. He ceased work
on Wednesday, 4th June, following instructions from his union officials. During his three
days' work previous to this, he declared, he worked seven hours' overtime, for which he
was paid at ordinary rates instead of at ordinary rates plus 25 per cent.
had offered to pay him the amount claimed, but this he had refused.
Since the summons had been issued, said the claimant, a representative of the firm
The magistrate, Mr. Watson, awarded Galliphant the amount claimed and costs.
proceeding, and the works are now being picketed.- Daily Herald, 18th June, 1924.
The dispute with Messrs. Jackson and Joseph, the Daily Herald is informed, is still


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Bros.
321
ORGANISER'S REPORT.
A few firms
During the past month I have been engaged in Leicester and district, and Derbyshire.
In Leicester I have devoted my time chiefly to the organisation of women.
have been visited chiefly in connection with lapsed members, and some have been induced
to join up again. I spent two days at Melbourne and met the operatives at Messrs. I cake
I was not able to obtain much information here, but in conversation with them
receiving the minimum, but there is room for considerable improvement in the conditions
of a great number of the operatives. I had a good meeting with the operatives of 1.
I found that they had not forgotten the strike of some years ago. There was a good number
Willson's. The conditions here are far from satisfactory
wages another man received, but from information that I received the wages would average
I found them generally dissatisfied with the conditions. No one seemed to know what
about 12 Ss., while the youths were receiving considerably less than the graduated scale.
I now understand that a number of men have decided to join up as a result of my visit.
The wages received by the women were exceedingly low, and would average about 1 per
I felt rather disappointed with my visit, as there seemed no desire to join the Union, but
week. Though they were far from satisfied, they seemed afraid to join the Union.
In conversation with them
I have concentrated on Sileby and district, visiting Syston and Mountsorrel. The
position in this district of Sileby has depreciated through the general conditions of trade
and the continued illness of the secretary. But trade is very good now, and in each factory
we have about 20 members out of each firm out of a total of about 150 operatives. I have
Mountsorrel, we have no members. The women in this district are earning decent wages,
found it necessary to persistently keep in touch with four firms. At Parker & Barlow's,
and the same can be said of the men who were working on piecework rates. I found that
but I was far from satisfied with the quantity they were doing for the wages received.
by systematically visiting these firms a more favourable impression is created and the
operatives are more willing to consider matters with you.
As a result a few members have
joined and others have definitely promised. With regard to Parker & Barlow's, the pros-
jects are exceedingly hopeful. The real difficulty in this district is the reluctance of the
Peunger men to join the Union, and a large proportion of the operatives working at these
firms are persons between the ages of 16 to 25 years, while those who are members are
chiefly engaged in the more skilled operations. I am confident that considerable improve-
ment is desirable in this district. I have visited the firm of the Wilnecote Boot Company
at Thurmaston, in company with Mr. Vallance, President Leicester No. 2 Branch. This
firm has four of our members working as clickers. Their goods are sent on to Twogates
to be completed. The purpose of our visit was to enforce the statement cutting prices.
Mr. Vallance insisted on the dead statement prices. This was refused by Mr. Jackson,
director, who remained adamant despite our appeal for fair conditions. I reminded him
of the shocking wages paid to the operatives at Twogates, and his only reply was to the
effect that the firm was not paying. This interview was neither pleasant or profitable,
and Mr. Vallance has placed the matter in the hands of the Union, as the local Executive
are determined to deal with this firm.
J. H. BAUM.
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 31st MAY, 1924.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included
Food only
..
..
..
..
..
69 per cent.
60
"
FOOD.
During May there was a further fall of d. per lb. in the average retail price of granu-
lated sugar and of d. per lb. in the average retail price of tea, the total decrease since Ist
April being 2łd. in the case of sugar and 3d. in that of tea. Fish, milk and cheese also
were cheaper, on the average, at the end of May than at the beginning of the month. On
the other hand, bacon was slightly dearer, and the prices of potatoes continued to advance.
The prices of meat, flour, bread, butter, margarine and eggs showed no appreciable change,
on the average, during the month.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of
food included in these statistics fell to about 60 per cent. at 31st May, as compared with
about 63 per cent. at 1st May. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1924.
C
ir
--- OCR End ---

---
```text
322
BRANCH REPORTS.

ARBROATH. Our trade is still remaining bad, and it seems we are
destined to go through this year without much change. It is a pity that
fashion is more and more gripping the footwear trade, because a large section
of the public who were content formerly with normal wear, now seek the new
fancy leathers, and in the latest styles. Fashion is a fickle mistress, and
manufacturers who attempt to lead have an anxious time straining ever after
new effects. The old controversy as to whether fashion leads the makers or
the makers lead the fashion can be left out, because in some subtle way both
statements are true, and industry conducted on competitive lines can never
escape from the chaos and wastefulness of this compelling urge towards novelty
and unless something like normal employment is restored to the people of this
country many more businesses will go under. While purchasing power lies in
In the meantime small manufacturers are at their wits' end to know what to do,
few hands, comparatively speaking, such trades as ours will fluctuate according
to all manner of whims and caprices, but let better trade return to the main
industries, and the old-time commonsense trade will be experienced again.
It was touch-and-go, however, and the prospects for November are not bright.
Our members are delighted to learn there is not to be a cut in wages this June
before then. This "cost-of-living" basis for wages will more and more go out
although of course our Council will be again reviewing our National Agreement
of favour because it cannot meet the growing aspiration amongst workers for
a better standard of living. It is all very well to say it serves better for the
moment than any other proposal, but while it cannot be left out it should only
be used as the lever for a demand on a higher plane. The "cost of living"
for many a day was an argument only one of many-which was used to advance
the demand for a higher standard of life for the workers, but in those later
years, owing to numerous exigencies, the demand itself became the common
one of "an adequate wage to meet the cost of living." That served a purpose,
and may still do so, but nothing can prevent the old and truer demand again
being voiced for wages to meet the cost of living, to meet occasional holidays,
to enjoy a few recreations together with entertainments on a modest scale, and
provide against the inevitable "rainy day" as well. That claim on life is
natural and will grow stronger as time passes, and it is up to every Union to
prepare the way for the "fuller life" wage claim. It has often been argued
that bare necessities or "Fodder" should not be included in the wages at all.
A reasonable average amount should be earmarked to every worker as "upkeep
allowance," which would generally cover food, clothing and housing. And
then the wage-the real wage-would be the surplus demanded for adequate
relationships with life in its broad aspects. Visionary it may be meantime, but
young democracy will translate that vision into concrete form yet, and the
sooner the better. We hope that our Branches will discuss the new Agreement
prospects fully, and send in all suggestions to Council. Our Union should be
seething with ideas and views upon such problems, and, although often extrava-
gant, a very efficient policy is often the outcome of extreme demands hammered
out in debate. Our Jubilee Conference will be past ere these lines appear,
but our earnest wish is for its success. May the spirit of its founders be in the
hearts of the delegates, and may the best traditions of trades unionism be
maintained on such an occasion. The greatest monument to mark our Jubilee
year would be an improved National Agreement to brighten the lives of the
members and workers in the trade.
BELFAST.-We have still to report no improvement in trade. Arising
out of the labour dispute in Londonderry, we very much regret that the North-
West Boot Factory was compelled to close down owing to the electric power
```

---
323
ployed list. We sincerely hope that a satisfactory settlement will soon be
being cut off. Consequently, all our members in this section are on the unem-
stoppage. We hope that the Conference, held to mark the Jubilee of the
reached and that the trade of the firm will suffer no ill-effects by reason of the
Unions in the kingdom, and that our Council is to be congratulated on the very
Union, will have good results. We believe that we have one of the best managed
able way they have carried on negotiations from time to time through very
trying and difficult times.
CHESHAM.-Trade here still remains quiet.
CHESTERFIELD.- In sending our returns we have to state trade very
bad. The position here is about the same.
field Co. are still out of work.
The members working at Dron-
CORK.-Trade continues to show an improvement, due to the tariff on
imported footwear into the Free State. We would advise Branch Secretaries,
if any of their members are looking for work over here, to communicate with
the Secretary before accepting employment, as this will save an amount of
unnecessary trouble.
DERBY.-Trade in Derby is bad at the two Union shops. The C.W.S.
clickers have, most of them, been off about three weeks, and it does not appear
they will get a start before the holidays. Some of us were very much interested
with the opening of a new C.W.S. factory at Northampton, and we hope it
will be for the benefit of the operatives in that district. Some of us think
who are in the Co-operative Movement, that it is better for the C.W.S. to start
a new factory than to buy one, the same as they did at Derby, where there was
a capacity for and employees for 12,000 pairs a week when they only have
orders for about 5,000, which has meant about 100 have had to leave or have
been stopped this last four years, which means in a town like Derby that they
cannot find a market for their craft.
DESBOROUGH.-Trade here is quiet, for whilst some are working
overtime others are very short indeed, and we have more members unemployed
than we have had for some considerable time. On 24th May we had a Tea
and Social Evening, which was attended by our General President, General
Secretary, and Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P. We took advantage of the occasion to
make a presentation to our late Secretary, Mr. S. J. Barnes, J.P., consisting
of a handsome clock and barometer. This duty was ably carried out by Mr.
W. R. Smith, M.P., supported by Mr. T. F. Richards and Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P.
Mr. Barnes suitably acknowledged the presents and wished us every success.
At the evening meeting the same gentlemen addressed a good attendance and
were well received. The Labour Choir also gave selections. We hope that as
a result of their visit there will be a good effect in our membership.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.-We are pleased to state that trade has
improved during the month. Even in Raunds an improvement has been
noticed. We are grateful for the assistance rendered by the deputation to the
War Office and Admiralty, consisting of the General President, General Secretary,
Mr. C. Bates and Mr. Harvey (of Raunds), and also Mr. F. Gould, M.P., and
Mr. W. G. Cove, M.P. We are also pleased to report that we are back to 8,000
membership.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.-We are glad to report some signs of
improvement in trade, and trust that the improvement will be maintained.
We note with satisfaction that the Industrial Councils Bill second reading
was carried by 236 to 16, and we sincerely hope that sufficient influence will
be brought to bear with the object of getting the Bill "starred" for its third
reading this session. The very effective speech made in support by our colleague,
F. Gould, M.P., speaking, as he did, from personal knowledge and experience,
has been much appreciated by all those who believe that Trade Agreements


---
should have the backing of the civil law, and thus give an opportunity to bring
the light of publicity to bear upon the unfair employer.
LIVERPOOL.---Boot repairing has been fairly good during the past month.
The world and his wife is off to Wembley and must have decent looking boots.
Members will note on page 274 of the May Report that we have had a flying
visit from our old friend, Mr. D. McCarthy. Note his comments re the Mersey
Dock and Harbour Board. In connection with this case we have been supplied
with a copy of the Section "9" Trade Boards Act, 1909. "Any shopkeeper,
dealer, or trader, who by way of trade makes any arrangement, express or
implied, with any worker in pursuance of which the worker performs any work
for which a minimum rate of wage has been fixed under this Act, shall be
deemed for the purposes of this Act to be the employer of the worker, and the
net remuneration obtainable by the worker in respect of the work after
allowing for his necessary expenditure in connection with the work shall be
deemed to be wages." At present the matter is sub-judice, so we reserve our
comments. In the Shoe Trades Journal, 6th June, under heading Versatile
Shoemakers, we note the following interesting paragraph: "Between Paramul
and Sofala on the Mudgee-Bathurst Road (N.S.W.), Mr. Tom Williams has
cultivated 200 acres of land, and while the young crops of wheat, oats and barley
are growing, he and his sons mend boots from Orange, Bathurst, Lithgow
and Mudgee. The scheme is simplicity itself. Mr. Williams visits a number
of towns, collects the boots and them does the jobs at the farm with up-to-date
machines. There are twelve in the family, so that both the industry and the
farm can expand quite a lot yet. Regular boot repairers in the various towns
the idea. They are thinking of
farming in their spare time." A good example, we should think, of the kind of
colonist the Empire needs. Working shoemakers are something like sailors
in that they are usually able to turn their hand to anything. In their own
phrase, they are "never beaten." Possibly those in the Colonies excel in this
direction, as it will be supposed that in some parts the exigencies of existence
would make for the development of the attribute.
NORWICH.--Trade continues good, much overtime being worked during
the past month. Claims, therefore, both to sick and unemployment benefits,
are much lower than has been the case for some long time past. The Norwich
Branch marked its Jubilee year on 29th May by having the General President
visit the city to officially open its new premises. For many years the local
officials have been compelled to work in offices that neither provided healthy
conditions for the occupants, nor suitable convenience for its members, and at
long last alternative building accommodation has been secured and adapted
to modern requirements. The Norwich members were pleased to hear the
General President unstintingly bestowing praise on the officers and congratula-
tions on the members. At least, we in Norwich now own offices and meeting
hall that corresponds somewhat with the standing the Union has secured in
the industry.
PLYMOUTH (REPAIRING).--The subject of Shoddy Footwear is one of
special interest to those engaged in the repairing section of our trade, and if
the efforts now being made by our General President and others should eventu-
ally meet with success, none would more readily acclaim them benefactors to
the human race than the men who toil (oft-times in vain) to repair the rubbish
and make it waterproof and wearable. Shoddy footwear and adulteration are
with experience of the trade know all too well where the life of a boot is missing
and the artificial takes its place. Leather is alive and genuine, but substitutes
lifeless and fraudulent; generally speaking we would leave the real genuine
on or meaning in the boot trade, but those
article to take care of itself--it is quite capable. Like all things genuine
it commands recognition, but the rubbish made with pressed paper insoles,


---
Here is the extracted text:
325
paper insoles," "
danger to
paper middles," or
paper
the public), we would brand as a Leper. As it is made compulsory for the chemist
compo middles or leather board soles (a disgrace to the trade and a
to label a dangerous drug poison." so it should be made compulsory for the
manufacturer to stamp his boots
soles." Along these lines, we believe, the trade could eventually be purged
from its iniquity and its good name once more established. There are not better
but the name must be guarded jealously, for it is a matter that affects our home
boots or shoes in the wide, wide world than those known as
and foreign market, our operatives and the employers, our wives and children.
Moreover, no one desires this evil to continue and grow to our detriment, for
would not every operative prefer to be engaged in making boots and shoes
worthy of his skill? and our manufacturers make boots of leather rather than
pulp? and would not our retailers prefer to look all customers straight in the
eves ?
SOUTHAMPTON. - Trade slack.
British make,"
STREET - We are glad to be able to report that trade is improving,
especially in the machine-sewn departments. There is still, however, very
little demand for best turnshoe work, and a number of our members on this
class of goods are still signing our out-of-work book. Indications, however,
immediately after the Whitsun holidays. Our local Co-operative Tannery
are now feeling the slump and, owing to heavy stocks on hand for which they
are unable at present to find a market, they have decided that they cannot
until
will mean that our members in this factory will be temporarily unemployed.
WELLINGBOROUGH.-Trade is still very bad, many firms only working
three days a week. We are hoping that trade will pick up after the holiday
lump sum compensation for
period. We have been successful in obtaining a
one of our members for £200, once again showing the value of belonging to
such an organisation as ours.
SCOTTISH TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
DELEGATE'S REPORT.
The twenty-seventh annual meeting of the Scottish Trade Union Congress was held
at Town Hall, Ayr, on Wednesday, 16th April, and following days. The delegates num-
bered 200, representing approximately 350,000 trade unionists, this being a decided im-
provement on last year. The chair was occupied by Mr. T. Wilson, Shop Assistants'
Union. Congress was welcomed by the Chief Magistrate, and also representatives of the
Trades and Labour Council of Ayr. The report of the Parliamentary District Committee,
or General Council, was presented and represented a document worthy of the movement,
demonstrating, as it did, minutely, the valuable work and the able manner in which the
many problems have been handled and dealt with during the year. There were seven
amendments to the Standing Orders and fifty motions from affiliated societies, besides
three from the General Council itself, which you will agree was quite a formidable agenda
for the time at our disposal, and consisted mainly of the following: Control of Industry,
Control of Credit, Trade Union Access to Wages Books, Accidents in Mines, Central Clearing
House, Daily Labour Newspaper in Scotland, Amalgamation of Trade Unions, Six-hours
day, National Scheme of Superannuation, Old Age Pensions, Trade Boards, Unemployment,
Housing, Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923, Lighting of Workshops, Labour College,
National Council, Education, Public Ownership and Control of Railways, and many others.
A resolution was agreed to demanding a closer relationship between the Soviet Govern-
ment of Russia and the Labour Government of this country. A Back-to-the-Unions
Campaign had been undertaken during the year. Meetings both in and outdoor were held
up and down the country, over a quarter of a million leaflets being distributed. It was
agreed to vote 150 as an annual subscription to the Scottish Labour College. This will
give the Council, or rather entitle them, to three representatives upon the National Execu-
tive of the Labour College. The speeches and debates were of a very high standard and
augers well for the future, as many of them were given by comparatively young men and
women. It was decided that Dumfries would be the next place of meeting, and 1924
Congress ended with "Auld Lang Syne."
C. BLEAKLEY.


---
"There is in the agreement a holiday scheme, a provision which I believe the whole
of the country ought to recognise, but that holiday scheme is being prejudiced and under
mined by certain firms that will not federate, and it means this, that we have, within a
yards' compass, men paying into that holiday scheme and employers paying into it.
f2 for the holiday week and another set of workers not getting a contribution at all
at the various periods of the holidays as they come along, and one set of workers taking
whole holiday scheme is thus endangered, because we have no power to make it legal and
Bill, believing that, in so far as the organisation is voluntary, it is in the districts where
binding. I shall very happily and readily go into the Division Lobby in favour of this
the problems are known, that the central power will co-ordinate only after a majority of
be regulated if you wish to review it, say, in three or six months' time, and I believe that
both sides have made their decisions, and that there is no permanent penalty that cannot
friction and bring a certain amount of confidence between workers and employers where
the whole country will, through this vote to-day, take a step towards eliminating industrial
hitherto a great gulf has existed."
THE UNION'S JUBILEE.
"As Others See Us."

"'FIFTY YEARS' is produced in a manner fully worthy of the occasion. It is well
in which they have presented the history of the organisation, from its humble beginnings
to its position to-day."-Shoe and Leather Record, 6th June, 1924.

MRS. T. SMITH, wife of the Union's fust general secretary, sent "warmest greetings
and thanks for the handsome book published to celebrate the Jubilee."
Mrs. Smith has vivid recollections of the early days of the Union in its difficulties
and struggles, and regretted she could not attend the Conference.

ALD. OWEN PARKER, C.B.E., J.P., ex-president of the Manufacturers' Federation,
sent hearty congratulations " upon a most interesting and informative production."

MISS RUTH TOMLINSON, secretary to the Manufacturers' Federation, sent "thanks
to the Council on behalf of the Federation, for the very fine production of your Union."
At the same time Miss Tomlinson "thanked the General Secretary and those responsible
for the publication, on the admirable result that had been achieved."

MR. H. J. BOSTOCK, J.P., president of the Manufacturers' Federation, said "Yeste1-
day's post brought to my desk the very handsome copy of 'FIFTY Years ' a work on
which the Union and all concerned with its production are, indeed, to be congratulated."

"'FIFTY YEARS' is an exceedingly well produced book of the Jubilee year of the
institution. The contents are most interesting and illustrate in detail how the movement
starting very humbly and rather stormily, grew step by step into the honoured and valued
body it now is. It is a history, too, which says much for the broad view and mental balance
of those who work in the Boot Manufacturing Trade, whether they be employers or
employees.

"To those who have had a long experience in the trade this book will prove interesting
as a review of past events. For the younger members it should be instructive. We find
the photographs rather reminiscent. The Union is to be congratulated on this production."
-Extract from the Shoe Trades Journal, 6th June, 1924.

THE LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH "expresses their appreciation and also congratulate
all who have in any way contributed to the compilation of such a handsome book."

THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE, Geneva, write :-" I have seen your copy of
the History of the Union, and it strikes me as an excellent production. The Director is
very pleased with it."


---
329
PRESENTATION TO MR. ERNEST BORDOLI.
Union's Confidential Clerk Honoured.
Appreciation of Central Office Staff.
A number of delegates and friends attending the Jubilee Conference of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives were entertained to tea by the Leicester Women's
Branch, on Tuesday, 10th June, at the Vine Hotel, Stafford.
Amongst those present were:-Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards (President of the Leicester
Women's Branch), Mr. T. F. Richards (General President), Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P. (General
Secretary), and Mrs. Poulton, Mr. J. Buckle, M.P., J.P., and Mrs. Buckle, Miss A. Muir
(Secretary of the Leicester Women's Branch), Miss E. Sherwin (Assistant Secretary), Miss
E. A. Timms, Miss P. Billings, Miss Westbrook, Mrs. Goodwin, Mr. and Mrs. H. Poulton,
Mr. E. Bordoli (Confidential Clerk), Mr. W. E. Goldsmith Mr. C. Masters, Mr. L. Angell, of
the Central Office Staff, together with Miss A. Billington, Mrs. Bordoli and Mrs. Masters.
After a most enjoyable tea, Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards, on behalf of the Leicester
Women's Branch, presented to Mr. E. Bordoli, Confidential Clerk, a Gold Watch with the
inscription :-
" Presented to E. Bordoli by the Leicester Women's Branch of the B.S.O.,
June, 1924."
Mrs. RICHARDS, in making the presentation, paid tribute to Mr. Bordoli's services
which he had rendered to the Leicester Women's Branch since the early days of 1913.
She recalled the fact that the services of Mr. Bordoli were performed when the Leicester
Women's Branch were really in need of help. He gave his services with a free heart,
without expecting any reward, and his special knowledge stood them in great stead.
Mrs. Richards, on her own part, said she and the officials of the Branch felt for a long
time past that some recognition was due to Mr. Bordoli for the way in which he had
always assisted the Branch, and felt that the time had now arrived when they could show
their appreciation of the work done for them. She further intimated that whenever she
called at the Central Office, she admired the spirit and comradeship amongst the whole
of the members of the Central Office Staff, and she was deeply indebted to them all.
Mr. T. F. RICHARDS, General President, heartily endorsed the statements expressed
by the President of the Leicester Women's Branch and members of the Central Office
Staff generally, and was delighted that the presentation had been made as an appreciation
of the services rendered both to the Branch and the Union generally. Mr. Richards said
Mr. Bordoli had always been very loyal to the Union.
Mr. E. L. POULTON, General Secretary, reviewed the early days of the Branch, and said
that he was greatly pleased with the spirit of comradeship amongst the members of the staff
and paid tribute to their loyalty, intimating that in Mr. Bordoli himself he had a colleague
who was trustworthy and anxious at all times to help forward the movement. He was
confident that the watch would be much appreciated by the Chief Clerk, and expressed
pleasure in being able to add this testimony. When he had to be away from the office,
he knew the work was in good hands, which was a great relief to him to feel this was so.
Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P., J.P., said he and Mrs. Buckle were honoured and deeply touched
in being asked to be at the gathering. He had dared to say in the country, and even at a
conference, that the Central Office Staff were second to none of any Trade Union Staff.
The work was done efficiently at a minimum cost. He naturally did not come into contact
with Mr. Bordoli as much as other officials; nevertheless, Mr. Bordoli was always courteous
and anxious in the extreme to do all he could to put forward the Union's work. It was
a splendid appreciation of his work, and he was proud to bear testimony to it.
Mr. BORDOLI, in his reply, thanked Mrs. Richards and the Leicester Women's Branch
for their kind thought, and said he was deeply moved by their action. The present, which
came as a complete surprise to him, would be greatly appreciated, and all he had done
was done in the interest of the Union generally. He was deeply grateful to the references
made to him, and the Office Staff generally. He felt that the honour which had been
conferred upon him was undeserved, as always his endeavours had been, and would be,
to support not only the work of the Women's Branch, but of the Union generally. He
reviewed the work of the Union and its branches in 1913 as compared with the present
day, the Head Office staff being increased from two to nine members, the work having
increased considerably. In conclusion Mr. Bordoli once again expressed his heartfelt
appreciation of the thought which had prompted the Leicester Women's Branch to make
such a magnificent gift for the work he had done, and assured Mrs. Richards that the
confidence in him would never be misplaced.
Mr. Bordoli was congratulated by his colleagues of the Central Office Staff, who said
they felt that the honour done him was well merited, and extended to him the congratula-
tions of the staff generally.
An enjoyable musical evening was then spent.


---
NORTHANTS JOINT DISTRICT COUNCIL.
PRESENTATION TO MR. S. J. B. BARNES.
Following the Quarterly Meeting of the Northants District Council, a presentation
was made to Mr. and Mrs. Barnes, on behalf of the Operatives' Section of the Board of
Conciliation and Arbitration for the County District of Northants. Mr. E. Law, of the
Northampton No. 1 Branch, presided at the function. The present to Mr. S. J. B. Barnes
took the form of a gold watch and chain and bore the following inscription :-
"PRESENTED TO
STEPHEN J. B. BARNES, Esq., J. P.,
BY THE
NORTHAMPTONSHIRE BRANCHES OF THE
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES
IN GRATEFUL COMMEMORATION OF HIS
EIGHT YEARS' SERVICE ON
THE BOARD OF CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION FOR THE
COUNTY DISTRICT OF NORTHANTS,
MAY 31ST, 1924."
The presentation was made by the General President, Mr. T. F. Richards, who, in
a very lucid and appropriate speech, commented on the excellent work which Mr. Barnes
had done upon the Arbitration Board in his capacity of Secretary of the Operatives' side
for a number of years. This work entailed a considerable amount of personal sacrifice,
and a considerable knowledge of the requirements of the trade. Mr. Barnes had shown
marked ability in the way in which this work had been performed, and, on behalf of the
Northamptonshire Branches, it was with very great pleasure that he presented the token
of esteem.
The present to Mrs. Barnes which consisted of a Gold Wristlet Watch with the in-
scription,
"PRESENTED TO
MRS. S. J. B. BARNES
IN GRATITUDE FOR SERVICES RENDERED
TO THE NORTHANTS BRANCHES OF THE
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES,"
was made by Mrs. T. F. Richards, who characteristically spoke at some length of the
sacrifices and work rendered to the movement by its women members.
She was particularly pleased to be present and to make the presentation to Mrs.
Barnes because of the distinct recognition which the Northamptonshire Branches had
given directly to the work and influence of women. A good deal, she affirmed, had yet
to be done in bringing the women's outlook and position on an equality with the men, but
more and more, it was asserted, the province and function of women and their equality
of work and service was being recognised and appreciated.
Mr. Stephen Barnes, in reply on behalf of himself and wife, thanked the Branches
for the presents, and claimed that in all his work he had tried consistently to do the best
that was possible for the members of the Union. He had looked for no reward, but he was
exceedingly gratified, that on his leaving the work, he and his wife should have been
honoured in this way.
Many aspects of his work were then touched upon, and considerable emphasis laid upon
the early struggles in the formation and development of his own branch.
Appreciative thanks were then passed to Mr. and Mrs. Richards for being present
and taking part in the function by Mr. W. Langley, of the Rushden Branch, and Mr. Geo.
Campbell, the President of the Kettering No. I Branch.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES - Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1923 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 93,620; Females, 50,230; Total,
143,850. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 26th May, 1924 (Great
Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 9,466; Females, 2,469; Total, 11,935. Percent-
age Unemployed at 26th May, 1924: Males, 10.1; Females, 4.9; Total, Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, 8.3; Great Britain only, 8.1 Decrease as compared with 28th
April, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 2.2; Females, 1.5; Total, 1.9.
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1924.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

331

THE DAILY HERALD

Lucid Leading Articles on topics of the day

CRICKET by Titwillow

THE OPEN ROAD by Rovator

TENNIS, ANGLING, ATHLETICS

SPORTING CARTOONS by Lance Mattinson

Book Reviews; Wireless Notes and Programme Daily;
Notes for Home and Children; Gardening Hints;
Motto for the Day; Pictures; Cartoons; Civil Service
Notes; Serial Story; Unique Foreign News Service.

MUSIC NOTES by RUTLAND BOUGHTON

Gramophone Notes; The Pith of Parliament; City
Intelligence; Daily Humorous Article by "Gadfly,"
The funniest writer in the Daily Press.

A COMPLETE NEWSPAPER

TRUTH FOR YOUR PENNY

VALUE FOR MONEY

CANDID; CLEAR; CONCISE

ORDER IT FROM YOUR NEWSAGENT FOR ONE
WEEK AS A TRIAL.


---
332
FIGHTING THE WHITE SCOURGE.
Renewed Hopes of Definite Success,
BY A MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT.
Dr. William M. Crofton, consulting physician to the Royal National Hospital for
By the use of a vaccine-tuberculin, he anticipates results which will go far towards stamping
for Ireland, claims to have made a big advance in the war on tuberculosis,
Consumption for
In the following article some particulars of Dr. Crofton's work are given by a medical
out this dread disease.
correspondent.
Tuberculosis is perhaps the greatest problem that a civilised community has to deal
with, and is infinitely more important than cancer, since it kills most of its victims while
young before any, or any considerable, service to the State has been given, while cancer
is a terminal disease, killing as a rule after thirty or more years' service has been accom-
Mr. J. Wheatley, the Health Minister, has often told of his experiences in slum areas,
and with such a knowledge of the terrible conditions which go so far in the breeding of
disease, particularly tuberculosis, it is hoped, nay, even expected, that Mr. Wheatley
he has so often complained for there is no doubt that much can be done in the way of
will do something really tangible towards remedying the state of affairs about which
plished.
improving housing to help stamp out this horrible scourge.
Dr. William M. Crofton, a well-known Dublin physician, has some hopeful things to
say about this dread disease.
It is generally thought that a cure for tuberculosis has to be found, says Dr. Crofton.
And Dr. Crofton goes on to relate how he has fought against the tubercle
but this is not so.
evil.
arresting the disease.
if the patient is not too exhausted and his lungs not too seriously injured, is capable of
At the Royal National Hospital at Dublin they have in operation a method which.
by giving him slowly-increasing doses of antigens (vaccine) of the microbes infecting him.
This method consists in raising the resistance to the microbes affecting the patient
to these by injecting
By his method Dr. Crofton says he expects to cure nearly all the earlier cases under
his care; 75 per cent. of the second stage cases; and 30 to 50 per cent. of the third stage
cases.
Dr. Crofton has been inoculating members of families in which tuberculosis has occurred
for nearly twenty years now, and he knows of no patient he has inoculated who has developed
the disease.
lations, which causes no illness or inconvenience, in a few years the victims of the
If every baby born, says Dr. Crofton, was given the half-dozen necessary inocu-
disease would be reduced to negligible numbers.
Failing the application of the universal inoculation against the disease, Dr. Crofton
asserts that one can make sure, by inoculation against it, that the other members of a
family in which a case has occurred do not get it, and that we shall not see any longer the
tragedy of one after another of a family dropping off as we do at present.
Test Inoculations.
This proceeding, he says, has a further advantage, because if a patient so inoculated
reacts by a rise of temperature after one or other of the doses one knows active disease is
present, and by giving him a series of treatment doses the disease in this stage is easily
cured. If tuberculosis is suspected, either of the lungs or any other part of the body,
one can always make an absolute diagnosis by means of test inoculations with tuberculin.
On the point of treatment, Dr. Crofton says that the scientific immunisation against
both the tubercle bacillus and the accompanying infections controlling reactions by giving
such drugs as iodine gives wonderful results.
irretrievably damaged, can be recovered in many cases.
Even acute and advanced cases, provided their lungs and nutrition have not been
patients are to die.
in their sputum appears from a practical point of view to be hopeless. There are about
But to try and stamp out the disease by the treatment of cases with tubercle bacilli
thoop deaths all


---
Cases Concealed.
333
Owing to consumption being considered a blot on the family reputation, many cases
are concealed, so that the Registrar-General's returns for this disease do not represent the
real death-rate.
Dr. Crofton goes on to point out that if the isolation method is to be used for dealing
with the disease, institutions containing at least 2,000 beds will have to be provided.
While it is a fact that many local authorities have done something to meet the situation,
there is yet much to be done, and it is here that Mr. Wheatley may be expected to help.
It resolves itself very largely into a question of £ s. d., and it can hardly be expected
that local authorities will accept to the full a responsibility which, after all, is a
national one.
Mr. Wheatley has several times asserted, since he has been at the Health Ministry,
that he is not one of those who believe the nation cannot afford to look after its inefficients.
That is why the medical profession and, indeed, social workers in general-look to the
Health Minister to do some really constructive work in fighting the white scourge. After
all, it would be national economy in the long run. -Reynolds' News, 1st June, 1924.

NEW BRANCH OFFICES.
Opening of Headquarters at Norwich.
Mr. T. F. Richards, General President of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Opera-
tives, opened the new headquarters of the local branches of the Union, at St. Mary's
House,
Mary's Alley, Pitt Street, Norwich, on the 29th May, 1924. The place has been exceed-
ingly well adapted to its new purpose. On the ground floor is a well-equipped separate
and well-lighted assembly room, which affords comfortable accommodation for 200
people.
At the opening proceedings the chair was taken by Mr. W. Hindes (president of No 1
Branch), and among others supporting him were Mr. T. F. Richards, Mr. F. C. Jex (secre-
tary), and Mr. A. H. Folkard. Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., and Mr. Segon (president of No. 2
Branch) were unavoidably prevented from attending.
Mr. Hindes said they had met to commemorate the opening of that new building and
also the 50th year of the existence of No. 1 Branch of the National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives in Norwich. The boot and shoe operatives of Norwich, or, as they were
called in the cld days, rivetters and finishers, had a union prior to the starting of the
National Union. The two branches of the Union in Norwich to-day had a membership
round about 8,000. In a survey of the history of the Union in Norwich, Mr. Hindes said
the local organisation established an arbitration board before the national body adopted
such a step. (Applause.) The local organisation had every reason to be proud of what
they had done in securing better wages and improved conditions inside the factory.
(Applause.) He hoped the time was not far distant when as a Union they would have a
bigger control than they had at present over their industry.
Mr. Folkard gave some statistics relating to the growth of the local Union. In 1894,
when the original organisation of clickers and pressmen went over to the National Union,
they only numbered 76 members. The amount paid during the last five years in out-of-
work pay was £8,167 2s. 5d. and sick pay £2,544 2s. 11d. From the very beginning of the
organisation of boot and shoe workers in Norwich he had never ceased to hold office.
(Applause.)
Mr. Richards then declared the new offices open. In his speech he hoped the improved
conditions which the Union had brought about had not caused any suffering to the general
community. (Applause.) They had not been over-rabid in their demands, but had
simply followed up economically what they considered they were entitled to. (Hear, hear.)
He considered one of the best things the Union ever did was the obtaining of one week's
holiday with pay. (Applause.) They were not out solely for getting increased wages.
That matter was not the be-all and end-all of their activities. Although consumption
among boot and shoe operatives was decreasing it was not going down fast enough. (Hear,
hear.) The Union wanted to secure healthier surroundings for the workers, better work-
shops, more sanitation, and more light. (Applause.) He congratulated Labour in
Norwich on returning two Labour representatives to the House of Commons, and trusted
they would go on increasing their representation on the local bodies.
On the motion of Mr. Folkard, seconded by Mr. Jex, a hearty vote of thanks was
passed to Mr. Richards.


---
334
JUDGE INDIGNANT,
"Most Monstrous Case of Profiteering in Houses."
PENNY A MONTH ORDERED,
Caustic comments were made by Judge Herbert-Smith at Norwich County Court
on Tuesday during the hearing of a case in which Alfred Brewster, 106 Magdalen Road,
Norwich, sued James Cecil Martin, of Mildenhall, to recover £16 5s. for 13 weeks' rent of
50 Sprowston Road, Norwich. The particulars of claim set out that by an agreement.
dated December 1st, 1923, the plaintiff agreed to let the defendant 50 Sprowston Road.
at ₤16 59. quarterly, payable in advance. Thirteen weeks' rent became due on 3rd March
but had not been paid. Defendant gave notice to quit expiring on 2nd June, but had
vacated the premises without paying the rent, which became payable in advance on 3rd
sent it back. He had since received it by post, but had not let the house again, as he
Plaintiff said before the first 13 weeks were up, defendant returned the key, but he
Mr. Keefe, who defended, pointed out that before the war the rent of the house was
March.
thought he could not do so legally.
£16, and now it was £65.
The Judge-That is what we have to look forward to when we have de-control.
Plaintiff There are expenses of property.
The Judge-Don't talk nonsense.
was rated at £12 10s. a year.
Mr. Keefe said it might be of interest to the rating authorities to know this house
Defendant said he was an ex-Service man and left the Army with a pension, which
he commuted in order to take an hotel. His business was not a success, and as he had
he sent back the key and went to Mildenhall, where he was now employed.
His Honour said the case was a sample of what was likely to happen when there was
22 or 23 houses in
de-portly well the extraordinary scarcity of houses, and particularly houses of that class.
Because a section was passed in the last Act which de-controlled one of his houses, he
he commuted in order to take an hotel. His business was not a success, and as he had
nowhere to go he took the house, paying 13 weeks' rent in advance. After a little while
Bemediately put up the rent to four or five times what it was before. It was the most
monstrous case of profiteering in houses that he (the Judge) had come across. Not only
dilapidated condition. He squeezed the rent out of the unfortunate man and his wife
that, but he let the house to a man at this extraordinary rent in a most improper and
simply because they must have some place to go to. Unfortunately, as soon as Mr.
Martin had signed the agreement, and it was quite possible he did not understand the
legal effect of it, he found his only chance was to get work and go to Mildenhall. He did
what any decent man would do-he told his landlord he was leaving. He had paid his
rent in advance for 13 weeks, and he (the Judge) should have thought that any decent man,
knowing the circumstances of the case, and knowing that he was
Sweating the Property,
would have had the decency to say,
you are leaving the premises long before the quarter is expired, I shall ask for no more
"You have paid me rent in advance up to March,
rent; I can let the place to hundreds of people." What did the plaintiff do? He came
to Court and told a story which was simply ridiculous, that he thought he was under some
liability if he tried to re-let the house. He was a gentleman who knew so much about
houses that the moment de-control took effect he took the maximum amount he could get.
The tenant gave him nearly 13 weeks' notice. He quite agreed it was not a proper form
notice. Defendant not only did that, but he returned the key and left the town, and yet
Mr. Brewster wanted the Court to believe that he seriously thought he was under some
risk in trying to re-let the premises. His Honour said he preferred to take the view that
Mr. Brewster was a gentleman who knew he had let the premises at a most preposterous
rent, and knew sufficient about the law to know that the unfortunate tenant would have
to pay rent whether he stayed in it or not. He was going to get his full pound of flesh
out of it. Unfortunately in law he was entitled to the money and to the costs. Fortunately,
however, the Court had power to say in what way the money was to be paid, and to show
his contempt of the plaintiff and all his doings, he made an order for the amount to be paid
at the rate of id. a month-debt and costs. - Norwich Mercury, 24th May, 1924.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
335

NOTICE.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.

Contractors for Government work are required
in the execution of their Contracts to observe and
fulfil the obligations upon Contractors specified in
the Resolution passed by the House of Commons
on the 10th March, 1909, namely :-

"The Contractor shall . . . pay rates of wages and observe
hours of labour not less favourable than those commonly recognised
by employers and trade societies (or in the absence of such recog-
nised wages and hours, those which in practice prevail amongst
good employers) in the trade in the district where the work is
carried out. Where there are no such wages and hours recognised
or prevailing in the district, those recognised or prevailing in the
nearest district in which the general industrial circumstances are
similar shall be adopted. Further, the conditions of employment
generally accepted in the district in the trade concerned shall be
taken into account in considering how far the terms of the Fair
Wages Clauses are being observed. The Contractor shall be pro-
hibited from transferring or assigning, directly or indirectly, to any
person or persons whatever, any portion of his contract without the
written permission of the Department. Sub-letting other than that
which may be customary in the trade concerned, shall be prohibited.
The Contractor shall be responsible for the observance of the Fair
Wages Clauses by the Sub-Contractor."

This notice must be prominently exhibited, for the
information of the workpeople, on the premises where work
is being executed under a Government contract.

BY ORDER.
56 25) W5716-HP3958 5000 9/18 HWV(P1597) G1447


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
MR. RICHARDS ON SHODDY FOOTWEAR.
Let us leave the vexed questions of colours and fashions and turn to a subject which
more nearly concerns every shoe retailer in the country that of Shoddy Footwear, and
inextricably bound up with that aspect of the shoe trade.
Everyone will agree with Mr. T. F. Richards, the President of the National Union of Boot
and Shoe Operatives, that shoddy boots and shoes are not made by shoe manufacturers
because they are "bad at heart." But one does not feel inclined to agree with the opera-
tives' President's further assertion that it is because they are careless of the wearable
qualities of the articles. He added that they were careless of the quality because their
minds were centred on dividends to their shareholders. Whether a shoe manufacturer is
in business on his own account, or is the managing director of a company, he has got to
make a profit, or his business would cease to exist. He has to supply the public need, as
expressed through the retailers, and when that demand is for cheap shoes the manufacturer
has got to make them, or get out of business. His customer says: "I want a boot at a
certain price. If you can't make it I must go elsewhere." Does Mr. Richards suggest the
price; you must go elsewhere"? Let us see where Mr. Richards leads us—or rather
leads himself and the boot and shoe operatives.

Will Mr. Richards Order "No Shoddy Shoes"?
It may be assumed from his pronouncement that the Union is strongly averse from
the making of shoddy footwear. Why, then, does it permit its members to take part in
their manufacture? We will agree that it is not because the operatives employed in
factories where shoddy footwear is made are bad at heart. But as you can't make fish of
one and fowl of another it is because, according to Mr. Richards, they are careless of the
wearable qualities of the articles they help to produce. "It is a libel on the boot and shoe
operatives," I shall be told, but Mr. Richards is responsible for the libel, and not I, because
I do not believe it. If the operatives in question said: "We will not make shoddy foot-
wear," however, they would be presumably in the same position as their employer. He
would reply: "Then, if you are backed up by your Union, I suppose I cannot get other
operatives for
his Union to order "No operatives are to assist in making shoddy boots," and as the Union
in the trade, no more shoddy boots would be made,
and the public would have to pay more for their boots.

The Wicked Retailer Again!
This is the logical outcome of Mr. Richards' pronouncement. It is the only consistent
course he can adopt. But what is the lame conclusion he arrives at as to the responsibility
for the manufacture and sale of shoddy boots? It is the greed of the retailer! What he
wants is that reliable boots shall be made at the same cost to the public as they now pay
for shoddy, but that while the manufacturer would get more for them, as he would have to,
or he could not make them, unless the tanners gave him the leather or he stole it, or unless
the operatives consented to operate for considerably reduced wages, both most improbable,
or say impossible, contingencies, the retailer should distribute them at 12 1/2 per cent. gross
profit instead of 33 1/2 per cent.
Looking a Long Way Ahead!
"The war time boot," says Mr. Richards, which the trade "agreed was the best
civilian boot known in our time, made to specification under Government supervision,
a Socialised product, was killed by the distributors, who refused to distribute at 12 1/2 per
cent. and demanded 33 per cent." This is a perversion of the fact. While everyone else,
boot manufacturer, operative and factor, got their recognised profit, the retailer was asked
to forego his. They looked forward very shortly, Mr. Richards went on, to the Board of
Trade helping them in the production of such a boot. If that means that "they" are
looking forward to the Board of Trade stepping in and forcing the retailer to distribute at
12 1/2 per cent., then " very shortly" is surely a very loose figure of speech, for undoubtedly
they" are looking forward a long way! I should like to hear the opinions of Mr. John
Hoyle and Mr. Henderson Neal as to the probable length of this vision!
-Shoe and Leather News, 19th June, 1924.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
ADMIRALTY. SHOES, BLACK, LEATHER: Manfield & Sons Ltd., Northampton.
WAR OFFICE. SHOES, HIGHLAND: R. Coggins & Sons Ltd., Raunds.
CROWN AGENTS FOR THE COLONIES. - BOOTS: S. Walker, Walgrave, North-
ampton; Adams Bros., Raunds, Northants.
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

337
A COMPLIMENT TO THE GENERAL SECRETARY.
The "Canadian Congress Journal," which is the Official Labour
Magazine for Canada, has paid the General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton,
J.P., a compliment by reproducing his article on the Forty-Eight Hours'
Week (recently appearing in the "Labour Magazine") in their news-
paper.

"TIRED OF SHOES."
Why Dr. Ethel Bentham Shows Impatience.
"I am sick and tired of shoes," said Dr. Ethel Bentham, Labour candidate for Isling-
ton, when asked by a Weekly Dispatch representative to enlarge on her statement that
"bulging, swollen ankles, misshapen calves, and flattened toes" are the products of
ill-fitting and tight shoes.
"The modern fashionable shoe, I honestly believe, makes it nearly impossible to
find a perfect foot to-day.
modern-
1924.
Nearly every foot is deformed by the cramping and compressing of the foot in the
But there I am again-shoes, shoes, shoes!" - Weekly Dispatch, 1st June,

"THIS MISERY OF BOOTS" - H. G. WELLS.
I am delighted to see the protest made by Dr. Ethel Bentham against the footwear
of the woman of the present day.
Much illness, bad temper, broken-down nerves, and scamped work are directly attribut-
able to the discomfort the average woman suffers from her feet. No male, secure upon
his square toes, can possibly realise what she endures.
Why do bootmakers like women to wear uncomfortable shoes? Is it that in cutting,
the sole too narrow and the toe bent inwards, there is a certain saving of leather which
makes for larger profits?
I always ask for shoes cut as men's are, wide across the big toe joint and with a straight
line from the arch of the instep to the end of the big toe. Over each new pair of shoes
I have had to fight a battle. It is the same with the shoes of my four children.

Yet "No Complaints!"
Till lately I was a rich woman, and rich women can afford to pay for what trades-
people consider their phantasies. So I have paid extremely heavily, in money, time, and
trouble to prevent my feet and my children's feet being deformed by bunions-the inevitable
result of the high heel and the toe slanting inwards. But poor women cannot pay for
these things.
The result is that the feet of the nation's children are now so deformed that people
who write articles in the Daily Mail do not even notice that there is anything to criticise,
and consider Dr. Ethel Bentham a crank because she has called attention to the facts.
They don't know what undeformed feet are like.
The only females in this country who have normal feet are those of the very privileged
classes; and they are the only people for whom normal footwear is made.
During the war, the boots supplied to girls who worked on the land under Government
auspices were all cut with the slanting toe. One girl-in an agony-spoke to me about it,
and I wrote to headquarters. The answer came back that "mine was the first complaint."
I am told that there is a place in Mayfair, instituted by Madame Pavlova, where
beautiful and well-built footwear is sold. But it is, of course, prohibitive in price. It
must be until bootmakers are driven by their clients to supply proper footwear.
There is a fortune waiting for the bootmaker who will start making pretty, becoming.
normal shoes. Daily Herald, 9th June, 1924.

TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of May, 1924.
77,270. Unemployed at end of May, 1924, 2,785; percentage, 3.6. Decrease in per-
centage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 1.7; Decrease in percentage as
compared with a year ago, 1.1.-Ministry of Labour Gazette June, 1924.


---
Here's the extracted text:

338
UNION DELEGATES AT LOTUS SHOE FACTORY.
Wednesday afternoon, 11th June, 1924, was spent inspecting the works of Messrs.
Lotus Ltd. (Bostock's), Stafford.
Mr. T. F. Richards presided at an informal
Mter tea, provided at the Brook Hall.
gathering supported by Mr. H. J. Bostock, J.P., and Mr. E. L. Poulton. J.P.
MR. T. F. RICHARDS: President of the Union, spoke of the appreciation of the delegates
of the hospitality extended to them by the firm, and asked the company to bear in mind
the fact that Mr. H. J. Bostock was President of the Employers' Federation (applause)-
with which they had so much trouble. (Laughter.) He was delighted to
think that they had had an opportunity of going over the Lotus Works, and for the dele-
gates from all parts of the kingdom to have seen what was being done in Stafford.
Borough was well-known in Leicester, and as a consequence they knew that Leicester
the Federation with
Treacle
They looked upon Mr. Bostock and the firm as one
of their best friends. (Applause.)
MR. H. J. BOSTOCK: Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It was "unkind" of
you, Sir, to remind the audience that I am President of the Federation. I am now address-
ing you in a private capacity and not as a member of the Federation, and anything I say
now is not to be used against me in evidence. (Laughter.) We are pleased to be associated
with you. It is a very remarkable history of the Union you've issued. Fifty years of
hard work which has placed the industry and its organisation in a high position. I am
satisfied that that state of affairs could not have been brought about unless the Union
had had as officers and leaders people who commanded the respect not only of their con-
stituents, but of the people with whom they negotiated. It was a very happy thing
for the shoe industry that it had not got away from the stage when masters and men, or
employers and employed, met together in their daily work and knew each other. You
may think we are hard-perhaps some of us are-but some of you are pretty tough nuts
(laughter), yet we are able to meet together and settle our differences. There is a great
deal of work still to be done by the Union and the Federation acting together. The Federa-
tion is being asked to accept responsibility to finance the Research Association and Science
in our trade. We ought to discuss the conditions that make work pleasant and put them
into force. In our factory we have two "rest" intervals-one at 10 a.m. and one at 4 p.m.
Some feared the output would fall as a result. I never had any anxiety myself, and I am
glad to say our people are satisfied that if we gave up the "rest" periods it would be fatal.
In our factory we have tried to get cleanliness and as much light, sun and air as possible.
In our factory we don't always have rain, and people say what a clean town it is. We live
in a charming part of England, engaged in a necessary industry. I believe in your debates
you have talked about tuberculosis. This is a disease which can to a large extent be con-
quered by living under better conditions and getting more sunlight. Everyone of us should
do all in our power to urge forward smoke abatement bills, and so try to promote better
surroundings. Mr. Richards, I could talk to you for many hours longer, but after three
days I imagine you have had as much talking as you wanted. I should, however, like to
say what a pleasure it has been to me and my fellow directors and everyone in the factory
to show you round the factory, and we are proud to let you see the things we have remedied.
I thank you very heartily for the honour done us by coming to our factory. (Applause.)
MR. T. F. RICHARDS: I know Mr. Bostock does not wish us to pass him a vote of
thanks, but on your behalf wish to say how very much we appreciate his kindness. (Cheers.)
MR. R. DUNN: It would be indiscreet for me to let this occasion go by without
saying a word. This is a red letter day for Stafford. I wish England had more employers
like the Lotus people. They are splendid people to deal with. It is nothing but fair to
say how much we appreciate what these people do. (Applause.)
Ε. Β.

IMPORTANCE OF FOOT COMFORT.
"People seem only just to have discovered the enormous importance of foot comfort
to the general health," said Mr. Sinclair Bunting, lecturing to Birmingham mothers on
Thursday last.
"Change your shoes and stockings frequently," he said, and, if possible, never wear
shoes,
which are practically airtight, should be avoided by all sufferers from tender feet."
He further advised them not to wear very high or very low heels. Moderate heels,
he said, with a good base, were best, and never to change suddenly from very high to very
low heels, as the sudden change will do more harm than wearing the high heels - Shoe
and Leather News, 19th June, 1924.
---

---
341
LUNACY ACT.
MR. BUCKLE, on 5th June, 1924, asked the Minister of Health, whether, in the case
of the additional London County Council Asylum about to be opened in the neighbourhood
of Epsom under the name of West Park Mental Hospital, he will say whether it is intended
for the care and treatment of certified patients: what accommodation it will afford
and whether voluntary boarders are to be admitted?
Answered by Mr. Greenwood.
The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. The institution will
provide accommodation for 1,732 patients.
My Rt. Hon. Friend regrets that the law does not allow voluntary boarders to be
admitted for treatment in public mental hospitals.
MR. BUCKLE, on 5th June, 1924, asked the Minister of Health, whether he is aware
that the majority of early cases of nervous breakdown cannot be proved to be dangerous
or unfit to be at large, and that they are in consequence in no sense lunatics and cannot
be classified among those whose treatment comes under the purview of a Royal Com-
mission on Lunacy; and, in view of the fact that no legislation is needed in order to make
provision for their benefit, will he take steps to supply without delay this need by the
allocation, where desired, of a grant to the health committees, as distinct from the asylums
committees, of local authorities, to enable and encourage the provision of appropriate
hospitals for early cases which shall be free from detention and unconnected with lunacy
administration ?
Answered by Mr. Greenwood.
Many early cases of mental illness are clearly certifiable under the Lunacy Act and
could not be detained for treatment unless they were certified without contravening the
provisions of that Act.
The question of providing facilities for treatment without certification will be con-
sidered by the proposed Royal Commission, and my Rt. Hon. Friend proposes to await
their report before considering what action should be taken.
AGRICULTURAL WAGES BILL.
The Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Noel Buxton) introduced the above-named Bill
on Monday, 2nd June, 1924, when it secured a second reading.
During the debate Mr. W. R. Smith (Parliamentary Secretary) said: "We have no
cause for complaint in regard to the general tone of the debate. There seemed to run
through all the speeches an agreement that some form of machinery is needed to deal
with wages in the agricultural industry. There seemed also to be agreement that even
when wage decisions have been reached, through whatever machinery may be ultimately
established, the rates should be compulsory and capable of being legally enforced. . . .
I think this House has a right to ask in what material way the Wages Board machinery
failed during the years of its existence. The Wages Board was in existence for over four
years.
There were five minimum rates of wages fixed by the Agricultural Wages Board.
The first was a wage of 30s., fixed by mutual consent; the next was a wage of 42s., also
fixed by agreement. The next was 46s., and it is quite true a majority vote decided it,
but, strange to say, although the farmers at that time said they could not pay the wage,
yet I have since read an article in the Press, the weekly notes of a farmer who speaks with
some authority, who stated when he was objecting to paying 30s. a week in the spring of
last year, that it was different when the 46s. was fixed. He said, 'we paid it then willingly,
because we could afford to do it, but the farmers on the Wages Board said they could not
afford to pay it. That is my point. The first three rates were fixed by mutual consent;
the next was fixed in face of the opposition of the farmers, who stated the industry could
not stand that wage, and then afterwards a farmer in the public Press admits they paid
it readily and willingly, because the industry enabled them to do so. . . . We have had
to engage more inspectors to see the farmers paid the proper wages to their men. The
Wages Board alone recovered from farmers in this country over £40,000 in arrears of wages;
as much as £100 was obtained by one of the unions in arrears in respect of wages from
one man."
The Vote was put and there voted 245 Ayes; 214 Noes.
SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.—Number of workpeople employed week ended 24th May,
1924, 52,478. Increase on 12th April, 0.8; Increase on a year ago, 2.8. Total wages
paid to all workpeople week ended 24th May, 1924, £125,953. Increase on 12th April, 4.5;
Increase on a year ago, 2.3.-Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1924.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
342
CLAIMS OF THE POLICE STRIKERS.
The Committee of Inquiry. Sir W. Mackenzie as Chairman.
The Committee to inquire into the reinstatement, or otherwise, of the men dismissed
from the police and prison services, for coming out on strike, has now been appointed
by the Home Secretary.
Commander KENWORTHY (L., Central Hull) asked a question on the subject yesterday
In the Commons.
Mr. A. HENDERSON replied that the Government had decided to adopt the plan which
he indicated in the recent debate with reference to the position of the men in question,
who were dismissed from the services in 1919, and to appoint the Committee. The Com.
mittee would be constituted as follows:
SIR WM. MACKENZIE, K.C. (Chairman).
SIR HUGH FRASER.
MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P., Ο.Β.Ε.
RT. HON. THOMAS RICHARDS, and
SIR THOMAS ROYDEN, C.H.
The terms of reference were: "To consider the claims of the men dismissed from the
police and prison services on account of the strike in 1919, and to report thereon." — West
minster Gazelle, 3rd June, 1924.

AGREEMENT IGNORED.
Union Withdraws Boot and Shoe Operatives.
Protracted negotiations between the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives
and a firm in Spitalfields having failed to produce any result, a crisis has arisen owing
to the refusal by the firm to recognise the national terms of agreement.
The Union has accordingly been compelled to instruct its members to withdraw from
the firm, and to place an embargo against other members working for it.
Large retail factors have also been asked to discontinue placing orders until the firm
complied with the national agreement.
Mr. Dan McCarthy and Mr. Len Smith are dealing with the matter, and hope to
achieve good results, not only in the Spitalfields area, but in other parts of London where
the sweating of boot and shoe operatives is prevalent. — Daily Herald, 7th June, 1924.

SHOEMAKER'S SON WHO IS A "KING."
Matty Island, one of the Solomon group, is ruled over by a European "king" who is
the son of a shoemaker. The islanders and cannabalism are not strangers, and the "king"
has before now been near to being an item on the menu of his subjects.
Christen Nielsen Oertoft was the "king's" original name—he is a Dane—but when
after the war, the Solomon Islands became British, he changed his name to William P.
Leonard. — Evening News, 10th June, 1924.

SHOES MADE FROM OLD FILMS.
Mary Pickford may be on your Dancing Pumps.
No city in the world, probably, observes the old adage "Waste not, want not" more
carefully than does London to-day.
Old films, for instance, are boiled down and, after a certain proportion of silver has
been extracted, the residue is used for making patent leather.
Thus your shiny shoes or dancing pumps may contain a tiny fragment of a portrait
of Pola Negri or Mary Pickford. — Evening News, 4th June, 1924.


---
343
AFFORESTATION-VALUE OF SAME.
Discussion in House of Commons, 4th June, 1924.
Extracts from Speeches of Members.
MR. FREDERICK MARTIN moved: Some years before the War and before the State
was taking any interest in afforestation, those most keenly anxious to advance forestry.
in Scotland at all events, were mainly hon. Members belonging to the Party opposite.
advance afforestation, while they also preached the advantages of afforestation to the
and I think it due to them to say that the great landowners in the Highlands showed a
very public-spirited example to the nation in a way in which they themselves tried to
Forestry Commission which was set up after the War is, I believe, one of the few remaining
whole country. The question at the moment is in a very favorable position. The
parts of the great machinery of reconstruction which was started at that time. The
of Commons, but fortunately it is very ably represented in this House by the right hon.
Commission is a statutory body and in a sense is not under the direct control of the House
Gentleman the member for Tiverton (Mr. Acland), and I hope he will have an opportunity
in the course of this evening of informing the House as to the activities of the Commission.
but which could be turned into profitable woodland. Providence has so arranged matters
There is a large amount, millions of acres, in this country which produce nothing now,
that the work of the woodland has to be done in the winter time, when the work on a farm
going to make all the difference to him between a life of hard work and poverty and a life
is light. If you can provide this subsidiary occupation for the small landholder, you are
which offers the prospect of an adequate reward for his labour.
I remember, just before the War, a friend of mine who was very greatly interested in
forestry, and was engaged in it as his daily work, brought to this country one of the most
eminent authorities on forestry in Germany, and took him all over the Highlands of
Scotland. The opinion of this eminent authority was that for the growth of certain kinds
than in parts of this country. He was shocked at the amount of land that we had lying
trees, in fact, were profitably grown at an alititude where the winds were higher and colder
waste in this country. In one district in France, namely Bordeaux, where the woodlands
we publicly owned, the revenue from the woodlands is sufficient to pay the local ratess
that is, the rates for education, for the upkeep of the roads, and so on.
SIR COURTENAY MANSELL said:- Our condition in regard to afforestation at the
present time is really a disgrace to a great country. We have per head of the population
jess forest land than any country in Europe. We are more denuded of forests than any
country in Europe, with the exception of Denmark and Greece. We obtain 95 per cent.
of our supplies of timber from abroad. We pay £100,000,000 per year for foreign timber.
Other countries do not enjoy the benefit of our mild, insular climate, and consequently
their climates produce most serious consequences. They have devastating floods in the
wet season, and droughts in the dry season.
We are saved from that by the good fortune
of our insular position. But bad as our position is, however, there are some compensations.
We have got our feet in the right path, and I think our feet have been in the right path
ever since the Royal Commission was constituted.
MR. WESTWOOD said: A Royal Commission sat in 1909 dealing with coast erosion
and re-afforestation. It is reported that there were 9,000,000 acres of land available for
re-afforestation in Great Britain, of which approximately 5,000,000 acres were in Scotland.
The Commission suggested the re-afforestation of 150,000 acres per annum.
The Afforestation Committee pointed out, as the result of the evidence they heard,
that 150,000 acres per annum would provide work for 18,000 men annually, and that
18,000 men would also be occupied in incidental and subsidiary occupations, and that
there would be provided permanent employment fo. one man for every 100 acres which
came under the scheme, rising to 90,000 men when the scheme was completed. Every
100 acres will provide work for 12 men, and if we really went in for a scheme of re-afforesta-
tion of 1,000,000 acres, it would provide permanent employment for 120,000 men directly.
The indirect result would be that there would be subsidiary occupation for another 120,000
men, which means that by a really long-sighted scheme dealing with re-afforestation we
should be able to provide employment permanently for 240,000 men.
MR. DUNCAN MILLAR: The House is no doubt acquainted with the admirable report
of my right hon. Friend the Member for Tiverton (Mr. Acland) on this subject, a report
which dealt in special terms with the policy of land settlement and held out rosy prospects
in the future for facilitating the creation of small holdings. I would like to quote these
words from that report :-
"Forestry opens a new vista for the small holdings policy. It makes the creation
of small holdings not only possible, but necessary in districts where the cost would
otherwise be prohibitive."


---
3-14
soul a very large number of people. The Committee
I should like to draw the attention of the House to the fact that the Report anticipated
developing the policy of small holdings in such a way as would eventually settle on the
like 1,000 persons, and as one of my hon. Friends has just pointed out, a very much
of opinion that the increase of population under such healthy conditions and
with continuity of steady employment would in itself be a national asset of no mean
aber might easily be settled under a well-thought-out scheme.
abo teported that they were
extent.
I am sure the sentiment will be shared in all parts of the House.
value.
of trees.
MR. REMER said: Twenty years ago I was told that in ten years there would be no
more ash trees in the whole of the United Kingdom, but in the greatest demand that this
country ever had for ash, during the War for aeroplane purposes, we were able to meet
the demands. Today we are cutting down English ash trees to a very considerable
from the national standpoint, and that all parties will combine to bring about the growing
I hope this resolution will be passed and that we shall approach the matter
COLONEL SIR CHARLES YATE said: When we think of the enormous number of pit
and realise that the land could be acquired at a nominal price we should agree that that
mounds which are in the country at present, and are not only derelict but an eyesore,
of pit mound the other day as an economic proposition on their own account, and I remem-
ber during the War hearing of one proprietor who supplied his pits with pit wood during
land ought to be made use of for this purpose. I know one firm which planted sixty acres
the whole War almost entirely from the pit mounds that he had planted years before.
These pit mounds are giving no return whatever at present. Surely the Forestry Com-
mission and the Minister of Agriculture working together can manage to take over these
old disused pit mounds and plant them.
of the Forestry Commission doing something to increase the supply of food. I would like
Another thing which I would like to bring to the notice of the Minister is the necessity
them to take in hand the planting of apple trees. There is no finer food for men and animals
than apples, and I want to see apples grown all over the country and made so cheap that
poor people, instead of having to pay 3d. or 6d. per lb. for apples, will be able to get them
at almost a nominal price. Year after year since I have been to this House I have been
urging Ministers to try to come to some arrangement with the railway companies to plant
apples on all the waste lands lying along the lines. There are great stretches of land
Be an economic proposition to place these waste lands which would ensure a large supply
to the high rates. This land might be used in that way and we could get frug
all over the country and facilitate the distribution which is now almost prohibitive owing
much cheaper than we can get it now. Municipal and other local authorities should it
urged to do what is done in France, namely, to plant the roads with avenues of apple trees.
In France you see the apple trees growing all along the roadside. Will the Minister take
that into consideration.
I happened to be in the Chair
MR. ACLAND said: I desire to tell the House clearly what is the present position with
regard to the prospects of a programme of forestry such as I think we all desire, and I think
a clear statement on that point at this stage will help us.
of the Forestry Commission this winter for a few months while the Chairman, Lord Lovat,
was abroad. The point of view of the Commission was a very simple one and that the
programme laid down by the Committee over which I had the honour to preside, was still
that which we desired to carry out. That programme if finally carried out will result
in the afforestation of 1,750,000 acres of land in this country, and we were very desirous
of carrying out the scheme for the first 10 years which was a programme of planting 150,000
acres with coniferous timber. We want to be able at any rate to accomplish that which
we set out to accomplish, and which we can accomplish within the money which Parliament
then laid aside for us, namely, 150,000 acres of planting in the first 10 years, which will
put us on a basis of 30,000 acres a year, which we are to continue for the next 30 years,
that is, building up the 1,750,000 acres which we ultimately want. As I must repeat,
if we are to have a real chance of getting more planted, not next winter, but the winter
after next, we must begin getting round and clearing necessary land now. There is
another thing. Looking only at this next winter, the Government may clearly want to
have an unemployment scheme, and to employ people in country districts in things like
we are to do that satisfactorily, we must be looking out our scrub areas now, arranging
scrub-clearing, which mean no expenditure to the nation and pay for themselves; but if
with the owners, arranging for the accommodation of the men who will do the clearing,
and making contracts for the scrub, and so on.
November.
You cannot improvise in October or
scheme, or it will be too late. I think if we can to a considerable extent use forestry to
Not an extra farthing is wanted, but we must have leave to get forward with our
keep men in the country who would otherwise have gone into the town we shall be doing
---

---
340
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
WORLD LABOUR CONDITIONS.
Delegates from all Lands at Geneva.
Delegates from all parts of the world will gather at Geneva on 16th June for the
Sixth Annual Session of the International Labour Conference of the League of Nations.
Representatives from Governments, employers and workers' organisations in all the
being the official languages of the League, cach speech must be given in one of these
to attend the Conference, and a great variety of languages is heard. French and English
57 countries which are members of the International Labour Organisation are entitled
they are allowed to address the Conference in their own tongues, provided they bring
from far-distant countries who cannot make a public speech in either of these languages.
The variety of languages used may be gathered from the fact that the fourth Session
was addressed not only in English and French, but also in German, Italian, Japanese,
for the use of workers' spare time, the weekly rest in glass-making, and equal treatment of
Among the subjects to be discussed are night work in bakeries, provision of facilities
Polish, Portuguese, Serb, Spanish, and Swedish.
aliens in the matter of accident compensation.
The Governing Body of the International Labour Office, upon which sit representatives
and will consider, among other questions, the final arrangements for the Sixth Session of
of the British Government, employers and workers, will meet at Geneva on 12th June.
the Conference.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
Valuable International Studies.
A remarkable volume containing descriptions of the various artificial limb-fittings
at present in use in different countries, classified according to the type of amputations
and the method of manufacture, will be published early next week by the Internation
Labour Office of the League Nations.
The volume which is called "Artificial Limbs: Appliances for the Disabled." is
amply illustrated and contains about three hundred pages. It should be of the greatest
value not only to those interested in the problems of ex-service men disabled in war, but
also to persons injured in industrial and other accidents, and marks a great step forward
in the international comparative study of measures for the better welfare of workers
throughout the world.
The preparation of this work arose out of a wish expressed by an international con-
ference of representatives of disabled soldiers and seamen held at the International Labour
Office at Geneva in 1922 for the collection and dissemination of all available information
concerning the best type of artificial limbs and orthopædic instruments, and especially
those designed to enable the maimed to earn their livelihood by industrial or similar
employment. It was particularly desired that this information should be made as widely
available as possible.
The International Labour Office therefore entrusted the task to Dr. Florent Martin,
director of the Technical and Scientific Institute of Artificial Limb-Fitting at Brussels,
and the volume is published under his name.
pædic treatment and scientific limb-fitting it is possible to restore working capacity to a
very large extent, and sometimes even to enable the disabled man to follow a trade as
Dr. Martin holds that with sound ortho-
successfully as a worker who has not been maimed.
MINE-WORKERS IN CHINA.
Proposed Reforms.
The steady progress which is being made in the State regulation of working conditions
in China, which started with the issue of factory regulations in March last year, is carried
still further by drafting of regulations dealing in detail with conditions in mines, according
to information received by the International Labour Office at Geneva and printed in its
weekly publication, Industrial and Labour Information.
These provisions apply to all mines employing more than 50 underground workers.
The mine-owners are to be represented by the chief engineer who is to deal with questions


---
347
of ventilation, the presence of gas or water, and the use of explosives in the mines. No
women or children under 12 are to work underground, while in certain circumstances
limited to ten per day. The shafts must be properly supported and each pocket must
the employment of children under 17 may also be prohibited. Hours of work are to be
have at least two openings for the passage of labourers. Safety lamps are required in all
mines where the presence of coal gas is suspected.
The regulations also deal with payment of wages, hours of work and general labour
conditions of women and children, as well as of men. They do not, however, contain
any provisions with regard to wage rates, and it is unlikely that any special provisions
to make the fixing of a uniform minimum wage possible or desirable for the whole country.
will be issued in this connection in the near future. At present, wages vary too widely
DO FIXED PRICES MEAN MORE WORK?
Lessons of the World Unemployment Crisis.
"The acute unemployment suffered throughout the world from 1920 to 1923 is closely
connected with the periodical crises which have afflicted the working classes and humanity
as a whole for a century" is one of the important conclusions reached in a report by the
International Labour Office of the League of Nations, which will be presented to the
Sixth Annual Session of the International Labour Conference, opening in Geneva on Monday
next. The report is the result of an inquiry into the world unemployment crisis under-
taken by the Office at the instruction of previous sessions of the Conference.
"True, the great questions of international relations," continues the report, "result-
ing from the war and the Treaties of Peace, have gravely affected the national economy
of many countries, and continue to do so, resulting in the complication and aggravation
of unemployment."
The result of the inquiry seems to indicate, however, that apart from certain exceptions,
the available statistics show scarcely any correlation between changes in unemployment
and fluctuations in foreign trade. In many countries the period of most intense unem-
ployment was accompanied by a greater volume of exports than at some other date, for
instance, 1920, when industry was very active and unemployment only moderate.
On the other hand, there has been a close correlation between unemployment and
price fluctuations, which had already been recognised by most economists as one of the prin-
cipal characteristics of the economic cycles and periodical crises of unemployment before
the war.
The report proceeds to show how nations are not so closely inter-related from the
economic point of view, as before the war, and how the disappearance of a universal currency
standard has led to the movement of prices in each country following an individual course.
While, before the war, periods of general depression tended to become more or less simul-
taneous throughout the world, it would now seem more exact, instead of speaking of a
world crisis of unemployment, to describe the calamitous period of 1920 to 1923 as one
of a series of national crises. The conclusion is therefore reached, states the Report, that
crises of unemployment are a direct consequence of the instability of prices.
Further, in each country, the influence of the home market on industrial activity
would seem to be more important than that of foreign markets, whence it follows that
the restoration of the purchasing power of the mass of consumers is the most important
condition for the recovery of trade.
True, the instability of prices is not an ultimate cause; for it is the effect of numerous
causes, among the most important of which are variations in the volume of currency and
credit and the conditions of the exchanges. These factors themselves raise the important
problems at present dominating international policy (interallied debts, reparations, &c.)
which have a powerful influence on the individual financial and monetary policy of most
countries.
If the recurrence of unemployment crises in different countries is to be prevented,
an effort would have to be made, if the above suggestions are well-founded, to stabilise
prices; but perhaps such stabilisation would not be possible in certain countries without
first settling the important international political problems which have interfered with the
financial stability of these countries.
Thus, at the end, one comes back to the fundamental idea "that the achievement by
each country of stability in the value of its currency is an essential prerequisite of economic
reconstruction."
The details of this inquiry will be published in a full report, "Unemployment, 1920-
1923," by the International Labour Office, the above extracts being taken from the brief
report which is being submitted to the delegates attending next week's conference.


---
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACTS.
Decision Given by the Umpire.
The following is a recent decision of general interest:
CASE NO. 5588. SECTION 7 (I) (II).- NOT UNEMPLOYED AND "PRESCRIBED MANNER.
ADDITIONAL OCCUPATION-REMUNERATION ON CERTAIN DAYS EXCEEDED 35. 40.
_ INFORMATION AS TO THIS EMPLOYMENT NOT DIVULGED CLAIM NOT THEREFORE
MADE IN PRESCRIBED MANNER.
It was ascertained in March, 1923, that the workman, a labourer, who had been in
receipt of payments in lieu of benefit from his Association almost continuously from the
statement was obtained from the club secretary showing that the lowest amount paid
14th July, 1922, had, throughout the period during which the amounts were received.
been working on certain evenings of the weeks as a waiter and assistant at a club. A
to the workman was 8s. 3d. in one week, while generally the payments varied from £1 os. 3d.
to 12 12S. 3d. per week. The secretary also stated that the hours during which the applicant
he undertook the repair and upkeep of the billiard tables and cues for a payment of 359.
worked at the club as waiter and assistant were from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m., but in addition
per month. It was stated that the variation in the amounts paid weekly to the applicant
while certain figures above the average indicated that extra payments had been made for
was due to the fact that in some of the weeks he did not work on every evening of the week
concerts and dances held during those weeks.
The applicant's claim for benefit was disallowed under Section 7 (1) (ii), on the ground
that he was not unemployed, and that on and after 14th July, 1922, and up to 7th March,
1923, he had not made application for benefit in the prescribed manner.
At the Court of Referees a representative of the applicant's Association stated that the
Sundays. On the first three days he worked there from 6 p.m. to 11 p.m., after finishing
applicant had worked at the club since 1919 on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and
work in his usual occupation as labourer, and on the Sundays he worked there all day.
His hours of work there had not altered since he lost his work as a labourer in July, 1922.
Recommended by the Court of Referees that the claim should be disallowed. The
Court formally disallowed the claim, and expressed a desire that the Umpire's decision
should be obtained. They were of opinion that the case hinged on the question whether
the applicant's average of remuneration exceeded 3s. 4d. per day.
The applicant's Association appealed to the Umpire.
Decision.- " On the facts before me my decision is that the claim should be disallowed
until 7th March, 1923.
"The applicant having ordinarily followed the occupation of working at the bar of the
Working Men's Club in addition to his usual employment and outside the usual working
hours of that employment is entitled to be considered as unemployed on those days in
respect of which he does not receive remuneration exceeding 3s. 4d.; but on any day
in respect of which he receives more than 3s. 4d. as remuneration for his work at the club
he must be deemed to be not unemployed.
"It appears, however, that as from the 14th July, 1922, until the 7th March, 1923,
the applicant did not apply in the prescribed manner, and his claim must be disallowed
for that period, but after the 7th March he will be entitled to claim in respect of days on
which his remuneration did not exceed 3s. 4d. per day." The Ministry of Labour Gazette,
June, 1924.
!


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
STANDING ORDERS.

BIENNIAL MEETINGS.
RULE 80. Biennial Meetings of the Conference shall be held on Whit Monday
and subsequent days.

TIME OF CONFERENCE MEETING.
RULE ST. On the first day of Conference the Delegates shall assemble at a
place provided for the purpose, at Eleven o'clock a.m. prompt, and
shall proceed to the election of Two Tellers, and shall also consider
the President's Address and Council's Report; after which the
Conference shall adjourn at 12.30 p.m. and re-assemble at 2 p.m. and
proceed with the business of the Conference and adjourn at 5 p.m.
On Tuesday and each succeeding day, the time of meeting shall be
9 30 a.m., adjourn at 12.30 p.m., re-assemble at 2 p.m., and adjourn
for the day at 5 p.m.

DELEGATES' QUALIFICATION.
RULE 82.-The Conference shall consist of Delegates who have been elected
in accordance with General Rules 71 and 77, which read as follows:-
Delegates shall be elected in accordance with the number of Financial
Members returned in the December Report previous to the date on which
the Conference is to be held. All Permanent Officials shall attend the
Conferences by virtue of their office, over and above the maximum of
representation. The basis of representation for delegates shall be one
delegate for every 1,000 financial members, with a minimum representa -
tion of not less than fifty delegates (one third to form a quorom)."
"The latest date for sending in amendment and additions to Rules, or
Standing Orders of Conference, shall be February 15th, in the year in which
the Conference is due to be held, and they shall be published in the
February Monthly Report. Nominations for delegates shall be taken on
the February Monthly Meeting Night, and voting for same on the March
Monthly Meeting Night."
The Council to attend by virtue of their office.

PRESIDENT OF CONFERENCE.
RULE 83.-The President of the Union, by virtue of his office, takes the chair
at all Conferences.

STANDING ORDERS COMMITTEE.
RULE 84-A committee of five persons shall be elected from the Delegates
of the Conference, whose duty it shall be to examine the Delegates"
Credentials, and report thereon. They shall also be at the service of
the Conference to consider any questions or matters that may be
relegated to it with a view to reporting thereon during the sitting of
Conference For such extra services they shall receive additional
pay, to the amount of 10s. each.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
7
ORDER OF BUSINESS
TRANSACTED BY THE
Thirty-Sixth General Conference
(JUBILEE)
HELD AT THE
BOROUGH HALL, STAFFORD,
FROM WHIT MONDAY, JUNE 9TH TO 11TH, 1924.
Chair taken by the President at 11 a.m.
ON 9th JUNE, 1924.
1.—Chairman's Welcome to Delegates.
2.—Election of Two Tellers.
3.—General Secretary to report Result of Voting for Standing
Orders Committee.
4.—Chairman's Address to Conference.
5.—Council's Address.
6.—Resolutions as per Agenda.
7.—General Business.

---
Here is the extracted text:
8
THIRTY-SIXTH CONFERENCE.
JUBILEE YEAR - 1924.
RESOLUTIONS.
1. COUNCIL'S ADDRESS.
2. KETTERING No. 1 BRANCH-" This Conference, believing that Education
is essential to the full development of the Trade Union movement,
recommends this Conference to discuss the problem in its widest
aspect, and to determine, that, as soon as the Educational Policy of
the Trades Union Congress is issued, this Union will do everything
possible to develop such policy amongst its members."
3. LEICESTER NO. 1 BRANCH. - "To ask the Council to meet the Manufac-
turers' Federation with the view of altering the age when members
become entitled to the full Minimum Wage from 23 years of age to
21 years of age; also the Graduated Scale to be altered accordingly."
4. LEICESTER NO. 1 BRANCH. - "That owing to the increase in the amount
of work involved in the administration of the State Unemployment,
Branches shall receive not less than 6d. in the pound."
5. LEICESTER NO. 1 BRANCH.-"That the Executive of the Union press the
employers to consider the wisdom of curtailing the Juvenile Labour
in our trade to one male person under 19 years to every five persons
over 19 years, as we are convinced that on the basis of 1 to 3, the
industry has been incapable of absorbing the Juveniles, when they
have passed into the Adult stage."
6. LEICESTER NO. 1 BRANCH.-"This Conference asks the Council to press
for the abolition of Overtime, or claim double time for same."
7. LEICESTER NO. 1 BRANCH. - "This Conference asks the Council to strongly
press for a reduction in the hours of labour from 48 per week to 44
per week."
8. NORWICH NO. 1 BRANCH. - "That the Executive Council do approach the
Home Secretary with a view to securing legislation demanding a
reasonable standard of light, air, and general cleanliness in all work-
shops and factories used for the manufacture of boots and shoes."
9. STAFFORD BRANCH. - "That this Conference instructs the Executive
Council to arrange an Educational Scheme with the National Council
of Labour Colleges under which free classes and Correspondence
Courses would be available for our members, such scheme to be paid
for by an allocation of 3d. per member per annum from the funds of
the Union."


---
Here is the extracted text:
9
THE JUBILEE YEAR.
MONDAY, 9th JUNE, 1924.
Conference Opened.
THE Thirty-sixth General (Jubilee Year) Conference of the National Union of Boot
and Shoe Operatives opened at the Borough Hall, Stafford, on Whit-Monday,
9th June, 1924.
The General President of the Union-Mr. T. F. Richards-presided, and the Con-
ference opened at eleven o'clock a.m. In addition to the General President, there were
also present the members of the Executive Council: Messrs. T. Adnitt, J.P. (Leicester),
C. Bates (Rushden), A. W. Lyne, J.P. (Northampton), I. H. Johnson, J.P. (Daventry),
C. Mayes (Kettering), Mrs. Mary J. Bell-Richards (Leicester Women's), Messrs. W.
Warner (Hinckley), W. Hindes, J.P. (Norwich), C. Bleakley (Edinburgh), A. J. Dobbs
(Leeds), Alex. Smith (Wolverhampton), J. Manners (Bristol), and E. L. Poulton, J.P.
(General Secretary).
The Union's three Organisers: Messrs. D. McCarthy, L. Smith, and J. H. Baum,
were present, together with Mr. J. Buckle, M.P., J.P., and Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., J.P.
(Parliamentary Representatives).
Mr. G. Sedgwick, J.P., the only surviving official of the Union's early days, was
present by invitation.
Welcome by the Chairman.
THE CHAIRMAN: At this juncture I declare the Conference open. On behalf
of the Union it is my duty to congratulate you and hope our deliberations will be beneficial.
Tellers.
The following list of names of delegates was submitted:-Mr. G. Parbury (Leicester),
Mr. W. Langley (Higham and Rushden), Miss E. A. Timms (Leicester Women's), Mr.
A. Birt (Northampton), Mr. H. Frazer (Norwich), and Mr. M. Gamble (Glasgow). The
CHAIRMAN gave the result of the voting as follows:-
Miss E. A. Timms
Mr. W. Langley
Mr. G. Parbury
35
Mr. A. Birt
12
53
Mr. H. Frazer
11
31
Mr. M. Gamble
16
and declared Mr. W. Langley and Miss E. A. Timms elected.
Standing Orders Committee.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY declared the following elected as members of the
Standing Orders Committee:---
Mr. G. Chester.
Mr. S. Thompson.
Mr. W. R. Townley.
Mr. A. Hill.
Mr. F. C. Jex.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
12
you in your illness, with the hope that you will soon be restored to your normal health
and strength again.
DEAR MR. POULTON,
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
22 HARRIS LANE,
General Secretary.
NORWICH.
5th June, 1924.
I very much regret that through illness I shall be unable to attend the Jubilee
ment so that I could have made the journey, but he dare not let me risk it at my age.
Conference of the Union. I have got a very severe attack of rheumatism from the
Unfortunately my colleague, Mr. Segon, has been away from the Office for over three
toes to hip of right leg. My doctor was hoping it would have benefited by his treat-
weeks, so I expect the extra work and worry of moving affected me a little. I was
for as long, if not the longest, of any now holding office. I have seen our Union.
rather counting on the celebration, as having held the office of Branch Secretary
in spite of the competitive system, secure and maintain for its members greater
local society, now we have over 2,000. Hoping the Conference will have a very
benefits at less cost and loss of time. I believe, than any other Union in the country.
In our own Branch between 40 and 50 members came over to the Union from the
pleasant time.
Believe me to remain,
Yours sincerely,
A. H. FOLKARD,
NATIONAL UNION OF Boot and SHOE OPERATIVES,
34 GUILFORD STREET,
MR. A. H. FOLKARD,
NORWICH.
LONDON, W.C. 1.
9th June, 1924.
this
DEAR MR. FOLKARD, - Your letter was read to the Conference at its first Session
you in your illness, with the hope that you will soon be restored to your normal health
and strength again.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
The Chairman's Address.
General Secretary.
on behalf of the Union, and to contrast the delegation with that of 50 years ago. This
It is pleasing to me to have the honour of welcoming you all here as delegates
delegation consists of 53 permanent officials, 2 Parliamentary Representatives, and one
unofficial, 68 delegates, or 123 all told, covering a membership of 77,243. Compare this
with the 25 delegates who represented the Conference in 1874 with a membership of 4,207
only. In addition to this, we have now seven branches owning their premises and offices
valued at over £30,000, whilst the funds in hand of all the branches of the Union total
£102,744 5s. 2d., which is used for branch purposes only.
We meet to-day to commemorate 50 years' existence of our Union and to summarise
a few of the yearly milestones we have passed from 1874 to 1924. We are fully aware
that prior to that date there were in many towns local unions who practically stood alone,
unmindful and indifferent as to the fate or future of their fellow craftsmen in other towns,
and so on the 29th December, 1873, they decided to form a National Union. There
gathered together in this town of Stafford, 25 delegates from the following towns: Leicester,
Nottingham, Northampton, Leeds, Chester, Worcester, Manchester, Hull, Stone, Nantwich,
Birmingham, Newcastle, Bristol, Glasgow and Norwich, who laid the foundation stone for
our Union, and these magnificent men founded the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Rivetters and Finishers, as it was then known. Even when the present President joined
there were not 7,000 members in the Union after 11 years of its existence. It has been
my pleasure to know personally, every Gercral President and General Secretary except
living General Secretaries, and Mr. Poulton and I are the only two delegates present who
one-Mr. H. Horsfall. The present General Secretary and Mr. G. Sedgwick are the only
ference decided to have a permanent General President, Mr. J. Judge being elected. He
were here in 1892. It is gratifying to know that in this town in the year 1892 the Con-


---
13
held the position for a few months only, being appointed in September, 1892, and retiring
in May, 1893, and sent a letter to the Council explaining that he did not appreciate being
made a "social outcast." I hope those who think an organiser's job is easy will remember
this. At a later date, in addition to the General President and General Secretary, the
Conference in 1918 decided to have four permanent Organisers, but owing to the outbreak
of war the Council felt it would be unwise to take the risk, which caused them to ultimately
take the responsibility of two only; but in 1923 a third organiser was appointed, thereby
showing that this part of our work is of premier importance. But we cannot stop there.
The work of the Union proper will be found in the Souvenir, but there are still some items
not included which may bear a little elaboration. To my mind the two outstanding
features in our work was in the first place the demand for indoor working, and in Leicester
this matter was entered into with zest, zeal and spirit, which brooked no delay. Here
we had a large body of men whose education was never more than elementary, determined,
come weal, come woe, their homes should be workshops no longer, and although these
men enjoyed more personal freedom than most industries, they were prepared to change
home employment for factory life, and to once and for all save themselves, their women
and children, from the degradation of waiting outside a factory for hours or even days,
as though they were begging for work. The employers on the Board of Arbitration met
the officials of the day in a fair and honourable manner, and with a very few exceptions
was accepted, and in a very short time, and so Saint Monday became a thing of the past,
and to the everlasting credit of the Lasters and Finishers of Leicester, they sacrificed
their own freedom for the benefit of the wives and children of their shopmates. The
next great event of our history was the lockout of 1895, which cost the Union sixty-two
thousand pounds. Their fellow trade unionists contributed £1,049 1s. 10d. It would
serve no useful purpose to in any way reiterate the feelings engendered by both sides
during the six weeks that that struggle continued-suffice being to say we both won.
And as a proof of that we have had 29 years without a National conflict or anything likely
to create any such feeling. We know each other's measure, and we also know there are
employers on the other side high up in the confidence of the Federation who are imbued
with the same spirit as ourselves, that it would not be to our credit to be unable to settle
our troubles by any other means than that of wordy warfare, fought out by us, responsible
for both sides, without either a stoppage in the industry or the imposition upon our wives
and children that they should take part in the conflict.

The objects of our Union are unique as Clause 20 indicates-The socialisation of the
means of production to be controlled by a democratic state in the interests of the entire
community, and the complete emancipation of labour from the domination of capitalism
and landlordism; with the establishment of a social and economic equality between the
sexes. No one will be surprised that we are meeting in Stafford to-day, because Stafford
is the home of high-class ladies' shoes, second to none in the world. Its operatives or
journeymen, as known in the olden days, were just as well known for their superior crafts-
manship.as their forefathers were in all towns and villages, as the only craftsmen who were
a trouble to the Parson and the Squire, and it was therefore to their everlasting credit
that the Shoemakers of Stafford should send one of the first two Labour members to
Parliament in the person of Mr. Alexander MacDonald-a miner-he being elected in
February, 1874; the other Labour M.P. being Mr. Thomas Burt-also a miner-he being
elected for Morpeth at the same time, the very year of our Union's birth. But where,
oh where! is Stafford to-day? This is not all. Stafford has played its part in political
affairs, but we must not forget the neighbouring town of Wolverhampton, who sent the
first member of our Union-T. F. Richards-to Parliament in 1906 (who, by the way, was
born in Staffordshire), and then, lest we forget, let us remember that the President of the
Employers' Federation, Mr. H. J. Bostock, is also a native of Stafford, and a gentleman
in whom we have explicit confidence. Is it not therefore most fitting that Stafford was
chosen to celebrate our Jubilee year. We cannot stop here. Our Union in 1918 had then
a second member in Parliament in the person of Mr. W. R. Smith, sent by the Wellingboro'
Division of Northants; and in 1922 two other members, Mr. J. Buckle for Eccles, and Mr.
Alderman Hill for West Leicester were returned, and yet again in 1923 we saw Mr. W. R.
Smith returned for Norwich with another Labour member, Miss Jewson, for which we
ought to be proud that our members stood by their own; Mr. J. Buckle re-elected for
Eccles, whilst another of our members, Mr. F. Gould, was returned for the Frome Division
of Somersetshire, and has since been elected as one of our Parliamentary representatives,
but the greatest feat of all was the advent of the Labour Party's strength from our first
Labour Party in the House of Commons, of 29 members in 1906 to 192 elected in 1923,
and within a few months of the Conservative Government being unable to function the
Labour Party were called upon to form a Government on the 23rd January, 1924. In
this connection one of our members, Mr. W. R. Smith, was asked to assume the office of
Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. Mr. Smith has
spent many years with the Agricultural Labourers' Union, and was its President from
1911 to 1923. He was chosen by the Agricultural Labourers' Union to represent them on
the Agricultural Wages Board. We all hope that the Agricultural Labourer will some day
wake up and claim his own. We may help to remove obstacles from his path, but his
destiny is in his own hands, and to this end we may rely upon it, that if the Labour Party


---
cannot help him, then no one else will. In the past the minds of the members of late
governments have been directed by their own personal or private business positions;
their wealthy friends advice and attachment has not been lost upon them; they have
been "nobbled" by newspaper editors, and influenced by the flattery of their immediate
friends, and so ofttimes subordinated themselves to their advisers-a danger Labour men
must observe. All men are prone to this, and many may fall victims, especially those
who have neither the time or inclination to study a subject for themselves. The first
Labour minister set a good and wise example when he took office, intimating that he would
only do so on one condition that he be allowed the right to appoint his own secretary.
This was granted and both the Minister and the Department were an immediate success.
The Labour Party took office on the 23rd January, 1924, and immediately made it known
to Russia, Germany and France that they were anxious to uphold the rights of all European
peoples, to bring Peace to all nations. Among many other things in their brief spell of
responsibility, they have tranquilised bankers and business men who have already signified
their intention to help rather than to hinder the Government. They have promised to
remove the means limit for Old Age Pensions; they have removed the gaps in connection
with State Unemployment Benefit taken away the restrictions to single persons;
removed the stigma from ex-service men in asylums; given relief to Poplar; introduced
a housing scheme; removed many restrictions and taxes from the breakfast table; set
the officials on the track of income-tax dodgers; introduced permanent relief for agri-
cultural labourers; propose raising the meagre income of those needing work by increasing
the unemployment benefit by 3s. per week; and are making an effort to relieve the parents
of very young workers to avoid blind-alley employment. In addition, they have coin-
menced schemes of afforestation foreshore reclamation, and have given their word to
mothers; make lawful the 18-hour working week (which I hope will also include mothers;
and take definite action in respect to land values and to grant votes to women at 21 years
of age.
Coming to our own industry, we have been more fortunate than some. We are the
only Union in the world to have a monetary guarantee against lockouts and strikes, and
so general has the belief become amongst our own members, and so cordial have been the
relations between the employers and ourselves, that we united in asking the Government
of the day to impose the conditions agreed upon by the majority, upon the minority at
least as a minimum. We were informed a fortnight ago that Mr. F. Murrell, the Liberal
Member for Weston-super-Mare, had secured an early place in the ballot and had given
notice to introduce the "Industrial Councils Bill." Having been introduced, it received
the second reading on the 30th May last, and carried by 236 votes to 16. We wired all
the shoe representatives in the House of Commons, and sent a letter to every member of
the House, urging them to support the Bill. We are not favourable to compulsory arbitra-
tion for any trade, but we are in favour of compelling the minority to have not less than the
minimum enjoyed by the majority, nor to accept worse conditions, because they pull
down for personal reasons, and do not build up for the public good. Should this Bill
become law, as we hope it will, we trust that in Committee such safeguards will be found
as to make its application not less favourable than the Trade Board Acts, which, with
very slight reservations, work exceedingly well; the main reservation is the small number
of inspectors to administer the Act. Some of us often feel we are almost asking too much
from so few inspectors to keep in order those employers and operatives affected, under
the control of over forty Trade Boards, when there are only thirty-five inspectors to do
the whole of the work. The handsewn boot and shoemaking and repairing board has not
less than 30,000 employers on their list to look after, and this in itself is more than any
meagre staff can accomplish.

SHODDY.
The Cordwainers' Company was founded in 1272, and their object is as stated
in their Charter granted in 1842-" To end all fraud and deceit in the Craft." That
Company and its objects appear to have fallen into decay, because some of us have known
hidden there. It has been said that there is fraud in all trades except brushmaking,
the virtues or the crime of heel ball; ink; and paper socks and the many sins that lie
and in that they put the little ones in the middle. It is for this reason that many of us
think the time has arrived when the general public ought not to be bamboozled by making
payments for articles that are not what they seem, and have no description or guarantee
as to their composition. Most poor men and women, especially when buying boots and
unaware that men in high
of the practice of deceit; not because they are bad at heart, but because they are careless
of the wearable qualities of the articles, their mind being centred on the dividends to their
employee of their own, any article for men's or women's hard wear with backened insoles,
shareholders. Yet not one of these gentlemen would think of recommending to any
paper middles, or compo lifts, especially for children whose health is often impaired by
the best civilian boot and shoe known in our time was the War-time Boot made to Govern-
wearing shoddy footwear. The most well-known men in the trade all seem to agree that
ment specification and under Government supervision, and would have been produced.


---
15
by manufacturers at a fair profit and distributed by some few generous distributors at a
fair rate of remuneration, had not a deputation run off to the Board of Trade to ask that
their usual rate for distribution be not interfered with. The patriotism of these gentlemen,
some of them paper Lieutenant-Colonels and Recruiting Agents for the Army and Navy
per cent. which they were accustomed to. Patriotism waned at 12¼ per cent.
was at a low ebb when 12½ per cent. for distribution only was offered instead of the 33¼
As a Union we are prepared to accept help from any other section of the industry,
and in this matter the Boot and Shoe Trades' Association at their Conference in Plymouth
recently appointed a committee for the purpose of holding an enquiry into the question
of shoddy footwear, and are willing to co-operate with us or anyone else. It will, I hope,
ultimately resolve itself into some method whereby we can check this rampage and attack
on the health and purses of the poor. The only two methods to prevent this appear to
me to be (1) To issue a white list of retailers who deserve the support of the movement,
and to get the support of the Board of Trade to insist that every retailer gives a written
document of the materials used in the production, this to be given with every pair of boots,
then (2) Bring the matter before the Trades Union Congress, Labour Party Conference,
supply every trades council, labour party and co-operative organisation with this white list.
Since the Suspension Benefit scheme came into operation in September last, the Union
has paid out the sum of £6,155 4s. 3d. for members who have unfortunately been suspended,
thus proving once again the great assistance our Union has been to members during times
of distress.
In conclusion, with the poet, Ebenezer Babcock, we would say :-

Be strong;
We are not here to play to dream, to drift;
We have hard work to do and loads to lift,
Shun not the struggle, face it ! 'tis God's gift.

Be strong:
It matters not how deep entrenched the wrong,
How hard the battle goes, the day how long,
Faint not; fight on, for to-morrow comes the song.
(Applause.)

THE CHAIRMAN intimated that Mr. W. Hindle, Secretary to the Stafford Labour
Party, gave a hearty welcome to the delegates on behalf of the Party and wished the
Union continued and increasing success.

THE CHAIRMAN then asked

THE MAYOR OF STAFFORD (Mr. J. Wheeldon) to address the Conference.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen: I am pleased to be present to extend to you a
very hearty welcome, and hope you will have a successful conference. I understand
this is the Jubilee Year Conference, and that you have been in existence for fifty years.
I congratulate you upon the good work you have done. You have set a good example
to many other organisations by being able to settle your differences without disputes.
The day has come when matters should be settled without resorting to strikes (hear,
hear), and the day should not be far distant when nations ought to settle disputes without
war. (Hear, hear). You have done many things to shod the foot of man; most of my life
has been spent in trying to put something into the head. I have been engaged in educa-
tional work all my life, and retired from school a year last September, and later came
into political life and asked to accept the position as Mayor. You say "there is nothing
like leather." I suggest "there is nothing like education." It is efficiency which tells.
I believe in some of your centres you have classes of those engaged in the industry, and
those who attend - if they feel so inclined - can obtain details and experience of the trade.
We have classes of that kind, and they are doing good work. In this town one large
firm is sending down, voluntarily, a number of boys and girls for instruction in the day-
time, in addition to the evening classes. That is all to the good of the worker. I don't
know how many of you have visited Stafford before, but it has improved during the past
forty-five years, and compares very favourably with any other industrial district of the
country. There are many ancient buildings here, and you may have a salt or fresh water
bath. I wish you all success, and hope your conference may tend to promote peace
between employers and employees. (Applause.)

THE CHAIRMAN : We should like to say how very much we appreciate the kindly
"there is nothing like education." On
remarks of the Mayor and his references to education. We say "there is nothing like
leather," but we bow to the Mayor, and say
behalf of the delegates I beg to present to you, Mr. Mayor, a copy of our Souvenir, and
thank you sincerely for your attendance here this morning. (Applause.)

Mr. Richards then presented a copy of the Union's "Fifty Years" to

THE MAYOR, who stated in reply: I can only repeat that I hope you will have
a very successful conference, and thank you very much.


---
16
THE CHAIRMAN then asked Mr. George Sedgwick, J.P., the second General
Secretary to the Union, to address the Conference.
Mr. G. SEDGWICK: I am glad I have been spared to see some of you again, and
some of those I have never seen before. I wish to thank most heartily the President,
the Secretary, and members of the Executive Council, who kindly thought that an old
fellow like me was worth asking to come to your Conference. If you and they are pleased
to see me, then I ask you if you were in my place how pleased would you be to be here?
is a sad reflection that out of the lot you see in the photograph of 1874. I am the only one
I see amongst the group of 1874, good men and true, who worked under conditions which
were not as they are to-day, but who fought your battles as best they could. To me it
known the Union. I have watched with care and interest the child we raised in 1874
(Laughter.) There are many things I have been pleased with during the fifty years I have
left, and when I come to look round, I think I must be a second edition of Rip Van Winkle
in which the Union and its members find themselves to-day. The clouds which hung
in this little town. I cannot speak to you except in terms of admiration of the position
round us from the start did not cease with my relinquishing the office of General Secretary.
Large numbers of our members thought we ought to have done more than we did. A
most remarkable statement was made a few weeks ago by one of our Statesmen that
“he could not get rabbits out of a hat,” and the statement applied to our early days.
It was not because we lacked the pluck to fight. I am a bit of a sport, and like to have
a fair chance if I am going to fight at all. We should have lost the prestige of the Union
if we had not first of all considered our position. Many times I have gone home at night,
and saw the telegraph boy coming, which meant more trouble. From day to day we had
disputes, many of which our members were entitled to protection, but we could not give it.
We had to do the “brer rabbit” business and lie low, and had to play the game of bluff
a good bit. We dare not let our members know the position then. If speeches are
silvern, then silence was golden. Some time ago when I first received an invitation to
come to your Conference I thought it very funny as I had ceased my connection with you
long ago. I supposed it was out of respect for what I once did, but I suggest I have a
big share in the business, and am always in sympathy with you—when you are right. I
get your monthly reports even now owing to the kindness of your General Secretary, and
there is often some good reading. The branches let you know where you are. (Laughter.)
adopted some of the suggestions of the branches. There has always been
you would not have such a good balance sheet as you have now.
a desire to get more benefits for the contributions paid. I believe at the London Con-
ference there was a desire to increase the sick pay from 10s. to 12s. per week, and it was
pointed out that 12s. would not keep a man whilst ill, but it was all the member paid for.
It takes a member forty years to pay back twelve weeks’ sick pay; some of you may
have more information than I have, but did you ever have a direct resolution to congress
raising the contributions. (Yes!) Some of the strangers to me think I don’t do anything.
There are many people in this Conference who know I do. My sympathies are with the
workmen as much as ever they were.
Leicester, for a man to do good. (Hear, hear.) I think I am doing much, and you cannot
There are plenty of ways and means in a city like
do a good action without benefiting yourself.
shall be repaid hundredfold. As long as I am given power, health and strength, I shall
If you do good, the old Book says you
continue to give either directly or indirectly what energies I have to help forward the
betterment of my own class. At nine years of age I was a stabbing boy, putting stitches
in, so I know what hard work means.
I am glad the children of to-day do not have to
do that. You will find that fellows will get up in a meeting and make a hell of a row over
branch matters. You ask them to do anything which is likely to take up a little time.
See where you are. If we found a noisy chap for whom we could do nothing right, we
put him into office. God knows what a change it meant. From the roaring lion to a
lamb. Branch presidents and branch secretaries do a lot of voluntary work, and then
there is the temptation of the branch funds. Men would be taken from the factory and
put into positions of trust and responsibility; sickness came and they wanted money
and there was nothing to prevent them handling the branch funds in the olden days.
I do not think anyone did it with the idea of defrauding their members, but it was a case
of sheer necessity. I often sit at home and think of what I have seen and passed through.
Life and people generally have acted very generously to some, and whatever you give
comes back to you; think what a kind word or a smile means to others. I hope you will
all do your best to go through life and leave it a better place than when you entered it.
(Cheers.)

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: On your behalf I sent a copy of the Souvenir
to Mrs. T. Smith, wife of our first General Secretary, and have received the following
reply from her son, Mi. T. W. Smith :—
“We are very grateful for the appreciative references to the services which my
late father was privileged to render to the National Union as its first General Secretary,
and afterwards to the Boot and Shoe Industry as a whole as Arbitrator and Con-
ciliator. It is not possible for my mother, who has very vivid recollections of the
difficulties and struggles of the early days of the Union, to be present at your
1


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

17
Conference in Stafford, but she wishes me to ask you to be good enough to convey
to your delegates her greetings and cordial congratulations to the National Union on
reaching its Jubilee.”
I am sure, Mr. Chairman, we all reciprocate the kindly references of Mrs. Smith.

“ Fifty Years.”

Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): I should like to move a resolution congratulating
the General Secretary and the members of his Staff responsible for compiling this record.
I think it is due to them for the splendid manner in which it has been presented.
At the same time I regret no reference has been made of the Raunds March, and if
it is possible for a leaflet to be printed in the records, I hope it will be done.
THE CHAIRMAN: We had better leave this matter until later on. We made
a lot of marches in 1895 which are not mentioned, but I am sure the Raunds Strike March
is an oversight, because we should like that fact recorded. We shall make it convenient
to appear in the records of the Union, but as the General Secretary wishes to speak on
the matter, we will defer it until to-morrow morning.
The Conference adjourned for the day at 12.3 p.m.
The afternoon was spent at DOVEDALE, and tea provided at the Peveril of the
Peak Hotel, all the delegates and friends being the guests of the General Officers and
Members of the Executive Council.
TUESDAY.

Morning Session.
The Conference reassembled at 9.30 a.m., Mr. T. F. RICHARDS again presiding.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY read the Roll and intimated that Messrs. Dunn
and Housby, of Stafford, were both absent.
He reported that Mr. Dunn had unfortunately suffered a domestic bereavement
during the night. Mr. Housby arrived later, his explanation being accepted.
The Minutes of Monday’s proceedings were read, confirmed, and signed by the Chair-
man as correct.
Congratulations.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY read the following telegrams:—
Poulton, Borough Hall, Stafford.
The National Union of Textile Workers congratulate your Society on attaining
its Jubilee. May time bring further progress and 100 per cent. trades unionism
in your industry.
Ben. Turner, Arthur Shaw, 84 Godwin Street, Bradford.
Poulton, Borough Hall, Stafford.
Congratulations from National Union of Textile Workers to Boot and Shoe
Operatives’ Union on their Jubilee. May each year towards the centenary be of
increasing success to trades unionism and labour representation.
Ben. Turner, Arthur Shaw.
and replied as follows:—
Turner, 84 Godwin Street, Bradford.
Boot Operatives in Conference cordially thank you for good wishes and heartily
reciprocate them.
Richards, General President.
Poulton, General Secretary.
B


---
18
Council's Address.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY read the Address of the Council to Conference
as follows:
FELLOW DELEGATES,
1.—OUR JUBILEE.
26th May, 1924.
Our first words to you, as delegates, must be words of congratulation, seeing we are
assembled together in connection with the work of the Union. The National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives has been in existence over fifty years, the official birthday being
on the 2nd February, 1874. During the past fifty years both industrial, economic, and
social conditions have very materially changed, and upon the whole for the betterment of
mankind, We are well aware of the great amount of distress existent at the present time,
due largely to the World War, and the effect of which we shall continue to feel for many
years. Making, however, full allowance for the awful happenings arising out of and in
connection with the War, we are firmly convinced that very considerable improvements
have been made in the lot of the worker. We do not propose to go further into this matter
in our Address to you, because the Jubilee Souvenir (a copy of which each delegate has
received), deals fully with those matters, which are not only of interest to our trade but
to the country generally.
2.—TRADE.
The state of trade since our Conference in 1923 has, to some extent improved, but
not to anything like the amount as to find work for all those employed in the industry.
This is reflected in the amount of money we have been called upon to disburse as Unem-
ployment Benefit as follows :-
Half-year ending December, 1923
Four months ending April, 1924
Total
In addition, the sum of £902 8s. 4d. has been absorbed for the half-year ending 31st
December, 1923, and £529 9s. 0d. for the four months ending April, 1924, in payment of
Out-of-Work Contributions to keep members in benefit.
There has also been paid out as State Unemployment Benefit, through the machinery
of the Union, the sum of
For half-year ending December, 1923
For four months ending April, 1924
::
Total
STATE UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT.—We venture to say that it is distinctly advan-
tageous to the members to have drawn their State benefit through the agency of the Union,
and we hope that all branches will make arrangements for their members to have State
benefit through the Union in accordance with Rule 26.
In this connection we note that a resolution appears upon the Agenda asking for an
increase in the amount paid to the Branches for administrative purposes. We would point
out, however, that if such an amount as asked for was agreed upon, it would take the
WHOLE OF THE ADMINISTRATION MONEY allowed for this work. We feel con-
fident the delegates will see that it is not possible to concede the amount named in the
resolution in view of the fact named above.
3.—NATIONAL CONDITIONS.
The work of the Union has been carried on without friction so far as the Employers’
Federation is concerned, the machinery for dealing with differences that call for adjust-
ment having been found equal to the demands put upon it. A few non-federated firms
have given us some amount of trouble. Here, however, thanks to the methods adopted,
due to our many years of experience, we have been enabled to not only deal with firms
who were not complying with the national agreement, but to secure compliance with the
same, and this at a minimum of loss of time to the members, which in itself is a point that
should not be lost sight of as to the value of the Union to its members.
4.—THE NATIONAL AGREEMENT.
When we were negotiating with the Employers in November, 1922, it will be recalled
that amongst our requests was one for a reduction in the hours comprising a working week.
We pressed this point very strongly, and although upon that occasion we were not success-
ful in our claims, nevertheless, we left the impression upon the Employers’ minds that we
shou’d continue to press for a reduced working week when next our demands were submitted.
£23,904 2 0
14,393 11 8
£38,297 13 8
£32,251 8 6
£20,874 8 5
£53,125 16 11
---

---
19
The question of securing the full MINIMUM WAGE for male operatives when reaching
21 years of age, instead of them receiving the full minimum rate at 23 years of age as at
during the discussions of the last two Agreements. Owing, however, to the general economic
present, has also received our attention, and was submitted as one of our propositions
conditions over which we have no control, we were unsuccessful in our efforts.
In relation to the question of OVERTIME, it has for many years past been one of
Employers, to demand double time, or as an alternative to suggest the abolition of overtime.
our objects when discussing new Agreements, or revising present Agreements, with the
that within the very near future, employers will be enabled to so regulate their orders as
will obviate any necessity for overtime being resorted to.
We would call the special attention of the delegates to the fact that one of the proposals
that we felt the factories were overstaffed so far as juvenile labour is concerned, and asked
1922, was the fals
only one male
in any boot and shoe factory to every five males over 19 years of age. Here, again, although
the argument and facts were all on our side, the employers would not at that time agree to
concede the point.
The members may rest assured that these matters with others will again be raised
when the Agreement is due for revision in October next. It will thus be seen that many
of the resolutions on the Agenda have been before us and also the Federated Association
of Boot and Shoe Manufacturers-for a considerable time past.
5.-FACTORY ACTS.
At our meeting in January, 1924, we decided to approach all the Members of Parlia-
ment connected with the boot and shoe industry to use their best endeavour to see that the
recommendations drawn up by mutual consent of the Joint Industrial Council representing
the boot and shoe industry-of which both the Employers' Federation and ourselves are
the sole members and representatives of the Home Office, in securing the proposed
Report of Recommendations in any new Factory Act likely to be introduced.
follows:-
The Recommendations which were arrived at on the 4th December, 1919, are as
JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL.
Report of Recommendations affecting the Health of Workers as revised by the Sub-Com-
mittee on December 4th, 1919.
1. LIGHTING.
(a) NATURAL.
(1) In any new works, underground workrooms should be prohibited.
The definition of the term underground workroom was left to the Home
Office.
(2) As regards existing Works, no underground room should be used
as a workplace after a period of three years unless a certificate has been
given by H.M. Inspector of Factories that it is suitable for that purpose,
that in the event of exception being taken by the owner, occupier, or any
operative employed in such factories to the withholding or otherwise of such a
certificate, the case shall be referred by that party to the J.I.C., which shall
be required to investigate and report its opinions to the Chief Inspector of
Factories, Home Office, and further that the Home Office shall take no
official action in the matter pending the receipt of such a report.
(3) All windows must be kept clean, inside and outside.
(b) ARTIFICIAL.
Artificial lighting should be adequate, and the light should be so placed
and shaded as to prevent, so far as practicable, the rays of light from im-
pinging directly on the eyes of the workers.
2. CLEANLINESS.
(a) WALLS AND TOPS.
The legal requirements should be strictly enforced, and in view of the
number of existing regulations and the difficulty of strict enforcement, this
Council asks that if the staff of Inspectors is inadequate for the purpose,
the Home Office will seriously consider the advisability of appointing addi-
tional inspectors for the Boot and Shoe Trade.
(b) FLOORS.
(1) In order to facilitate cleaning, the floors of all workrooms should
be maintained in good condition.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

20
(2) Unless efficiently cleaned daily by a mechanically operated Vacuum
Cleaner, the floors of all workrooms should be thoroughly swept by a damp
method at least once in every 24 hours.
The floor of all Clicking and Closing Departments should be washed
at least once in every six months, and, if practicable, the floors of other
(3) Floors should not be swept while the operatives are present in the
departments should be treated in the same way.
workrooms.

WASHING ACCOMMODATION.
Ample and suitable Washing Accommodation (including Soap and Towels)
should be provided.

FIRST AID EQUIPMENT.
Unless a suitable Ambulance Room is established a properly equipped
First Aid Box for every 150 workers should be kept in a convenient position.

PURITY OF AIR.
Gas and Oil Engines should be separated from Workrooms.

INFECTION FROM CONSUMPTIVE WORKERS.
Spitting on the floors or walls of factories or workshops should be pro
hibited.
The Secretary for Home Affairs—the Rt. Hon. Arthur Henderson, P.C., M.P.—
was also approached upon the subject, his reply being as follows:—

HOME OFFICE,
WHITEHALL,
23rd February, 1924.
216,325/22.
SIR,
I am directed by the Secretary of State to refer to your letter of the 11th instant,
forwarding suggestions for the improvement of the health of factory workers with a
information of your Council that all proposals are receiving his careful and sym
pathetic consideration.
proposed Factory Bill, and to say for the
I am,
Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
(Signed) R. R. BANNATYNE.

The Secretary.
The National Joint Industrial Council
for the Boot and Shoe Industry,
34 Guilford Street, W.C.1.
We have also secured the assistance of Messrs. W. R. Smith, M.P., John Buckle,
M.P., Fred Gould, M.P., J. W. Black, M.P., and George Ward, M.P., all of whom have
replied offering to use their influence in securing the adoption of the above recom-
mendations.
It should, however, be noted that in the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923,
one of the recommendations named above was included therein, and reads as follows:-

FIRST AID EQUIPMENT.
(126.) A First-Aid Box or cupboard must be provided in every factory,
and where more than 150 persons are employed, one such box or cupboard must
kept for each 150 persons, fractions to be reckoned as 150. The number of boxes
required must be calculated on the largest number of persons employed at any
one time.
(127.) Each box or cupboard must be placed under the charge of a responsible
person, whose name must be stated in a notice affixed in every workroom.
(128.) Where an ambulance room is provided, and arrangements are made
for the immediate treatment of all injuries occurring in the factory, the Chief
Inspector of Factories may issue a certificate exempting the factory from the above
provisions to such an extent as he may decide.
This being of considerable importance to all workers we hope that if our members
hear of any factory where the above clause in the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923, is
not complied with, they will at once send full details to their branch officials when the
matter will be dealt with.


---
Here is the extracted text:
22
appreciated not only as a gift, but as showing the spirit of goodwill towards those who were,
and as a result sent direct for boot operatives the sum of £100, which sum was very highly
and are, in a very sad plight.
The following letter was received after the £100 had been sent :-
DER VORSTAND DES CENTRALBANDES D. SCHUHMACHER,
NURNBERG, ESSENWEINSTR, 1.
- 14th March, 1921
TO THE NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES, LONDON.
DEAR COLLEAGUES,
Having received your cheque representing the sum of £100 we herewith thank
you very much for this proof of solidarity.
The situation in Germany is as bad as before, but we hope that we shall succe
in getting our Union through this crisis and in being able to fight for the interests
our members. There was already one attack of the employers of our industry to st
press the eight hours day. They demanded to augment the working time to 54 hou
succeeded not only in refusing all impairments, but also in introducing some better.
that had been terminated by the employers. After four days of proceedings we
per week, and tried to introduce other impairments into the National Tariff Agreement
ments. We can state as a principal thing that the eight hours day has been established
again by the new Agreement concerning the German boot and shoe industry, and
we are proud of this success in face of the reactionary Government in Germany.
Thanking once more our English brother organisation, we are,
With best wishes,
9.-AMALGAMATION.
Yours sincerely,
N. LESE.
cater for boot operatives, and beg to report that on the 1st March of this year, we receive
We have continued our work of trying to link up with us those other unions whi
Society, which is now known as our London Sew-Round Branch. The membership taken
over was 161. Although efforts have been made from time to time to bring about amalga-
into membership the whole of the members of the City of London Ladies' Shoemakers
mation with other societies we have not been successful.
This addition to our membership-though small will enable us more effectively t
deal with the London situation.
We hope that from time to time we shall be able to report other additions to c
membership by the same methods as were adopted in this instance.
10.-FINANCES.
The total funds of the Union (both at Central Office and Branches) stood at the end
of April, 1924, at the sum of £403,244 2s. 10d., made up as follows:-
Trade Fund
Sick Fund
Political Fund
Fidelity Fund
Branch Fund
Grand Total
£ s. d.
162,820 15 10
133,535 1 4
3,588 2 5
555 18 1
102,744 5 2
£403,244 2 10
11.-POLITICAL MATTERS.
The past twelve months has been a period wherein history has been made very rapidly
indeed. No one, we venture to suggest, would have thought at our last Conference, that
before the year was out the then Prime Minister, the Rt. Hon. Stanley Baldwin, M.P.,
with his big working majority in the House of Commons, would have forced a General
Election. Yet, as we know, such an election did take place, and with very different results
from those anticipated by the then Prime Minister and his friends.
It is not for us to go minutely into the why and the wherefore of the reasons for the
procedure adopted; it is enough for us to know that the result was to bring into office a
Labour Government, and thereby bringing into practical politics many of the questions
which had been the "plaything" of the older parties-housing, unemployment, and inter
national matters-including an open and frank talk with France, the eight hours day and
ever, must not expect that the whole of our programme can be carried out at once, having


---
23
regard to the fact that the Labour Party, although in office, does not command a majority
of the votes in the House of Commons. Nevertheless, the outlook for labour will, as a
result of such accession to authority, be a very considerable improvement in the sphere
of those questions which so vitally affect the lives of millions of our fellow citizens.
It is especially gratifying to know that our colleague, Mr. Walter R. Smith, M.P., J.P.,
has been appointed to a post in the Labour Government, viz., that of Parliamentary
Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.
We felt at the time of his appointment that he would justify the honour conferred
upon him, and the months that have passed since his appointment fully confirm our views
having regard to the manner in which he has handled the business connected with the
office he holds.
In addition to Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., J.P., being returned to Parliament as the
Senior Member for Norwich, we are very pleased to record the fact that Mr. J. Buckle,
M.P., J.P., was re-elected for the Eccles Division for a second time, and the secretary to
our Midsomer Norton Branch-Mr. F. Gould, M.P.,- whilst not being a nominee of the
Union, won the Frome Division of Somersetshire for Labour.
Mr. Len Smith was the candidate for the Daventry Division of Northants, but we
regret that he was unsuccessful. Nevertheless, a good fight was put up and Labour's
views were brought very prominently before the electorate.
The General President-Mr. T. F. Richards and General Secretary-Mr. E. L.
Poulton, J.P.-having retired from the position of Parliamentary candidate, two other
members were elected to fill the positions-Messrs. D. McCarthy and F. Gould, M.P.
Seeing that Mr. Gould was already a member of the House of Commons, we consulted
with him as to his position in the Frome Division, and as a result of our conversation, we
decided to recommend that £100 per annum be granted to Mr. F. Gould, M.P., until the
next General Election.
A resolution dealing with the Political Fund will be submitted to you during the
Session for your endorsement.
12.—REVISION OF NATIONAL AGREEMENT.
Our Agreement with the Employers' Federation is nearing the time when the same
can be once more reviewed. We have given careful consideration to the outlook in the trade,
and as a result of our survey we have sent along to the Manufacturers' Federation certain
proposals.
We hope, when we meet the appointed representatives of the Employers, that our
request for the above-named revisions of the Agreement will be acceded. The delegates
and members may rest fully assured that no effort will be wanting on our part to ensure
success being attained. Meantime, a great deal can be accomplished by the members
themselves to talk about the proposals and to back them up in their several districts.
13.—CONCLUSION.
In conclusion we feel that it may confidently be stated that with all our handicaps
and shortcomings, the half century which has now elapsed since the Union was started,
has been a period wherein very considerable improvements have been secured, and the
way made much easier for the younger generation—who will soon take our place—to
accomplish greater things in the next half century; this, because of the sacrifices made by
not only officials, but of the membership as a whole.
We therefore trust that the days to come may be both brighter and fuller of the real
joys of life than any of the days that are now behind us.
Yours fraternally,
T. F. RICHARDS, General President.
T. ADNITT,
C. BATES,
A. W. LYNE,
I. H. JOHNSON,
C. MAYES,
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS,
W. WARNER,
W. HINDES,
C. BLEAKLEY,
A. J. DOBBS,
ALEX. SMITH,
J. MANNERS,
Members
of the
Executive
Council.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
24
In addition be read extracts from the Factories Bill issued on the 22nd May, 1924,
as follows:
PART I.
HEALTH (GENERAL Provisions).
2. Every factory shall be kept in a cleanly state and free from effluvia arising
from any drain, closet, urinal or other nuisance, and, without prejudice to the generality
of the foregoing provision
(a) All accumulations of dirt and refuse shall be removed daily from the work.
rooms, staircases and passages; and
(b) The floor of every worktoon shall be thoroughly cleansed, at least once in
every week, at a time when work is not going on in the room; and
(c) All inside walls and partitions, and all ceilings or tops of rooms (whether
those walls, partitions, ceilings or tops are plastered or not), and all wall3
sides and tops of passages and staircases, shall-
(i) if they have a smooth impervious surface, be washed with hot
water and soap at least once in every period of fourteen months; and
revarnished at least once in every period of seven years, and washed
(ii) if they are painted with oil paint or varnished, be repainted or
with hot water and soap at least once in every period of fourteen months:
and
tion as a factory, and thereafter at least once in every period of fourteen
(iii) in other cases be whitewashed or colour-washed before oссира-
months:
Provided that-
(i) except where the inspector for the district in any case otherwise requires, the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this section shall not apply to any factor:
where mechanical power is not used, and less than ten persons are employed:
and
(ii) where it appears to the Secretary of State that in any class or description of
factories or parts thereof, the provisions of paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section
are not required for the purpose of keeping the factory in a cleanly state, on
are by
by special order direct that those provisions shall not apply to such factories,
or parts of factories.
3.-(1) A factory shall not be so overcrowded while work is carried on therein
as to be injurious to the health of the persons employed therein.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, a factory shall
be deemed to be so overcrowded if the amount of cubic space in any workroom allows
less than four hundred cubic feet for every person employed in the room, and in
calculating the amount of cubic space no space more than fourteen feet from the floor
shall be taken into account.
(3) The Secretary of State may, by special order, extend the said proportion of
cubic space-
(a) for any period during which artificial light other than electric light is em-
ployed; or
(b) as regards any particular process; or
apartment.
(c) as regards any factory or part of a factory which is also used as a sleeping
(4) If the inspector for the district so requires there shall be affixed in the work
room a notice specifying the number of persons who, having regard to the provisions
of this section, may be employed in that room.
4-(1) Effective measures shall be taken for securing and maintaining a reason-
and the measures so taken shall be such as not to allow the escape of any injurious
able temperature in each workroom during the wearing and work is going on,
or offensive fumes into the air of any workroom :
the temperature shall not be allowed to fall below sixty degrees.
In every workroom in which a substantial proportion of the work is done sitting
ing order in a suitable position in every workroom in which a substantial proportion
(2) At least one thermometer shall be provided and maintained in correct work-
of the work is done sitting, and in any other place in which the Secretary of State
may by special order so direct.


---
Here is the extracted text:
25
factories or parts thereof, prescribe a standard of reasonable temperature, prohibit
or of
the use of any methods of maintaining a reasonable temperature which, in his opinion,
are likely to be injurious to the persons employed, and direct in what positions ther-
mometers shall be provided and maintained.
Standing Orders Committee Recommendations.
Mr. F. C. JEX: To avoid duplication the Standing Orders Committee make the
following recommendations:-
Address.
STANDING ORDERS RECOMMENDATIONS.
1. That Resolution 2 be taken in conjunction with paragraph 7 of the Council's
2. That Resolutions 3, 5, 6 and 7 be taken in conjunction with paragraph 4
3. That Resolution 4 be taken in conjunction with paragraph 2 of the Council's
of the Council's Address.
Address.
4. That Resolution 8 be taken in conjunction with paragraph 5 of the Council's
Address.
5.-We suggest that Resolution 9 be ruled out of order, as its adoption would
entail an alteration of rule.
6. That the report of the Parliamentary Agents be taken in conjunction with
paragraph 11 of the Council's Address.
THE CHAIRMAN ruled Resolution 9 out of order.
Upon the proposition of Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester), seconded by Mr. R.
HARRIS (Leicester No. 2), the Standing Orders Committee's Recommendations were
accepted.
It was then decided to take each paragraph of the Council's Address seriatim.
Paragraph 1.
The Jubilee.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): I move that an addition be made to the Souvenir
by adding to that valuable report some mention of the Raunds dispute. Mr. Poulton
and others have vivid recollections of what happened. Up to the time of the "march"
the Government used to play with the districts which made goods for them, and shift
the orders about without regard to the operatives working in a particular district. As
a result of this strike, I believe it made them more considerate.
Mr. E. BATCHELOR (Higham and Rushden): seconded the resolution. I was
In 1905 we had a strike for thirteen weeks,
one of the people in the march. I am sorry our friend Gribble is not with us to-day, as
we shall never forget the work he did for us.
commencing in February. In May-he was one of the Union's organisers and had
thought out his plans, and with the assistance of Herbert Burrows and Jack Williams
the march was a success. Gribble selected his men, and got them in batches of eighteen.
The men were drilled before the march took place and formed into companies. After
the march, which lasted fourteen days, we came back with the sum of £200 after paying
all expenses.
After we passed Bedford we were provided all along the route with beds and did not
have to find billets for our men. I am sure the members of our Union who took part in
that march will never forget it. We realise it was the making of the Raunds section of
It was the means of the Government recognising
the Higham and Rushden Branch.
the conditions. Sir George Askwith was sent down by the Government and the strike
was brought to a successful issue. I should like to see his name mentioned in connection
with the strike.
Mr. W. BAZELEY (Higham and Rushden): When I looked through the Souvenir
I immediately recognised it was a fine book, and did great credit to the General Secretary
and his staff responsible for its compilation, but I was disappointed that no mention had
been made of that part of the Union's history. I have vivid recollections of the strike
and march, and corroborate all that has been said. Until after that march, the Fair
Wages Clause had been put on one side; in fact it was a failure. Not only did it do good
to the boot and shoe trade, but it did good for other trades having Government contracts.
I should have liked to have seen Mr. G. R. Askwith's name mentioned in connection with
the march. He acted as peacemaker and was the first to assist us in getting a statement
for army work. I have pleasure in supporting that some mention be made of this matter


---
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I have somewhat mingled feelings over this
matter, because whilst I, as General Secretary, want to take full responsibility for the
work in connection with the compilation of the Souvenir, which, on the whole, is not an
unworthy document (hear, hear). I cannot even now understand why it was omitted.
Since I had a letter from Mr. Gribble about the matter, it has caused me some sleepless
hours, and I cannot imagine why it was forgotten. I can assure the delegates that neither
myself, nor the members of the Sub-Committee, had any thought of leaving it out. I am
sure you will give us credit for that.
for, and I wish to express my regret.
were very vague.
Staff who got out the details, found for twenty years or more that the records of the Univ
It is one of those things which cannot be accounted
At the same time both I and the members of my
morning are not in accordance with the facts. However, there are many things I should
liked to have been there, but if anyone has any knowledge of getting out records and fact
Having said that, I wish to add that all the statements made tha
for any period particularly fifty years - they will appreciate the difficulties I had
in the spirit with which I am making it. I can only hope this statement will be accepte
severe with myself for this omission, and trust we shall be able by this record to show
what was done by the members, and on our behalf by Mr. Gribble, in concentrating
The paragraph was then endorsed subject to the addendum being made.
THE CHAIRMAN: I am not at all disappointed that Lord Askwith's name
claim for £900 damages against the Federation. Some of us have been on earth long
enough-unfortunately that we have recollections of what transpired many years 22.
We remember when a deputation went and came back empty handed. It was only whe
the Union stood by the men that the men had that to which they were entitled.
Rushden Branch is concerned, they organised the Raunds men, backed up by the Uni
cannot remember everything in a document of this character. So far as the Higham an
The Fair Wages Clause has been altered it all depends upon what you make of it.
to the present we have had no regrets regarding the Fair Wages Clause, although
the opportunity of amending it in 1906.
we ha
in the Union administers the Unemployment Act, which is a very real benefit to the me
THE CHAIRMAN: Clause 2. I hope all our delegates will see that every bran
bers.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): After consulting with the delegates from Leiceste
I wish to withdraw Resolution No. 4:-
4 Leicester No. 1 Branch." That owing to the increase in the amount
involved in the administration of the State Unemployment, Branches
shall receive not less than 6d. in the pound."
Permission was granted.
Clauses 2 and 3 were endorsed.
Clause 4.
Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow): I should like to ask why there is no reference in
the Council's Address to the work of our representatives on the
TRADE BOARD.
We have Trade Board Agreements every two or three months. No discussions can
take place in connection with the matters before these Boards, and members have to
accept the conditions without being consulted. What is the position in regard to the
Rounding plant ?
THE CHAIRMAN: I suppose it is the modesty of the Trade Board members that
their work is not reported. The Trade Board meets very often. The Trade Board
agreements are in front of our National Agreements: there is a 65s., 74s. and 60s. minima
on the Trade Board, and those decisions have an Act of Parliament and the policeman
behind them. Trade Board decisions do not permit of reference to the members. There
are nine in England and three in Scotland. When one remembers the large number ef
people we are working for who do not belong to a trade union, you can understand why
we do not move too quickly. Regarding the question of giving
is a resolution we have made and recommendations have to be before the country. It
is a question of time and convenience as to when a matter shall be reported. We hope
this thing will get reported in a reasonable time, but the Government insists upon everyone
having a chance to oppose recommendations.
Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow): Our men suffer a reduction in wages during the
transition period by 2 d. per hour. Surely there should be some consideration for these
men.


---
machine ?
27
THE CHAIRMAN: You are speaking on behalf of the prices for the Rounding
Mr. M. GAMBLE: Yes.
THE CHAIRMAN: I have asked through my Report for information. I have
written several secretaries direct, and the information received is very meagre. I have
not had four reports from the whole of the Union. If we appear to be a bit slow, don't
blame us we have appointed a sub-committee to go into the matter. We are not the
only Union represented on the Trade Board. The Old Body have accepted a price below
the one we have proposed, and you must remember unless we have reliable information
we cannot move. One lot showed that out of twenty factories in one town, only two
machines were working. Some people think trade union officials are magicians. I have
many figures from Scotland, and we have to go very, very carefully. The figures prove
what is being done, and has been done for months past, and we are in no hurry to
obtain something below what we are getting.
Mr. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member): I don't want you to get excited over
Mr. Gamble's question. We are afraid that the prices we now have will be reduced, and
have sent some information in fact, all the information they could find.
THE CHAIRMAN: Yes.
Mr. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member): Our members feel the prices which
have been agreed upon are d. less than we are getting in Edinburgh. We have been in
Glasgow, Edinburgh and other parts of Scotland, and whether you get information or
not, our representatives have plenty of abuse.
Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P.: I have been one of the men that has stuck to this side
of the question, and endeavoured to see a price fixed for general application. One of the
unions which is represented on the Board had fixed a rate at Birmingham, for this machine.
The result was, in Edinburgh they had been negotiating with their employers and failed
except in one instance, and there they were fortunate enough to get an agreement with
one shop, the price being a little higher than the one fixed at Birmingham. Then the
matter gets on the Agenda Papers for the Trade Board. It is very little information we
can get upon the point owing to the new machine. We got the Trade Board to fix a price
so that we could get the necessary information from the country to fix up national conditions.
A month ago the Advisory Committee met, and got all the information it could. They
will now have to refer the matter to the full Board meeting. It is a very important matter.
If you knew repairers as well as we do, they are not very strong trade unionists, and the
only safeguard is to fix a price and hold them to it by the law of the land.
Mr. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member): I object to that remark, as some of our
oldest members have been crowded out of the factory and had to become repairers.
THE CHAIRMAN: Order, order! I have reported to the Council many, many
times that we send out from the Trade Board 32,000 notices to employers, employing
one or more men in the repairing trade. We cannot find 6,000 men and women repairers,
yet we are catering for over 30,000, and because a few happen to be organised in Edinburgh
I hope you will try to understand the position. My friend Buckle is not referring to them.
Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P.: My observations were made in the general sense and not to
It is a new order of things to talk
local areas. Anyone who wants to know what it is to organise repairers should go to
Grantham and Lincoln and similar places and try it on.
of a trade union to them. Our object is to get prices fixed up for this machine. It is
fair to ask members of the Union who do repairs work what they think is a fair price for
the operations to be performed. We held the country up with a tentative price, and
prevented higher prices being brought down. We meet on the 16th of this month and
shall go into the matter again.
Mr. J. CULL (London Metro.): I have read again and again in the newspapers
that since the repairers in the boot and shoe trade have come under the Trade Board,
there is no need for them to belong to trade union organisations.
THE CHAIRMAN: I don't think I should advertise that fact. Many think if
we do nothing for others, there is no need for them to do it for themselves. They ought
not to prevent us from going on with our work. Our Union has been successful in getting
the members, contributions paid by getting the week's holiday with pay. We shall go
on with the work and hope some day the repairers will realise what we are doing for them
The National Agreement.
Clause 4 was next taken with Resolutions 3, 5, 6 and 7:-
3 Leicester No. 1 Branch." To ask the Council to meet the Manufacturers'
Federation with the view of altering the age when members become
entitled to the full Minimum Wage from 23 years of age to 21 years of
age; also the Graduated Scale to be altered accordingly."


---
5 Leicester No. 1 Branch.-" That the Executive of the Union press the
employers to consider the wisdom of curtailing the Juvenile Labour in
our trade to one male person under 19 years to every five persons over
19 years, as we are convinced that on the basis of 1 to 3 the industry
has been incapable of absorbing the Juveniles when they have passed
6 Leicester No. 1 Branch. "This Conference asks the Council to press for
into the Adult stage."
the abolition of Overtime, or claim double time for same."
7 Leicester No. 1 Branch. "This Conference asks the Council to strongly
week."
press for a reduction in the hours of labour from 48 per week to 44 p
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: All these items have been sent to the Federation
will discuss with the manufacturers. I do not know, whether under such circumstance
as part of the matters to be discussed in the revision of the Agreement which the Cound
the Conference desire to discuss these matters, as the Council felt it was not for them
wait for this Conference, but to send along the Union's claims. They were sent in,
of the Union's policy, and they send along items which they consider right and proper
in anticipation of these resolutions being pased, but because the Council are the custodia
irrespective of what may be on the Agenda paper. We are now going to revert to t
position of a conference every two years, and feel sure you do not desire us to wait fro
time to time.
Mr. T. ADNITT (Council Member) : We hope, in the near future, at the nex
Conference with the employers at least, we shall be able to ease the situation of
labour. The reason the Leicester Branch put down these resolutions is because we f
the same as other large branches that there is no scope in our factories for all the membe
of them go into the factories at 14 years of age, and we repeatedly find a young chac
It is surprising to see the number of young people on our out-of-work books. The
pasting stiffeners and putting them in and when the higher wage is required they ar
kept on until he is nearly 21 years old-after having spent six or seven years prepar
put out." We feel the time has arrived the whole of the Council do when that tar
of our Agreement should be altered. In my opinion there is not sufficient opportunity
we have to-day it is impossible for them to do so. In the past we have had one boy
three men in our factories; let us have one to five. Some, I know, have not the e
and whilst we
three; but there are others with too many boys, and we have to cater for the whe
industry. It is because we realise very keenly from the point of view of our own trade
and organisation, and secondly from the point of view of the youths themselves the
that they are in a cul de sac, that we desire to see the thing altered.
THE CHAIRMAN: I don't know whether you are all satisfied. We found
factory recently which had twenty boys too many.
of these boys! We have evidence that good employers do not have one to three, but
I want to know what is to become
others have too many, and I run up against it in various parts of the kingdom. The
manufacturers who take advantage are the small men. Mr. Bleakley went to Kettering
and Northampton to see what was being done, because of something which happened ar
a big firm in Scotland who have too many boys. I hope these resolutions will prove to
the Federation that we have the backing of the branches, and to show they are alert.
It is not for the Council to do everything. We ought to be able to say the Conference
backed us.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The difficulty of the Council has always been-
and I want to be perfectly frank, because it is so easy to criticise the work anyone has
done to get authentic information, and we, at the Central Office, if we are to drive home
our points when we meet the other side, must have all the facts. I know the answers
we get. I know the difficulties of local officers and I appreciate their difficulties. I want
strongly to take up that part of the Statement that when the officers get back to their
branches they will at once, not two months' hence, but at once proceed, and have meetings
if necessary, or collate the evidence, and send it to the Central Office. Although we have a
considerable amount of President's material in the Office which is being tabulated, it is not
the kind of evidence we want from the branches. I do hope, even if it means some trouble,
that you will if record the ment, be
devou record them up as unemployed meithey cannot be impressive in print, but
dealing with this matter. If you will send the information along, we shall be backed up
with Government documents and documents from our own papers, and I can assure you
it will help us very considerably.
the Council in respect to the resolutions will be given. I remember some time ago the
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester) : I am sure any assistance the branches can give
General President wrote asking me to get some information upon this question. It was
difficult, but we got it. We always get information from our people. There is a resolution
here suggesting the minimum wage should be paid when men reach 21 years of age instead
---

---
29
of 23. According to the Agreement fellows over 19 years of age are counted as men. Wc
must protect ourselves in this matter. In the Leicester Branch it is deplorable to see the
lads put out of their jobs. I am of the opinion we should have apprentices in our trade.
The Labour Party talk about everyone having a vote at 21 years of age, but they are not
men until 23, according to the Agreement. The manufacturers asked during the war
to make the minimum payable at 23 years of age to give the men a chance to learn the
trade.
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): I think every delegate will accept the
resolutions in their entirety. An alteration of the age limit from 23 years to 21 years
will not have the wide reaching effect some of them imagine, particularly in a place like
Leicester where operatives are on piecework. I quite agree these things on the Agenda
are very useful. The main thing I wish to speak upon is the question of
OVERTIME.
I think some useful purpose can be served if this is considered in the right way.
For
some years the conditions of labour have been very chaotic. You get a period with firms
on overtime. You get firms capable of doing the same class of work, and to all intents
and purposes at the same price, with nothing to do. The question of Buyers should be
both by ourselves and the
would spend as much energy on this point as they do fighting their operatives, things
would be much better. There should be a strong agitation amongst all our people in the
country to resent overtime at a moment's notice. Firms have worked three days a week
for some time, and suddenly a rush order comes along and the operatives are asked to
work overtime. They ought to refuse to do it. There is no doubt that Buyers refuse
to give orders in advance, and then when orders are given they are demanded in a week or
fortnight's time. I know what I would like to suggest to the members, but I also know that
is impossible. The members should show the employers they resent overtime, particularly
at a time when there is so much short time. It is true we have this matter down for dis-
cussion when we meet the Employers, but what is necessary is to create a feeling that
operatives resent overtime. It does not require 48 hours per week to produce all the
boots and shoes we require. The Manufacturers know it and the Buyers know it. We
must create this feeling to oppose overtime.
Mr. H. C. ATTEWELL (Northampton): The question of the Leicester Branch
dealing with the age question needs some explanation. It is only three years ago since
I was "slated" because I said that although our agreement had been altered, it was the
I believe it was in 1914 when the
case of pinching a bit from the youths to give the men.
age was raised from 21 to 23 years for the men to apply. I wanted to know why this was
done and suggest nothing was given the members as a whole, but a little taken from one
man and given to the other. Mr. Parbury suggested an apprenticeship system would
ease the situation. It would not alter the principle at all. It would give the youths
who went to the war a chance to be trained for their jobs, but we shall always have people
unemployed, because we cannot absorb all those in the industry. That brings us to ask
whether the supplementary system should be abolished. Our officials should refuse to
leave the Conference unless the employers accede to these resolutions. Our local officers
went into a certain shop to fix prices. They asked for the total output, and then wanted
to know what each operative did. Consequently if they have to fix a price for a man of
21 years of age and another of 23 years of age the price would differ for whichever one you
are pricing. We have a case of a stitch separator. The man working it was 27 or 28 years
of age, and so entitled to the full minimum wage plus 25 per cent. Naturally he had to be
priced to earn 75s. per week. Later he had the "sack" and a lad of 21 years of age was
put on. Between one leaving and the younger one starting, the price was altered and later
the officials had to get an extra d. per dozen in order that the lad could earn the graduated
scale.
THE CHAIRMAN: That is the danger of not having a town statement. It is a
most remarkable statement you have made. Do you fix a price for every man ?
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): Do you change the price when a man gets
the sack. (Laughter.)
Mr. E. LAW (Northampton): I understood our General Secretary to say all
these resolutions have been sent to the Manufacturers' Federation. None of them make
reference to one minimum for men in all departments. I should like to know whether
you have asked for one minimum only for all male operatives.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Yes.
Mr. E. LAW (Northampton): The stock-room men or packers of our industry
have no chance to earn extra wages, so there should be one minimum only. If the Council
do have to give away some of their claims at the meeting with the employers, I trust they
will not give this one up, and suggest you do not leave the meetings until that is obtained.
Mr. F. GOULD, M.P. (Midsomer Norton): We are contemplating legislation
for our industry covering a period of two years, and the experience of the last four years
shows us great weaknesses. Our overseas markets show they are developing in their own


---
countries. As a consequence short time and unemployment is being brought about.
The first point that ought to be aimed at and the Council can only be the voice of the
Union is the question of overtime, and I think should be congratulated on the able
manner they have negotiated matters, especially when we look at the miners, cotton,
agricultural labourers, engineers, and compare them with boot operatives, our people
we have concluded Agreements is worth congratulation. I know in the transition pericl)
The method of bargaining and the ability with which
it may harm a few individuals. There is nothing more needed in our industry than that
time, but it is a matter for the individual members. The question of seasonal trade is one
legislation with the Federation and ourselves. I do hope
it will become part of our new Agreement. I endorse all Mr. Dobbs has said about over-
to be considered. Double pay does not solve the problem. The only solution is that
every man or woman who works two hours over his full working week takes two hours
work from the people signing at the Employment Exchange. This point should be brought
before our members as much as possible. You all know the last Unemployment Bill had
a clause which has been destroyed giving young entrants into industry unemployment
insurance benefit. The only solution we have is to protect our industry in so far as ma-
chinery lends itself to juvenile labour. We must demand maintenance allowance to
enable children to be kept at school. Africa is developing; India will develop; Ireland
will develop and you cannot hear the representatives of these countries without feeling
look ahead for two years-firstly to control the hours, and secondly to see the minimur
wage comes at 21 years of age; thirdly, there should be less entrants into the industr
branches back the Council. This would bring some relief to many homes and might remos
and I believe it is along these lines that an Agreement would be welcomed providing t
unemployment and short time which have been a menace to our people. (Applause.)
Mr. W. TOWNLEY (Northampton) supported. This Conference should help aliis
can, as we can realise the difficulties of the Council in connection with their demand:
of age, as it is only recently it was shifted. During the war a youth of 18 was a man le
We all agree there is a case to be made out for the minimum wage to be paid at 21 years
was called into the Army and had a man's pay. Is there any reason for supposing a man
cannot earn the minimum until he is 23 years old ? Mr. Attewell has confused the issue
and I cannot say here all I should like to say. It is true we took the output as every man
We had an average output and started to price the operations, and every operative secure
an advantage. It is true a young man was on the stitch separator and the price had to be
time the factory had been
revised, but many of our people had rises. I regret it has been raised in public.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I should like to correct the impression in regard
to the Agreements. Mr. Attewell talked of 21 and 23 years of age. It should be stated
that in 1914 there was not a national minimum, nor could we establish one. We had to
agree to this :-
"From the commencement of the first working week on or after 1st January.
1915, there shall be an increase of 1s. per week at 22 years of age and over, in all
existing minimum wage rates for male operatives, and from the commencement of
the first working week after 1st December, 1915, there shall be a further increase of
Is. per week at 23 years of age and over, in all such minimum wage rates
At the same time we established a minimum wage for heel-building departments
this for the first time in our industry, and also a minimum for the closing departments.
It was not until 1919 that we actually established a National minimum. The Council
will remember that at that time (1914), we could not enforce a National minimum rate,
and at the same time felt we could not ignore the additional shillings offered. A vote of
the members was taken and the Agreement accepted.
Mr. T. RABBITT (Wellingborough): It is not altogether the lads of 14 years to
19 years of age who are affected, but when they get over 19 years old they are put on short
time or discharged. In our district men are sent home for half a day, and whilst away a youth
is taught a machine and given the job. I think it is impossible for us to have the appren-
ticeship system.
ALDERMAN A. HILL, J.P. (Leicester No. 2): I quite agree a number of outsiders
came in our trade during the war period, but the standard of work which was permitted
in the factories then when some people appeared to become competent was altered when
the slump came, as manufacturers think those people are not competent. Surely some
skill is required to make a boot or shoe, and to admit an outsider can become competent
in a short time is beside the fact. The question of overtime must be dealt with by educa-
tion. It is surprising how some of our own members deal with overtime. I don't suppose
and I was glad to hear friend Gould praise the Council, becaught industry we are to be
anyone will grumble about reducing the hours, but we all ought to have an open mind.
with the Council, and not ask for anything in the shape of a definite promise.
congratulated when compared with the " aristocratic" Unions. We must leave these things


---
1
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester) : Mention has been made of operatives being on
I tabled a resolution asking for an apprenticeship
know it is not popular with some of the delegates. It may not be so necessary for clickers
system to be established, as I think by that means we should have more power.
question of an apprenticeship system. When youths are put on to the streets who only
as lasters and finishers. I should like to know whether the Council have considered the
shop over which we have little or no control. I remember a case of a young man who had
know one operation, they drift, and there is a danger that they may get into some bad
been apprenticed coming to Leicester from the Cinderella Works, Worcester. He was
per week, and the employers said: "Wheeler, when are you going to send us another
so master of the operations in the lasting room that without hesitation he was given 90s.
man like the one from Worcester?" He knew the Consol operator, rapid stitcher, and
Richardson machine, and when the machine broke down he put it right I quite appre-
ciate the difficulties of the Council. The employers say if we could get the factors to place
facturers are in the hands of the factors, with the result our people are put on overtime
and then on notice. So far as the Federation is concerned they should see the factors and
ference for the delegates to consider the new Agreement ?
THE CHAIRMAN : It will be referred to the members.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): All members who read the General
President's Report from time to time will see the great difficulty he has in getting Agree-
ments carried out. I remember he recently wrote that three parts of his time was taken
up in putting federated manufacturers in order. I think, therefore, that such steps should
be taken as to have the law behind our Agreements. The Agreements are carried out in
districts where we have an active membership and good officers who take an interest in
the Agreement as a whole. We have other districts constituting a difficulty where it is
almost impossible to make progress. We all know that to make progress for the good of
all we must have help as sometimes voluntary effort proves futile. Whilst we all know
what has been said is very desirable, don't any of you think we shall have a walk-over
with the employers even regarding the reduction of hours. We have to remember other
countries are catering for their own interests. It is necessary to stop an influx into our
own industry, but we shall only touch the fringe of unemployment by reducing hours.
Whatever is done we must secure the whole power of the law behind us, and thus be able
to enforce the Agreements arrived at between ourselves and the Federation.
Paragraph 4 and the resolutions named above were then endorsed unanimously.
Factory Acts.
Paragraph 5 and Resolution 8 were next dealt with.
8 Norwich No. 1 Branch. "That the Executive Council do approach the
Home Secretary with a view to securing legislation demanding a reasonable
standard of light, air, and general cleanliness in all workshops and factories
used for the manufacture of boots and shoes."
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): This resolution was drafted before we knew a Bill
was to be presented to Parliament. The Norwich members wanted the Executive Council
to take an opportunity of paying more attention to the matter. They tabulated the
resolution, not so much because of the circumstances under which the industry is governed
at the moment, but for the time when we have better trade. During the war we found
men of all grades anxious to invest their capital. We have information that all from
dentists to bricklayers put their spare cash into six new firms in Norwich. Houses which
had been condemned long ago, were equipped and used as factories. The operatives
had good wages, but their hygienic conditions of working were deplorable. Owing to the
lack of power we found it nearly impossible to control these factories. Now, in many
instances, these conditions have passed away because many of the manufacturers have gone
out of business, or two or three have united and chosen the best place for the time being.
The time is coming when our industry will have a boom; then you will see speculative
capitalists anxious to put money into the boot and shoe industry. We feel steps should
be taken to secure legislation which will make it necessary for a certificate to be obtained
from the Medical Officer of Health before factories can be used. I know it will incur
expense, and more professional examiners being appointed, but whether that is so or not,
as to whether we shall want more permanent staff or ornaments if you like it must
be done. I agree our Council have done much, but we want the Council to know the members
in the country are at the back of them. We are concerned with all the general conditions
surrounding the life of the operatives, in addition to the question of wages. They are the
things which lengthen the life of the operatives. We commend the Council upon the steps
they have already taken, and hope they will go still further.
---

---
THE CHAIRMAN: No Home Secretary has ever occupied the post who 4.249
your representatives a greater reception than did Mr. Henderson. He did not want
mayor and M.P., he has been interested in this work. We did not go to see him with the
intention of educating him, but to draw his attention to certain factory conditions. The
new Bill gives provisions we hardly dreamt of. I see the Home Secretary is going to play
a larger amount of work on local bodies. I have been on two deputations-one on behalf
of the Union and the other for the Trade Board. We have a clause here--
9. (1) The foregoing provisions as to cleanliness, over-crowding, temperature/
shop, or is adjacent to a dwelling-house or shop in the same occupation, be enforced
in which mechanical power is not used and which forms part of a dwelling-house
ventilation, drainage of floors, and sanitary conveniences shall as respects any factory
(2) The Secretary of State may also arrange with any district council for
in which mechanical power is not used, or in any class or description of such factor
enforcement by the council of all or any of the said provisions in all other factor
district with respect to which the duty of enforcing any of the said provision
(3) Every district council shall keep a register of all factories situate within t
The great difficulty will be what we find in London and Leicester. The Staff at
Home Office must be augmented. There were 24.000 factories not inspected last ye
provided if they are locked up? We have had to complain to the Home Office ab
I see by the Bill, sanitary conveniences must be provided. What is the use of them t
conveniences being locked at 10 o'clock in the morning. The new Bill says water:
glad to say the Home Office always make enquiries at our request. We had a case
months ago regarding solution used for crepe soles. We had a notion that as foot
girls were ill at one time, it was due to the solution, but we are pleased to find the
the solution was not detrimental to health. Taking the Bill as a whole it makes wond
progress. The thing is whether the Government will provide the force to polut it
have been told when this Bill goes through Committee we must not hesitate to recomm
operation, and I hope local councils will do all they can as well as our members.
anything to put forward, send it along to our Central Office when they will be passe
to the Home Secretary or his Staff those matters we think necessary. If any delegate
It is up to us to get the best arrangements made. I notice seating accommodation
be provided. Some of our girls have flat round stools. I could not sit on a flat
stool. I could not sit on the seats in the House of Commons more than three hou
time; seats should be made comfortable. Now we have a sympathetic Governme
should have a Factory Act second to none in the world. (Applause.)
It must be in close proximity. I..
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I hope you will all do what you can wh
you have a Labour M.P. or one belonging to the other parties, because there will be co
tion to some of these clauses. I am quite sure our own members of Parliament will wel
letters from boot operatives suggesting alterations to the Bill. In my opinion we
never used all the powers of the existing Acts of Parliament, and I wish our mem
would report matters to their local officers.
FACTORY INSPECTORS.
We are told-particularly by the Home Office-that they have not the Staff to do
work. Pressure should therefore be brought to bear to insist upon an adequate m
of Inspectors. You will have read in our May Report what a deplorable state of afis
obtains regarding inspection or non-inspection of factories. This is due to the action cfthe
Treasury. Upon Clause 3 of the Bill I want to suggest, although it is stated there s
be 400 cubic feet, we want those cubic feet to be measured for a particular individua
Members know, particularly in some factories, that operatives sit or stand too near
another. That clause wants strengthening. On page 20 of this Bill it states-
35.-(1) A court of summary jurisdiction may, on complaint by an inspec
and on being satisfied that any part of the ways, works, machinery, or plant used
a factory is in such a condition or is so constructed or is so placed that it can
used without danger to life or limb, by order, prohibit its
repair or alteration, prohibit its use until it is duly repaired or altered.
use, or, if it is capable
(2) Where a complaint has been made under this section, the court or a justice
an interim order prohibiting either absolutely or subject to conditions, the use there
part of the ways, works, machinery, or plant, involves imminent danger to life, make
may, on application ex parte by the inspector to the effect that the use of any such
until the earliest opportunity for hearing and determining the complaint.
entitled to control the use of the part of the ways, works, machinery, or plant sha
(3) If there is any contravention of an order made under this section, any perse


---
33
further fine not exceeding five pounds for each day during which the contravention
be guilty of an offence, and liable to a fine not exceeding twenty pounds, and to a
has mentioned the question of water. There is another improvement which I hope will
This shows unsatisfactory factories can be dealt with by the magistrate, The Chairman
go through in Clauses 38 and 39-
accessible to all persons employed an adequate supply of wholesome drinking water
38. - (1) There shall be provided and maintained at suitable points conveniently
from a public main or from some other source approved in writing by the district
council.
(2) Each drinking water supply shall be clearly marked "Drinking Water,"
and a supply of drinking water which is not laid on shall be contained in suitable
vessels, and shall be renewed at least daily; and all practicable steps shall be taken
to preserve the water and vessels from contamination.
39.-(1) There shall be provided for the use of all persons employed adequate
and
towels) conveniently situated, which shall be maintained in good order and repair.
at least one fixed basin for every ten persons employed, which shall be composed of
ataterial having a smooth impervious surface, and shall be fitted with a waste pipe
and plug, and shall have water laid on or, where this is impracticable, an adequate
supply of water constantly available; or, alternatively, a trough with a smooth
supervious surface fitted with a waste pipe without plug, and of such length as to
allow at least one foot for every ten persons employed and having a constant supply
of water from jets or taps above the trough at intervals of not more than two feet; and
(3) For the purposes of this section fractions of ten shall be reckoned as ten.
On the question of underground rooms Clause 58 says-
58.-(1) In the industries or processes to which this section applies work shalt
not be carried on in any underground room which is certified by the inspector for the
district to be unsuitable for the purpose as regards construction, light, ventilation,
or in any other respect.
If the occupier feels aggrieved by any decision of an inspector under this section
the matter shall, in accordance with rules as to procedure and costs (including the
remuneration of the referee) made by the Secretary of State, be referred to the decision
of a person appointed (in default of agreement) by the judge of the county court
having jurisdiction where the factory is situate.
(2) The foregoing provision shall not apply to any underground room used only
for the purpose of storage or for any other purpose which may be excepted by order
of the Secretary of State.
(3) In this section the expression "underground room" means any room which
or any part of which is so situate that half or more than half the whole height thereof,
measured from the floor to the ceiling, is below the surface of the footway of the
adjoining street or of the ground adjoining or nearest to the room.
(4) Any certificate issued under this section may be withdrawn by the inspector
for the district if such alterations are made in the room as in his opinion to render-
it suitable.
(5) This section applies to the following industries and processes, namely:-
Cabinet-making;
Glass bevelling;
Letterpress printing;
Laundry work;
Manufacture and repair of boots and shoes;
Making up of other wearing apparel;
Upholstering,
and processes incidental thereto.
The Secretary of State may by special order extend the provisions of this section
to industries and processes other than those specified in this subsection.
This section applies to many industries and amongst them
"THE MANUFACTURE AND REPAIR OF BOOTS AND SHOES."
I am sure you will all agree if this Bill goes through we shall have made considerable head-
way. (Applause.)
THE CHAIRMAN: We tried to make an impression upon the Home Secretary
that all our operatives should be a certain distance from each other. That would kill the


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
34
one should be a distance of five or six feet. These are matters upon which we have ap-
twin edgesetter, and we want to kill it. The Medical Officers of Health agree that every.
proached the Home Secretary, and I think he will take powers to include them in the Bill
W. Whyment, of Desborough, had lost his credential card, whilst Messrs. Greaves and
Parker, of Leicester, and Messrs. Dunn and Housby, of Stafford, had not secured certain
Clause 5 having been endorsed, the Standing Orders Committee reported that Mr
Mr. Dunn stated it was an oversight due to a
signatures on their credential cards.
domestic bereavement.
The Conference adjourned at 12.30 p.m.
Afternoon Session.
The Conference resumed at 2 p.m., the General President presiding. The Roll hang
been called, the General Secretary reported all the delegates were present.
The General Secretary read the following letter :---
TO MR. E. L. POULTON, O.B.E., J.P.,
1 KING'S BENCH WALK,
General Secretary of the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives.
DEAR MR. POULTON, -If an
TEMPLE, EC..
7th June, 1921
I hope you will convey to the President, Executive Council and Members my hear
opportunity arises during the week's celebra
congratulations upon the Union having reached its Jubilee.
!
Executive Council, containing the remarkable history of the Union. It is a recor
I have been reading with great interest the splendid volume sent to me
the foresight necessary to meet the changing conditions of industry; of abilit
cessfully to provide for those changes of courage and tenacity to struggle thro
problems by friendly and business-like discussion of the establishment, in co-
the trials of early years of a firm faith in the principle of the settlement of contentio
tion with Federated Manufacturers, of an organisation for the government of
trial relations which has no superior and which, for 29 years, has secured g
place and stability in the trade; and, finally, of a Jubilee year full of pride in the pare
and hope for the future.
That the trade may flourish and that the years to come may be full of studiess
and prosperity for the Union is the earnest wish of
Yours very sincerely,
W. ADDINGTON WILLIS,
Chairman of the
The delegates unanimously decided to send a reply expressing appreciation and
National Comerem
thanks for the letter, and later in the day the General Secretary despatched a letter in the
following terms :-
W. ADDINGTON WILLIS, Esg., K.C.,
1, King's Bench Walk,
Temple, London, E.C.
10th June, 1924.
DEAR MR. WILLIS, -Your letter of appreciation of the work of the Union was
read to the Conference. The Conference were delighted to receive the same and they
unanimously instructed me on their behalf to thank you for the said letter and its
contents. The Conference hopes, with you, that the work of the Union in connection
with the Manufacturers' Federation will continue their work to still further conserve
the industry as a whole.
I am, on behalf of the Conference,
Yours faithfuly,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
to Mr. Willis, added: "Mr. Willis is our nominee. His two years as Chairman of the
THE CHAIRMAN, who had previously suggested a letter of appreciation be sent
tions, and we look upon him as an unbiassed, highly intelligent gentleman, without fear
Trade Board caused us to think he would be a proper person to preside over our delibera-
who later said Mr. Willis had carried out his duty as a disinterested person most magnani-
or favour to either side. That recommendation was accepted by the employers' side,
mously." (Applause.)


---
35
Consumption.
Paragraph 6 was next discussed.
Mr. W. R. SMITH, M.P., J.P.: A few conferences ago, one of the delegates in
speaking on this particular subject stated, in his opinion, it was a most important question
affecting our industry. It is the importance of the matter which is responsible for any
rising to make a few observations in regard to this paragraph. We have some figures set
out before us which appear to be very encouraging from the standpoint that they represent
a very considerable falling away so far as this dreadful disease is concerned. When one
looks at these figures, one is inclined to ask for the reason for this falling from 46 per cent, in
1905 to 23 per cent. in 1923. I wonder whether the explanation lies in the fact that during
the period under review there has been a rather remarkable development in the class of
factory in which our members have to work. If that is the explanation for the reduction
which still exists as referred to by my friend Tex, and which existed in the earlier years
it appears to me to emphasise the fact that we should concentrate upon that class of factory
of these tables. I have been working in a district which very largely compares with thirty
figures represent an improvement it should stir us to bring about a general levelling up of
turned into a shoe factory, and our members paid very dearly as a result. Although these
accurate in themselves do not represent the actual facts? I don't know how many of
factories in the country. Is this just one of those occasions, when figures-although very
the delegates present really think there is this diminution of consumption in our trade.
In case that has occurred to the minds of any, I should like to bring before this Conference
I think it will be readily conceded that consumption is a disease
dreadful in its character as all know who have been associated with it. I have had the
unfortunate experience of seeing men waste away and die in the Infirmary of my city.
Anyone who has seen that kind of thing will understand the position. This disease is one
which affects our members in their earlier years, and up to the age of 45 is most deadly
Strange to say, although these figures represent a change, there is scarcely any change at all.
Then you take the number of members we lose at 45 years of age and under, the percentage
of those dying from consumption is staggering. In 1910 it was 52 per cent.; out of every
members dying one died from consumption. In 1913 it was 50 per cent.; 1914–54
True the percentage has fallen in 1921 to 44 per cent., but in 1923 the percentage
It seemed as soon as a building became unfit for anything, it could be
or forty years ago.
per cent.
was 51.2 per cent. In the records for the year ending December, 1923, the percentage of
deaths of members of 45 years of age and under is over 50 per cent., whilst in the last
published records of the Union-half-year ending December, 1923-it was 57.6 per cent.
I think it would be unfortunate if these figures were not brought before you. I don't know
whether it is due to the growth of the membership which is responsible for the general
figures, but the rate of consumption up to the age of 45 years is over 50 per cent., which
is far too high and vigilant steps must be taken to reduce it.
Mr. A. BIRT (Northampton): Our reports show year after year the number of
deaths due to consumption. When one realises the importance of workmen having to
notify this disease, he begins to wonder whether it is worth while. Very often consump-
tives have to go into the factory, which is a mistake. The Council should establish a
colony for people who realise the difficulties under which they are struggling, and realise
the difficulties they bring to other people, because they have to live in their present con-
ditions. I am pleased to think we are advancing on this particular matter, and if we do
our best we shall get over the position, but I do appeal for a colony to be set up.
Mr. E. MARRIOTT (Northampton No. 2): Ofttimes an individual suffering
from consumption does not know it, and a periodical examination of all boot operatives
would be a considerable help. In my opinion, if this was done it would be a benefit to the
workers in the factories. We oftimes abuse ourselves, because we do not know what to
eat or drink, and medical examinations would help.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: You all have a copy of the notes taken at our
interview with the Home Secretary, and I am sorry Mr. W. R. Smith was not present.
PHTHISIS IN THE BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Principal Union Officials visit the Home Office.
HOME SECRETARY'S REPLY.
At the request of the Executive Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives, a deputation consisting of Mr. T. F. Richards (General President), Mr. E. L.
Poulton, J.P. (General Secretary), Mr. J. Buckle, M.P., J.P., Mr. F. Gould, M.P.,
and Mr. Ernest Bordoli (Confidential Clerk), waited upon the Secretary of State for
Home Affairs the Rt. Hon. Arthur Henderson-on Friday, the 4th, April, 1924,
at 10.30 a.m., at the Home Office, Whitehall, London, S.W.I.
Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., J.P., was prevented from attending owing to being
engaged on work connected with the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.


---
In addition to the Secretary of State for Home Affairs, there was also present
from the Home Office Sir Malcolm Delevingne, Mr. R. Bannatyne, C.B., Dr. Legge,
C.B.E., and Mr. C. G. Markbreite, C.B.E.
MR. RICHARDS: I hope you will pardon us for the brevity of our case. We are
well aware of the gentleman we are addressing, and know the Secretary of State has
full knowledge of the facts, otherwise we may have gone more fully into detail.
I have known the Secretary of State firstly as a workman, councillor, and during
my brief period in the House of Commons always found him interested in the subject
about which we have called to-day.
The object of the deputation is to impress on the Department the vital necessity
of incorporating in the proposed new factory legislation, the series of resolutions
the outcome of a special Conference of representatives of the Boot Manufacturers'
Federation of the United Kingdom, and representatives of the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives, held at the Home Office in 1917.
This deputation, however, consisting exclusively of representatives of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, particularly desires to emphasise, that although
in agreement with the resolution whereby it is proposed to increase the cubic capacity
feet per operative, that the Home Office will agree to secure a clause in the new fac-
now provided in the present factory Act of 250 cubic feet per operative to 500 cubic
tory Act, whereby there shall be a minimum space of 4 feet between every operative
working in a boot factory at a machine or bench.
We are emphatic in this recommendation because the Medical Research Com-
mittee in its investigation, having special regard to the boot and shoe industry and
prevalence of Phthisis, reports on page 6 of its report, as follows:-
"The air space as measured by cubic capacity per person always exceeds
as minimum of 250 cubic feet required by Section 3 of the Factory Workshots
Act, 1901, and was found in 100 factories of varying sizes to average 800 to 900
cubic feet per head."
In the same report it is stated that although the cubic feetage provision in the
Factory Act was in almost every case exceeded there seemed to be a general congestion
in the departments.
Again expert evidence was quoted conclusively proving that for operatives
sit within three feet of each other constituted a danger zone as far as the disease of
Phthisis was concerned.
This deputation also wishes to impress upon the Home Office the necessity of
the proposed new factory legislation to make provisions whereby it shall be com-
pulsory for all boot and shoe operatives to be employed in factories. Our reasons
for making this suggestion are because we have knowledge of the fact that there is
still a large number of boot operatives employed in small workshops in connection
with their homes, where factory legislation is evaded, and our great desire is to see that
the new proposed factory legislation eliminates from our industry all conditions which
tend to sweating and creating unhealthy conditions of labour.
This deputation also wishes to strongly urge on the Department the necessity
for some provision being made in the new factory legislation whereby it shall be
compulsory for every employer of labour in connection with the production of boots,
shoes and slippers, or preparing or manufacturing parts in connection with the manu-
facture of boots, shoes or slippers, to register or otherwise secure a license to use as a
factory any particular building for the employment of labour under the Act.
This deputation wishes to express its great dissatisfaction with the inadequacy
of the department staff of inspectors for the enforcement of the Factory Act. The
deputation has knowledge of the fact that scores of boot, shoe and slipper factories
are never visited by a factory inspector unless it is in the case of following up an
accident which has been reported.
The deputation, therefore, sincerely hopes that the department will take imme-
diate steps to increase its staff to enable it to thoroughly administer the law.
In the appointment, however, of any additional factory inspectors the deputation
seriously suggests that the time has come when expert practical men who have been
thoroughly trained in the industry should be alone appointed, in connection with that
industry is concerned a special staff should be created to thoroughly administer the
industry; in other words, this deputation wishes to recommend that as far as its own
Acts, and that staff should consist exclusively of men who have worked and gained
their knowledge in the factories.
In connection with this recommendation this deputation suggests that in the
appointment of inspectors the ordinary Civil Service examination should be dispensed
with, and the persons appointed should be appointed on the sheer merit of their
practical experience and knowledge of the industry.
---

---
37
In conclusion, we would respectfully remind you that we speak as a deputation
on behalf of the workers of an industry which has been singled out by the Medical
Research Committee owing to the fact that the death rate from Phthisis is abnormal,
statistics showing that boot and shoe operatives dying from all causes between 20 and
45 years of age over 50 per cent. die of consumption.
We are anxious that these important matters should be brought to your know-
ledge. It would be like taking coals to Newcastle to try and educate you upon the
subject. At a number of meetings we have held with the boot employers, resolutions
them. We trust you will give this matter your serious attention. Reports were
were passed in this connection, and we certainly hope you will have time to consult
ment look upon the matter seriously. We hope you will not overlook us when legis-
issued in 1915, 1920 and 1921, through the Home Office which show that your Depart-
lation is brought in.
MR. POULTON: I wish to substantiate the statements of the General President.
I believe you already have the report from the Joint Industrial Council, as follows :-
1.-LIGHTING.
(a) Natural :
1. In any new works, underground workrooms should be prohibited.
The definition of the term underground workroom was left to the Home Office.
2. As regards existing works, no underground room should be used as a workplace
after a period of three years unless a certificate has been given by H.M. Inspector of
Factories that it is suitable for that purpose, that in the event of exception being taken
by the owner, occupier, or any operative employed in such factories to the with-
holding or otherwise of such a certificate, the case shall be referred by that party to
the J.I.C. which shall be required to investigate and report its opinions to the Chief
Inspector of Factories, Home Office, and further that the Home Office shall take no
official action in the matter pending the receipt of such a report.
3. All windows must be kept clean inside and outside.
(b) Artificial :
Artificial lighting should be adequate and the light should be so placed and shaded
as to prevent, so far as practicable, the rays of light from impinging directly on the
eyes of the workers.
2.-CLEANLINESS.
(a) Walls and Tops :
The legal requirements should be strictly enforced and in view of the number of
existing regulations and the difficulty of strict enforcement, this Council asks that
if the staff of Inpsectors is inadequate for the purpose, the Home Office will seriously
consider the advisability of appointing additional inspectors for the boot and shoe
trade.
(b) Floors:
1. In order to facilitate cleaning, the floors of all workrooms should be main-
tained in good condition.
2. Unless efficiently cleaned daily by a mechanically operated Vacuum Cleaner,
the floors of all workrooms should be thoroughly swept by a damp method at least
once in every 24 hours.
The floor of all Clicking and Closing Departments should be washed at least once
in every six months and if practicable the floors of other departments should be treated
in the same way.
3. Floors should not be swept while the operatives are present in the workrooms.
WASHING ACCOMMODATION.
Ample and suitable Washing Accommodation (including Soap and Towels) should
be provided.
FIRST AID EQUIPMENT.
Unless a suitable Ambulance Room is established a properly equipped First Aid
Box for every 150 workers should be kept in a convenient position.
PURITY OF AIR.
Gas and Oil Engines should be separated from workrooms.
INFECTION FROM Consumptive WORKERS.
Spitting on the floors or walls of factories or workshops should be prohibited.


---
Here is the extracted text:
of Northampton. It is a
the room.
38
At a lecture given recently in Northampton to the boot managers, the question
of modern methods of lighting in boot factories was the topic for discussion, and if
possible we should like to get your additional help upon the subject. Methods of
lighting are very important indeed, and at the present time there are only two firms
who have an up-to-date method Messrs. Bostock, of Stafford, and Messrs. Truform
question of getting the light upon the work rather than in
the effect upon the employees eyes is very great indeed. When I went to America
We attach very great importance to the lighting of factories, because of
therefore, if this point can be seriously considered as I am quite sure it would be for
two years ago, I could not help being struck with the way their lighting is controlled.
the light there is on the work rather than put about the factory. I shall be glad,
THE SECRETARY OF STATE: Are most of your boot manufacturing workshops
the general good of the body.
being used for the purpose for which they were built ?
MR. POULTON: Most of them.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE: Then the light was not properly put in when built
has not until recently received that consideration which it should have done either
MR. POULTON No! but I should like to respectfully suggest that this question
by ourselves, the manufacturers, or Government departments.
I believe we are the second or third trade in the country with such a high rate of
I want now to press the point of consumption of which our trade is still a victim
the great help your Department has always given us, and the great assistance given us
mortality. This is a very serious thing, but I wish to say how much we recognise
by those gentlemen whom you placed at our disposal and whom we consulted. If
you can help us further apart from the Factory Acts-we shall be grateful. Here.
Sir, I have a table showing the percentage of deaths due to tuberculosis, the figures
having been extracted from the records of the Union :ï
No. of deaths
due to all causes.
due to Tuberculosis.
No. of deaths
Year ending.
1905
174
81
Percentage.
46.5
1906
181
66
36.1
1907
204
67
32.8
1908
193
70
36.2
1909
209
84
40.2
1910
205
78
38.0
1911
190
71
37.3
1912
264
74
28.0
1913
264
88
33.3
1914
306
101
33.0
1915
1916
1917
War Period.
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
546
506
538
447
128
141
128
105
23.4
27.8
23.7
23.4
1
I now wish to call your attention to a series of correspondence which has passeć
regarding the Barwell and Earl Shilton districts of Leicestershire. When the Health
Insurance Act was passed, the Department itself-before it became the Ministry of
Health-was so concerned with the heavy rates of sickness in the shoe trade in this
district, that they held a conference in our Central Office when in Leicester, under the
chairmanship of Sir David Shackleton. We have not been successful in reducing
the sickness or mortality rate. The Leicestershire County Council have recently
held a conference upon the subject, and having regard to the whole of the circum-
stances we feel we are entitled to ask for that help which will speedily bring about
a normal rate. If you have not seen the copies of this correspondence I shall be glad
to date. The local body in some respects is somewhat reactionary, because they
to leave it here, so that you can see what we have been trying to do since 1914 down
will not take up the position of doing what we consider to be their duty, and whilst
we feel we have your sympathy we are
from the standpoint of boot operatives, but also from the standpoint of the health of the
asking you to put pressure on, not merely
"three
feet apart," this is a very important matter. Phthisis is a very serious matter for us.
MR. BUCKLE: With regard to the expression used by our President of
interest. You will find in some of the closing departments of our factories that
I think the discussions which have taken place upon this subject have created much


---
39
operatives should not sit facing each other, but have single benches. Upper closing
women sit very closely to one another, and opposite each other, and we suggest the
is a very important operation, and the question of consumption has been troubling
factories are very detrimental, particularly in the East End of London where you have
know great improvements have taken place during the past ten years and the smaller
us for many years past. If you can assist us in this direction we shall be glad. We
back of the place. We should like your assistance upon the question of female
a house with beautiful lace curtains up, and then ten or twelve shoe operatives at the
workers particularly, and hope you will take into consideration the question of space
which is so essential if we are to reduce the death rate so far as consumption is
concerned.

MR. GOULD: I can only speak from the practical side, having only recently left
the boot factory. Our industry is subject to specialisation of machinery. Accumu-
tation of dust comes into the factory, due to the fact that the absence of proper in-
spection enables a firm not to have the fans cleaned out as often as they should be.
Very often I have seen men leave their machine for five or ten minutes to get a breath
from the clicker's bench and pressman's bench fall to the ground and are all too
of fresh air, due to the clogging of the fan and causing bad ventilation. The cuttings
These bits are picked up by boys or men, and used by other
frequently spat upon.
accumulation of dust, and there is the danger of infection.
people in the making of the boot. You come into contact with the spit and

Until we have fresh legislation that compels manufacturers-particularly in the
heavy nailed trade in Kingswood and district from using wash-houses and back
hitchens for making boots, these dreadful conditions are likely to continue, and I
hope you will give us powers to control it. That is one of our problems. I hope you
will give attention to the matter.

The Home Secretary's Reply.

THE SECRETARY OF STATE: Mr. Richards and Gentlemen, -I am very pleased
to have had this opportunity of hearing the case which you have submitted to us this
morning, and can say your visit comes most opportune from the standpoint that we
are about to introduce a Factory Bill. I was very pleased to hear Mr. Poulten pay his
tribute to the officials of this Department, for during the time I have been associated
with it I have had it very definitely confirmed what I knew before, that any matters
affecting the health and safety of the workers, the officials devote themselves, and
are devoting themselves to protect the interest of the workers with commendable
zeal. I am rather glad Mr. Poulton, coming with the weight of his experience in the
organised labour movement, should be prepared to give his testimony, and I am
quite sure his colleagues also take that view of the work which the officials of the Home
Office have been doing for a long time past. Perhaps the coming of a Secretary in-
terested in so many of these questions as I am will enable them through the coming
Factory Bill to give expression to some of the laudable ideas which are at the back
of their minds. I can assure the deputation that the points which have been brought
before us will receive-and are already receiving-the most careful consideration.

It is over twenty years since we had a comprehensive Factory Bill, and naturally
it is the desire of all in the Department to avail themselves with the improvements
and developments with regard to the health, ventilation and space as far as we think
Parliamentary circumstances will permit, and of course always bearing in mind
you can carry some of the changes advocated without interfering with the continuance
of an industry. The work that is done outside factories is a very important matter.
It used to be a very familiar phrase twenty years ago when I first went to the House of
Commons-"the out-worker." I well remember being on the Select Committee,
presided over by the late Sir Thomas Whittaker, when we received evidence of the
most appalling nature so far as out-workers were concerned. Although I knew a
good deal about it before that Select Committee, it was the information I obtained
there that made me so strong to get a change in connection with the chain makers
at Cradley Health, which resulted in our getting an amendment-which I moved
myself carried and included in the Sweated Trades' Bill. Both the officials and I
are tackling these questions with sympathy and practical experience. Any new
point which may have been made this morning will be made a note of by Sir Malcolm
Delevigne and will receive careful consideration. If they are not already in the new
Bill and it is possible to secure their inclusion, I shall be only too delighted to see they
are included. As the Bill goes through the House your own representatives--and
officials outside the House will be in a position to try and secure their inclusion
and they will be able to consult Mr. Davies or myself as to any amendments they wish
to make.

The case you have presented appeals to me very sympathetically.

MR. RICHARDS asked whether the Ministry of Health would deal with this sub-
ject in addition to the Home Office.


---
40
SIR M. DELEVINGNE: It comes under the scope of workshops; tuberculosis
as a general question is a matter for the Ministry of Health, but in the factory it is our
business.
DR. LEGGE stated that industrial phthisis was for the Home Office, although
the Industrial Fatigue Board came under the Ministry of Health.
MR. POULTON: If the question necessitated, do I understand that we might be
allowed to consult the gentlemen who have already handled it?
SIR M. DELEVINGNE: The Inspectors who reported upon the question of lighting,
air, &c., were set up by this Department, yes.
MR. RICHARDS expressed his satisfaction with the view, and intimated that some
of his colleagues thought they should have met the Ministry of Health, although he
was satisfied the Home Office was the Department.
MR. RICHARDS thanked the Secretary of State for Home Affairs and Permanent
Officials for receiving the deputation.
The deputation withdrew at 11.15 a.m.
The Council is constantly doing all they possibly can in regard to this great subject.
feel myself somewhat proud that I was enabled some years ago to convince a Government
Department to take up this subject in earnest. It meant a good deal of trouble, and we
had to wade through hundreds of documents, but it would not be too much trouble if
result experts were put at our disposal to help with the work. In addition, I want to remind
had to go through thousands of them if we could only save a few people's lives. As a
the members of the great beneficial work we are doing under the
MAJOR STEVENS' TREATMENT.
I hope it will become known more and more.
The Council have given me practically a free hand that if a member makes representation
through his officers, the case is dealt with at once.
It is not only bringing hope-but health.
We know the treatment is not official..
recognized by the medical fraternity, but we know the treatment is effective toward
helping those who are afflicted with this dread disease. Although it may not be acknow-
ledged by the medical fraternity, we should not allow either that or the cost to weigh in
the balance so long as we have the support of the Conferences. Moreover, I hope I am
always keeping my eyes and ears open for the benefit of the members. In the course of
my reading some three weeks ago I came across statements made in another country
and at once began to bombard the Minister of Health to take the matter up. The reply
received was that the matter had not sufficiently advanced, and I had not produced enough
evidence to warrant him going on with the subject. There is a Doctor Crofton in Dublin
who has found out a method for treating consumptives. That being so I am quite sure
you will give us all the support you can in saying we should take advantage of that treat-
ment, if necessary, to bring amelioration to the country. I thought, Mr. Chairman, it
was only right to make these statements. The figures given by Mr. W. R. Smith show
the necessity for unsleeping vigilance and that is being done by your Executive. For
myself I try and visualise the suffering, and if we only save five or six of them it is worth
while going to the trouble.
the Factories Bill, which, we hope, may still further reduce the vital statistics. (Applause.
Mr. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2): A member of ours works in a healthy
workshop. He has been in a sanatorium. What I wish to ask is whether Major Stevens
can examine him? Some days he is better than others. Everything cannot be done by
correspondence like it can by an examination.
THE CHAIRMAN : We ought all to remember what we are.
sation for the prevention of consumption.
We are not an organi-
Everything is possible if we have the money.
We stretched our rules to pay for Major Stevens' treatment, and now you want as a
trade union-to pay for members to go to Major Stevens. Do you realise the cost?
Major Stevens has no objection to examining a patient. He prefers to see all the patients,
but we cannot guarantee to pay the cost. Members can go to Wimbledon for an examina-
iton at any convenient time. He is a layman, and anyone who has had conduct with
doctors knows full well there is nothing good in the lay mind. You should remember the
way Sir Herbert Barker was treated for many years until his ability was forced upon them.
Mr. Smith believes, and I agree, that we are making little or no progress in stamping out
consumption. I saw a statement the other day that consumption was
TWENTY PER CENT WORSE.
Union before their death is recorded, and go into some other occupation, and we should
than twenty years ago. There are figures of our members only. How many leave the
We have been in touch with the Minister of Health, and turned down because the subject
blame our present Government, because they have not been in the saddle long enough.
have a very open mind upon the subject. The Government is not doing its duty. I don't


---
Here is the text from the image:
belongs to the Home Office. In the new Factories Bill I should like to see tuberculosis as a notifiable disease detrimental to health. The whole of our resources should be brought to bear to let these people live a racial life. Although the late Government talked about putting up homes for consumptives, they did not do half as much as they ought to have done. Our death rate due to consumption is second in the kingdom, the highest being the printers. Everything should be done by the nation as a whole to wipe out this disease. It is only when the local bodies have made up their minds that a consumptive is a sick person that we shall commence to stamp out the disease. So far as examining the factory is concerned, I hope some day we shall arrive at that conclusion. If you introduced it now you would have people on strike. That can only be done by education. I quite agree with the point put forward by Mr. W. R. Smith. Mr. Smith rather thinks we are going the other way, or weakening consumption. Mr. Smith rather thinks we are going the other way, and whether that is so or not we must utilise all the powers at our disposal. (Applause.)

Mr. D. McCARTHY (Organiser): I look upon the humanising of industry to prevent consumption. Rich people are willing to make contributions towards the sick, but until we humanise the factories we shall not reduce the consumptives and so on, but until we humanise the factories we shall not reduce it. The trade union movement with the labour movement are the only people to bring about the change. People in charge of a business look at the business side only. We must establish an independent life. I hate the very name of colony or convalescent homes. Who wants to be taken from their friends? Death would be preferable to it. You have men in the House of Commons to-day bound up in commerce and business. They are there to obstruct business, and go away after a day at the House, like a card sharper who has beaten his dupes. I live in a town where the workers contribute the infirmary and Convalescent Homes than any other. They claim. Our claim for 44 hours will be opposed; the rush is out of all proportion to the rich. Our claim for 44 hours will be opposed; the rush and desire to get rich quick prevents all that. In the East end of London boot factories are set up and no one knows about them, and the man at the bottom suffers most.

Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): I am pleased the Council are interesting themselves in this subject, because I know it is an important matter. It is not the first time the Council have interested the Home Office. I remember when I was on the Council, an enquiry was held, as we had an idea that the dust from the heel and bottom scouring machines in the Finishing Department was responsible to some extent for consumption, as well as the stuff from the padding and heel brushing machines. The question was put to Dr. Collis as to whether this would cause consumption. Dr. Collis, who is the Home Office expert, said it had nothing to do with it. Whatever experts suggest, our members should be prepared to submit to their decision. You all know if there is a draught in the factory men want windows closing, and in many homes they refuse to have the windows open.

Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): I have no complaints to make against our officials over this. I have worked with men who work as fast as they could. I told them they would kill themselves and they did. I knew one case of a man who died from consumption; then his wife died and left six little children. Another man I know picks winners or losers; is at the club on Sunday; keeps late nights, and wonders why he is not well. Another has plenty to drink and wants nothing to eat for three days. I think if you look up the Factory Act women can work up to six weeks before and six weeks after childbirth. I say they should leave work seven months before until five years after. We should all go out into the country; that is what I should do if I had to live in a town. If you can give children good food, good boots to wear; we shall do much. We must start fight with the children, as that is much better than tinkering with old people. It is that is is a machine. I don't intend to be a machine. When a part of a machine breaks another part can be put in, but you cannot have a new heart or kidneys. Don't forget the words of Robert Burns, who said:

Wine is like anger for it makes us strong,
Blind and impatient, and it leads us wrong.
The strength is quickly lost,
And we feel the error long.

Mr. E. BONHAM (Wellingborough) recited cases he knew personally: In 1914 a relative of mine went to a sanatorium. Later she came into a factory for a short period and fell ill again. She went under a specialist and two years ago tried Major Stevens' treatment, and the last report stated her lung was sound. I don't think our members are fully aware of the treatment. I have mentioned it to several people. I point out it is due to the neglect of members not attending branch meetings that they miss these things. I work in a new factory with everything up to date, but about every fortnight the operatives have to be pulled up for spitting in the factory. Spittoons should be provided and a syringe of disinfectant used.

THE CHAIRMAN : If this Factories Bill becomes law spitting will be prohibitive.
It is mainly a habit. (Hear, hear.)

Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): About twenty years ago I was active in Northampton about having consumption notified. A resolution was carried on the Town Council.

---
seems to be some conflict
12
must have proper treatment, food, air and dress.
yard, I should tell him to go to h
authorities send consumptives to sanatoria.
for better conditions in the industry.
These are the backbone to ensure success
For some time we have felt we should be
have to attack
and sent to the Government, and they brought about compulsory notification. There
If I was a consumptive and the Medical Officer of Health said you live in a hut in the back.
ict as to the value of treatment and sanatoria. Consumptives
encourage people to go away, and I hope pressure will be brought to bear to make local
I would rather go to a sanatorium. We should
Mr. J. H. BAUM (Organiser): I feel we are doing all we can by pushing forward
and even through Parliament itself. We have members on education authorities, and they
this disease from many points of view, and to a large extent through administrative bodies,
know the need of paying more attention to the physical side of the children. From a ferm
Medical Officer of Health under the Education Authority, there are hundreds of children
enquiries I have made in Leicester, and watching the statistics prepared by the local
connection with an Institution School and a Grammar School. In the Institution School
condemned from the first day they enter a factory. Very recently I saw statistics
children were brought from the worst homes their standard of living was low. Their
five years, and with all their early defects, as a result of five years' treatment in an Instita-
mentality was deficient, and we made comparisons of the boys after living in the Institution
tion School we found these children's vital capacity, or immunity from disease was highe
and open-air life, these children were going out into the world with a superior advantage
than those of the children at the Grammar School, demonstrating by regular feeding
children attending our ordinary school we find the Medical Officer has control up to 11
over those attending the Elementary or Grammar School. From the examination of
years of age. Afterwards there is
NO CONTROL AT ALL.
have not the full facts up
registered as being below normal, are the first to fall to this disease. There are schools in
existence where the breathing space of a child is not equal to that of a convict in His
Then we discover at the age of 18, after working in the factory, those children who were
are breathing one another's breath after they have been in the classroom for one or two
Majesty's prisons. Up and down the country there are hundreds of schools where children.
hours, and to keep the children physically fit the air should be constantly changed. Verv
I suggest upwards of 3,000 children ought not to be in school above one hour per day
and it would be of considerable value to the city, children and education authority to see
side of their nature. I am convinced that the conditions of the industry make it more
that these children went into the fields and so be allowed a chance to develop the physical
acceptable for this terrible disease. Where vitality is low it cannot resist the treatment
meted out. I appeal for the need of more open-air schools for the benefit of our children.
(Applause.)
THE CHAIRMAN: If we can only get the local authorities to take action some
improvement might be obtained. Mr. Stevenson-Taylor, Mr. Owen Parker and I visited
factories in Stafford, Leicester and Northampton, and when I remind you that if desired
a change of air can be secured every twenty minutes, it is only a question of f s. d. and
determination.
Mr. J. CULL (London Metro.): I say deliberately and fearlessly that the fresh-
air treatment is in the hands of the men themselves. In London we are at loggerheads
as to when the window shall be open and when shut. As soon as it is open someone objects.
I suggest some circulars be issued from the Central Office asking members to have the
windows open; more notice would be taken of it than if it came from local officers. In
London last week the rain fell in sheets. We had the skylight open and a man complained
because the sun was scorching his neck. (Laughter.)
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member) intimated that the Sphalinger treatment
was recently discussed at Blackpool, when he attended a conference of Approved Societies
with the Manager of the Health Insurance Department. If doctors disagree over the
matter, how can we agree? It is only when you find the cause of the disease that a remedy
will be found. I believe Mr. W. R. Smith is right when he suggested the number of con-
sumptives is a high as ever.
opening windows. In old factories the windows have to be opened and people object;
A properly ventilated factory would be ventilated without
bven a ray of sunshine at the back of the neck is not always good. I don't suppose it is
because employers want to kill workmen off, but I as at
present rather than alter things. Even the rich people are not immune from the disease,
so matters might be pushed a little quicker.
the next item-Education for I am convinced the ordinary man and woman wants a
Mr. G. BROOKS (Leicester): We might well have discussed this subject under
confident that until we get ideal ventilation, what is one man's food is another man's
great deal of education on this subject. Much has been said about ventilation, but I am
--- OCR End ---

---
43
poison.
I have noticed that on some occasions the window has been open for an hour
or so and those opposed to it have not noticed it, but when they saw the window open they
immediately felt a draught. When we talk about public authorities, eventually it comes
a little addition was made to the sanitary arrangements at the firm where I work. Three
washing basins were provided, but in a few months the bottom was knocked out of two
of them, and has never been replaced. So far as spitting is concerned, we ought all to be
more careful, as this would do a great deal to alleviate the position.
The paragraph was then endorsed.
Education.
Paragraph 7 was taken in conjunction with resolution 2.
2 Kettering No. 1 Branch.-" This Conference, believing that Education is
essential to the full development of the Trade Union movement, recom-
mends this Conference to discuss the problem in its widest aspect, and to
determine, that, as soor. as the Educational Policy of the Trades Union
Congress is issued, this Union will do everything possible to develop such
policy amongst its members."
Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering): I should like to move this resolution which is
similar to the one moved last year. It has been brought forward, because of the fact that
there will be two years between this Conference and our next. There is every probability
that the recommendations of the Trade Union Congress will have matured, and have been
submitted to the country. It is the hope of the Kettering Branch, and most of the delegates,
committee for some time past, and we should be able to give adherence to any resolutions
which come from the Trade Union Congress and ask the Executive Council of the Union to
provide those facultiesner we ask you to deal with this matter in its widest aspect. I suggest
pre rely upon General Council of the Trades Congress to carry out scheuggest
appeal for your support to the resolution. The trade union movement realise that educa-
tion is the basis future success.
It has been stated by our General President that
"there is nothing like education," and we must see that point is pushed forward. The
fight of the trade union movement has been sticking to the problem which confronts it,
but its aims cannot be realised until such time as we get into the minds of our members
a greater and fuller conception of the problems. That can only be done by education.
I do not mind if immediately any policy is adopted it is accepted by us, because if only
2 per cent., 3 per cent. or 4 per cent. of our members take advantage of it I am convinced
the sooner it comes the better it will be for us, and will be a step forward in our development
to get members to take an interest and comprehensive view of all matters which come before
115.
Mr. J. JEFFS (Northampton) seconded the resolution. It is patent to all that
the time our officials become educated is after they become officers of the Union, and that
is when their education commences. It is true we have the best in the Union. Had we
been able to get into touch with the Labour Colleges or established classes which would have
helped to educate our men, the result would have been a higher standard than we have
at the Conference to-day. The reason branch meetings are so poorly attended is because
of the poor standard of the discussions and debate-I don't thing anyone will dispute that.
Despite the poor position of the miners, we have not produced such brilliant men as any
of them. I claim that if we have facilities offered us, and we spend the money on that in-
stead of propaganda, it would give better results. There would be greater opportunities
for capable men if given an educational chance. To-day our leaders are the most popular
men; not the most educated men. Give the members a chance. Let us have all the
opportunity we can so that the destinies of the workers will be higher in the future than
they have been in the past.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester) : I am astounded by the statement of the last
speaker.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): He's potty. (Laughter.)
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): Mr. Jeffs said the Council lack education. I
make bold to say there is no national executive which has risen from the ranks, and had
practical experience of the trade, equal to our Executive. I hope Mr. Chester and Mr.
Jeffs will tell every delegate what they mean by education. I venture to suggest every
delegate knows what is meant, but after the speech of Mr. Jeffs we may be enlightened.
We are
CONGRATULATED BY OTHER UNIONS
upon the way we conduct our business, and yet our friend Jeſis says we don't know what
we are after. In view of that I hope, Mr. Chairman, it will be made clear what is really
mant.
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
44
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The Council had the following documents from
the General Council of the Trades Union Congress:
[COPIES.]
GENERAL COUNCIL TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
32 ECCLESTON SQUARE, S.W.1.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY,
8th April, 1924.
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
34 Guildford Street, W.C.L.
DEAR SIR,
For some time past the Trades Union Congress General Council has devoted
attention to the subject of the provision of educational facilities for trade unionists
and through its Joint Education Committee the Council has been acting in close
association with working-class educational bodies.
The General Council is now informed that your Union has under consideration
the provision of educational facilities for your members, and accordingly the General
Council has much pleasure in inviting your Union to appoint a representative to serve
on the new Education Advisory Committee which is being set up under the auspices
of the General Council. This Advisory Committee is charged with the duty of develop-
ing working-class education and will be answerable to the Trades Union Congress.
For your information I append herewith a copy of the constitution of the Committee
together with its terms of reference, also a copy of the recommendations respecting
educational work passed at the Plymouth Congress.
I am to express the hope that your National Executive will decide to appoint
a representative, but in this connection I am to point out that the qualifications of
such representatives must be consistent with those imposed under the Trades Union
Congress Standing Order 3.
I shall be glad to hear from you as early as possible the name and address of
your representative.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) FRED BRAMLEY,
TRADES UNION CONGRESS, PLYMOUTH, SEPTEMBER, 1923.
JOINT EDUCATION COMMITTEE. 2ND INTERIM REPORT, 1922-23.
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS.
Secretary.
1. That the time is not yet opportune for giving full effect to paragraph (b) of
the Southport Congress resolution, but that the General Council, through the Joint
Education Committee shall continue its efforts by consultation with representatives
of working-class educational bodies for the purpose of co-ordinating such activities,
and with a view to giving full effect to the provisions of the Southport resolutions.
2. That the General Council call a conference of representatives of affiliated
Unions which have provided or contemplate the provision of educational facilities
for their members with a view to developing a united purpose and policy in Trade
Union educational work.
3. That pending the General Council being able to submit a practical scheme
of educational work as required by paragraph (c) of the Southport Congress resolution,
the Council be empowered to create a special educational fund by (a) a grant from the
Trades Union Congress funds up to a maximum of £1,000 per annum, and (b) by such
voluntary grants as may be obtained from the affiliated Unions by the Council. The
fund thus created to be available for assisting such working-class educational institu-
tions as may be approved by the General Council.
4. That special consideration be given by the Joint Committee to the educational
needs of women Trade Unionists.
5. That the recommendations with regard to the question of education for young
workers be endorsed.
CONSTITUTION.
PROPOSED EDUCATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
(a) Five representatives of Trades Union Congress.
(b) One representative appointed by the Executive of each national Trade Union
affiliated to Congress which has a definite scheme of educational work in operation


---
45
for its members, or which has decided to undertake a scheme, the qualification of such
Standing Order 3. The Standing Order is as follows:
representative to be consistent with that imposed under the Trades Union Congress
"The Congress shall consist of delegates who are or who have been bona fide
but no person can be a delegate to the Trades Union Congress unless he or she i
workers at the trade which they represent, and are legal members of trade societies:
actually working at his or her trade at the time of the appointment, or is a perma
nent paid working official of his or her Trade Union."
Union, the National Council of Labout Colleges, and the Workers' Educational Asso
(c) Two representatives each of the Educational Com.nittee of the Co-operati..
(d) One representative each of the Labour College, London, and Ruskin College
ciation.
TERMS OF REFERENCE.
The functions of the Committee shall be to evolve a policy with regard to Educa-
tional Work for the Trade Union Movement through the Trades Union Congress
educational work on behalf of the Trade Unions, and to deal with any matters relating
to endeavour to co-ordinate such activities as are already in existence, to undertake
to Trade Union educational work, both in its national and international aspect as the
General Council of the Trades Union Congress may approve.
THE IRON AND STEEL, TRADES CONFEDERATION,
E. L. POULTON, Esg.,
34 Guilford Street, W.C.1.
DEAR MR. POULTON,
73 SWINTON STREET,
LONDON, W.C.1.
11th April, 1924.
I understand that your Union has decided to undertake adult educational work
for the benefit of its members, and in that connection I want to suggest for the con
fideration of your Executive Council and yourself, the question of linking up with
the Workers' Educational Trade Union Committee.
As I think I have previously explained to you, that body originated a few years
ago from a decision of our Confederation to adopt some educational scheme for our
members.
It is true that prior to that, a great many of them attended W.E.A. and other
classes, but my Executive came to the conclusion that one of the important develop-
ments of progressive Trade Union work, must be to afford opportunities through the
Trade Union for the members to learn more about trade union history and that of the
working-class movement as a whole, to get some idea of political economy and social
science and any other matter that would tend to produce thinking men and women
to broaden their outlook and make them more loyal and useful members of the Trade
Union Movement.
In this matter it seemed to us that to get a real interest taken in a policy of that
kind, the responsibility must be accepted by the Union itself, and the members must
know that the educational facilities were those provided by the Union.
We, of course, knowing that a great deal of educational work was being done on
the Continent, particularly in Germany, hoped the idea would develop into the Trades
Union Congress taking a more active part in this aspect of Trade Union work.
We considered the possibility of establishing a scheme of our own, but we found
that the difficulties were considerable and the cost out of proportion to the advantage
obtained, and we consequently consulted some of the prominent men in the W.E.A.
and asked them if they could advise a scheme which would be under Trade Union
control and would meet the needs of our members. The result was that they sub-
mitted a scheme to our Executive Council under which the W.E.A. undertook to put
its existing machinery at our disposal, we providing funds and controlling the policy
and finance. The scheme was accepted by our members right throughout the country
after discussion at our Divisional Council meetings.
Since then a number of other Unions have come in, such as the Railway Clerks,
Postal Workers, Engineering and Shipbuilding, Draughtsmen, and the Society of
Operative Printers and Assistants.
The work is controlled by a Central Committee consisting of representatives
appointed by the Executives of the Unions concerned, and on which the W.E.A. is
also represented, and it is that Committee that is called the W.E.T.U.C.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

46
Then the country is divided into a number of divisions, and there are local com-
mittees consisting of representatives of the Unions concerned in the scheme, with a
secretary who is usually the Divisional Secretary of the W.E.A.
While the scheme provides for the fullest amount of educational work, such as
lectures, week-end schools, one, two or three-year classes, summer schools, and so on.
Of course we proposed to develop that so that our best students in the three-
year classes would have scholarships at Ruskin, Central Labour, or whatever other
recognised Labour Colleges we decided on for that purpose, and the value of this is,
of course, that students would have to do a considerable amount of ground work
before getting a scholarship instead of, as at present, often going straight to Ruskin
and similar colleges without any previous education.
However, the slump in trade came at the end of 1920, and, as a result, we have
had to very much limit our activities.
Any individual Union joining the Committee can decide precisely how much it
will spend; it can also decide as to how it can spend it independent of what any
other Union on the Committee may do: that is to say, one Union may desire to
expend more on week-end schools than on summer schools: it may decide to spend
more on classes and so on. What we have found, however, is that we get the best
advantage from co-ordinating our activities, and when each Union has indicated
what it proposes to spend on any particular branch of the work, then say, we take
week-end schools, where all the Unions have members in the same divisional area.
These schools are held jointly, each Union providing to send such number of students
as it is disposed, and so you have members of the different Unions brought together
not only for such social intercourse as these schools provide, but also to discuss to-
gether the lectures that are given. Further, it creates a strong fraternal feeling
as between the rank and file of different Unions, and you get all the different opinions
expressed to the general advantage.
When the Central Committee has decided its scheme of work according to the
expenditure its component parts are going to incur, then the local Committees are
informed and they have to make arrangements accordingly. Whatever expenditure
is incurred is reported to the Central Committee which, of course, has not merely
the right of criticism, but also of control in such matters.
The W.E.A. is simply the instrument by which the machinery is applied. The
Unions absolutely decide on policy and on the extent of the educational work, and
entirely control the financial position.
I am sure your Executive could not find a more suitable medium for carrying
out any educational work they desire. The mere fact that you may have members
in divisions in which other Unions have not, does not in the least degree affect the
situation. The arrangements are made so as to provide for the maximum advantage
to the members of each Union, and what a particular Union does, is entirely at the
discretion of its own Executive who instructs its representatives on the Committee
as to the extent of their commitments.
I may say we have arranged our programme for the 1923-24 period, but if your
Executive decided to join the W.E.T.U.C., it is not too late for some modified arrange-
ment which would be suitable to your Organisation.
If there is any other point you want an explanation on, I shall be glad to supply
it. Meanwhile I hope the matter will have your consideration and that of your
Executive Council.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) A. PUGH.
MR. A. PUGH,
76 Swinton Street, W.C. 1.
DEAR MR. PUGH,
34 GUILFORD STREET, W.C. 1.
28th April, 1924.
Your letter of the 11th inst. was before the Council to-day, and after discussion
it was decided to submit a copy to each member of my Executive.
Meantime; will you please let me know in the event of these Classes being created,
whether they would come under the Educational Grants similar to that allowed by
the W.E.A. itself.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.


---
MR. E. L. POULTON,
34 Guilford Street, W.C. 1.
47
76 SWINTON STREET, W.C. 1.
20th April, 1924.

RE WORKERS' EDUCATIONAL TRADE UNION COMMITTEE.

DEAR MR. POULTON,
Replying to your letter of the 28th inst., the Classes of the W.E.T.U.C. being run
through the Organisation of the W.E.A., come under the educational grants just as
though they were classes run and controlled directly by the W.E.A. itself.
Yours faithfully,

(Signed) A. PUGH.

The Council considered them and appointed Mr. J. H. Baum, one of the national organisers,
to represent the Union on this Advisory Committee. (Applause.) We have not lost
any time, but dealt with the matter as soon as the machinery was put into motion. Mr.
Chester knows, as a member of an education authority, we cannot push along as quickly
as we should like. This is the result of the findings of the General Council which were sent
to the Union, and, as I have stated, we are sending Mr. Baum as our representative. We
hope the Committee will now get to work, and that their findings will be endorsed at Hull
when the Trades Union Congress meet there in September. In addition, I have been to a
number of meetings (as a direct representative of the General Council), to another body
which really sprung out of the Iron & Steel Confederation, and so we are hoping to get a
really working-class all-inclusive scheme,
take parts which suit our industry. I venture to say, Mr. Chairman, our records will
show-if we take it in its proper sense-that we not only take out, but supply knowledge,
and we stand second to none in the country.

At any rate, I do know that compliments are paid us at varying times. I know our
Monthly Report, for which I am directly responsible, contains information and knowledge
upon many matters and is very highly appreciated by other Unions. (Hear, hear.) Our
men, nationally and locally, can stand comparison with others in the work they have
undertaken. There is one great difficulty which Mr. Chester dealt with lightly. There
is a very real difference among conflicting bodies. If we belittle it, it will hamper us.
so happens that the General Council have appointed me as their representative upon the
W.E.A. I am their national representative upon that body, but have only been to one
meeting, as it does not meet very often, and I know some of the things we have to deal
with and shall have to deal with, are not altogether pleasant ones.
they will create friction and, in my judgment, will retard, whatever some people may
think, the general education of the people upon sound lines; whilst we are rowing with one
another we cannot educate people. We should not avoid that particular phrase of the
question, but shall have to meet it fairly. It will have to be fought out and settled so that
the education of our members is not hindered. May I also call your attention, on behalf
of the Council, to the fact that although we have made provision in our rules for some
time past for branches to set up education councils, we have only two yet created. This
is not the fault of the Council, but the districts. I don't make this statement in a carping
spirit, but it is in the rules for you all to take advantage of, and those who have district
councils will tell you they have been found advantageous. The Council will continue to
go along with this work as fast as they can, realising as they do an educational democracy
will make for a higher standard of life.

Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): It is particularly pleasing to hear the speech of the
General Secretary. Yet we have to decide what this Union will do. If our friend Jeffs
was arguing against the resolution he could not have done better. He mentioned the
miners were producing a better type of official than ourselves. It would be interesting to
know to whom he was making comparisons. It is quite beside the question whether they
are more astute or not. They do not create a Frank Hodges every day, but it is a mere
coincidence. I very often fear many of our members misunderstand the meaning of the
word education. I never consider what the children receive in school as education; what
the children receive in school is what a knife and fork are to a dinner, and there is no greater
admirer of education in its cultural sense than myself. A knowledge of our own industry
and its relation to other industries at home and abroad is the thing our members want.
Proper machinery put into motion will allow branches very easily to become better equipped
kind, and we ought to be tender in our criticisms of other members. Our opportunities
to understand the problems before them. Naturally they must be of the most attractive
have been all too few in equipping them with knowledge. I heartily support the resolution.

THE CHAIRMAN: I don't suppose for one moment that we have any brilliant
men. We leave that to the other unions. We have men amongst us who
CANNOT BE BOUGHT
nor purchased. We have men who have had offers made to them time after time, but they
Cannot be bought, and have remained loyal to our Union. We have a brilliant man
---

---
doing seven years (laughter), but he does not happen to be a member of ours. I am not
aware that we have ever put any obstacle in the way of these classes being set up, nor
am I aware that where educational classes have been set up that it has increased the
membership. It is because our members have not the knowledge, and they don't wish
to get the knowledge that our branch meetings are so small. Every facility we can give
We have never withheld our support in helping forward education
Union Congress is taking the matter up in such a way as to put things right. There are
is your education coming in, if it brings about conflict? I am delighted to know the Trades
three separate bodies to-day pulling each other to picces. The education I require is con.
1 should like to ask what my educational friends think about this sectionalism. Where
thing to find jobs for ourselves. If we are called upon to pay heavily we shall place the
matter before the members with our recommendations, and see if we can improve the
position of those members desirous of participating in these classes. It is not the rule of
three we want, but knowledge, sympathy and understanding to concentrate on our work.
and our past twenty-nine years is a good example, and better than any other Union under
the sun.
In our Union we have elements which need education which other Unions do not. In
Mr. L. SMITH (Organiser) : This resolution should be carried by this Conference.
my short experience as a national organiser I have had brought to me many startling facts,
There is the youthful element in our industry suffering from lack of education, not from
the elementary school standpoint, but from the standpoint of our industry and its relation
take place unless this question is tackled in a different way from what it has been done in
to workers of other industries. I often wonder how any extension of our membership can
youth to the principles of trade unionism. Older members pass away, and we must get
the past. I wonder how many of our members can be retained unless we can educate the
It would also be as well to consider by what
method we can get at this particular point. Something was said of the failure to attract.
Probably Mr. Chester has had some heartburnings in connection with his classes at Ketter-
ing. The same difficulty occurs in Northampton. It is most difficult to attract those
whom you think you can benefit. By what method can we attract them? That seems
to be one of the questions that will have to engage our attention. I would like to see every
the younger element to continue the struggle.
to up educational classes for the members,
had the information read out by our General Secretary, that the Trades Union Congress
is going along proper lines for a scheme to be drawn up for all Unions in the country to
study from day to day various aspects of our problems. We find the minds of the younger
generation are commercialised. I think myself that the general body of our members are
commercialised. You can only get a full meeting when there is the question of a four
shillings reduction. They think in terms of f s. d., and not in terms of how they can better
the lives of the community. We have to get down to tin tacks, and see how far we can
attract the lives of young men and women to study the position as a whole, nationally
and internationally, and to bring their minds to bear upon the problems which confront
us to-day.
Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering): I very much regret that the General Secretary
thought I was slating the Council. I realise the Council are doing all they can and have
fully carried out their promises, but did not want the question to be dropped.
The resolution was unanimously carried.
Clauses 8, 9 and 10 dealing with the question of International, Amalgamation and
Finances were passed nem. con., and the
Conference adjourned at 4.45 p.m. until Wednesday morning.
WEDNESDAY.
Morning Session.
The delegates reassembled at 9.30 a.m., Mr. T. F. Richards being in the chair.
The General Secretary read the Roll and reported all the delegates as present.
Sherwin (Leicester Women's), the minutes of Tuesday's proceedings were unanimously
Upon the proposition of Ald. A. Hill, J.P. (Leicester No. 2), seconded by Miss E
endorsed and signed as correct.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: We were hoping to have with us at this Con-
ference, in addition to our respected colleague, Mr. G. Sedgwick, J.P., the " old war horse,"


---
Here is the extracted text:
the following letter :-
MR. E. L. POULTON.
sent
49
Mr. Harry Moreton, of Wolverhampton. I regret to say he is too ill to travel, and has
DEAR SIR,
120 NORTH STREET,
WOLVERHAMPTON.
10th June, 1924
my second time of getting out of the house for seven weeks for a short walk yesterday
I am very sorry to say my health will not allow me to attend Conference. On
I had a severe attack of giddiness; I had to sit on step in the street. It's a great
I again thank you-General President and Members of the Council for the very
disappointment to me.
kindly invitation to Conference.
With best wishes, I remain,
Yours fraternally,
H. MORETON.
It was unanimously agreed that the General Secretary send a sympathetic reply to
Mr. H. Moreton and wish him a speedy return to his normal health.
DEAR MORETON,
THE BOROUGH HALL,
STAFFORD,
11th June, 1924.
It was a disappointment to the Conference that you were unable to be present
thereat. At the same time they, the delegates, were pleased to receive your kindly
letter.
to build up the Union.
The delegates wish to assure you of their appreciation of your past work in helping
Trusting your health may be speedily improved and assuring you of the good-
will of us all,
I am, on behalf of the Conference,
Yours very fraternally,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
Report of the Parliamentary Agents.
FELLOW DELEGATES,
HOUSE OF COMMONS,
WESTMINSTER, S.W. 1.
27th May, 1924.
We present our report to the Conference with considerable pleasure and satis-
faction. It will be recalled we were elected to Parliament in December last and at the
fall of the Baldwin Government took office at the end of January of this year. The Party
has much to be proud of, and we have now 193 Labour Members in the House of Commons,
and whilst not being in the majority, nevertheless, the Labour Party has been enabled
to put into operation several of the matters it has preached from the platform for years
past. The last few months have indeed been strenuous ones, the Party being faced with
an experienced Opposition. During its term of office the
FIRST LABOUR BUDGET.
has been introduced and a real attempt made to reduce taxation, especially for that section
of the community whose income is the lowest. The principal items in the Budget are :-
The total cost of the reductions in taxation proposed will be £34,050,000 this
year and £40,443,000 in a full year.
The following are the reductions :-
SUGAR. 1½d. per lb. from to-day.
TEA.-4d. off standard rate per lb., and consequently 3½d. off Empire grown
tea from 5th May.
COCOA. 1½d. per lb. from 29th April.
COFFEE 2d. per lb. from 5th May, and Chicory 2d. per lb. from 5th May.
EXTRA DRIED FRUIT DUTY. - Abolished.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
50
ENTERTAINMENTS. No tax up to and including 6d. admission, reduction of
tax up to and including 1s. 3d. admission. The tax up to the Is. 3d. price will be
7d. seats one penny, 8d. seats three-halfpence, 8d. to 1s. 1d. seats twopence, 1s. 1d
to 1s. 3d. seats threepence.
SWEETENED MINERAL WATER AND HERB BEER TAX.-Abolished
INHABITED HOUSE DUTY. Repealed 30th June.
CORPORATION PROFITS TAX of 2½ per cent. Repealed.
MCKENNA DUTIES. To expire on 1st August.
Income tax concession to widowers, with children, who keep housekeepers
A Bill has been introduced to restore the powers and efficiency of the Land
Valuation Department, originally set up under the 1909 Budget.
Concessions are made in the licence costs of motor vehicles. There is to be
reduction in trunk calls between the hours of 7 a.m. and 2 p.m. up to a 35-mile radii
reduction of 1d. local telephone call rates to 1d and 2d. rates to 2d., and a slight
The Deadweight Debt of the Country, Mr. Snowden announced, stand
£7,680,484,000, and the interest costs annually £305,000,000.
We claim that the Party is to be congratulated upon the way with which it has dealt
with the finances of the country.
UNEMPLOYMENT.
Bills have been introduced to alleviate the distress of the unemployed and efforts
speeded up to find work for the unfortunate members of the community who cannot
increase the rates of Benefit to the unemployed of the country, and in this connection
employment. At the time of going to Press a Bill is before Parliament to considerable
it must be remembered that until the Party has a majority in the House its full program
cannot be introduced.
The following will give a resumé of the activities regarding unemployment:-
No. 1 BILL (which became an Act on 21st February) to remove the gap of three week
which, under the Unemployment Insurance Act of 1923, was imposed after th
receipt of 12 weeks uncovenanted benefit in the period commencing on 1st
October, 1923.
No. 2 BILL was introduced on 3rd April and proposes considerable amendments
existing Acts (in respect of periods and rates of benefit, rates of contribution
inclusion of juveniles between 14 and 16, refunds of contribution, &c.).
No. 3 BILL was introduced on 4th April, and has received the Royal Assent. It
extends the existing maximum of 26 weeks' Benefit payable up to 15th October
1924, to 41 weeks for the same period.
48 HOURS WEEK.
In connection with hours of employment the Minister of Labour is to introduce a
Bill to supplement the terms of Washington Convention of 1919, but it has not yet been
possible to introduce the actual Bill into Parliament. When this becomes law it will be
of considerable benefit to many millions of workers throughout the country.
PENSIONS.
The first administrative action of the Ministry of Pensions was to issue special instruc-
tions to treat all claims with the utmost sympathy and consideration, and that, in accord-
ance with the principle of working agreed with the Treasury, every man should have the
full benefit of the doubt.
In the old days, when a Final Award was set aside, the Ministry took no action unless
the man appealed on deterioration. The Minister has now arranged that in all cases
where the Award is set aside, the man should be immediately re-boarded with a view to
the issue of pension, if possible.
The Minister has arranged, with the sanction of the Treasury, that as from the 1st
April last there should be no change of entitlement in any case more than a year old, unless
there has been actual error of diagnosis or obvious error of fact, or fraud. This applies
to all pensions.
When the Minister took office approximately 80 per cent. of the pensions had been
reviewed, and he found himself precluded from discontinuing the review. But immediately
action was taken to give every dependent the right of appeal and, in many instances,
the pension has been restored to the original sum. Seven hundred ex-service men have
been transferred from Poor Law charges and are now under the administration of the
Ministry of Pensions.


---
52
OLD AGE PENSIONS.
An important statement was made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the 29th
April last, when dealing with the question of Old Age Pensions, to the effect that the
Government is committed to the removal of the thrift disqualification for Old Age Pensions,
that another step forward has been made, and it is hoped the Bill will be introduced at
and they are only waiting for time to introduce such a proposal. It will thus be seen
The question of Pensions for Mothers has also been raised and the House of Commons
committed to the same. The only item which prevents such a Bill becoming law at the
subjects as early as possible.
an early moment.
moment is the absence of cash, but the Labour Party is determined to deal with both
AGRICULTURE.
The Prime Minister stated on the 12th February"" We shall not touch tariffs nor
bounties. What agriculture requires is a stimulus to fight its own battles.""
than ideals. These must come later. No nationalisation of land or control of cultivation
Because the Government is in the minority its policy must be what is possible rather
at present. The Government considers the question of agricultural wages one of its most
to reorganise their business to enable them to afford better wages. In some counties
pressing problems. The farmers must be compelled to give decent wages, and stimulated
wages are very low, only 25s. per week. A Wages Bill has been introduced which sets
Board similarly composed, but with additional independent members appointed by a
of workers and employers in equal proportion, with an independent chairman. A Central
up a Central Wages Board with the County Wages Committees composed of representatives
Minister. Rates proposed by Committee will be confirmed by Board and legally binding
on all employers in area concerned. No definite minimum fixed, but Central Board may
to fix rate. Minister may refer rates to the Central Board for reconsideration if necessary.
fix rate if not satisfied with rate suggested by County Committee, or if Committee fails
liable to civil action.
in Court of Summary Jurisdiction, and also
is complete, or in progress. During the past two years abatements have been given of a
In 52 out of 62 counties in England and Wales a revision of rents of small holdings
quarter of a million pounds on a rental of £600,000. The Government are considering
what further steps can be taken to provide small holdings.
The Government is keenly alive to the value of allotments. Circulars were issued
recently urging local authorities to take advantage of present facilities for providing
allotments.
We deeply regret our colleague, Mr. Len. Smith, was not successful in the Daventry
Division, nevertheless, we feel sure his efforts will bear fruit on a later occasion. We
trust that when the Prime Minister next appeals to the country, the workers will so rally
as to secure a majority of Labour members in the House of Commons, and thus enable
the Party to put into effect those ideals for which it stands. It is indeed an honour to
find that one of our Union representatives had been appointed to a Government post,
and we congratulate Mr. W. R. Smith upon his election as Parliamentary Secretary to the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. We are conscious of our own limitations, but we
trust that with the backing of our members and constituents, we shall be enabled to render
some service to the community as a whole.
We are,
Yours fraternally,
JOHN BUCKLE.
WALTER R. SMITH.
FRED GOULD.
Mr. W. R. SMITH, M.P.: I don't know whether it is desirable to read the
report as every member has a copy before them, but I will deal with each particular heading.
The Budget is a subject which has been discussed in the Press, and it is well understood
by the members that it needs no stress to say it has been framed in the interests of the coun-
try. I might point out that the Government claim that this Budget, apart from the fact
of it giving relief in regard to food taxes, is a direct contribution towards the problem of
year, that will tend to allow the people to spend more to create a demand for goods which
unemployment, because by adding to the spending power of people by £30 millions per
will have a bearing upon the problem of unemployment. In regard to the question of
Unemployment, notwithstanding all the criticism levelled against the Government,
it has proceeded upon lines in regard to this matter which, in their judgment, are most
applicable and desirable in regard to the question. The Prime Minister has stated in the
House of Commons that it would be the intention of the Government to proceed upon lines
of policy that would lead to a development to normal trade, creating normal conditions of
---

---
employment as distinct from anything of a special character. The policy of the Govern
ment in secking peaceful relations of all the nations of the World by the recognition of
our people. Perhaps the next question is also one of great importance to us as an industry
and organised workers as a whole.
The 48-Hour Week is a most important question. It is far better we should
standardise the conditions of labour whereby all have an equal starting point
national advantage that covers the country cannot be taken from it, and so long as
cach country is protected then we shall be moving upon lines in the interests of the worker
as a whole. The Government in its decision to introduce this Bill to legalise
is taking a step in complete harmony and desire of the working-class movement, and will
only ratify what its predecessors should have done, seeing it was included in the Washington
Convention of 1919.
In regard to Pensions, through the Pensions Minister, Mr. Fred Roberts, the Govern
ment has brought about a change in the whole of the conditions under which pension
have been granted. The first thing they have done is to wipe out that stigma placed on
the ex-service man who has been classified as a pauper lunatic. The next step of a definite
benefit of any doubt. This is perhaps of more importance than appears upon the surface
character was that instructions have been issued that the ex-soldier should be given the
you can get a disability of 20 per cent. you are not entitled to a pension, but receive a final
Perhaps those who have had connection with the Pensions Department will know unless
award. This shows how past Governments have dealt with claims of ex-service men.
Ex-soldiers have had their disability assessed at one point below the 20 per cent., which
means they get six or twelve months' award, and their pension has gone for ever. Under
our arrangement they get the benefit of the doubt, which means they get a pension instead
of a final award. There was a difficulty in dealing with the question of dependants. The late
Government insisted on reviewing them, and when we took office we found 80 per cent.
had had their pensions reviewed, and it was impossible to stop it. The Pensions Minister
stated in every case where pensions had been reduced, they had the right of appeal for
reconsideration, and many allowances have been restored-if not to the full amount, at
was granted to a mother where the son had been killed, and the mother died, the pension
ceased. That has been altered, and now the pension automatically goes to the other
parent. There has been quite a number of things of that description done.
In relation to Housing, the Government of the day have established a definite under-
standing with the building industry. The Government has agreed to put into
operation a programme covering fifteen years. It gives a guarantee for that time, and in
return the building industry has given a guarantee to the Government that they will so
organise their forces to supply houses so that at the end of fifteen years 2,000,000 working-
class houses will have been built. This means that it is only a question of a few years
when there will be no one in this country in the working class who wants a house, but
that they will be able to get one.
HOUSES TO LET
and not houses to sell. The policy of past Governments has been houses to sell, which
was nothing to those people who had little or no means. The rents will be fixed at a
level that will harmonise with rates, because the basis of rents has to be fixed on a pre-war
figure. It will be difficult to get this Bill through the House of Commons. Then there is
the question of profiteering; as soon as our demand for houses was made, up go the prices
of materials, and the Government is bringing in another Bill which will make it an offence
to profiteer, Perhaps, Mr. Chairman, there is no department put forward a scheme greater
than the Education Department. Mr. Trevelyan hopes within ten years that our educa
tional system will have became so democratic that the schools will be open for all children
to develop their facilities. For the first time in the history of the country we are on
right lines in regard to education. The 1918 Fisher Act was torpedoed by the very people
who put it on the Statute Book. Mr. Fisher got a good Act passed through the House of
Commons, but like many other matters it was destroyed by the Geddes Axe. The question
of education was very difficult to tackle because the Axe had cut deeply into the matter,
but we shall establish a policy of education upon such a basis that we shall look forward
to a brighter hope in future.
In relation to Home Policy, we were told we "might" be all right. Labour was all
right on the industrial questions; but when you come to the wider and great sphere of
Foreign Policy we should fail, because of our lack of knowledge and experience in high


---
politics. Yet, Mr. Chairman, it is true to-day, that at this moment, the relationship of
the nations of the World are better than at any time since August, 1914. We are hoping
by the policy Mr. MacDonald has followed that within a very short time we shall establis
a great deal so far as foreign relations are concerned, which will leave us to believe that
the time is not far distant when those elements which have existed since the Armistice wa
amongst the nations will have been established as to avoid the horrors of war. The Labour
to deal with the question of armaments, reductions in the Navy and Army, and by the
ment is hoping they will be able to establish relations with the nations of the World
savings effected in that direction have money at their disposal for social problems
signed will have passed, and a settlement arrived at
Governmen
desirable.
will be wiped out during the year.
The question of Old Age Pensions interests us, as we are hoping the Thrift Clause.
introduce a Pensions for Mothers Bill which we hope will get on the Statute Book before
We understand also that the Minister is prepared t
shall be able to give some measure and hope to the agricultural labourer to enable him t
We believe we are working upon right lines in relation to Agriculture. We hope
this Government passes out.
use his organisation in the interests of the nation.
I think sufficient indication has been given that the Labour Government has applied
itself to the problems of the day in a way and fashion which ought to commend admiration
I know we are jeered at because we have not solved every problem. We have beer in
Office less than five months, and there is no five months so full of benefit for the nationa
that five months has proved. It may be, that before another twelve months passes, w
shall have to make another appeal to the country. It is impossible for less than 20
Members in a House comprised of 615 members to do too much. They pretend to give
ment prevents things being done. It may be we shall have to appeal to the country beicre
a loose rein, but they pull up to prevent us going far ahead. The whole methods of Parlia-
long, and I hope you will all realise the importance of the House of Commons being strength.
ened by Labour Members. Don't view the situation from one particular angle. Take
the broad outline. Look at it from the broad standpoint, and in presenting this report
to the Conference, I do so with great pleasure, realising that our organisation has always
that we shall come forward as the Government, not only in office, but in power, and be able
been ready and willing to do its best to build up the movement. I hope when we meet again
to lay the foundation stone of the new social order for which our movement stands
(Applause.)
Mr. J. BUCKLE, M.P.: I am not quite sure what there is left for me to do. The
report of the Parliamentary Representatives has been placed before the Conference and
explained, clause by clause, by the previous speaker. I believe we shall have an oppor
tunity, if we happen to be in office long enough, of doing a great deal by the machinery and
understanding of the representatives of our Party in the House of Commons to obtain the
I have sat in fifteen sessions, and before
best factory conditions our country has ever seen.
we could get to the Bill we had seventeen pages of amendments to deal with. We are not
losing sight of the opposition put up. It is just as heavy a weapon for us as against us.
We have the same representation upon Committees as our proportion in the House;
therefore with a Committee of 65 we have 30 Conservatives, 20 Labour and 15 Liberals.
Now you can quite imagine we are powerless to move the closure to get where we want.
and this should go up and down the country to show what we are doing. We are now on
the People's Representation Bill. I am one of those unfortunate chaps who has not made
A MAIDEN SPEECH
in the House, and I understand there has been a great deal of talk about it. I have been
looking up records and it is a bit of a lucky game. I have tried hard, but have not been
successful, but I have the consolation that Mr. A. J. Balfour, now Lord Balfour, was in
the House two years before he spoke. When I can do that I hope I shall get the appre-
ciation which I deserve.
The Budget was a great staggerer. I hope we retain office until we put another Budget
through. After all that is the kernel of the whole situation. If the Labour Party will not
transfer taxation from those who cannot afford to pay to those who can, your policy goes.
We have shown decent sense in that direction. As I was saying, we are on the People's
Representation Bill; when the vote is given to all at 21 years of age a changed aspect
will be noticeable. We have got equal rights through Committee, and the Party is fighting
strenuously to pass the Bill which will be of great benefit and extend the vote for the people,
The
far as we are concerned there will be a great fight and a good deal depends upon the outcome
redistribution of seats, because they desire to pocket the situation in the country, and as
of that Bill. You must not forget the 48-Hours Week Bill. There is some difficulty in the
Labour ranks


---
It will only be placing upon the Statute Book something agreed upon at the Washington
Conference, which should have been done some time ago. Whether you like it or not, e
may have been able to do certain things, but a national minimum rate of wages fized by
the Government would be an important factor to this country. All these matters have
to be dealt with by a Party in office and not in power. Some nights we are thrown into
the river by the Conservative Party, and the Liberal lifebuoy saves us. The next night
the Liberals throw us in the river and we are saved by the Conservatives. It is not a
satisfactory state of things. We are nailed to the wall. You cannot get outside the Hote
You have a Whip every morning, and get well whipped during the day
thought we should be out of office last week, but just managed to creep on. What will
two elections in 13 months, and the prospect of another at any time. (Hear, heart
happen next week I don't know. (Laughter.) It is a bit of a strain upon people to fight
team. I am a most disappointed man, because of the lack of teamwork. We have one
never miss any Committee meetings, nor the House. I want to see the Party work as a
man in permeating goodwill. He has used plain language, and the change in the French
of the finest Prime Ministers the country ever had. He has done the finest work of any
attitude is due to his courtesy. The very fact he has told the world he will speak in plain
in future as possible. If they are going to involve us in fighting, they must do it the
selves, and we will look after their business, and when they come back tell them they must
doubt about the country believing he is a competent man. We are making progress
emigrate. (Laughter. We have a fine Chancellor of the Exchequer. There is no
I am sure Mr. Roberts, the Pensions Minister, will justify himself. Shaw, the Minister
of Labour, looks in low water just now, because he has no initiative power in his Depart-
ment, but depends upon others, and if they are not supplying the material it is not his
defeated, but it is bound to come. You will have to protect the manhood and womanhood
fault. He attempted to do something for boys and girls which for the moment was
your duty to be prepared for it. We should have been in power if the working classes had
by making provision for educational facilities. However soon an election comes, it is
marched in the order in which we desired them, and I should have been delighted to have
gone into the lobby 30 times to enforce the will of the people. Our Union has taken its
corner in political life. We have paid as much as anyone. We have now a reward by Mr.
W. R. Smith being the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture. We may
You must remember we are not so important as some. You become important
on.
great
worse off than ourselves. We now have the opportunity to use our power; use our in-
fluence in getting people to march along the line we indicate to them. There is much
to be done in every sphere. There ought to be some development by the Board of Trade.
It is useless going to the country unless we have made the lot of the unemployed better,
and we have to prove now that we can find work of utility and so prove our policy. The
Housing Scheme is supposed to be part of a larger scheme. Mr. Wheatley has done well
in getting all parties together, and I hope he will be successful. After all we want houses.
We don't want a lot of talk about them. We want to get them up, and that can only be
done by accepting a conciliatory position. It is unfair for us to expect a skilled man to
serve seven years' apprenticeship and be worse off than an unskilled man. If the Govern-
ment wants houses they must give security to the men. In Leeds and every part of the
country you find skilled men in engineering shops who were once builders. If we work in
teams, as we should do, the 194 Labour Members will be able to do more. If we had a
majority of ten only we could do our work for the life of a Parliament. Since the Labour
Party has been in office they have had access to all kinds of information, and got into touch
with the permanent officials with opportunities which will be useful and of great service
to the Party and Nation in the future. (Applause.)
Mr. F. GOULD, M.P.: You cannot appreciate our work unless looked at in its
proper perspective. Remember the campaign of November and December last by the
Capitalist Press against MacDonald and the party; visualise the wall erected against us.
When it was found Mr. Baldwin had been defeated, and there was a danger of the Liberal
Party forcing the Labour Party to take office, the whole country was in a state of fear.
An old lady my way had it very bad. When MacDonald called us to the Albert Hall,
1.ondon, he said: I am hoping to make the road for Peace; in face of a militarist Poincaré
Germany; annihilation of Russia meat and there is no greater asset this country could
brings
military commitments we have had to accept will be easier. You cannot have Old Age
Pensions and Mothers' Pensions unless you stop militarism. We can stop the scourge of
consumption; keep our children out of workshops-if militarism is stopped. The reason
we have been successful so far is because we have the greatest statesman in Europe. The
man who paraded the platform is in prison to-day and MacDonald at 10 Downing Street.
Such is fate. I cannot but thank the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives for the
that we should serve you, and if you want to use us, we are there as your servants and
leagues. It may appear that we are beating the air, but you cannot understand unless


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
56
I don't suppose there are any readers of
you support our people and read our reports.
papers here other than the Herald. I have seen no one buy the Daily Mail first and the
"DAILY HERALD"
of prejudice we can split the workers.
Party can give us.
next. Our greatest difficulties are ignorance, prejudice and apathy. By the very fact
We want unity in our organisation, and unity
amongst those in the House of Commons. There are top-hole people which we cannot
we continue in office for twelve months, the record will show that for the first time in history
touch, and there are tall people in our Party. They are not all in the Tory Party. If
men who went to the cotton factories at 9 years of age; men at docks at 10 years of age.
and the Abbey Division, and will go somewhere else, but we must remember to do all we
Prejudice has been allayed somewhat, and Winston Churchill has been to Dundee, Leicester
with ability, and the Labour Party has created a bigger change than we realise to-day
messenger boys at 9 years of age are all on the Front Bench and are leading the Government
can for our Party. We are only as strong as public opinion lies behind us. In the House
of Commons we can feel any day when we are strong in the country. We don't mind if
we go down on Wheatley's Bill. We could sweep the country with it. The other parties
will not defeat us on that; they will wait until Labour has got into a difficulty and then
we shall see whether you appreciate what has been done. There is such a unity against
compromise never known before, and we must be ready when the call comes. (Applause.)
Mr. H. C. ATTEWELL (Northampton): To-day we have the best the Labour
I accept all that is here, but wish to criticise in order to bring out
past the various Governments were Governments of individuals. When the Labour Party
more points. We were once told we could make Parliament what we desired. Let us see
why the teamwork of the Labour Party is not so strong as it should be. We find in the
First the Trades Union Congress and the Labour Party formulated the Labour Party
took office things were different. We find various sections send their representative...
programme as we know it to-day. When the Party took office they did not accept office.
Labour Government. Ramsay MacDonald formed his own Cabinet. Rightly or wrongly,
and not the Labour Party itself. The Labour Party, as such, has no control over the
It was only certain men and women of the Labour Party who formed the Government
some of the positions were not filled in accordance with the views of the Labour Party.
Therefore, the policy which the Labour Party put forward would be the declared policy of
I suggest the Cabinet should have been formed by the Executive of the Labour Party.
the party understand the difficulties. I fully agree it is impossible simply because we are
there by the very people who save us in turn, and it must be of great interest to see them
Our friend Smith stated it was a Budget which would ease the working men and shim
the payment of taxes from those who could ill-afford it. How many items are there which
could make you believe that tax is being shifted? Take tea, coffee, cocoa and dried fruits
they are consumed by the rich just as much as the poor and the rich are receiving the
benefit of the tax. Then come to entertainment tax. That will help the workers. In-
habited House Duty certainly helps those who are occupants of municipal houses, but the
great majority of working people who never paid the tax will not benefit, but the middle
classes and the rich get the benefit. Income Tax; I agree some co-operative societies
may benefit, but not the workers. It is a Liberal or Free Trade Budget and could have
been brought in by the Liberal Party. The mere fact that you are only in office and not
in power proves the other people would have brought it in. Russia is negotiating with
our Government. Since negotiations have taken place very little has come to the outside
public as to the demands made, but MacDonald's speech to the Russian people was not one
to be expected from him. Russia has a right to nationalise property if she so desires.
It is time an Ambassador was sent to Russia. To-day, with the Labour Party in office,
we have soldiers in Germany.
not necessarily the
THE CHAIRMAN: At the Germans' request.
Mr. H. C. ATTEWELL (Northampton): We have no right to send soldiers to
Germany. Let them fight their own internal battles. We should not expect to have
German
SOLDIERS KEEPING US BACK
and it should be stopped. Whilst the Labour Party is in office they have to take responsi
bility for the atrocities in India committed in our name. There is great persecution of
Indian workers. They should be granted rights equal to our own.
time ago the Labour Cabinet was not of the Labour movement. The industrialists in the
I mentioned some
movement are not given a fair show. Owing to control not being in the hands of the
Labour Party the Labour Party's policy concerning strikes cannot be put into operation.
The Army! Here you have for years the army being used in industrial trouble.
and yet our people agreed to it quite recently. I feel I must express some dissatisfaction
We have spoken from the platforms saying they should not be used in times of dispute,
with the attitude of the Labour Party.
---

---
57
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): We ought to spend car tur
sidering the situation of the country and the relationship of the industrial
political movements. I don't accept the statement of the futility of Parhar
similar to one I made twelve years ago at Norwich. You never hear a Mi
political action. Parliament has never been used yet. The criticism I want to save
ing the rights of property. If it is impossible to get legislation through, the proce
the House of Commons. I know it is correct and was built up for the purpose
a Labour M.P. speak, but what they complain of the difficulties in getting measury the
should be the first job the Labour Party should tackle. It may be the Labour Van
against the Labour Party. I do hope we shall appreciate what is being done Wo
doing it. Certainly it is a most serious thing. One could talk a lot on the ٢٢١١٠٠٠٠٠٠
what we are entitled to, and we know what we ought to get, and because the Labour
have not gone all the way, let us give them credit for getting what they can
shall not have this unfair criticism. There are, I know.
bound to confess I don't like them going
TO COURT IN KNEE BREECHES
easy; if wenly
but that is not a vital matter. That does not matter so long as they get hos cabe
We should also give credit for them being in possession of knowing more than we
can know about the difficulties and circumstances facing the country to-day. I know wh
we sit down with the manufacturers in equal numbers matters are not always
had one-third of the representation we should get nothing. The vilifying of the capitali
will not alter the position. Mr. Attewell said we ought not to have soldiers in Germany
Twelve months ago Mr. W. R. Smith and I went to Germany and made special enquirie
from members of the International Boot and Shoe Union asking their opinion about the
the Government not to withdraw the British soldiers. We don't know what the French
British soldiers in Cologne. They said: Do all you can to create an opinion in England for
would do to us if the British Tommies are not at Cologne! It is necessary that they should
be there to safeguard the peace of Europe. The Labour Party is in a position of beinz,
able to sum up facts to know the situation much better than we can, and instead of this
carping criticism let us do all we can to see a majority of Labour members returned to Parlia-
ment. We must create a desire upon the whole population to see that the Labour Party
have a majority in the House. Don't let us blame the few people in the House of Commons:
don't let us blame even the capitalists. Let us accept the responsibility ourselves and as
soon as we can, create the desire for greater things to be done. To-day there are thousands
looking upon Parliament with a great amount of hope. We only want to remove the
the way and build up that
then be able to get things done in Parliament.
THE CHAIRMAN: I listened with great interest to the speech of Mr. Dobbs.
I know everyone outside the House of Commons, and a few inside, talk of Parliament and
how its business should be conducted, and no one has been wise enough to suggest how
it should be altered. The private member only gets an opportunity according to his chance
in the ballot, and even if he is successful in getting a Bill before the House it is not always
the policy of the Government to push it through. I remember the time when Members
of Parliament were not allowed to come to the Union's Conference, so we have made some
progress. There is no institution in the world superior to the House of Commons. I was
Whip one night and asked the Speaker for the Closure. He said he would give me the
Closure if Mr. Grayson did not want to speak. At that time Mr. Grayson was elected as a
Socialist, and Speaker Lowther looked upon him as a law unto himself. British public life
will never be anything if it shuts out the opinion of the minority. Even our friend
Dobbs does not suggest a way out.
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): I wish I could.
THE CHAIRMAN : That's right. You get there and you'll find you cannot do it.
There is no 24d. looking down on 2d.; they take jolly good care that all are referred to as
an honourable member. I have never known a Government who had to be in such a
humiliating position, because they have not the moves behind them. Whilst the Labour
Party is in a minority help should be given by other people. I have seen it before, and
I remember Mr. Balfour saying many years ago, "We may not be the Government, but
we are always in power." Although we have a Labour Government the only people I feat
-and I want all our Labour Ministers to be wary-are the permanent officials. We don't
always take legal advice. Often we challenge it. If we have money enough we can always
get a good lawyer, and if you have enough money you can get a good opponent. (Laughter.)
Who can guarantee the future of this country for fifteen years? It is reasonable to say
Labour in office. In 1906 the Conservative Government laid down a policy for building
you would like to and I agree with Mr. Wheatley's Bill, and the thing to do is to keep
four dreadnoughts per annum.
to Parliament they will tell you what they are going to do. If the next set of law makers
You cannot commit the country for ten or fifteen years ahead If a different class is sent
are others than labour, they will frame a new policy. I appeal to you all to support Smith,
We cut that down to two, and this must be borne in mind.
---

---
the Labour Party to power.
58
Buckle and Gould, and when you go back put your heart into the political side of the
business, although we cannot neglect the industrial work. Work for an early return of
Mr. R. HARRIS (Leicester No. 2) expressed the hope that the disqualification
Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering) congratulated the Members upon the splendid
report, and asked if the Government had set up a Committee to deal with the problem
Mr. J. H. BAUM (Organiser): In view of the treatment of the last Unemploy-
nent Bill, is it contemplated to introduce a clause similar to that of the Fisher Act and
press forward a good policy.
ontinuation schools?
THE CHAIRMAN: I remember Mr. Winston Churchill suggesting a canal should
under the impression that the Board of Trade had powers to find work of this kind, and
prehaps Mr. Smith can tell us whether they have powers to do so.
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): Have the Party considered the question of
fair play amongst themselves? No man ought to speak fifty times in a Session whilst
other men cannot make a maiden speech. There should be a sense of honour and fair play.
been carried out in previous conferences, we should not have had him speaking so many
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): If the advice tendered by our friend McCarthy had
times; if he will take the advice unto himself he might be content with speaking 49 times
and leaving someone else a chance. (Laughter.) It is a little difficult to appreciate the
position. It is most forward when we have gone forward to see the distance travelled
one, levying its members; in fact the levy is at a higher rate than the Capital Levy. These
people see the significance of the Labour Party in the House, and it is some satisfaction
unwise and unfair to presume too much. Our friend Attewell was talking about the
construction of the Cabinet; by what authority does he assume that the Labour Party
did not select the Cabinet. I am not able to speak all my mind, but I hope Attewell will
not make statements about things of which he knows nothing. For thirty years the
Labour Party has been merely a propaganda cause-and the older delegates know that.
The more extreme it became the more loudly it was received. The point is whether
to criticise the Labour
THEORY CAN BE PRACTICAL.
There is a difference between a propaganda force and the Party taking office, and adminis-
tering the work of the Government is not easy. It is because we must understand the
sudden change the Labour Party was called upon to take its part that we should temper
down our criticisms sometimes. We are not altogether satisfied with what the Labour
Party is doing, but criticisms should not be levelled at the Labour Party in the House, which
are unnecessary. Labour is marching on.
and the part our members are taking in the march. Let us fight on. Carping criticism
We need not be ashamed of the progress made
is most objectionable, and there is no time for it. Times are too serious to do that, and
I trust the Conference will accept the Political Representatives' report, which has been
so admirably written and so ably presented to us.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton) asked if anything had been done towards the
tilling of the soil, and whether steps have been taken to reclaim land taken from the people
a century ago.
Mr. W. R. SMITH, M.P.: Our numbers in the House of Commons will not
permit us to bring about compulsory powers where private control is concerned. There
is at present a majority in the House who stand by the right of private property as against
public interests, and anything needed to adjust the situation cannot be brought forward
as we should find ourselves in a hopeless position.
In relation to the order of speaking, naturally it is for the Front Benchmen to have
preference, and their order of speaking is a matter of arrangement. So far as any other
member is concerned, they are at liberty to arrange as best they choose as to when they will
address the Chamber, but the Speaker arranges the debate to prevent a succession of speakers
from any party.
aware of the policy of the Cabinet as to whether the matter has been reconsidered since
I don't know that I can answer the question regarding Education, because I am not
the Unemployment Bill was rejected. Mr. Trevelyan will see the matter is reconsidered.
The Government has not appointed a committee to enquire into the causes of Unem-
ployment, because they already know them. They have established committees to ex-
amine the position in its present aspects, in order to ascertain means of assisting the
clause in connection with Old Age Pensions would be pressed.
of unemployment. What is being done with Education? I hope the Labour Party will
De made from the Humber to Manchester to cost from nine to twenty millions. I was


---
closely examined.
unemployed. The industries most hit are the ones which do not lend themselves to general
employment so far as utility is concerned, such as textile cotton.
The question of canals was raised by you, Mr. Chairman. It is very difficult to get
anything through the House which means State enterprise, but these questions are being
The Old Age Pensions and Mothers' Pensions Bills are being presented, and it is hoped
to pass the Old Age Pensions Bill this year, and Mothers' Pensions next year. There
are 422 Members of the House of Commons who believe the present procedure is the correct
one, and only 193 do not, and that will indicate to you our difficulty.
Mr. Attewell seemed to be possessed of a philosophy of what we do for anyone is nothing.
I don't think his criticism is justified. He talks of a bourgeoise House and the working
The workers could be the governing body to-day if they had wanted. They don't
want it The Labour movement have been guided in their policy so far as troops are
concerned by consulting the German Labour and Socialist Government and Labour Parties.
We asked Simon-a member of the Reichstag, and secretary to our own International-
for his opinion of British troops being kept in Germany. He said, 'For God's sake let
British troops see fair play is done, and they have a proper understanding with them.
the British troops stop there" They always get a fair show and treatment, and the
Remember that they go no further than Cologne.
man.
We have had three of the biggest

STRIKES
since the Government came into power that have ever been known. Everyone has been
settled upon terms which will compare with any national agreement. If you saw some
of the people in Parliament, as we do, asking why we do not run buses, tubes and trains,
you would be surprised. Tramwaymen, busmen, dockers and railwaymen all have dis-
putes, and they have been settled in such a way as to compare favourably with any national
agreements. We would not run the buses. When any member feels disappointed, it
would be as well to think of the success attained since the Labour Party took office last
January. There has never been in the history of this country any Government taking
armed camp than it was in 1914: nations jealous of each other; unemployment so great
and vast as is never been known before. Labour took office with all these circumstances
against it, with numbers less than one-third against a House of Commons, whilst in the
House of Lords its members can be counted on the fingers of one hand. Think what that
Now think of what we have done, and what we have in hand, and I hope that at
the next election we shall get your support and see that we are returned by a large majority.
Clause 11 was endorsed.
means.
THE CHAIRMAN: If we have a General Election in the near future it may mean
that we shall not have sufficient money in the Political Fund. Consequently we desire the
power to borrow money in order that we may not be charged with taking any undue advan-
tage. I therefore submit this resolution for your endorsement.
ALD. A. HILL, J.P. (Leicester No. 2) then proposed, and Mr. T. VALLANCE
(Leicester No. 2) seconded :-
"That this Conference authorises the Executive Council of the Union
to take such steps as may be deemed necessary to provide Finance for the
Union's candidates at the next General Election."
Carried unanimously.
On paragraph 12
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) asked: Is it the intention of the Council to issue a
copy of the letter which has been sent to the Manufacturers' Federation regarding the
revision of the Agreement ?
THE CHAIRMAN: It is not our intention so to do at the moment. We have sent
our claim in to the Federation. They cannot, of course, give us a reply at once. We have
included everything in that claim in which we are interested, and shall report to you later
how far we have gone. At present it is in embryo. This is not secret diplomacy, but
common sense.
Paragraph 13 having been endorsed, the Conference terminated at 12 o'clock noon,
the delegates joining in singing "Auld Lang Syne."
Thus a half century has now passed away, a half century of development, and also
increased liberty and freedom, which increase has brought with it responsibilities and
obligations, and it is now for us to carry on to the best of our ability.
May the record of the work done in the past act as an inspiration to all to increase
the rate of progress, and to augment the sum total of happiness in the homes of the
people in the years that lie ahead of us. - E.L.P.]
---

---
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON-11th June, 1924-was spent inspecting the works
of Messis. Lotus Ltd. (Bostock's), Stafford. The extent of the works and the wide range
of work executed, was a revelation to many of the delegates, as also was the provision
made for dealing with any cases of sickness; likewise the playing fields, gymnasium and
concert hall for the use and benefit of the operatives.
After tea, provided at the Brook Hall, Mr. T. F. Richards presided at an informal
gathering, supported by Mr. H. J. Bostock, J.P., and Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P.
Mr. T. F. Richards (President of the Union) spoke of the appreciation of the delegates
of the hospitality extended to them by the firm, and asked the company to bear in mind
the fact that Mr. H. J. Bostock was President of the Employers' Federation (applause)
the Federation with which they had so much trouble. (Laughter.) He was delighted
to think that they had had an opportunity of going over the Lotus Works, and for the
delegates from all parts of the Kingdom to have seen what was being done in Stafford.
"Treacle Borough" was well known in Leicester, and as a consequence they knew
Leicester had been built up by Stafford men.
They looked upon Mr. Bostock and the
as one of their best friends. (Applause.)
Mr. H. J. BOSTOCK: Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it was unkind of
you, Sir, to remind the audience that I am President of the Federation I am now addressing
ing you in a private capacity, and not as a member of the Federation, and anything I saw
now is not to be used against me in evidence. (Laughter.) We are pleased to be associated with you. It is a very remarkable history of the Union you have issued. Fifty
years of hard work, which has placed the industry and its organisation in a high position.
I am satisfied that that state of affairs could not have been brought about unless the Union
had had as officers and leaders people who commanded the respect, not only of their constituents, but of the people with whom they negotiated. It was a very happy thing for the
shoe industry that it had not got away from the stage when masters and men, or employees
and employed, met together in their daily work and knew each other. You may think we
are hard - perhaps some of us are but some of you are pretty tough nuts (laughter)
yet we are able to meet together and settle our differences. There is a great deal of work
still to be done by the Union and the Federation acting together. The Federation is being
asked to accept responsibility to finance the Research Association and Science in our trade
We ought to discuss the conditions that make work pleasant and put them into force. In
our factory we have two "rest" intervals-one at 10 a.m. and one at 4 p.m. Some feared
the output would fall as a result; I never had any anxiety myself, and I am glad to say our
people are satisfied that if we gave up the "rest" periods, it would be fatal. In our factory we have tried to get cleanliness and as much light, sun and air as possible. We are
only just beginning to realise to the full the health of our citizens. Happily, here in Stafford,
we don't always have rain, and people say what a clean town it is. We live in a charming
part of England, engaged in a necessary industry. I believe in your debates you have
talked about tuberculosis; this is a disease which can to a large extent be conquered
by living under better conditions and getting more sunlight. Everyone of us should do
all in our power to urge forward smoke abatement Bills, and so try to promote better
surroundings. Mr. Richards, I could talk to you for many hours longer, but after three
days I imagine you have had as much talking as you wanted. I should, however, like to
say what a pleasure it has been to me, and my fellow Directors, and everyone in the factory
to show you round the factory, and we are proud to let you see the things we have remedied.
I thank you very heartily for the honour done us, by coming to our factory. (Applause.)
Mr. T. F. RICHARDS: I know Mr. Bostock does not wish us to pass him a vote
of thanks, but on your behalf wish to say how very much we appreciate his kindness.
(Cheers.)
Mr. R. DUNN: It would be indiscreet for me to let this occasion go by without
saying a word. This is a red-letter day for Stafford. I wish England had more employers
like the Lotus people. They are splendid people to deal with. It is nothing but fair to
say how much we appreciate what these people do. (Applause.)
E. B.


---
```text
61
THE UNION'S JUBILEE.
"As Others See Us."
" FIFTY YEARS ' is produced in a manner fully worthy of the occasion. It is well
printed and handsomely bound, and its compilers are to be congratulated on the manner
in which they have presented the history of the organisation, from its humble beginnings
to its position to-day." - Shoe and Leather Record, 6th June, 1924.
*
MRS. T. SMITH, wife of the Union's first general secretary, sent " warmest greetings
and thanks for the handsome book published to celebrate the Jubilee."
Mrs. Smith has vivid recollections of the early days of the Union in its difficulties
and struggles, and regretted she could not attend the Conference.
*
*
*
ALD. OWEN PARKER, C.B.E., J.P., ex-president of the Manufacturers' Federation,
sent hearty congratulations " upon a most interesting and informative production."
*
*
*
MISS RUTH TOMLINSON, secretary to the Manufacturers' Federation, sent "thanks
to the Council on behalf of the Federation, for the very fine production of your Union."
At the same time Miss Tomlinson " thanked the General Secretary and those responsible
for the publication, on the admirable result that had been achieved."
*
*
MR. H. J. BOSTOCK, J.P., president of the Manufacturers' Federation, said " Yester-
day's post brought to my desk the very handsome copy of 'FIFTY YEARS ' a work on
which the Union and all concerned with its production are, indeed, to be congratulated."
*
*
*
" FIFTY YEARS' is an exceedingly well produced book of the Jubilee year of the
institution. The contents are most interesting and illustrate in detail how the movement
starting very humbly and rather stormily, grew step by step into the honoured and valued
body it now is. It is a history, too, which says much for the broad view and mental balance
of those who work in the Boot Manufacturing Trade, whether they be employers or
employees.
"To those who have had a long experience in the trade this book will prove interesting
as a review of past events. For the younger members it should be instructive. We find
the photographs rather reminiscent. The Union is to be congratulated on this production."
-Extract from the Shoe Trades Journal, 6th June, 1924.
*
*
*
THE LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH "express their appreciation and also congratulate
all who have in any way contributed to the compilation of such a handsome book."
*
*
THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE, GENEVA, write:-" I have seen your copy of
the History of the Union, and it strikes me as an excellent production. The Director is
very pleased with it."
*
```

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.**

Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in theen
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any error
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give t
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are excit
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

Hat Teli 4438 Museum, London.

National Union
Boot & Shoe Operatives

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.

Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W. 1.

MONTHLY REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
2IST JULY, 1924.

TRADE.

There has been a slight improvement in Trade during the past month.
The figures recorded by the Gazette are set out hereunder :-

BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.

Employment during June was moderate and showed little change, on the whole,
compared with May, but was, in general, better than in June of last year. Short time
was still largely worked in many centres, and many factories closed down for the whole
of Whitsun week.

The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 7.7 on the 23rd June, as compared with 8.3 on the
20th May.

Returns from firms employing over 38,000 operatives in the week ending 28th June,
1924, showed that about 23 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that week
to the extent of about 10 hours each on an average.
Employment in London remained fair. At Leicester there was a slight decline;
Northampton a slight improvement. Employment was fair on the whole in both dis-
tricts, but some short time was still being worked. At Kettering employment was only
moderate, and after the Whitsun holidays the majority of factories worked only three-
quarter time. At Wellingborough employment was quiet, and the majority of the
operatives were working short time. Conditions remained fair in the Higham and Rushden
districts, systematic short time, but employment continued brisk at factories producing
light footwear. At Stafford employment was very fair, with very little short time. Em-
ployment at slipper making factories in the Rossendale Valley remained good.
time remained good at Norwich; operatives were usually working full time,
overtime was necessary. In the Bristol and Kingswood districts there was a
ment, and employment was fair, on the whole, though a good deal of short
There was a further improvement at Street, where employment
B


---
Here is the extracted text:
369
POLITICAL.
The political situation, whilst it may be interesting, was
one from the point of view of the working classes of the ceam,
siderable number of Bills are before the House of Commons in va
all of them, however, are being emasculated, and that in a subtle wa
who desire-judged by their actions-to give the very smalles w
reform that will keep the people quiet.
We hope it may be possible for our colleagues in the Home of C
having become Acts of Parliament. If this does not take place we f
ere many weeks have passed, to be able to point to at least sorte de
it will not be the fault of either the Government or its supporters, lat
due to the cumbersome methods which are still adopted both in the H
Commons and the House of Lords before any Bill can become an Act. Th
intricacies of parliamentary machinery are such that it is becoming more and
more forced upon the Party as to whether they will not have to overhau
in a drastic manner, such machinery and simplify the same, thereby givin
greater opportunity for those reforms which are so necessary for the well-being
of the people, becoming law within a reasonable period. Meantime we appeal
to the membership-as we did last month-to keep well oiled the political
machinery in the various districts, and to be constantly bringing before the
public the reasons why the Party in the House has not been able to 30 rapidly
place upon the Statute Book, Acts of Parliament which would help to make
the lives of the people happier and brighter than they are at present. Further,
we are constantly being reminded that there may be sprung upon us a General
Election. Whether this is so or not, we hope the political machinery will be
kept in such order as to ensure-whenever the appeal comes-a very consider-
able augmentation of Labour Members being returned to the House, whereby
it may be reasonable to expect increased speed for Bills to become Acts of
Parliament.

HALF-YEARLY STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS.
The Statement of Accounts for the half-year are presented herewith
together with the Auditor's Report. The details appear in a later section of
the report. We are pleased to record the fact that during the half-year, the
funds in hand at the Central Office have increased by £12,827.
Although the aggregate amount-£305,174 1s. od. in hand may seem
rather larger, we would remind the members that this is largely due to the
fact of the methods by which our industry is governed in settling business by
arbitration boards, thus enabling us so successfully to meet our financial
obligations. In addition, whilst methods of arbitration secure many benefits
for the membership, it should also be remembered that such benefits have been
secured without ANY LOSS OF TIME to the members. Further, settlement
disputed points by arbitration also enables more of the contributions to be


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

373
THE SPITALFIELDS DISPUTE (LONDON).
The strike at Messrs. Jackson & Joseph is still in being. During the
month a number of meetings have been addressed by the General President.
National Organisers, local officers, and help has been offered and accepted
from several Labour M.P.'s, including our Mr. J. Buckle, M.P. and Mr. F.
Gould, M.P. The operatives who are on the dispute list are standing loyally
by the Union, despite efforts made by the employers to get them to return
to work. Members must not seek employment at this firm. We trust that we
may be able to report a successful issue later. We understand an appeal has
been issued by our Organisers for additional financial assistance and trust
branches will respond as liberally as possible.
THE CONFERENCE REPORT.
The Jubilee Year Conference Report is now published, and can be
purchased through the Branch Offices.
VOTING
for the various Union Officers MUST be taken at the August meeting night,
votes counted on the 14th prox., and the results posted to reach the Central
Office NOT LATER THAN FIRST POST on the 16th prox., otherwise the
branch results will be disqualified.
A full list of the nominations appears on pages 420-426.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
THE UNION'S SOUVENIR.
We have a few copies of the Fifty Years' History of the Union on
hand. These can be purchased from the Head Office at 10/- per copy (cash
to be sent with order). As there is sure to be a demand, application should
be made at once.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.


---
374
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that " Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only " Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
W. WARNER.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
A. W. LYNE.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
I. H. JOHNSON.
ALEX. SMITH.
C. MAYES.
J. MANNERS.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
THE BOOT TRADE.
Award to Deal with Slackness and Unemployment.
As a result of the deliberations of the Northamptonshire Board of Arbitration, sitting
at Kettering on 13th June, the following new Award, signed by Mr. W. Charles Cattell,
has been made :-
Standing Off.
All operatives standing off work at the wish of the employer, through slackness of
trade, shall accept same for a period of not longer than four weeks in the first instance.
If the employer cannot re-engage the operative after the expiration of the first four weeks
he shall have power to authorise a further period of not longer than four weeks' suspension,
making eight weeks in all. If the employer cannot re-engage the operative after the
expiration of eight weeks he shall, at the end of the eighth week, terminate the engagement
by notice, or pay its equivalent in wages.
It being understood and agreed by the Board that if, during the above period of four
to eight weeks it is desired by either party that the employment be terminated, both
employer and employee are entitled to a week's notice.
No employee can be deemed to be temporarily employed in the restricted sense now
used after such employee has worked 48 hours, except in the case where an operative is
employed as a substitute for a regular employee who is ill.
Notice.
All employees, after working 48 hours, must receive one week's notice, or give such
notice before such employment can be terminated.
All such employees are thus entitled to the stoppage of holiday payment and unemploy-
ment and State Insurance contributions.
Exceptions as to the stoppage of holiday payment can only be made in the case of
operatives employed in substitution of an employee who is ill, and then only for the period
of the first weeks of such employment.


---
375
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT

FELLOW MEMBERS,
SHODDY.-The question of “shoddy” has advanced
this question as to what steps should be taken in ultimately
by the Executive appointing a Sub-Committee for the joint
we all seem to be interested. In this connection one has
for the necessity of a measure being adopted to defend the general
the House of Commons on the Butter Bill, and there will be found
protect those few retailers and manufacturers who are pre
The enlightened and intelligent portion of the industry realize that
of “take them or leave them” attitude, fully conscious that the
which they so generously advertise with a vim which challenge
kind never affects the Houses, who can, with pride and pleasure it
and fair in value in all respects. These are not the firms who are ved
adversely, but it is that type of distributor who calls upon the smal ve
not in a position to tell the would-be purchaser to take his flimsy ord
who feels that to make “muck,” as one employer put it, to oblige a contr
to be in the habit of sandwiching some many pairs of doubtfuls in th
themselves waxing rich by a method, which, when publicly known, will
demned. It is to the credit of the public and the Press that no one of
has anything to complain of in this agitation for a genuinely described arti
on the market and guaranteed to contain certain materials. If that method
or any other way by which we can prevent fraud, imposition and make
that we may awaken the remnant of a conscience in the frail bodies of th
who belong to the “get-rich-quickly” parties, let them be known by ally other
matters not. The writer knew a firm of repute to-day, who at that time dealt in 1
embark in another and more genuine line altogether, and we must enlist the wid
but certain things happened which caused them to abandon that kind of tr
idea, the curse of all movements, “if I don’t, somebody else will”; the sheet the A
powers to persecute the wrong-doer, who falls back on the old, weak, decrepit, wor
the weak and vicious. This is a subject far removed from that taken up by Dr E
Bentham and Mr. Wells, who can, through the Co-operative movement, get a pair, or
many pairs of boots as they wish, any shape, or any style, and the boot-wearing t
are bound to suffer if they want to put a “fives” foot into a “threes” boot or shoe

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS. — Owing to our objection to a
were advised to see the firm, and a visit was paid to this firm in Lancashire, where ever..
thing was shown us and the firm promised to meet all our wishes within a few days li
thu men employed had the ordinary amount of reasonableness they would at once see he
thwise and futile it is to be outside the Union of their craft, and would at once throw
their lot with those who have improved their position without any hope of reward, but ha
done it as a duty. Can we persuade all the men in Liverpool to do their duty, and join
up with the Union? We have another case on in this city with the Mersey Harbou
Board, and have been amazed to learn that two members of ours, recently joined, have hard
to accept a reduction in wages and to be put on the Engineers' rate, but as our rate 19
higher the authorities thought that to pay shoemakers and repairers more than engineers.
was wrong. We agree that is why we consider the Engineers ought to have no less than the
Shoemaker, and therefore the Engineers ought not to have been educed, and we are not
inclined to allow this body to go unscathed. I have had this matter before the Advisory
Committee of the Trade Board, and we have unanimously requested the Ministry to
further investigate and consider the case, as we, as a Committee, claim that a firm employing
two men to make and repair boots and shoes for their workpeople are not a charitable
institution, and ought not to obtain exemption because they are not carrying on boot
making by way of trade, but are economising and cheating the trade by paying less than
either the Trade Board or the general trade.
TAMWORTH.—It has been my purpose to visit a TAMWORTH firm who get their clicking
done at Thurmaston, a few miles out of Leicester, owing to the firm's refusal to pay the
rates claimed by the Leicester No. 2 Branch, and after meeting two of the principals
ing the operatives at Wilnecote (Tamworth),
learned that they were now paying as requested. Two of the men confirmed this, and we
are now left with the privilege of organising
where Trade Unionism will, we hope, get a revival later on.
LEICESTER - A case of importance has had to be investigated where a firm are endeav-
ouring, apparently, to utilise male labour to defeat the attitude adopted by the women
in the conduct of their business. Three men have been engaged to do the Stock Room
work, hitherto done by girls. The firm have conceived the idea of putting the Stock
Room on day labour; after failing to get the work done at their own price, two of the girls
have been discharged, to my mind, as a deterrent and to frighten the other girls, all of
whom, including the men, have been advised by me, to work at the price set down in the
c


---
```text
statement. This policy of calling in men has been done before when there has been a
glut of work. The operatives think this will be the case again in a very short time, the
distasteful part being the discharge of the two girls, who immediately got other and better
employment. But here is a principle -ought we to allow one operative to be set off
against another? This ought not to be permitted, and the Union must consider the
matter on its merits.
TRADE BOARD. Two more days have been spent on this work, which meets with no
satisfaction from some of those who benefit by the work done. Of the six members repre-
senting the workers' side, two belong to our Union, three belong to the Amalgamated and
one to the N.U.D. & A.W. These latter four are all Hand Sewn Makers and Repairers.
In this goodly company Mr. Buckle and the General President find themselves, with men
of experience, and when we ask our members who are supposed to know, we get no data
as to hourly or weekly quantities except from one Branch, but whose
figures are confronted with the employers' figures, not only from these two firms but from
London gave us no earnings. These members give us their opinion, which we advance,
four other towns and cities from which we had no evidence, and only one figure. Even
but it is figures that tell the tale, and yet in spite of that, we got an 8 per cent. advance
on a price that has been tried deliberately for a period before these prices can be accepted.
The District Committee will have an opportunity of amending this, and if they can, then
we hope they will improve our work. We have had a further enquiry into the "making
longer" of shoes, and this matter has hung fire a long time. The department got a wrong
impression, and now we are informed that the likelihood of a settlement is close at hand.
The men have already drawn two large sums in back money, and feel sure the firm will
do the honourable thing on this occasion when the facts are drawn to their attention.
STREET. We have had a deputation from Street, and it has been my pleasure to take
them round the factories of the C.W.S., Knighton Fields, Palfreyman Bros., J. Rawson &
Sons, Equity Shoe Works, and T. Roberts & Sons, of Leicester. Many things were seen
that do not exist in any isolated firm, unless it is much up-to-date. Each and every
firm have methods of their own which are always sub-rosa with us as officials, and the
kindly way in which the principals at the firms received us, and showed us all we wanted
to know, impressed our visitors that Trade Union Officials and Employers in the Shoe
Industry are not on bad terms by any means. The Management of the C.W.S. and Equity
Co-operative Society were equally courteous, and will entirely remove the impression
made that any difficulties exist in seeing a Leicester factory.
STRIKE. -At the request of the Organisers I have addressed an open-air meeting of
Jackson & Joseph's men outside Spitalfields Church. The men who are out are worthy
of support, and the pity of it is that men and women can be found to serve a firm who
decline to be ruled or controlled, and who we invite to submit their claims to arbitration
to one of the Directors of their own customers. By the general run of the trade, this is
why I am pleased that the Bill which would allow Unions and Federations to impose the
same condition on the minority as governs the majority should become law, and those
Labour members who voted against the measure ought not to prevent someone else having
an opinion as well as themselves on what is good and what is bad. We are hopeful that
the Bill will become law and that no trade need have it unless they wish. At the same
time I must here correct a statement I believed to be true, viz.: "That we are the only
Union in the world who have a monetary guarantee." I have been informed that the
Dyers' Union and the Dyers and Finishers, of Bradford, and the General Workers' Union,
of which the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Labour is an official, have an
agreement in the Bradford area of a similar amount of £1,000 each side, as a guarantee
to observe the bond-a copy of which I have. I therefore wish to correct the impression
and to take off my hat to my friends who have done better than we have, because they
have a guarantee that all employees must belong to one of the Unions involved. We hope
to improve our agreement. This would cost nothing.
Wear Stamped Shoes and read the Daily Herald! You will be the better for doing
both.
7 MECKLENBURG STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
15th July, 1924.
Yours fraternally,
W. F. Richard
General President.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
WAR OFFICE.--SHOES, CANVAS: Adams Bros., Raunds; Stead & Simpson,
Leicester. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1924.
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
377
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR.
241 Uppingham Road,
Leicester,
16th Jul, 1921
To the President and Members of the Executive Council.
Mrs. Richards and Gentlemen,
I have examined the Union's Account Books, Receipts, Vouchers,
and Bank Pass Books.
The Deeds of Investments are intact. During the half-year £20,000
has been repaid by the C.W.S. Development Bonds, and additional invest-
ments have been made with Kettering, Kingswood, and Northampton
Councils.
The Total Funds standing to the credit of the Central Office amount
to £305,174 1s. Od., an increase over the previous half-year of £12,827 ;
each fund-with the exception of the Political Fund-showing an
increase.
To the General Secretary and Members of the Staff responsible for
the books I wish to tender my thanks for information supplied to any
details raised by me. I also testify to the excellent manner in which the
books are kept.
I certify the Accounts correct and according to Law.
JAS. B. B. ROBERTSON,
Public Accountant and Auditor.


---
"
416
BRANCH REPORTS.
will be at Wembley during the mid-summer holidays in July. Few of us
ARBROATH. Our trade is still very poor, and very few of our members
ever thought to live through a time when the talk of holidays would jar so much
as it does in these modern times. To maintain the custom in the face of holidays
all the year round savours of burlesque, and many of our members can only
Instead of a happy respite when the family could enjoy a brief change of scene
think of the Poorhouse when asked where they are to spend their holidays.
and air, statutory holidays only bring hardships upon the short-time worker
the district as a holiday, unless twelve consecutive idle days are signed in
in so far as his Unemployment Benefit is stopped for the period customary to
grocer, butcher and baker, stand in a menacing array at the door, while the
addition. Small chance then of the glories of Wembley when the landlord,
palliate each. To judge by the reports of our Annual Conference it seems we
poor distracted housewife vainly searches in her thin purse for something to
on the attainment of our Jubilee can be made sincere when the National
stand in high esteem with those interested in the industry. The congratulations
Agreement is discussed in the autumn. It is idle to send expressions of good-
will, or to have laudatory notices written in the Trade Journals, if our friends
the enemy" condemn our members to a life of organised slavery before a
livelihood can be wrung from the industry. It matters not that young men
because the long view goes beyond the present, and the future is dark indeed
and women want the opportunity to work hard and earn more than the minimum
when operatives fall out of the race before forty years of age; when we cannot
and when there seems to be a fairly general belief that we cannot expect shoe-
absorb the youths entering our factories under the existing arrangements,
normal conditions were restored. The rank and file certainly make it hard for
workers to be employed for forty-eight hours per week, even although so-called
officials to interpret properly the wishes of the members, and it is not surprising
to find agreements contain elements which are fundamentally wrong. A good
point made at the Conference was that relating to the deleterious influence
of the distributive factors on the conditions of the trade. There can be no
doubt that these are able to exercise a most anomalous tyranny over manu-
facturers, and likewise over employees in the background. It is a question
which should be faced, and a policy evolved to meet it intelligently. It is a
strange commentary on Capitalism to find the parasitical middle-men exact
the most lucrative reward, while avoiding the risks of manufacture or the
hardships of production. In view of the position taken up by our Council on
the question of adult education, it is interesting to learn that the W.E.A. is
endeavouring to prove its adaptability to the Trades Union Congress needs.
This Association is undoubtedly the only educational force-minus propaganda
-which can legitimately expect support from Congress or from the Unions
affiliated thereto. The Labour College does not compete on this plane, but
rather fulfills a very necessary function in directing and creating the mind
which will bring about the industrial, social, and political changes as a prelude
to the Co-operative Commonwealth. But while we are all prone to support
propagandist education, we can still appreciate the disinterested educational
work of such a body as the W.E.A. May both flourish in the interests of
democracy.
AYR. Having been on short time since the New Year, we are pleased
to say that the factories are now working full time, but we have still a few
members idle. We regret having to report the death of one of our oldest
members, Mr. John Dickis (501). He was a former Secretary of the Branch for


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
417
CHESHAM.—Trade here has improved slightly since our last report.
CHESTERFIELD.—We have still to report trade bad. This week end
some of our members have been sent for to start work again at Dronfield & Co.,
but only one or two at present.
CORK.—Trade continues to still improve.
DERBY.—Trade in Derby is in a very bad state, the two Union shops
working about half time, which has compelled many of our members to seek
other employment.
EDINBURGH.—Trade in Repairing Section has been fairly busy. We
have now concluded our three months' trial of prices in conjunction with
Rounding plant. Members are not satisfied with same, maintaining that the
reductions are too great. Anyone who understands will easily conceive that
when any boot has been stripped and sole tacked on the job is practically
finished regarding Benching. Advisory Committee of Trade Board have
recommended a new Piece Rate which is nearly up to the prices which Edin-
burgh have already obtained. One of the employers in Edinburgh (Repairing)
is likely to start a Holiday Scheme on something the same lines as New Workers
have, employer and employee paying into a fund. There is to be two pay-
out periods, New Year and trades holidays. Repairers are not pleased at
another 5 per cent. reduction, they cannot see where the Government get the
figures. Between the 5 per cent. and the New Piece Rates for Rounding,
repairers are having some reductions taken off them. Some of our Repairing
members were the pioneers of our Branch.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.—We are pleased to state that trade has
improved in the Raunds district at last. In the other part of Branch trade
remains fair. We have sent £10 to the strike funds (Jackson & Joseph's).
We regret that on 28th June, a disastrous fire took place at Messrs. Sanders &
Sanders, Rushden, about 160 being thrown out of work. Messrs. Bates and
Langley met the members of Manufacturers' Association on 30th June, at
Manufacturers' offices, with Mr. C. Horrell, President of Manufacturers' Associa-
tion. As a result 60 operatives are now placed in temporary employment until
factory is repaired. It is expected to open after August Bank Holiday.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S.—We have to report trade falling off a bit.
Our unemployed this week is seven, and twenty on suspension. The Leicester
Women's Branch are still pricing Fancy Shoes for all who seek information,
and our Executive still feel sure there are many of our women members in
many branches who are not getting paid a fair rate for fancy shoes and upper
stitching generally. We would like to know what other women feel about
Post and Cylinder machines. Our girls complain of great fatigue, although
the machines are very useful for certain operations. The trouble is no arm
rest, leaving all the weight on the stomach and bottom of the back. Also,
We are protesting vigorously against the Singer Flat Top Stools our women
have to sit on, these always have been unsatisfactory. We should recommend
that Singer's Company hurry up with new patterns, with comfortable shaped
seats. We suggest that trials as to comfort should be made by allowing men to
sit on them for eight hours a day. We have had a deputation from our Street
Branch this week, who we feel sure gathered all the information they desired.
LIVERPOOL.—We are pleased to report that trade has been fairly good
with repairers during the past month, and quite up to the average for this time
of the year. The atmosphere seems to be full of strife. What with thunder-
storms and copious showers from above and upheavals in the labour world
below, we are continually on tenterhooks as to what will happen next. When
we read in the public Press about men coming out on strike and not knowing
the real facts or inner workings which go on behind the scenes, we wonder
why these difficulties cannot be settled by conciliatory methods. But when


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
we find employers of labour autocratic and lacking in courtesy to such an extent
that they will not even acknowledge receipt of letters from Trade Union
officials, we can hardly be surprised if a strike takes place, as sometimes it is
the only weapon that has any effect to bring these people to reason. The
Jubilee Conference has come and gone, and beyond certain little social events
and the General President's Address on Shoddy Footwear, we are not much
the wiser. We admit it was a good stunt from an advertisement point of view
because it has been well reported and commented on by the public Press all
over the country. We who have to repair the cheap trash composed of basil
rags, cardboard and compo can a tale unfold about the troubles and trials
of a poor old cobbler, who very often winds up his useful career in the work.
house, after spending a lifetime looking after other people's soles which are
trodden underfoot.
LONDON METRO. We are pleased to report that trade still continues
to be fair with us. Perhaps it is too much to hope for it to continue. The
dispute at Jackson & Joseph's still continues, and although the firm has got a
little help from an additional two inferior accommodators, they are no doubt
feeling the effects of the stoppage. One of the trade papers has published
Jackson & Joseph's statement of the position, and why negotiations ceased.
They first state that the men were satisfied with their job. Well, when their
employees came to the Office with patterns of fancy shoes and complained of
the price paid, that certainly did not show that satisfaction existed. They
state that the men could not obtain a better situation in any London factory.
From the work point of view they are right, for there is not a firm in London
or in the trade, that insist on their employees working six full days and over-
time, and have them in on Sunday to keep their hand in so as they will be fit
for work on Monday. They state that they are not fighting the Union or
Federation, but meeting the wishes of their employees. If that is so, why have
we had to interview the firm at the employees' request on the price paid for
clicking and fitting cutting, and the Holiday Provision Scheme. They state
there is a large percentage of Union members still carrying on. That is not so.
There were nine members, seven of them having agreements with firm, two of
these have been out the last fortnight, thus leaving seven, who by fines that were
placed on them, have ceased to belong. These are facts, but Jackson & Joseph's
in their statement to the General President, omitted the fact that they left the
London Association rather than conform to National Agreements. It is some-
thing in these days of capitalistic publicity to have a report in which the
position can be explained. May we also thank, on behalf of the London
Metro. Branch, all branches who so generously responded to Messrs. D. McCarthy
and Len. Smith's appeal. It will enable the men to put up a stiff resistance,
and ultimately bring the firm to a more reasonable frame of mind.
MAYBOLE.-Trade is very much better than last month, most of our
members working full time. We hope this will continue as we have had a long
spell of short time. Some of our members have not had a full week's work for
four years.
NEWCASTLE.-Trade here during the past month has been very quiet.
NORWICH. Conditions continue very fair in Norwich, trade steadily
improving, and with sickness diminishing with the improving weather, claims
on the funds are considerably reduced. The industry is finding a more regular
level, less overtime being worked, but more operatives securing employment,
a change that is most welcome.
NORWICH No. 2.-Trade is fairly good as regards the Clicking and
Press Departments, which is a pleasing feature, and we trust the same will
be maintained. At the last Branch Meeting, arising out of the Monthly Report,
a discussion arose in regards to the Joint Industrial Council Bill, and a resolution
was passed asking that the Executive Council should consider the advisability


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
419
of publishing the details of the Bill through the next Monthly Report
are sorry to report the continued illness of our Secretary, Mr. A. II Folkard
and we trust he will be restored to health to take his usual interest in the Branch
affairs.
We
PLYMOUTH (REPAIRING). Trade has been moderate during the month
have been working overtime, but the work in general repairing
but slightly better than last month. Just a few of our hand sewn maker.
and set up in business since the war, and the men who were brought into the
when we contemplate the number of disabled ex-Service men trained here
very long time regaining its pre-war activity. We are not surprised at thi
trade during the war and have now made it their permanent calling Ther
two factors, taken with the general trade depression and short time, cannot
fail to affect us adversely. Sometimes we marvel that thing
especially seeing that the trade is now compelled to pay not less than Trade
Board rates, which it has proved its ability to pay now for nearly bee years
From facts such as these we are encouraged to anticipate brighter days ahead
for if the old trade can stand a minimum wage with something like a pre wat
value of 35s., we ask what will it stand when conditions return to the normal?
mittee of the Trade Board for Channelling and Rounding. We would sincerely
urge all branches where this work is carried on by machinery TO FORWARD
We are keeping our eye on the prices suggested by the Administrative Com
ANY INFORMATION IN THEIR POSSESSION TO THE GENERAL
PRESIDENT. The future of the Repairing Trade will develop more and
more along these lines, and if fair wages are going to be secured, every scrap
of information must be obtained for the guidance of those who have the interest
of the worker at heart.
well.
SILEBY. We have Mr. J. Baum down here working the district. He
has had good meetings at most of the shops we have visited. Although at
present there is no great gain in new members, this kind of work is bound to
The benefits and principles of Trade Unionism
have results in due course.
have been put forward in the most convincing manner. Every shop in the
district has been visited, some several times, and one shop with a not very
creditable record, has received a good number of visits. Here we have made
a few members and, incidentally, come up against the Manager. We shall
be pleased to have Mr. Baum down again.
STREET. We are glad to be able to report a considerable improvement
in trade during the month. There is now a large demand for machine-sewn
goods, and the workers employed on these are consequently putting in much
better time. We regret however that the turnshoe trade has not yet increased
sufficiently to absorb all those of our members who were suspended early in
the year, especially with regard to the higher class goods. It is something of a
tragedy, but withal an indication of the trend of industrial development,
that the only men now signing our out-of-work book are men who may be regard-
ed as of the highest grade of the comparatively few craftsmen we have left
in the boot and shoe industry. There are, however, signs that they will now
be gradually returning to the factory, where we trust they will find steady
and continuous employment.
APPRECIATION.
"FIFTY YEARS." Your very handsome book is to hand; you and your colleagues
may well feel proud not only of the book, but also of the achievements of your organisation.
-Shoeworkers' Union of U.S.A.
*
*
*
BUILDING DISPUTE - The General Secretary of our Union, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P.,
was appointed a member of the Trades Union Congress Emergency Committee to take
such action as may be considered necessary in connection with the Building Dispute.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

427
MR. E. L. POULTON ON 48-HOURS WEEK.
Address to the International Labour Conference.
On Tuesday, the 24th June, 1924, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., General Secretary to the
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, and the British Workmen's representatives
to the International Labour Conference now being held in Geneva, addressed the meeting
on the 48-hours week and said:-
"It is increasingly difficult to find new matter in connection with this great question,
which we now have before us for the sixth time, in addition to many times on the Go-
Director's Report that ratification had been secured for this very important reform
instead of having to ask again from this tribune that every nation should adopt it
Body. As workers, we were hoping that before 1924 we should be able to read in the
ever, we intend as workers to keep this matter in the very forefront of our programme,
nations of which they form the units; although on the one side we have somewhat sadly
believing that it is not only of great interest to the workers as workers, but also to the
point of our international work, it is nevertheless with pleasure that we note the French
to lament the fact that so little progress has been made in this connection from the stand-
Minister of Labour stated a few days ago the intention of their Government to bring
before the French Chamber at the earliest possible moment a Bill to ratify the Hours
Convention. That, at any rate, is encouraging.
"In the Director's Report it is stated that Great Britain is one of the countries which
is holding back the question of ratification. I hope that the British Government is going
to take its courage in its hands and put the Bill through, in accordance with the decisions
arrived at in 1919 in Washington. One of the principal reasons, or one of the alleged
reasons, for not ratifying this particular convention, is that each nation is waiting for
some other nation to ratify it. I hope that game of battledore and shuttlecock is not
hand labour more and more, and men are more and more becoming victims of the system
going to continue. The workers are determined to have it settled. Machinery is displacing
and women employed have to increase their physical pace to keep pace with the iron
because they have to keep pace with the machines. I know in my own industry the men
machine, whatever the capacity of that machine may be. Therefore, I say the human
factor is one which not only calls for consideration but which also calls for action in the
way of shorter hours of work, as methods of production are improved.

"Surely it is much better that the workers should work under just and humane con-
ditions, that they should work under conditions in which they feel they have no injustice
to put up with, rather than have rankling in their breasts, indignation, and a sense of
injustice because of the apparent neglect of Governments to fulfil their obligations.
"About eight days ago, it was my pleasure to go over one of the biggest factories in
the United Kingdom. That factory had a maximum working week of 48 hours, but the
head of the factory thought it would be advantageous both to the employer and to the
employee if shorter hours were to be worked, so as to give the workers rest both in the
morning and in the afternoon. The workers there have, therefore, been given a ten-
minute rest in the morning and ten minutes in the afternoon, making 100 minutes altogether
in the five full working days, or practically two hours out of the nominal 48. That em-
ployer told me there had never been cause to regret the action, and that it had not had
any effect on the output of the factory, because of the advantage accruing to the workers
by giving them this period of time off, although it really meant a working week of 46
hours.
"I feel bound to appeal in strong language, and to ask the members of this Conference
to go back to their countries and tell their Governments of the feeling here, in order that
next year we shall be enabled to see in the Director's Report that ratification has been
secured, and which the workers prize so highly in their several spheres."
DAILY HERALD
CANDID; CLEAR; CONCISE.


---
"AS OTHERS SEE US.”
Non-Stop Industries.
Thirteen years without a strike, a record claimed for the shipping industry, is no mean achievement in these troubled days.
It is not, however, the best. The boot and shoe operatives can beat the sailors with plenty to spare, for their industry has maintained peace for 20 years.
It is probably unique in that the Union and the Employers' Federation have a mutual guarantee of £1,000 against any stoppage. The Star, 11th July, 1924.

CITY POLICE NEWS.
" A Pleasure to be Prosecuted," says Mr. Evan Barlow.
Leicester, Saturday. Magistrates: Mr. W. A. Toller (in the chair) and Mr. A. H. Baddeley. Messrs. J. and E. Glover, boot manufacturers, Lichfield Street, were summoned by George Frederick Sedgwick, H.M. Inspector of Factories, for contravention of Section 1 of the Factory and Workshops Act with regard to limewashing. It was stated that the limewashing in question had not been done for four years, whereas it should have been done every 14 months. A letter had been sent to defendants bringing the matter to their notice, but the limewashing was not carried out.
Mr. Evan Barlow, who represented the defendants, said it was a pleasure to be prosecuted by the son of the former worthy Factories Inspector, Mr. G. Sedgwick. Defendants had no desire to avoid their obligations.
The magistrates imposed a fine of 40s. - Leicester Mail, 21st June, 1924.

LEGAL QUERIES ANSWERED.
"DELTA" (Leeds). If you can earn the same wages with one eye as you did with two you have no claim for further compensation at present, but if later on you cannot earn as much as you did before, as a result of the accident, you will be entitled to weekly compensation for partial disablement. You cannot claim a lump sum.-Herald, 26th June, 1924.

PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
TRADE AND COMMERCE (Warrilows Ltd. v De la Rue).
MR. BAKER asked the President of the Board of Trade whether his attention had been called to the action of Warrilows Limited v. De la Rue, in the King's Bench Division, during which it was stated that £20,000 had been paid annually by one firm to prevent another competing against it for Government contracts; and whether he will take these facts into account when he is considering the promised legislation with regard to trading profits ?
MR. WEBB: The answer to both parts of the question is in the affirmative. - Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons, 8th July, 1924.

RUSHDEN CHOIRMEN APPRECIATED.
Adult School Songsters on East Coast.
"Ordinary working men, at it daily in a boot and shoe factory! Why, you ought to be earning a living, every one of you, as professional vocalists!" This was one of the tributes paid to the Rushden Adult School Prize Male Voice Choir, on the occasion of a week's singing visit to Cromer and Sheringham-and it was a tribute, too, paid by a musician of high standing in the country. Conducted, officered and manned almost entirely by boot and shoe operatives, the choir's standing in the musical world is rising year by year, and their receptions at Cromer and Sheringham were enthusiastic in the highest degree, many requests being made to them to come again next year.
The conductor of the Choir is an old member of the Union, and much work is done by the Choir, particularly in respect to charitable cases.


---
MR. RICHARDS AND SHODDY FOOTWEAR.

In the June issue of the MONTHLY REPORT, page 330, we feel it is only fair to the members
to also have the statement made by the General President to the public
at Stafford. Speaking of Shoddy Footwear, Mr. Richards, said.

The Cordwainers' Company was founded in 1272, and their objects appear to have fallen into decay, because some of it is fraud
Charter granted in 1842: “ To end all fraud and deceit in the”
or the crime of heel ball: ink and paper socks, and the many
the little ones in the middle. It is for this reason many of us think
when the general public ought not to be bamboozled by making payment
that are not what they seem, and have no description or guarantee
and are thereby unaware that men in high places are guilty of the
Most poor men and women, especially when buying boots and shoes look at the
not because they are bad at heart, but because they are careless of the wearable
of the articles, their mind being centred on the dividends to their shareholde
one of these gentlemen would think of recommending to any employee of the
article for men's or women's hard wear with backened insoles, paper middle of
lifts, especially for children whose health is often impaired by wearing shoddy fo
The most well-known men in the trade all seem to agree that the best civilian boot
shoe known in our time was the War-time Boot made to Government specification arı
Government supervision, and would have been produced by manufacturers at a far pr
and distributed by some few generous distributors at a fair rate of remuneration, had
a deputation run off to the Board of Trade to ask that their usual rate for distribution
not interfered with. The patriotism of these gentlemen, some of them paper Lieute
for distribution only was offered instead of the 33 per cent, which they were accustomed
Colonels and Recruiting Agents for the Army and Navy, was at a low ebb when 12 perce
to. Patriotism waned at 12 per cent.

As a Union we are prepared to accept help from any other section of the Industry
and in this matter the Boot and Shoe Trades Association at their Conference in Plymouth
recently appointed a Committee for the purpose of holding an enquiry into the question
of shoddy footwear, and are willing to co-operate with us or anyone else. It will, I hope,
ultimately resolve itself into some method whereby we can check this rampage and attack
on the health and purses of the poor. The only two methods to prevent this appear to
me to be (1) to issue a white list of retailers who deserve the support of the movement.
and to get the support of the Board of Trade to insist that every retailer gives a written
document of the materials used in the production, this to be given with every pair of boots,
then (2) bring the matter before the Trade Union Congress, Labour Party Conference,
supply every Trades Council, Labour Party and Co-operative organisation with this white
list.

COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.

1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924
January.. 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78 77
February 15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88 77 79
March .. 15-20 35-40 70 90-95 115 130 141 86 76 78
April .. 15-20 35-40 70-75 95-100 105 141 128 82 74 73
May .. 20 40-45 75 100 105 150 119 81 69 69
June .. 25 45-50 75-80 100-105 105-110 152 119 80 71
July .. 25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 73
August .. 25 50 80-85 110 115 161 120 79 75
September 25 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 110 80 75
October.. 30 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 80 77
November 30-35 65 85 120 125 169 99 80
December 35 65
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement,
1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922)
Agreement, and present date.


---
433
MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF YOUNG PERSONS
FOR FACTORY EMPLOYMENT.
The Committee appointed by the Home Secretary
to inquire into the working of
the provisions of the Factory and Workshop Acts for the medical examination of 
persons as to their fitness for employment in factories" have presented their report.
The medical examination of the boys and girls who are to enter industry is two-
fold; there is the medical examination for factory employment by certifying surgeons
under the Factory Act, and the medical examination during school life by medical officers
of the Local Education Authority under the Education Acts. The evidence given to the
Committee respecting the working of the first-mentioned system was conflicting, but on
the whole unfavourable and the Committee record their opinion that the failure (as
such they regard it) is due to inherent defects of the system itself. They therefore
recommend that the examination and certification of young persons should be amended
as follows:—
(1) The age for examination should be raised from 16 to 18 years.
(2) The examination should be required in all factories and workshops, except
such as the Home Office may, by Special Order, exempt.
(3) The form of the certificate should be positive instead of negative, i.e. it should
be to the effect that the young person is physically fit for employment in the factory.
(4) The surgeon should be able to grant, at his discretion, a qualified certificate
to which conditions may be attached respecting the nature of the work on which the
young persons may (or may not) be employed, the remedial or other measures which
are to be taken in regard to the young person; or the certificate should be conditional
upon re-examination within a stated period on account either of the physical state of
the young persons or of the industrial conditions.
(5) The certificate should be obtained within 14 days after the young person
has started work in the factory, and should include a statement to the effect that the
surgeon has seen the young person's school medical record.
(6) The examination should be conducted at the factory.
(7) The surgeon should have the duty of acquainting himself in every factory
where he examines young persons with the process upon which they are, or are proposed
to be, employed, and of recording in the register the date of his visits.
(8) The standard of examination, the form of certificate and the nature of the
conditions which may be attached to qualified certificates should be prescribed by
the Home Office, which should supervise the work of the surgeon.
(9) A retaining fee should be paid to the surgeon out of public funds for the
purpose of covering the examination of processes referred to in (7) above, the making
of an annual report, and the re-examinations referred to in (4) above. The fee for
examination on entering employment in a factory should continue to be paid by the
occupier.
(10) The title "Examining Factory Surgeon" should be substituted for "Certify-
ing Factory Surgeon" to mark the change effected in the duties and responsibilities
by the above amendments.
(11) On the application of the occupier of a factory who employs a medical officer,
the Central Authority should have power to appoint him to be examining-surgeon
for that factory for the purpose of examination of young persons, as in the case of
charitable institutions under the Factory Act, 1907.
In regard to linking up the examination of young persons under the Factory Act
with that under other public health services, the Committee are of opinion that the Councils
of Counties and County Boroughs in England and Wales, and the District Committees
and Town Councils in Scotland, should at once be invited to submit schemes for taking
over the examination and certification of young persons, which should be regarded as one
of the specialised services of the Local Authority, like the school medical inspection.
If the voluntary trial made by Local Authorities proves successful, the whole of this work
should, in the opinion of the Committee, ultimately be transferred to the Local Authorities.
The Report is signed by all the members of the Committee; but certain reservations
are made by Sir Gerald Bellhouse, H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories, who doubts the
necessity for raising the age for examination from 16 to 18 years, and disagrees with the
proposal to pay a retaining fee to examining surgeons out of public funds.
An appendix to the Report shows that 1,681,158 young persons were examined for
fitness by certifying surgeons during the five years 1919-1923, of whom 54,056 were rejected.
Statistics as to the number conditionally certified are not available for the years 1919 and
1920, but the number so certified during the three years 1921-23 was 22,847, as compared
with 28,560 rejected outright in the same three years.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette,
June, 1924.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our corre- spondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Mem-
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NAT TELI 4438 MUSEUM, LONDON.
TEL ADDRESS. MATIUNO

ational Union of
Boot & Shoe Operatives
Atrithated in the Trade Union Contra
and National Labow Party
Averered under the State Matronal Health Inouennes Acta Approala 201

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
General President
T.F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
EL POULTON L
SEAT OF COVE 
34,GUILFORD STREET
LONDONMOL
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
MONTHLY REPORT.

25TH AUGUST, 1924.
TRADE
during the past month has somewhat improved though not to the extent we
either desire or wish. We hoped it would improve to such an extent as to
absorb the whole of those who are at present unemployed. It must not,
however, be forgotten that the capacity of the Trade for making boots and
shoes is so great that the question of a reduction in the hours of labour must
never be lost sight of. The figures recorded by the Gazette are set out
hereunder :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment during July remained, on the whole, moderate. It was, however,
distinctly better than a year ago. A good deal of short time was still worked in various
centres.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 7.5 on the 28th July, as compared with 7.7 on the
23rd June.
Returns from firms employing nearly 38,000 workpeople in the week ended 26th July
showed that about 29 per cent. of these workpeople worked short time in that week to the
extent of about eight hours each on an average.
Employment in London showed little change. At Leicester employment was gener-
ally quiet, with some factories working short time; but it was much better than in July
of last year. At Northampton employment was reported as fairly good, especially during
the last week of the month, in preparation for the trade holidays in August. At Kettering
employment was poor, though in this centre also there was an improvement at the end of
the month. Employment at Wellingborough remained quiet, and half of the factories
in this district were working short time; but in the Higham and Rushden districts employ
ment was fair, and most of the factories ran full time. Employment was reported as bad
at Hinckley. The heavy boot factories at Leeds remained slack, with much short time,
but operatives producing light footwear were again busy. Only a little short time was
worked at Stafford: but employment, although fair, was not so good as in the previous
month. Employment in the slipper trade remained good at Rawtenstall.
There was a further slight improvement at Bristol and
There was little change at Norwich; employment was good, full time being usually
worked, and some overtime.


---
453
DISPUTES.
The dispute at Messrs. Jackson & Joseph, of Spitalfields, London, U
continues. Negotiations have been carried on during the month between the
General President, Organisers, and the Firm, and we trust soon to report
progress.
During the month the Award of the Arbitration Board has been issued
connection with the firm of Messrs. Gregg & Co., of Manchester. The member
of the Board were Mr. W. Addington Willis, C.B.E. (Chairman), Mr. G. Sedgwick,
J.P., and Mr. Owen Parker, C.B.E., J.P. The terms of reference were
"To fix prices for certain operations in connection with the machining
of uppers for shoes and slippers."
25th prox.
Several sittings of the Board were held, and the Award issued on the
The Board sat at 6 Richmond Terrace, Whitehall, on the 22nd of May,
side was able to secure the attendance of essential witnesses in London, and that
the piece rates fixed by the Board might in operation affect other manufac-
1924, and took such evidence as was then available. It appearing that neither
Manchester, and sat there at 53 Spring Gardens, on the 3rd of June, 1924,
turers in Manchester, the Board decided to adjourn the further hearing to
when other manufacturers and workers attended.
and DECLARE as follows:-
Having carefully considered all the facts of the case the Board AWARD
1. That the piece rates to be paid by Messrs. Gregg & Co. for the operations
specified in the Schedule hereto shall be those stated in the said Schedule.
2. That the piece rates in the said Schedule set forth are fixed with regard
to the conditions at present prevailing in Messrs. Gregg & Co.'s factory, and
in
operative, and that the system of production there is different from that which
obtains in other districts where agreed piecework statements already exist.
3. That this Award shall come into operation on and including the First
day of August, 1924.
Dated this 25th day of July, 1924.
OWEN PARKER. (Signed)
GEORGE SEDGWICK.
W. ADDINGTON WILLIS,
Chairman.
We do not propose to print the statement or schedule referred to as it is
rather lengthy, and refers only to Manchester work. It is, however, satis-
factory to know that the Award itself-in addition to setting out prices for the
Closing Department, this being an advantage the prices are such as will
mean a considerable increase in the wages of the operatives. It must be


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
454
to see the Award is carried out. Failure to secure
good by the operatives that there is an obligation on their part-
hace must be reported to the branch officers, in accordance with rule.
mail take necessary action to see the Award is complied with.
the emplov
CONSUMPTION.
This is
well known to the members, we have with the full approval of various
for some time past spent a considerable sum of money in giving
27 mentleck definite and additional benefit, the cost of which is being
beme by the Sick Fund, and could not be given to the members were it not
many cases the treatment has been successful. We regret, however, to say
special treatment to those members suffering from consumption.
for the fact that we have a Central Fund. We are pleased to report that in
Major Stevens finds difficulty on the one hand in securing answers to some of his
letters and enquiries, and the Central Office on the other has a similar difficulty.
that although the treatment is given without cost to the members themselves.
It should be distinctly understood that members MUST answer letters fully
and carry out the instructions given from time to time, and also report progress.
or otherwise, to their branch officers, who in turn will acquaint the Central
Office, to enable the records to be completed.
In this connection, attention is specially called to Circular No. 334, and the
necessity for carrying out the instructions contained therein.
WAR v. PEACE.
has been inaugurated amongst many nations with a view to having differ-
Since the conclusion of hostilities of the Great War in 1918, a movement
The League of Nations has been attempting since the termination of the War
ences settled by other methods than by the barbaric one of resorting to war.
to forward and strengthen the idea of PEACE and goodwill amongst all
nations of the earth.
a spirit
Unions has played a very prominent part, and it has been decided that on
In connection with this matter the International Federation of Trade
the 20th and 21st September, 1924, demonstrations will be held in many parts
of the world with a view to fostering the ideas of peace and cultivating
of goodwill. That the need exists for an active campaign against preparations
for war, and war itself, ample proof is given by taking one instance. Despite
the horrors of War, loss of life, pain and suffering incurred, as also huge debts
piled up, and consequent misery and semi-starvation amongst many peoples
of the earth owing to war, there are at present more men under arms
than in July, 1914. In addition; a number of people are speaking and
writing of the next war, and of its certainty within the near future. We
appeal to all the members to do their part in helping to mould public
opinion in this country and to make it clear beyond dispute that whatever
Government is in power, resorting to war is one of the things we are


---
Here is the extracted text:
155
determined to stamp out, and to substitute
methods of settling differences between nations.
about the position. The struggle will not be
settling differences, but the vested interests, of which there
who have been brought up to look upon war as one of the
fight hard and not always in the open
forces for the purpose of war. What we have to do is to
determination for Peace. Opportunity will be given at the
above referred to, to help; but that will not be enough.
propaganda should be carried on against the warlike spirit on the other
and the cultivation of goodwill and harmony on the other. Further references
will be found on page 405.
UNION OFFICIAL POSITIONS.
The detailed results of the voting for the various Union Official positions
will be found on pages 406 -409. The results show the following members
elected:
General President: *T. F. RICHARDS.
General Secretary: * E. L. POULTON, J.P.
Organisers L. SMITH, D. MCCARTHY, J. H. BAUM.
Trustees: S. THOMPSON, J.P., L. E. BRADLEY, J.P., Miss E. A.
TIMMS, W. WYMAN, W. LANGLEY, J.P.
Manager National Health Insurance Department: *R. D. MAYES.
Council Members :-
District No. 1. J. WHEELER.
2. *C. BATES.
3. *E. LAW.
4.. *W. R. TOWNLEY. J.P.
5. L. P. POOLE.
6. *MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
7. W. WARNER
8. *W. HINDES, J.P.
9. C. BLEAKLEY.
10. *A. J. Dobbs.
11. *A. SMITH.
12. J. MANNERS.
* Elected unopposed.
POLITICAL.
The first session of the Labour Government has now ended. It has been
asked in the past "Can Labour Govern?" We have always maintained that
Labour could govern, and have pointed to the state of affairs the various
countries have been brought to from time to time by other parties than the
Labour Party, adding that Labour could at any rate govern as well as those
who have had the control of the countries for hundreds of years.


---
We venture to say-although the present Government has not
to accomplish all we should have liked-nevertheless it has proved its
affecting the lives of the people. The following is a list of some of
to govern, and has brought about an improvement in very many
accomplished:
The BUDGET, which we stated at the time, was a real advance u
lines that have been advocated for many years past by the Labour
The Removal of the Thrift Disqualification for Old Age Pension
Improvement in Allowances for Unemployed Persons.
Agricultural Wages Regulation Act.
Improvements in Method for Dealing with Pensions.
Housing Financial Provisions Act.
been a
In addition, the Foreign Policy of the Government has by general c
policy which has improved the position of Great Britain from the
point of influence and authority amongst the nations on the Continent
would call special attention to the decisions arrived at recently in conne
with the Russian Government and the German Government. In each
despite imperfections which can easily be found-both mark a real ad
towards a better understanding between the peoples of Europe.
The Government has many measures in hand including a Bill for fir
work for the unemployed on an extensive scale, and the Factories Bill (1920
The Government has stopped the building of the proposed exper
naval base at Singapore, and reduced the expenditure of the fighting fo
by nearly £7,000,000.
A number of Committees have been set up by the Government to enqu
into various matters affecting the welfare of the people. We are well aw
of the fact of the well worn tag that Governments set up Committees to get
of difficulties. We however, believe, the present Government has set up the
Committees, not to put off necessary reforms, but to secure by the enquir
such Committees are making, necessary facts relative to bringing in legislatic
at an early date so designed as to bring about many needed reforms.
Rumours are afloat that a General Election will take place in the very nea
future, and we once more appeal to the membership-as we shall continue t
do in the future-to keep the machinery in the various districts in good orde
so as to be ready when the election comes.
making known what has already been accomplished by the Government and
the work they have in hand, to still further bring about improvements in the
Meantime much can be done in
lives of the people.
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
457
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
T. ADNITT.
C. BATES.
A. W. LYNE.
I. H. JOHNSON.
C. MAYES.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
MR. J. BUCKLE, M.P., J.P., AND MR. D. MCCARTHY.
Our members and friends know that Mr. J. Buckle, M P., J P., recently underwent an
operation on his throat and mouth. We are pleased to report that Mr. Buckle is making
satisfactory progress. He has received so many letters of sympathy that he finds it
impossible to reply to all individually, and asks the members to accept this as an apprecia
tion of the letters sent him.
Mr. D. McCarthy also met with a misadventure at Manchester a month ago, when
owing to an accident the gas was left partly on and he was found unconscious. Mr. McCarthy
has made such progress that he is now convalescent and expects to resume his duties shortly
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
B


---
458

GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
SHODDY. We are bound to again turn our attention to the question of Shoddy
Footwear and to complain of those retailers who take advantage of the poor by assuming
to be their friends, and who seek their suffrages for public office and take upon themselves
public work with all its responsibilities. In some instances they have received honours
from the King, and are called upon to shield, by their acceptance of office, anyone from
chicanery or fraud, and it is to the credit of those pure-minded men who refuse to stock
shoddy or paper-stuffed boots or shoes, that they receive the support of a good type of
customer. We are now called upon to ask those manufacturers who send boots and shoes
to our Colonies to be made aware of the inquiry recently held in New Zealand, when these
goods obtained from Great Britain were pulled up and examined by experts in the presence
of five Members of Parliament, and the Secretary of the Labour Party. We are well
aware that such an inquiry was held in several towns and cities, and could mention the
to that found in New Zealand, where, we are informed they-being a young democratic
sitting Members and the Labour Party Secretary would reveal a state of things similar
colony-want value for money without deception, and as one of the men engaged is an
old shopmate of mine, one need not wonder that those who claim Labour principles, and
are. prepared to act up to them, cannot stand idly by and see boots bought as "all leather"
and when pulled up are found to contain (after being warranted all leather) composed of
that flimsy kind which we used as boys on a piece of string to carry bricks with. Very
in ignorance, and a strong plea was made to the danger to health. This is a worthy
strong criticism was offered to those who send to New Zealand the shoddy rubbish purchased
subject for the Health Committees of our large towns, and the Minister of Health ought
to advise all public bodies of the danger of putting into office those guilty of gulling the
public. The Inquiry Committee of New Zealand are asking the Legislature to pass a law
leather. This Committee strongly emphasised the fact that to their mind a genuine
article could be placed on the market at 1s. per pair more than the shoddy price. As all
these productions were purchased by the Union of Shoemakers, we shall be able, probably
in a very short time, to turn again to this subject. In the meantime, will all those inter-
ested bestir themselves to compel the "Shoddyites" to mark in plain language the com-
position of their pocket-picking boots and shoes.
The Sub-Committee of our Union, owing to several reasons, have not yet met, but hope
to do so in a few days.

GOVERNMENT AND HANDSEWN BOOTS. We have at last received a reply from the
War Office, through Mr. J. J. Lawson, M.P., Financial Secretary, in which he says that
after very careful consideration and the objections to Handsewn Boots being so strong,
that their purchase could not be justified, and that the matter has been considered since,
and the Machine-made Boot preferred, and owing to heavy orders being placed by the
late Government last winter, was also another factor. This reply causes me to remember
a few things about the placing of orders, an old trick of the Tories who always place large
orders when they are leaving office, the object being to show how good they are, and when
other Parties do anything for the public these petrified hangers on of office shriek bribery,
bribery and corruption-they being experts, understand. Concerning the objections to
Handsew Boots, I am bound to again approach the Financial Secretary, and say that I
invited Mr. Haldane, then Secretary of State for War, to test the Handsewn Boot which
they were buying in 1906 at 10s. 5d. per pair, to test them with two platoons of men in
one regiment-Handsewn versus Machine-made. No! he refused, he being like a few
others, machine mad. My plan was a three years' trial, each man to have two pairs
Handsewn boots for a platoon of 60 men, and two pairs Machine-Sewn for a platoon of
60 men, boots to be repaired by regimental cobblers until both pairs had been thoroughly
worn out-cost and comfort to be fully recorded. I should bank on the Handsewn boots.
I fully accept the suggestion that had we wanted six million pairs for the last great inter-
national crime, we certainly could not have had them made Handsewn, but we claim
Handsewn to be the best and cheapest for European wear, and it would find much employ-
ment and pay better than out of work benefit, although we do not ask the Government to
do as they are about to do with the Sugar Refining Factories, and as they do with the
Shipping Companies in subsidising ships for prospective use, but no subsidies for the
private soldier, not even employment at his own industry.

WORCESTER. A very good meeting of members was held, and great interest shown
in the visit, which the members think too infrequent, but as the news of my coming got
noised abroad, the few non-members joined up with but as the matters I had to
lay before the Managing Director next day were received with the usual kindly manner,
and I was shown over the ten-acre recreation ground, with two cricket pitches, three tennis


---
459
courts. The operatives have two cricket teams. This is an example of what can be done
by good firms, and yet loyally adhere to our National Agreement.
DEPUTATION TO THE HOME SECRETARY Respecting the questions put forth by the
Mr. R. J. Davies, M.P., who listened to our claims for the registration of all maker and
Handsewn Making and Repairing Board, we saw the Under-Secretary of the Home
repairers, and that all places where work is carried on, or done by way of trade, or mer-
chandise, for wages or profit, should be treated as workshops, and inserted in the Factory
Act; also that all Trade Boards should be supplied, through the Factory Inspector with
the names and addresses of all outworkers. This is supposed to be now done by the local
Authorities, who cannot do it. although they are supposed to at the present time find
out. I am informed they only know when a case of infection makes itself felt, and is
reported. Employers should be proceeded against who do not report, and the Medical
Officer of Health who is responsible to the Minister of Health, S
the consent of his local employers. The endorsement by the Minister of Health of
influences. should act with
before his Chief. The Under-Secretary admitted the usefulness of such a power, but agreed
with us that our claims lacked nothing in size or importance, and would lay our view
THE SPITALFIELDS' DISPUTE. - The Ministry of Labour for the City of London had
arranged an interview with Messrs. Jackson & Joseph, at Clement's Inn, and asked the
General President to meet these gentlemen, with Messrs. McCarthy and Smith. We
spent two and a half hours trying to arrange a settlement, the firm alleging that their
business was progressing favourably and that they had been chosen for attack, whilst
many others were let off who ought to have had our attention. Their imputation was
against members of the Federation, and they promised to supply us with a list of the
delinquents, but as we did not get any reply until the 13th of this month, we were unable
to investigate the imputations made against some twelve firms before now, but they are
being investigated by my colleagues. We have again seen the representatives of the
Ministry of Labour, who think Messrs. Jackson & Joseph have put up a fair challenge, and
as soon as we can prove to them that all Federated firms are carrying out the National
Agreement they are prepared to do the same. This is really a reflection on the Metropolitan
Branch. ALL Branches ought to immediately inform the Central Office when they fail
to impose the National Conditions; such actions give colour to those who advocate the
centralisation of funds.
TRADE BOARD. Two days have been spent on this work at the office in Whitehall,
and although complaints were made that Messrs. Buckle and Richards had not done as
they ought to have done, and the Advisory Committee had exceeded their powers, the
recommendation of the Committee was accepted by everyone to go to the country, and
also the question of the Trade accepting Apprentices from over 21 to 61 years of age, which
causes me to describe such as "scab" apprenticeship the proposal from the Ministry, and I
claim without the knowledge of either the Minister of Labour (Mr. T. Shaw), or the Parlia-
mentary Secretary (Miss M. Bondfield), having heard the views of the operatives' side, but
pressed upon the Board by the Officials of the Ministry and the appointed members initiated
during Sir Montagu Barlow's period of office, and if such is ever carried, I shall dissociate
myself from any such agreement. The idea is to learn anyone over 21 years of age the
Handsewn Making and Repairing, always providing they serve three years apprenticeship.
The first year they are to receive 30s. per week, the second year 39s. per week, and the
third 49s. weekly. Although we trained 6,000 ex-Service men, or better still to be truthful,
misled 6,000 of our fellow countrymen, because these 6,000 men, like those about to be
apprenticed, after being taught a little, no vacancies stared them in the face.. The appoint-
ed members who belong to the professional class ask us " do we wish to make our trade a
class corporation," my answer is "No closer than the profession take some trainers into
the profession."
CHESTERFIELD.-Messrs. Dronfield & Co. have restarted, and want to adopt a success-
ful method of manufacture willy-nilly, without either organisation or management. After
seeing the members, and the firm next day, we had to point out the weakness of all con-
cerned, and could see that if the firm were to progress, or remain in existence, some drastic
change must take place. We recommended a way, and hope the same will be adopted.
SILEBY.-A visit to Sileby respecting the financial troubles of the branch was a matter
for consideration, and we have taken up their troubles in the hope that a better start
may be made in one of the sections. This being an old grievance, we hope to get a satis-
factory settlement.
NORWICH - A visit to Norwich, as representing the Council, to take part in the appoint-
ment of a Labour Agent for the constituency, the changed conditions calling for such to
be adopted, our friends the enemy both wanted the two seats, but have altered their tactics
and instead of running two candidates each, they are going to run one each and help each


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

460
The work is of importance, and I believe will prove to be of great interest
We have appointed an Agent, and believe he will prove worthy
other into the bargain.
of the trust.
to the Agent, Mr. Brooksbank, of Manchester.
I hope he and all others connected with
our Union will wear stamped boots and continue to push the Daily Herald.
7 MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1,
21st August, 1924.
Yours fraternally,
ihards
General President
ORGANISER'S REPORT.
During the past month I have been engaged in the Midland District. I have visited
a few firms in Leicester with reference to the organisation of women, chiefly lapsed members
and good work has been done. I have devoted considerable attention to the Sileby Dis
trict. This is rather a difficult district. The conditions are fairly good, and nearly the
whole of the firms adopt the National Scale and Holiday Fund, but in the firms that I
visited there would not be more than 25 per cent of our members. I have no complaint
to make with regard to the meetings, and I have found no opposition to any views that
have been put forward. It is simply a matter of sheer apathy, indifference, timidity and
selfishness. In view of the holidays I have taken full advantage to press home the Holiday
Fund, which they fully admit was due to the work of the Union. I made a special effort
at Bray's where the conditions are quite good, but somehow or other they are under the
impression that if they joined the Union it would mean a reduction in their earnings.
I had very good meetings here and our members were well satisfied with the effort that i
made. Good meetings have been held at the School Boot Company, Mountsorrel. I have
visited this firm five times, and also canvassed them personally. The girls here are indebted
to the Leicester Women's Branch for the excellent conditions under which they work.
and some of them have promised to join. I have personally interviewed the whole of the
men working at Parker & Barlow's, we have a number of Leicester men working heme
and are all in the Union, but the men who reside in the district are very reluctant to join,
saying that they are waiting for a majority to join. I have met the operatives on four
occasions working at R. Willett's, Sileby. The manager here has not got a very good
name in the district, and I am under the impression that influences are at work in the
factory which prevent the operatives from joining. I had good meetings and canvassed
each man personally, but with very little success. Mr. Leader, the Secretary, has rendered
me yeoman service, but our rate of progress is exceedingly slow, but our members are grate-
ful to the Union for the efforts that we have made to arouse interest in the work on the
Union.
I visited Burton-on-Trent, met the operatives at Eatough's; we are making a little
progress here. I had occasion to meet the management with reference to one of our
members, and with the difficulty removed with reference to the other Union, I think the
progress will be assured. Structural operations are still going on for the accommodation
of W. Hill's, from Leicester, and it will be about two months before they commence business
here.
I have again visited the Wilnecote School Boot Company at Twogates (Tamworth).
The conditions of this firm have depreciated since my last visit. About 100 persons work
here but there are only about 12 men, chiefly youths. Girls are still working in the lasting,
finishing and press room, and I had no difficulty in having a meeting with them. From
information that I gathered the girls in the machine room had been put on piecework.
The rates of wages formerly paid on daywork were 8s., 16 years of age; 14s. over 18;
18s. over 20. Under the piecework rates they are now earning on an average between
the ages of 18 to 20, about 7s. 6d. per week, over that age ros. 6d. per week. Youths up
to 20, 15s. 6d. per week. I made a comparison on one operation and found according to
statement prices the firm were paying 2 d. per dozen for work, as against rold. I kept in
touch with the operatives for three days, and received quite definite promises that they
would join, but owing to the advent of the holidays, and the prospects of 12 days' holiday,
I am meeting them again. I think it would be almost impossible to find worse conditions,
and they expressed regret that they did not join on my former visit. Fortunately I was
able to obtain information which will enable the Union to adopt other methods to deal
with this firm, and if the operatives will only keep to their present intentions I am confident
that these shocking conditions can be considerably improved.
J. H. BAUM.


---
```text
461
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. — We have had our annual holiday period and trade is still
bad in our district. The increased benefit at the Labour Exchange will soon
be helping to ease the position of the short-time worker, but constant vigilance
is required to protect the rights of members who are compelled to sign the
register. A great deal of trouble arises with short-time workers at holiday
times, and a great deal of money is lost through ignorance of regulations,
although the most of it is recovered later on. An important point has emerged
in this connection. Dock Labourers and Preserves Workers have contested
successfully the stoppage of six or more days as holidays when twelve other
consecutive days have not been signed, on the ground that they have never had
customary holidays of that kind. This has led to us lodging a claim on similar
alike. Two of our indirect claiming members lost six days' benefit simply
grounds, and a test case will be heard for our direct and indirect claimants
because they accepted casual repairing, even although they had less than
thirty days' work for the past year. Other difficulties arise in connection with
days preceding, and immediately following, holidays, if not signed for at the
time, and a great deal of trouble is experienced in recovering these omissions.
A number of our permanently unemployed members got a shock at the beginning
of the new period by having a day deducted for the last day in July. It certainly
looked a scurvy business to withhold a day from those who had completed
their 41 weeks on the 30th July, and it was an unexpected mistake of the Labour
Government to start their new scheme on the Friday when the Labour Exchange
week commences on the Thursday. We hope the Scottish members of our
Union are watching closely the new development in day school education
North of the Tweed. Following upon a circular issued some time ago (the
famous Circular 44) we have the Scotch Education Department creating
Advanced Divisions as alternatives to the Intermediate Higher Grade Course
which was given in the Academies and Secondary Schools of Scotland. This
would be a step in the right direction if accepted in the right spirit by adminis
trators, but we are not far wrong in stating that it is being used to the detriment
of a large number of children of humble parents. Since the war the workers
have been sending their children more and more to the Secondary Schools,
and a building problem has resulted. Now our educationists see a chance of
turning away large numbers to those Advanced Divisions in the Elementary
Schools, and under the pretext that the courses of study are "just as good
many are being diverted unfairly from the best course. No doubt in time
the Advanced Divisions can be made very effective, but at present no satis-
factory equipment exists for Science and Art Teaching, and the scarcity of
Chapter V. teachers make it improbable that the teaching can be higher, for a
few years at any rate, than the old and fatuous supplementary classes. Mem-
bers should watch jealously the actions of Education Authorities in developing
and equipping those Divisions both with apparatus and qualified teachers,
so that children of working-class parents will not be prejudiced, and miss the
best and most valuable period of their educational life. At present the watch-
word is cheapness, but the electors should demand efficiency at whatever cost.
Education of children cannot be prostituted to save a few pockets.
CHESHAM.—Trade here still continues to improve.
CHESTERFIELD. — A few of our members have started work at Dron-
field & Co., but things are not very settled. The firm want to work to the
Green Book prices on about 20 dozens of work per week. One of the men has
three machines to work and another job besides. Our General President has
been down to see the firm on the matter.
```

---
DERBY. Trade at the two Union shops has been very bad, the C.W.S.
clickers at Derby have only made about 105 hours in ten weeks, and the other
departments are about the same. Some of us are interested in the campaign
against Shoddy Footwear, and have had to make it up - brown paper for vamp
linings, shoe boxes for insoles, paper runners for soles and middles.

GLASGOW. Trade in the factories has fallen off here on the restarting
after the holidays, short time being resorted to. Repairers are fairly well
employed. Much dissatisfaction exists amongst them over the price for
working in conjunction with the Rounding and Channelling plant. They feel
the work is much harder by the quantity they have to handle.
I tried to get details from Glasgow. Employers' figures showed 4d. per
how earned more than those figures supplied by the men ; the only other detail
figures of B. & B. would make the position much worse. These figures were
accepted by the Central Board without complaint or question by our men
(five members), including the Scotch representative. T.F.R. Gen. President

HIGHAM & RUSHIDEN. Pleased to report a falling off in sickness and
unemployment during the month (with the exception of the unemployment
caused by Messrs. Sanders & Sanders fire). The Blucher Statement has been
scrapped by the County Board and the old Black Work Statement of the Army
District has also been formally and respectfully buried by the Joint Standing
Committee governing Government Contracts, which means that the only
Statements now in existence in the District are the Northants County State-
ments and the Army Red Book. We have granted £2 2s. od. to the Rushden
Builders now on strike.

KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.--Trade shows signs of improvement in
this centre, and the figures published in the Half-yearly Report again show
the substantial sums paid to the Kingswood membership during the past
half-year. We are sometimes inclined to wonder if our operatives fully realise
the value of this side of our Union's activity. Certainly the stability of our
financial resources is the wonder and envy of less fortunate organisations,
and should stimulate the operatives of our district to a higher respect for
the Union which has proved its ability to establish decent standards of wages
and conditions. We have voted £5 to London Metro. and wish the officers in
charge a speedy and satisfactory settlement. With trade improving in this
District comes the question of overtime, and we are determined that all opera-
tives who refuse to insist on payment of time and a quarter, will be dealt with
as working against the interest of the Union.

LEEDS No. 1.--We regret to report that trade here, especially in the
Heavy and Medium work, is not good, but on lighter work we are much better.
During the month Mr. Wright, our Solicitor, has been successful in settling
two cases of Compensation after much time and inconvenience, viz., R. W.,
35193, £20; and J. P., 34933, £27 IOS.

LEICESTER No. 1.--We have to report a considerable falling off in
trade, every week showing an increase in the number of discharged and sus-
pended members. Some manufacturers appear to have a tendency to discharge
or suspend members at the first signs of decreasing trade. This matter was
discussed at our August Branch Meeting, and a letter has been sent to Mr.
T. W. Smith, Secretary of the Leicester Federation, asking that manufacturers
carry out the following resolution, passed at a meeting of the Board on 30th
August, 1923: "That with a desire to limit the amount of actual unemploy-
ment during the present period of slackness of trade, manufacturers be advised
to work uniform short time, either departmentally or over the whole factory,
in preference to discharging or suspending operatives." We trust this will be
carried in the interests of the members. A sum of £15 has been granted by
---

---
463
this Branch to the members on strike at Messrs. Jackson & Joseph, London.
We wish them every success in their fight for better conditions. We are sorry
to hear that Mr. J. Buckle, M.P., and Mr. D. McCarthy are ill, and trust they
will soon be restored to their usual health and strength.
LIVERPOOL. - We are pleased to report that boot repairers are fairly
well employed in this district. Since writing up our last report we have been
advised by the Secretary of the Mersey Dock and Harbour Board that the
per week from 1st May, 1924. This is a substantial increase, but does not
wages of the boot repairers in the Board's employ have been increased by 75.
bring their wages up to the standard rate as fixed by the Trade Board or the
is certainly a handsome addition to the bookshelf. Those of us who paid our
Union. We have received a copy of the Jubilee Souvenir of the Union, which
wage can appreciate the difficulties and trials of the pioneers of our Union
shilling levy during the great lockout in 1895 whilst in receipt of a meagre
in the early stages of its career.
MANCHESTER. - Trade is fairly good in the factories, except the tenni-
shoe makers, where it is falling off, and quiet with repairers. At our monthly
meeting it was thought the time was now opportune for putting in force the
Holiday Scheme. We are sorry that Mr. McCarthy collapsed while on a visit
here and had to be taken to hospital where he was for eight days, when he went
home to Leicester, and we are pleased to hear that he is doing fairly well.
NOTTINGHAM. - Trade is very quiet though a little better than this
Trade Board reduction as a result of cost of living going down to 69. Quite
time last year. There has been a strong expression of feeling against the
a number of firms have not enforced it in face of food going up, while in the
new work no change has been made.
NORWICH. - Trade continues good in Norwich, a steady normal output
being secured in a number of factories. Unemployed claims are low this
month, a feature that we hope may be long maintained. Thanks to the
Executive Council our congratulations to Mr. W. Hindes on his recent visit
to Germany.
PLYMOUTH (REPAIRING). This month we have to report that thanks
to the Finance Act and the Labour Government the Plymouth Co-operative
Society find it no longer necessary to deduct twopence for a receipt stamp
from our members who happen to earn two pounds or more. Thus ends one
of the chapters in our history which has caused a good deal of annoyance and
unpleasantness. The decision of the Society came at a most opportune moment
when the Branch had decided to make one more effort to remove the grievance,
but before saying goodbye to the old imposition we wish to thank all those who
helped to expose its injustice and bring the question to the notice of those in
authority. It is nearly five years since our Branch first took up the matter
with our Co-operative Committee, and we have been slowly hammering away
ever since. Many methods were adopted to call attention to these deductions,
letters were written to the Society, the Trades Council discussed the matter,
it was raised on the District Trade Board Committee, and on the National
Board by our General President (Mr. T. F. Richards). Our local Member of
Parliament was also interviewed upon the matter and the question was raised
on at least two occasions in the House of Commons, but nowhere did we find
any attempt to justify the action of the Society, while their Committee actually
expressed regret at not being able to accede to our request for the discon-
tinuance of the practice. However, looking back over our efforts of the last
four year we do not think they were in vain, for someone must have heard
our cry and brought relief. We trust that the jingle of the twopence will sound
all the more musical in the pockets of our members because of the efforts they
put forward to obtain. it.


---
SHODDY SHOES: UNION AND FEDERATION VIEWS.

Mr. T. F. Richards, the General President of the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives, again refers to the question of shoddy boots in his half-yearly report. It is
as to what steps should be taken in ultimately reaching the goal for which we all seem to
Executive appointing a sub-committee for the purpose of making enquiry into the question
Bill. Mr. Richards thinks the type of boot distributor likely to be affected is the one" who
After a reference to the discussions in the House of Commons on the Butter
to take his flimsy orders elsewhere, and who feels that to make 'muck' to oblige a customer
calls upon the small manufacturer who is not in a position to tell the would-be purchaser
he appears to be in the habit of sandwiching many pairs of doubtfuls in the not-so-bad
find themselves waxing rich by a method which, when publicly known, will be roundly
be interested.
condemned."

Mr. Richards continues in his own characteristic way
It is to the credit of the public and the Press that no one of any consequence
placed on the market and guaranteed to contain certain materials. If that method
has anything to complain of in this agitation for a genuinely described article to be
is adopted, or any other way by which we can prevent fraud, imposition, and make.
believe, in order that we may awaken the remnant of a conscience in the frail trade
of the guilty parties, who belong to the get-rich-quickly parties, let them be
known by any other name matters not. The writer knew a firm of repute today
to abandon that kind of trading and embark in another and more genuine lines
who at that time dealt in shoddy, but certain things happened which caused them
falls back on the old, weak, decrepit, worn thin idea, the curse of all movements.
altogether, and we must enlist the aid of the powers to prosecute the wrong-doer, who
"If I don't, somebody else will"; the sheet anchor of the weak and vicious.

We congratulate Mr. Richards on his outspoken remarks, as it is high time some
his action will also tend toward the prevention of exports of boots and shoes which are
action was taken to protect the public against the fraud of shoddy footwear. Furthermore,
destroying the good name for quality in our most important markets, built up at great
expense and trouble by British manufacturers. Readers of our Editorial Comments:
things should be allowed to continue.
In view of this demand of a prominent Labour representative for legislation to protec:
the boot buyer, we are glad to note the question is at last receiving the attention of the
manufacturing side. In the annual report of the General Purposes Committee of the
Boot Manufacturers' Federation mention was made as to what could be done in the matter
of misleading advertisements. Apparently the question is beset with legal difficulties
as it was stated that "the only course open was to communicate with the proprietors of
the paper which published the advertisement, place the facts before them, and induce
them to discontinue the advertisement, although the paper in such a case would probably
require an indemnity from the Federation against a possible action for refusing to insert
the advertisement." Most reputable newspapers, we are inclined to think, require little
persuasion to discontinue misleading advertisements, although, of course, in the case of
standing contracts the question of possible damage must be considered. However, we
hold the opinion, if definite evidence was produced, that any given advertisement was
misleading, it would be at once discontinued with the majority of the leading daily or
weekly papers. At any rate, we frequently refuse advertisements which we consider
against the best interest of the commercial world. It appears to us that the Federation's
reasoning is open to criticism, and that they will have to adopt quite another line if they
wish the public-and, we might add, the leather trade-to believe they are really in earnest
to purge the trade of shoddy.
In the report quoted we also note the statement is made that "so far as the purchaser
was concerned, if he could show that he bought shoes, and had been defrauded by the
advertisement into believing that they were of a quality which they did not possess, he
could bring an action for the return of his money." Fancy that! But as it is usually
the poorest who are defrauded in the matter of footwear, it is manifestly absurd to tell
them that they can take action. Those of us who have had experience of law and lawyers
will appreciate the joke, but at the same time we cannot congratulate the Boot Manu-
facturers' Federation on their help or advice as far as protecting the wearers against
shoddy shoes goes. "Legal opinion," sapiently concludes the paragraph, "was that in
matters of this kind the public must protect itself, and that the Federation could not act
in the Courts as its guardian." As in actual practice the public can do nothing of the
kind, it is all the more reason why such fearless men as Mr. T. F. Richards should return
to the charge again and again, and, what is more, that he should have the hearty support
of British leather producers.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
471
face of it. To tell a boot buyer that his only remedy is in expensive litigation is absurd on the
firm for wrongful description by the Light Leather Federation, in co-operation with the
Leathersellers' Company? In this case the article in dispute was a basil pocket-book
that it was simply dressed basil embossed with a pigskin grain; other witnesses also
ticketed 'Real Pigskin', and, as one of the witnesses called, we had no hesitation in stating
appeal, but the expense and trouble gone to were only possible to a strong and wealthy
testifying to that effect. The Federation won the case on all counts, also a subsequent
corporation. It, however, established a valuable precedent, and certainly put the
wind up firms who were trading on the ignorance of the purchasing public. And yet
we have the Boot Manufacturers' Federation telling the deluded buyers of shoddy boots
that the public must protect itself! -The Leather World, 7th August, 1924-
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out:-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£
s. d.
To December, 1923 630,969 17 3
January, 1924 3,358 8 4
February 3,185 9 6
March 3,631 10 2
April 4,339 6 4
May 3,372 0 10
June 3,305 10 4
July 2,483 5 6
£654,645 8 3
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
s. d.
To December, 1923 317,643 6 1
January, 1924 3,653 6 9
February 3,207 0 3
March 3,264 18 3
April 4,268 6 3
May 3,897 18 3
June 4,249 19 3
July 2,492 16 9
£342,677 11 10
WHO PAYS THE DUTY ON TAXED GOODS?
ANOTHER PROOF.
A South London shoeseller writes:—" I am now convinced that an import duty is a
tax on the consumei, a point on which I formerly felt some doubt. A customer of mine
in Dublin ordered last week a pair of men's boots, price 16s. 6d., which were duly sent,
the postage being 9d. He now forwards me details of the Customs charges—namely,
duty 2s. 7d., and Post Office fee for Customs clearance 6d., making the cost of the boots
20s. 4d. in all. I am not afraid of losing his custom on account of these charges, but he
tells me that several of his friends who would otherwise send their orders to me will not do
so in view of the higher cost owing to the import duty. I enclose the label showing the
Customs charges on the parcel I sent." Our correspondent may be assured that any
prospective customers will pay the import duty, whether they buy footwear from him or
from a Dublin shoe dealer. For when a wearer in the Irish Free State demands shoes of
the character our correspondent deals in they must be imported. In the case of goods
imported in bulk lots the Post Office fee for Customs clearance is not chargeable, but there
is no escaping the charge of 2s. 7d. on a pair of boots invoiced at 16s. 6d.
* * *
When the duty of 15 per cent. came into operation a few months since it was feared
in some quarters that the exports of footwear to the Free State would be reduced per-
manently. For it was predicted that British shoe manufacturers who previously traded
with Irish buyers would establish factories across St. George's Channel. No move in
that direction is yet apparent, and it seems that the large quantities of shoes which were
rushed over in order to evade payment of the duty are nearly absorbed, for our Dublin
correspondent reports that representatives of British firms are now securing good orders
from old customers, and that the trade has now reached the normal level. The tariff,
in Ireland a good deal of worry, as the Customs authorities are
responsible for the holding up of consignments which would formerly have gone through
promptly. That, however, is what invariably happens when import duties are levied.
The Free State Government is evidently obtaining considerable revenue on the imports
of boots and shoes. -The Shoe and Leather Record, 8th August, 1924.


---
472
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
BREWERS' PROFITS.
Down by a Third During Last Five Years.
for the last five years are stated by Mr. Snowden (Chancellor of the Exchequer) to be
Brewing companies' profits as computed for income tax purposes (less allowan
follow:
1918-19 £30,100,000
1919-20 32,390,000
1920-21 28,420,000
1921-22 17,550,000
1922-23 19,000,000
---Parliamentary Debates, 29th July, 1924.
DEPENDANTS' BENEFIT.
Regulations governing cases where the wife of an unemployed man has been in the hai
lodging is regarded as income to the wife for service rendered; and whether the wi
of taking in one or two lodgers; what percentage of the payment made for board
MR. F. GOULD asked the Minister of Labour if he will give information as to thi
benefit of 5s. is forfeited by such Regulations?
MISS BONDFIELD: The position is, briefly, that dependants' benefit would not b
for the purpose of letting lodgings, and either the rooms are let unfurnished, the wi
payable in respect of the wife unless the house is neither a boarding house nor is occup
performing no services for the lodger, or the lodger is taken into the household and li
as one of the family.
TRADE BOARD DEPARTMENT.
MISS JEWSON asked the Minister of Labour how many inspectors and investigator
since he took office and will he ask the Treasury for a further grant, in view of the bad
are employed in the Trade Board Department; by how many have these numbers increased
wages and conditions of many workers ?
MISS BONDFIELD: As the reply is necessarily a long one, I propose, with my hon
Friend's consent, to circulate it in the Official Report.
Following is the answer:
The total number of inspectors sanctioned for the Trade Board Division of the Ministr
of Labour is 60. Of these, three are headquarters staff engaged in general control, and
three are engaged from headquarters on special inquiries. Forty-eight officers have
either been allocated, or are in process of being allocated, to seven divisions in which
inspection has been decentralised, and the remaining six inspectors will be appointed
later. The total inspectorate, including the headquarters staff and special inquiries
officers, sanctioned when my right hon. Friend assumed office, was 30; though, in addition
10 officers were working as Trade Board inspectors on loan from other Departments of
the Ministry. Further, as part of the decentralisation of inspection, provision has been
made for secretarial assistance in each division.
With regard to investigation, which is carried out not by the Trade Boards Division,
but by the Statistics Division, for the general work of investigation (including that in
connection with the Trade Boards Acts) carried out by them, the total number of officers
sanctioned is 28 (including four officers in control). This figure compares with the total
staff of eight in post at the time mentioned in the question.
With regard to the last part of the question, we shall carefully watch the progress
made in the work as the result of this increase in staff, with a view to seeing that it is ade-
quate for the present work or any further work which may devolve upon it.
Extracts from Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons, Monday, 4th August, 1924-
Vol. 176. No. 121.
LEGAL QUERIES ANSWERED.
T. H. (Oxford).- As the accident occurred more than six months ago, and you have
not made any claim..but have been paid sickness benefit, you cannot now recover com-
pensation. -Herald, 7th August, 1924.


---
TRADES UNION CONGRESS-THE LABOUR PARTY.
Joint Research and Information Department.
The Depatment was only set up at the beginning of 1022 but it beschepds ...
plished a great deal of valuable work for the National Executives and for affinate
A record of some of the chief investigations and reports is attached
The services which the Department is ready to give affiliated orgentef
sations.
the following:-
(a) Preparation of "briefs" in connection with wage and other dans.
(b) Investigations into industries or trades, including employer of gesta
(c) Preparation of reports on economic, industrial, political or alted sabiyot
(d) Supply at regular intervals, or on request, of information concernim
prices, profits, wages, conditions, &c.
generally.
business conditions, &c., in connection with an industry or with indes t
(c) Answers to queries on all matters of trade, industry, politics, No
(f) Supply of Voting Records of M.P's (special charge for this ser
per year).
others.
(g) Information as to directorships and other interests held by employers 2
(11) Supply of book-lists on any subject, suggestions for study court
No inquiry is too big-nor too small-to be undertaken, and since the Departi
is maintained by the National Organisations it can be relied upon to present the
authoritative and up-to-date information.
Organisations affiliated to the Trades Union Congress or the Labour Party are reminded
that additional fees are only asked for in the case of inquiries which necessitate a con-
that their affiliation fees entitle them to the free service of the Department generally, and
siderable amount of special research.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914 All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1917 1916 1915
1919 1918
January.. 10-15
February
March
35
15
..
35
15-20 35-40
65
65-70
85-90
120
125
1920 1921 1922 1923 1924
90
120
165 92
78
77
130
151
88 77
70
90
115
130
79
141
86
76
..
15-20 35-40 70-75
78
90-95
110
133 132
82
74
73
May
20
40-45
June
25
45
75
75-80
95-100
105
141
128
81
70
71
100
105
119 150
80
69
64
July
25
45-50
80
100-105 105-110
152
119
84
69
70
August
..
25
45-50
80
110
155 115
122
81
71
71
September 25
50
80-85
110
115
161
120
79
73
October..
30
50-55 75-80 115-120
120
164
110
78
75
November 30-35
60
120-125 85
125
176
103
80
75
December 35
65
85
120
125
169
99
80 77
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement,
1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922)
Agreement, and present date.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1923 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 93,620; Females, 50,230; Total,
143.850. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 28th July, 1924 (Great
Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 8,501; Females, 2,226; Total, 10,727. Percent
and Northern Ireland, 7.5; Great Britain only, 7.3 Decrease as compared with 23rd
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, August, 1924.
June, Total, 0.2.


---
Here is the extracted text:
475
THE HOLIDAY (PROVISION) SCHEME.
Shoe operatives are again enjoying benefits that are not available, so far as we are
to the workers in any other industry. The sum of two pounds each for men, and
one pound each for women, may not pay for a full wool's holiday, but it is a useful
a feature of the scheme which may be commended to the attention of employers in other
to other savings. And the fact that half the amount is contributed by the employer
amount contributed by BOOT MANUFACTURERS during the year, and shared amongst
industries, in which labour troubles occur much oftener than in the shoe trade. The
their workpeople on the four principal holidays is in the NUOOF OF TWO HUNDRED
other industries may also adopt it. The Shoe and Leather Record, 8th August, 1924.
the advantages of the scheme should be made known as widely as possible in order that
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st AUGUST, 1924.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included
Food only
..
..
FOOD.
71 per cent.
.. 64 "
Between 1st July and 1st August there were advances in the prices of flour and bread
in the majority of towns, the average retail prices increasing by between bd. and ld. per
3 lbs. of flour and per 4 lbs. of bread. The average price of butter rose by about 1/2d.
per lb., and that of eggs by over id. each. These and other less important increases in
prices were largely offset by a heavy fall in the prices of potatoes, but, as a net result of all
(in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of food included in these statistics
the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of July, 1914, in the retail prices
rose to about 64 per cent. at 1st August, as compared with about 62 per cent. at 1st July.
- The Ministry of Labour Gazette, August, 1924.
HOURS OF INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT BILL.
A "Bill to Limit the Hours of Work in Industrial Undertakings" in Great Britain
was introduced in the House of Commons by the Minister of Labour on 14th July.
The object of the Bill is to give effect to the provisions of the Draft Convention adopted
in November, 1919, at the first meeting of
Labour Organisation, establishing the principle of an 8-hour day and a 48-hour week,
subject to certain qualifications, in industrial undertakings. The Ministry of Labour
Gazette, August, 1924.
BRITISH FOOTWEAR IN CANADA.
Imports Three Times Fifteen-year Average.
MONTREAL, 28th July. - The Shoe Manufacturers' Association of Canada points out
that during the fifteen-year period 1899 to 1914 the value of British imports of shoes
averaged 178,114 dol., compared with 660,765 dol. for the fiscal year ended March, 1924.
The Canadian manufacturers also state that British competition up to the present has
been principally in a few lines-particularly in heavy walking boots of fine and cheaper
grades and in felt slippers. They say that in one or two of these classes the British manu-
facturers have already captured probably as much as one-third to one-half of the entire
trade, and that this competition is spreading to other lines. (Reuter's Trade Service.) -
Shoe and Leather News, 14th August, 1924.
EMPLOYMENT OVERSEAS.
GERMANY. BOOT AND SHOE (Social-Democratic): Membership reported on at end
of June, 1924, 80,000. Percentage Unemployed at end of Month: June, 1924, 11.9;
May, 1924, 3.6; June, 1923, 3.8.
NORWAY. BOOT AND SHOE MAKERS: Membership, 31st May 1924, 943; 30th April,
1924, 939; 31st May, 1923, 880. Percentage Unemployed: 31st May, 1924, 5.3; 30th
April, 1924, 5.3; 31st May, 1923, 16.1.
SWEDEN. BOOT, SHOE AND LEATHER: Membership reporting on 31st May, 1924,
8.436. Percentage Unemployed: 31st May, 1924, 5.4; 30th April, 1924, 6.4; 31st May,
1923, 12.7. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, August, 1924.


---
477
hair, horns and hoofs, and with regard to measures for the
occupations against the risks of anthrax infection.
that workers who were victims of specified industrial diseases, of which
should have a light to compensation at least equal to that which they a
On the subject of workmen's compensation, the Committee est
they were victims of industrial accidents.
The Committee also stated its views on the functions of med
with factory inspection, and, in particular, laid down the lines which
in any scheme for periodical medical examination of workers in unhealthy
FEWER INDIAN CHILD WORKERS.
Results of Recent Legislation.
The effect of the application of decisions taken at the annual s
national Labour Conference of the League of Nations on the questions of the mai
of child workers and the limitation of hours of work is shown by a report on the
of the Indian Factories Act for the year 1922, extracts from which are quoted in Ladeni
and Labour Information, the weekly publication of the International Labour Othe
In spite of the inclusion of a number of new factories by the coming into
in July, 1922, of the Indian Factories Amendment Act, the number of children emplos 1
for child labour from 9 to 12, states the report. In cotton spinning and weaving taill
decreased from 68,113 in 1921 to 67,658 in 1922, owing to the raising of the minito a
and jute mills, which usually employ about three-fourths of the total number of factit
children, the increase in the number of males in 1922 was 10 per cent., whereas the winter
children was not followed by a corresponding increase in the employment of women
of females increased 5 per cent.
It may be concluded from this that the exclusion of
Statistics of the average weekly hours worked in factories throughout India have been
published for the first time. They show that, while the majority of the factories probably
worked up to the maximum of 60 hours permissible under the amended Factory Act, a
considerable proportion worked appreciably shorter hours. In the case of men, more
than a quarter of the factories making returns were observing a week of not more than
38 hours, and in the case of women the proportion was considerably higher.
It is noteworthy that the number of accidents reported during the year 1922 was
6,960 as against 7,006 in the previous year. Fatal accidents numbered 191, as against
202 in the preceding year. The total number of accidents in the Bombay Presidency was
the number of reported accidents was due to the increased powers conferred by the new
1,110, of which 42 were fatal, 88 serious and the remaining 980 minor. The reduction in
Act on the inspecting staff and to the greater attention paid to the fencing of machinery
and other preventive measures.
Compensation Act this year will prove effective in further reducing the number of accidents.
It is expected that the introduction of the Workmen's
WORKERS' ALLOTMENTS.
Growth of Movement in Europe.
Interesting details of the growth of the workers' allotment movement in Europe are
Workers' Gardens," in the latest issue of the International
contained in an article on
Labour Review, the monthly publication of the International Labour Office of the League
of Nations.
The article reviews its progress before the war and its rapid expansion in all countries
owing to the special conditions of wartime and the need for producing food in many of the
belligerent countries.
"
"When the war ended the movement for workers' gardens at first slackened; the
number of such gardens and the total area which they covered decreased in almost all the
The same happened in the neutral
ex-belligerent countries," continues the article.
countries.
11
The need for procuring certain food products had become less pressing; moreover,
large numbers of proprietors were able to re-enter on possession of land which had been
assigned, either voluntarily or on compulsion, for the formation of allotments, and found
it more convenient to cultivate it themselves. But subsequently to this period of slowing
down the movement again began to extend in countries in which a high degree of indus-
trialisation had been attained and which include densely populated centres. The collective
agreements concluded during this period and the legislation passed regulating labour
conditions laid down restrictions on the length of the working day and thus secured on
behalf of the worker a margin of spare time. This margin the workers sought to use in
part to better their own economic conditions.


---
RED INTERNATIONAL OF LABOUR UNIONS.
The Opening of the Third Congress of the Red International of Labour
Unions at Moscow, on 8th July, 1924.

On 8th July the Third Congress of the Red International of Labour Unions was
opened at Moscow. Even the opening speeches show how great is the yearning for unity
in the R.I.L.U.

Losowsky (President of the R.I.L.U.) said: “The strength of the revolutionary
Trade Union Movement lies in the fact that it is permeated through and through with the
Communist spirit.”

BUCHARIN, speaking in the name of the Fifth Congress of the Communist International,
said: "What we have to do is to awaken a furious hatred of the yellow trade union leaders,
to produce manliness, perseverance and political far-sightedness enough to shrink from
nothing, to utilise every opportunity to destroy the present yellow leadership, and to
win the trade unions for ourselves."
THAELMANN (Germany): "We must look facts in the face. Next to the profiteers
IS THE AMSTERDAM INTERNATIONAL, which still has in its ranks (both in respect of organisation and of ideas) a large part of the world proletariat. Our business is to destroy its
influence on the working classes.

"We must examine our experiences in the past campaign, if we are to destroy the
influence of the Amsterdam lackeys on the working classes, and thereby win over the
workers organised in trade unions.

"In our fight to secure the daily needs of the working class, we must convert the
trade unions into organisations which are capable of being a powerful weapon against
the bourgeoisie IN THE CIVIL WAR which must INEVITABLY RESULT FROM THE ARMED
INSURRECTION OF THE PROLETARIAT.
"Every economic conflict which breaks out in the course of the imperialistic developments of world capitalism is an important political battle. To bring this experience
within the reach of the masses organised in trade unions is to go halfway towards the
victory of the revolutionary idea in the trade unions, and towards dealing a death-blow
to the Judas policy of the Amsterdammers.
DR. NANSEN ON LIES.
Double Standard of Morality Wrong.
Dr. Nansen, speaking at the World Congress of Women University members at
Christiania, said: “We must acquire new ideals—the old ones were not good enough,
and we must acquire an international frame of mind that will work for humanity.
“Hitherto we have had two varieties of morality, one for the individual and another
for the State. It is asserted that these two varieties of morality are indispensable to
humanity; that is a lie; there is no reason why national morality should not be the same
as individual morality. Whether a statesman or an individual lies, it is a lie all the same.
Lies and the two varieties of morality are what have created the misery of the past.”
Herald, 7th August, 1924.

[One more example of what is termed “business lies." As Dr. Nansen states, it must
be part of our business to destroy such false standards.—E.L.P., G.S.]

A TRADE UNION VETERAN.
Joe Wescoe's 70th Birthday.
A very pleasing and interesting little function took place at the Leeds Trades' Hall
the other evening. It was the seventieth birthday of Mr. Joe Wescoe, Secretary of the
Leeds No. 1 Branch of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union. A smoking concert was
arranged and many of his old friends gathered and congratulated him on the occasion.
Mr. T. S. Briggs, President of the Trades' Hall Club, presided, and he, together with
Messrs. Braily, Dobbs, Willans, and others expressed their very hearty congratulations.
A pipe and tobacco pouch was presented to Mr. Wescoe as a small token of their esteem.
Mr. Wescoe, who has been for 32 years the secretary of his trade union branch, as well
as senior trustee for the Club for a period of 22 years, suitably acknowledged the gift and
the congratulations and expressed his best wishes for the United Trade Union and Labour
movements. He had during his period of service seen many changes and some considerable
progress. He pleaded for a spirit of unity and toleration, which he said was the proper
line to take to secure more and greater progress.—Leeds Weekly Citizen, 25th July, 1924.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
481
AN APPRECIATION OF MAJOR STEVENS TREATMENT.
To ALL CONCERNED,
the same benefits as I have from it.
NORTHAMTON
with he
I thought it in my place to write and thank you all for the benefit
from Major Stevens' treatment. I have been finished with it a month
in the best of health, and I only hope that those now under the treatment will rec
I am sure I am more than thankful to you for your trouble in getting is
more thanking you.
I remain, yours truly,
(Signed) Mrs. E.
THE PRODUCTIVES.
balance sheets with the following results:-
are now
The Kettering productive societies have just completed their half-year report and
The Kettering Clothing Society's report state that the sales amounted to £23,322
being an increase of £44,504 over the corresponding period. The Cobden Street ex-
m complete and the new part occupied. The work has been carried out in a most
satisfactory manner by the works department of the Kettering Industrial Society, and the
new room will make an appreciable difference in the output of the ladies' department
and bonus to customers and workers at Iod. and 25. in the pound respectively. In addition
The surplus amounts to £23,820 IOS. 4d., from which is to be paid interest on capital
£1,000; employers' liability fund, £500; provident fund, £500; employees' pension fund,
£1,000; and educational fund, £200; the balance of £4,052 being carried forward.
the following allocations are made:- Reserve fund, £1,000; interest guarantee fund,
The Havelock Works Society reports half-yearly sales of £58,051 135. After allowing
for interest on share and loan capital at 5 per cent. per annum, and depreciating as per
rules, the sum of £3,044 2S. I Id. is proposed for division as follows:- Workers, at 1s. 3d.
in the pound, £1,076 Is. Iod.; customers, at 7d. in the pound, £1,494 14s. 8d.; committee
of management, £45; educational fund, £75; provident fund, £150; productive federation,
£30; bonus on shares at Id. in the pound, £100 135. Iod. and reserve fund, £72 12s. 7d.
“Union” Boot Works records sales for the half-year amounting to £13,092;
whilst share and loan capital amounting to £96 6s. 3d. has been received. The trading
the half-year show that after
esd making provision for interest on share and loan capital, £270 8s. 3d., there remains a
surplus of £82 6s. 4d.
The
SHODDY SHOES.
"Truth-in-fabrics" Bill is under
To such a pass have things come in the States that a
consideration.
Its aim is to prevent the kind of deception which is practised on people who think they
are buying leather shoes and then find that the soles are half made of brown paper.
Does Britain need legislation of this kind? We are told that there are makers of
shoddy shoes who grow rich by selling half-paper goods to the poor-thereby not only
robbing the poor but making them suffer in health from wet feet.
Truth is wanted in more than Advertising. It is badly needed in trade of all kinds.
DAILY HERALD
OWNED BY LABOUR.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members.
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

TEL. ADDRESS " NATUNISILON, PHONE. LONDON
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE 22ND SEPTEMBER, 1924.
is above the average for the same period of last year, although we are really
paying more Out-of-Work Benefit on the Industrial side than has been the
case for some time past. This apparent anomaly is explained by the fact
that there are a few more members out of work entirely rather than being on
short time. The figures in the Gazette are set out hereunder :-

BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
In this trade employment during August continued moderate, and was not so good
as in July; short time was again prevalent. Compared with a year ago, however, there
was an improvement at almost all centres.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 8.7 on the 25th August, as compared with 7.5
on the 28th July.
Returns from firms employing about 36,900 workpeople in the week ended 23rd
August showed that about 28 per cent. of these workpeople worked short time in that week
to the extent of about 12 hours each on an average.
Employment in London continued depressed in the manufacture of medium weight
goods, but there was some improvement in the light dress and dancing shoe trade. At
Leicester employment continued slack, with much short time, and was worse than a
month earlier. At Northampton employment continued fairly good, the general improve-
ment previously reported being maintained. At Wellingborough employment was
described as very poor, with a large amount of unemployment and short time, particularly
in men's occupations; there was also much unemployment at Kettering. A slight improve-
ment was reported in the Higham and Rushden districts, and employment was fair. At
Leeds employment continued slack with makers of heavy and medium boots, and was
worse than in the previous month. At Stafford there was a considerable amount of short
time and unemployment, partly due to seasonal slackness, and employment was con-
siderably worse than a month earlier. Employment in the slipper trade of the Rossendale
Valley continued good, but showed a slight decline.
At Norwich employment continued good, and skilled workers especially were well
employed, although overtime was not so general as previously. In the Bristol and Kings-
wood district employment was fair and somewhat better than in July; while at Street it
continued good.
B


---
```text
501
DISPUTES.
We have nothing further to report regarding the dispute at M.
Jackson & Joseph, Spitalfields, except that all is being done to brings alap.
satisfactory and honourable termination of the same.
THE NATIONAL AGREEMENT NEW PROPOSALS.
We met the Executive of the Manufacturers' Federation on the 19th and
19th inst., at 7 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1. Mr. W. Addington Will
C.B.E., presiding. The General President, on behalf of the Union, submitted
the proposals sent to the Federation some time ago, his statement being foll
by the General Secretary and members of the Council. The improved con
ditions secured are briefly :-
CLAUSE I. It has been agreed that before substituting piecework for
daywork, or daywork for piecework, manufacturers shall in future give ou
month's notice of their intention to the operatives and the branch secretaris
of the Union.
CLAUSE 8. - The index figure published in the Labour Gazette for April
and September will now be the deciding factor governing the rise or fall of
wages.
8 A. - Wages have been fixed for boys at 15 years of age as under :-
With index figure over 70
Age 15 14/6
After index figure falls to
70 50 30
13/- 12/6 11/6
The Minimum Wage will be payable when the operative attains the age
of 22 years instead of 23 as at present :-
With index figure over 70
Age 22
60/-
After index figure falls to
70
50
30
56/- 54/- 50/-
8 B.-Wages have been fixed for boys at 15 years of age as under :-
With index figure over 70
Age 15
13/6
After index figure falls to
70
50
30
13/- 12/6 11/6
The Minimum Wage will be payable when the operative attains the age
of 22 years instead of 23 as at present :-
With index figure over 70
Age 22
57/-
After index figure falls to
70
50
30
56/- 54/- 50/-
NOTE. When the index figure falls to 70 points ONLY ONE MINIMUM
rate of wages will operate for male operatives, and in the event of the index
figure again rising above 70 one minimum will still continue, the rates set out
in Clause 8 A being the scale. the scale in Clause 8 B being then abolished.
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
502
Wages have been fixed for girls at 15 years of age as follows :-
With index figure over 70
Age 15
13/-
After index figure falls to
70
12/-
50
11/6
30
10/6
CLAUSE 8 D, which exempted certain operations in the closing department
from the minimum wage has been deleted.
CLAUSE 13. Freedom of contract with all operatives under 15 years of
age will be retained by employers instead of 16 years as at present.
CLAUSE 17. In the clicking, press, lasting and finishing departments.
the aggregate number of boys will in future be one (under 19 years of age)
to every four or fractional part (over 19 years of age) but no department is
to exceed one boy (under 19 years of age) to every three or fractional part
CLAUSE 19 A. This clause will be re-drafted to safeguard those operatives
who unfortunately lost time owing to illness.
Vote at your November Branch Meeting for the
RATIFICATION OF THIS AGREEMENT
and thus help yourself to improved conditions of working.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
More Cases Settled.
We are pleased to record the fact that Mr. Evan Barlow, the Union's
Solicitor, has during the month settled several cases under the above Acts.
A. B., Northampton, secured £75 and £5 5s. od. costs.
J. G., Leicester, £40 and £5 5s. od. costs.
F., Leicester, £175 and £10 10s. od. costs.
M., Barwell, £150 and £10 10s. od. costs.
Although the above cases have been amicably settled we beg to repeat
that lump sums are not obtainable by law, but only by agreement, and members
desiring legal assistance must report immediately to the local officials who will
then communicate with the Central Office. The above-named sums are in
addition to weekly payments which were paid, in some cases for a consider-
able period of time.
A PLEASANT SURPRISE.
In the early part of 1922, an appeal was issued, backed up by the General
Federation of Trade Unions, from the London United Brass and General Metal
Founders' Society, asking unions to come to their aid as they were in a grave
financial position. The said Union asked for monies to be loaned to enable


---
503
granted the sum of fIO to the Society in May, 1922. At the end of last month
them to tide over their difficulties. We, however, did not make a loan but
we received the following letter from the society:
MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P.,
Secretary, National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives,
34 EDWARD STREET,
DEPTFORD, S.E.. 8.
34 Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.
22nd August, 1924.
DEAR SIR,
I am instructed by my Executive Council and Trustees to forward
the enclosed cheque value £10, being an equal amount of the gift to the
above Society when presumably it was in financial difficulty.
Will you, therefore, kindly accept the enclosed, together with the
grateful thanks of our members and myself for your kindness.
Yours faithfully,
G. J. HODGE, Secretary.
This came to us as a pleasant surprise, and also shows the Society acted
high sense of honour regarding the same when they found themselves
in a better financial position. We suitably acknowledged the remittance, and
trust the Society will meet with continued success in regard to the industry
from a
of which they form a part.
opinion,
THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
was held in the City Hall, Hull, this year, Mr. A. A. Purcell, M.P., being the
Chairman. Despite statements to the contrary, the Congress was, in our
a very successful one, not only from the point of view of the number
of resolutions dealt with, but the spirit shown, and determination to as far as
possible ensure unity of working amongst, and in connection with the various
Unions that form the Congress. This was more especially shown in the resolu-
tions dealing with the question of fewer unions; the policy of unity of action
between unions and the increased powers given to the General Council to help
any union which may find itself in difficulty regarding conditions of labour
or any new agreements into which they desire to enter. The Congress was
also noted by the fact that for the first time there were fraternal delegates
from Russia. The whole of the delegates from other countries dealt with the
question of the desirability and necessity of an understanding being arrived
at between all the unions so that greater effectiveness could be given to the
movement for improved conditions of labour in whatever country such move-
ment may be taking place. We secured the assent of Congress to two of the
three resolutions submitted by us-Housing and Compulsory Workshop
Accommodation-but in relation to the resolution dealing with
VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS
desired by both parties to the agreement being given legal validity in the
s war es Trade Board decisions, the previous question was carried. It


---
Here is the extracted text:
504
cannot be said the resolution was lost as reported in some papers, because it
was not voted upon. Further references to the Congress will be found on
pages 510-522.
It is quite clear to us that although we have a Labour Government and
many things are being done politically, it is as necessary as ever that there
should be a strong, energetic, well-organised industrial movement with all the
workers members of their respective Unions taking an interest in the work,
and thus making it easier to secure from time to time improvements from the
standpoint of those working at any given industry.

POLITICAL.
As is well known the House of Commons is not at present in Session.
Nevertheless, a great many things are taking place in the political world,
especially internationally, and we are pleased to be able to record the success
attained in connection with the deliberations at the League of Nations
recently, where our Prime Minister, the Rt. Hon. J. Ramsay MacDonald,
M.P., and the French Premier, M. Herriott, were present and took part.
This is a matter of great importance, and we trust the outcome of such
deliberations will be a real understanding being arrived at not only in con-
nection with Germany, but that wider questions which so seriously affect the
well-being of the nations affiliated to the League of Nations, will speedily be
dealt with in a spirit of broadminded statesmanship.
Statements are being made, and have accumulated since the issue of
our last Report, that in the near future there will be a General Election.
We once more appeal to the whole of the membership to do all possible in
their districts, not merely to keep the political machinery effective, but to so
work as to ensure when the appeal is made—the Labour Party securing
a largely augmented membership in the House of Commons.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns


---
Here is the extracted text:
505
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Banch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for complemon
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the member t٢٠
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamperd
make a success.
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamme)
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1923 630,969 17 3
January, 1924 3,358 8 4
February 3,185 9 6
March 3,631 10 2
April 4,339 6 4
May 3,372 0 10
June 3,305 10 4
July 2,483 5 6
August 2,293 12 2
£656,939 0 5
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1923 317,643 6 1
January, 1924 3,653 6 9
February 3,207 0 3
March 3,264 18 3
April 4,268 6 3
May 3,897 18 3
June 4,249 19 3
July 2,492 16 9
August 2,352 15 9
£345,030 7 7


---
506
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

On the question of shoddy shoes we are not putting forward the
claim that shoes are "shoddy" because they are not composed of all leather, because we
are aware that there is leather and leather. Our claim is first and foremost to protect the
public for the honour and credit of our industry, which at present does not hold so high a
position in the minds of the poorer portion of the community, as it would if we could
persuade a sympathetic Government to adopt a descriptive label, tab or warranty of some
kind indicating in plain language the composition as to what the component parts of the
shoes are made, as most people nowadays can read; the onus would then rest on the
purchaser if they bought a pair of shoes such as I have before me--a "Basil" Upper, Canvas
and Paper backed insole, with a split middle and outsole, to be sold at 5s. These goods.
sold to an inexperienced person, is nothing short of a criminal offence in the eyes of all
and under the pretence that they are part of a
honest people, as under no circumstances are they worth the money, especially when they
are palmed off to the public as though
consignment of goods purchased from some reliable source. These goods are sandwiched
in, to the amazement of other shoe dealers, who complain of such mean tactics that they
would not descend to adopt. In this connection one wonders why the Government should
permit firms to advertise the fact that certain goods are rejects from the War Office, or
the Navy, or from the Government Contractors. The latter may easily be true, but the
former is sometimes true. In a large number of cases such goods were never made for
or intended for these Departments, as only those are genuine that either have the name of
the manufacturer or the firm where made, or have a private mark of the Department.
We hope that the Government will, for the benefit of their reputation, irrespective of what
Party may be in office, insist on all manufacturers who make shoes for either the Army,
Navy or Air Force, adopt the old method of stamping all such goods with the name and
address of the maker. Such a method would not be an inner step in shoddy goods, it would
be in keeping with our old advocacy in regard to house property, that all owners' names
should be placed in a prominent place where anyone could see who were the owners, and if,
as we are informed, it is a useful thing to advertise, why not stamp the source of origin,
or attach, by a label, the same information. Surely we are all interested in protecting the
public from wilful and malignant imposition.

THE TRADE BOARD has occupied another two days, and we have had reported there
are 330 apprentices registered with the Board, besides 962 registered as learners and
actual number working at the trade, especially when we are informed by the Ministry
as this is surely less than the
but we hope for better things later. The Rt. Hon. Tom Shaw has decided to start a
when he took office. Our Board is very grateful to him, as both sides have felt the total
inadequacy of the staff, although they work harder than is really fair to them, but we
should like the Labour Minister to at least allow one to be a practical Handsewn Man and
Repairer, who could do much more than the academic person who is so long learning the
hundreds of operations, that they fail to grasp the work to which many have served their
apprenticeship. The District Committees will have a chance to improve the Rounding
and Channelling prices, and I hope, refuse to support the Ministry's policy of "old men
apprentices."

TRADE UNION CONGRESS, at Hull, occupied some eight days of our time, and our
general report will be found elsewhere in this issue, but there are a few special features
which stand out and give us hope Congress by endowing the General Council with power
to step in in case of trouble in any industry is a step in the right direction, and it was very
fitting coming as it did from the Miners, who have always been forced to act on the defensive
whenever they have dared to try and improve their conditions. That is the reason why
I am for the Nationalisation of the Mines. Such a vast and important industry ought to
be the property of the State, and we are awaiting anxiously to hear what the Minister of
Mines proposes when he has finished his enquiries. The Miners are sick of being compelled
to fight their employers, the prospective alternative being distasteful, and they are out to
improve the lot of the workers by every humane means, and it is a pleasure for me to know
that had our resolution, moved by the General Secretary and seconded by myself, on
Saturday morning gone to the vote, we should have had their support; again showing
that they are willing for us to go on with our Industrial Council work with the help of the
law. All we asked was that we should continue our experiment after our 29 years' experi
ence with the Federation of Employers. We are still willing for the force of the law to be
should we be debarred? We hope to get a better place than the end of the agenda another

---
```text
year, and it is my intention to begin organising for this straight away.
Officers were again elected to the General Council and General Purposes Committee, Mr
never need be surprised; these non-unionists never did like Trade Unionism, only when
it blindly supports them. Once again we have had to complain that our own paper, the
the Congress is due to the fact that the young Editor had no one else to attack; but we
Poulton to the Council, and myself to the Standing Purposes. The New Leader's attack
resolution on Industrial Councils was "lost," when as a matter of fact it was shelved by
the previous question. Being moved Saturday morning and the last resolution but two.
there was neither time nor atmosphere for a debate on the value of Industrial Councils
hence it was that we were not given a real opportunity, but the Herald gains nothing by
misrepresenting us, and I have already sent them my protest. If the Trades Unionists
bers, importance and loyalty, there would be a bigger sale of the Daily Herald.
were reported as freely as the Communists in the Daily Herald in proportion to their num-
LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH have asked for my services regarding the investigation
of several cases where the employer in one instance had started three men in the Shoe
goods are made, and as the Branch after a deal of work have produced a good statement,
Room, which in the City of Leicester has always been women's work, where women's
they are jealous that men should do their work after agreeing that women should come
out of men's departments. They do claim that their statement should benefit their
has not conceded the right of men to do women's work. We shall wait for a period to see
how the matter progresses, as a policy may have to be defined. To my mind the women's
members. At present my advice to the men is to work to statement, although the Branch
suggestion is not unreasonable. but fair. In any case we cannot permit our members to
girls in the Stock Room a week's notice because the member says she came to the office
work against each other. Another case is where a federated firm had given one of our
for advice. The firm then expected her to make only the same time as others. I con-
tested the action of the firm, but they settled it by paying the woman an agreed amount.
The third case was a suggested reduction which ultimately turned out to be a deduction,
but the main trouble arose out of the transfer of a remunerative operation to another
operative, but owing to illness on one side and absence on other business on the other,
the matter is as yet unsettled.
NORTHANTS ADVISORY COUNCIL - On Saturday last, the 13th inst., the Northants
Advisory Council had a visit from the General Secretary, who dealt with the new Factories
haustively the discussion was not of the usual order, owing to the presence of the Press.
Bill as introduced by the Home Secretary, and although he dealt with the matter ex-
One does not care about criticising firms publicly when we can reach our goal by a shorter
and better way. The Press are our friends very often, but it is always inadvisable to invite
the Press unless you do, as is our custom, decide by a general vote of those present, and in
the first place obtain the consent of the speaker whoever he may be. Our best policy,
after consultation with the Chairman of the meeting. Still we hope the discussion will be
if we want to advertise, is to send the same on as we do with the Trade Board work, a report
continued, and we can then be enlightened where the Factory Inspector can do useful work.
I learned privately at the meeting that a very large firm in Northampton was brightening
up far above their usual custom. The printing of the Bill is giving some manufacturers
upalms. Mr. Henderson has the whole Trade Union movement behind him in this, and he
knows he may be successful.
If our delegates to the Northants District Council would only read up the report of
the Deputation to the Home Office in the April REPORT, pages 221-225, they would see
how welcome the Home Secretary's attitude was to our case.
May we again beg of all our members to read the Daily Herald, and may all those
workers wear only Trade Union made boots.
7 MECKLENBURG STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
25th September, 1924.
Yours fraternally,
W. J. Richarch
General President.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
WAR OFFICE. - SHOES: Adams Bros., Raunds.
C
```

---
508
ORGANISERS' REPORT.
During the past month we have been keeping in close touch with men on dispute at
Jackson & Joseph's. This dispute is now in its thirteenth week and the men are deter-
mined to return to work until the full Terms of Agreement are put into operation.
We have been in communication with as many boot factors as we can possibly find who
are not
We are very pleased to report that many of these firms have sent
hase dealings with this firm, asking them to refrain from purchasing goods while the
favourable replies, and we hope by this method to put the necessary pressure on, not only
conclusion
to bring the firm to a reasonable frame of mind, but also to bring the dispute to a favourable
Unfortunately there are few well-known firms who have not thought it
advisable to adopt this policy, and these firms by the continuance of this attitude, are
only prolonging the dispute, but are assisting Jackson & Joseph's to undermine the National
Terms of Agreement. We wish to point out that we are in possession of evidence, carefully
compiled to prove that the conditions and wages existing on this firm are of such a nature
and character which makes it utterly impossible for other firms, even in this area, to
approach within 25 per cent, the prices of the goods produced by the firm in question.
In visiting a large number of firms in this district we are continually confronted with
the impossibility of producing goods at such a low rate. No wonder, when we come to
consider the hours of working and general conditions obtaining. The week before the
strike commenced, and many weeks previous, the number of hours worked were from
00 to 65 hours weekly, always including Saturday afternoon and Sundays. The prices
paid for work done in the clicking room alone, exclusive of extras, was upwards of 25 per
cent. below London Statement. We feel that all possible pressure should be brought
to bear to end such a disgraceful condition of affairs, as the tendency is to lower the
standard of the whole industry.
Up to the present we have explored every possible avenue to end this dispute, and we
are convinced that the continued pressure that is being applied is having its effect. The
principals of the firm are not at all happy in the circumstances in which they find them-
selves. With the object of furthering our investigations we have visited a number of
federated and non-federated firms, and the information obtained proves there is still
room for improvement. The National Agreement is broken in some way by almost every
firm visited. The operatives are not without blame in this direction, many of them
objecting to the Holiday Scheme being applied, thereby making the work of organising
more difficult and full of disappointments.
Despite these difficulties we are endeavouring to visit each shop in turn in order to
encourage more active interest in the affairs of the Union, and although this work is by
necessity very slow, we feel that this is the only method that can be adopted in an area
where men reside miles from their place of employment.
To sum up, we feel that London, from the point of view of our industry, is a place
where continued vigilance is required, and concentrated activity is absolutely necessary.
We would again call attention of all branches that the dispute at Jackson & Joseph's is
in its thirteenth week, and while thanking them for past donations, ask for continued
financial support.
LEN. SMITH.
J. H. BAUM.
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st SEPTEMBER, 1924.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included
..
..
..
72 per cent.
Food only
..
..
..
66
"
FOOD.
Between 1st August and 1st September there was a further fall of about 2d. per 7 lbs.
in the average retail price of potatoes, but otherwise all the articles of food covered by
these statistics showed an appreciable upward movement in price, except meat, sugar and
margarine, the prices of which showed little or no change on the average. The greatest
increases were in the average prices of butter (1 d. per lb.), bacon (1 d. per lb.) and eggs
(d. each). As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level
of July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles
of food included in these statistics rose to about 66 per cent. at 1st September, as compared
with about 64 per cent. at 1st August. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, September, 1924.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
[Altered and New Paragraphs are Printed in Italics.]
509
NATIONAL CONFERENCE (SEPTEMBER, 1924) AGREEMENT
The Incorporated Federated Associations of Boot & Shoe
Manufacturers of Great Britain and Ireland and tho
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
NATIONAL CONFERENCE
Of REPRESENTATIVES OF THE FEDERATION and THE NATIONAL
held at 7 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, on 18th and 19th September 1924.
COPY OF AGREEMENT arranged by the Conference.
On the motion of Mr. H. J. Bostock, seconded by Mr. T. F. Richards, it was unani-
mously resolved :-
"This National Conference again urges upon H.M. Government the desirability of
giving to National Agreements voluntarily entered into and approved by the
Industrial Councils the same validity as Awards under the Trade Board Act, and
the object of ensuring the observance of fair conditions of labour, by all engaged
in the industry, and requests the Government to give facilities for passing into law
the Industrial Councils Bill read a second time on 29th May, 1924."
CONFERENCE AGREEMENT.
Uniformity in Labour Price of similar classes of Goods.
1. (a) Subject to resolutions 1 and 5 (d) of the Terms of Settlement it is desirable
that a uniform system of prices should obtain, and that the general outline or groundwork
of such system should be arranged on a broad basis, so that the essential conditions and
prices can be applied or adapted to the same class of labour and materials in all areas
producing similar classes of goods.
Notice of alteration in System.
(b) Manufacturers shall, before changing the method of working from piecework to day-
work, or vice-versa, give four weeks' notice of their intention to the operatives, and also notify
in writing the local branch secretary of the Union.
Basis of Piecework Statements.
2. Where general or shop statements do not at present exist, the Local Arbitration
Boards, at the request of either side, shall proceed forthwith, upon the ratification of this
agreement, to prepare piecework statements for their respective districts (subject to
Clause 1). All manufacturers and operatives shall accept such statements in their entirety
as a basis of payment, but the system shall be termed a daywork system, and the wages
of the operatives shall be regulated and adjusted weekly according to the amount of work
done at the prices fixed by the statements for each operation or process, provided that no
adult operative shall be engaged at less than the minimum wage rate without the written
permit of the Union or the Local Arbitration Board in cases where the minimum wage
is applicable, and provided also that when operatives, whether on full or short time, have
been supplied with a full quantity of work and have been granted reasonable facilities
for the proper performance of their work, and do not earn the minimum or agreed wage
rate at the statement prices, they shall be paid only for the actual work done at the state-
ment prices. In cases where circumstances arise that prevent the operatives earning the
minimum or agreed wage rate owing to bad materials or special care required in the per-
formance of their work, such cases shall be subject to special adjustment between the
employer or his representatives, and the operatives or their trade union officials.
Non-Restriction of Output.
3. It is understood that operatives use their trade skill and productive ability to the
best advantage and fullest capacity provided they are paid the full rate of wage for all
output.
Regulation of Conditions of Employment.
4. (a) Where operatives attend at the factories on the instructions of the employers
or their representatives, work shall be found for them for at least half a day, except when
short time is being worked, and in that case operatives, whether engaged on day or piece-
work, shall be informed overnight if their services will not be required on the next working
day, and shall be informed before the midday interval if they will not be required to attend

---
515

BRANCH REPORTS.

ARBROATH. - Trade is still very bad in this district, and the
is beginning to show large additions to the number of totally idle worker is
the Labour Exchange area. This is largely accounted for by a collapse of the
flax industry again. Like our own workers, those in the textile ple
months will try them bitterly. Now that all claims at the Labour Phot
suffered grievously during the long depression, and the next 12 of
have to be reviewed, it is very important to have the protection of union oficial
in the interests of the claimants. Last month we wrote about the dec
of the "customary" holiday from the benefit of the short-time worker aur
cases were heard in the Dundee Court, and a full debate allowed Our
that we had lodged a claim for the recovery of half the deduction. Our t
is a fine one, but quite a legitimate one. Customary holidays have bee
for the simple reason that employment was lost which might have been engage
deducted from short-time workers who were claiming Unemployment Benefit
in during the periods concerned. In making local arrangements it is alwa
district. Thus, although the local arrangement is for six days "customary
holiday at mid-summer, it does not follow that all short-time workers are affected
understood that "customary applies to the factory or workshops and not the
by the loss of six-days' benefit if they are idle for less than the regulation
deduction at all, while those employed in Preserve Works only lost three
twelve days in addition. As mentioned last month, Dock Workers have no
days, while Slaters and Bakers have also only lost three days when not regularly
employed. Unless this is all understood by a Court of Referees, it becomes
easy for them to miss the point of the argument, and in the hearing of our
cases, that is what happened. The Court had no
holiday rule, nor what gave rise to it, and it could not free its mind from the
was a holiday and, as such, should be kept off everybody.
That is the worst of those plain, sensible men who sit on Courts. Without
taking into account the many points of experience which underlie regulations,
they sometimes come to a decision which creates their own law, but does not
fulfil the prevailing law. We have exercised our right to state our case to the
fact that the period
knowledge of the "customary"
during the holiday week, because the factory concerned has been on three days
(often less) per week for fully four years. It is interesting to observe that our
indirect claimants, mentioned last month, have now been paid for the holiday.
They worked for two days before the holidays and again for two days the week
following, but on appeal it is agreed their work was casual and from day to day,
and therefore not to be reckoned as even short-time employment. We wonder
sometimes if any benefit could be stopped under any circumstances, if the
regulations were well enough known and employed fully on behalf of claimants.
New readings take away difficulties, although creating them at times, but we
welcome every interpretation which gives the "bottom dog" a help.

CHESHAM.-Trade here continues to improve, and a few of our members
who have been unemployed for a long time have again commenced to work,
and we hope the improvement in trade will continue. It was with deep regret
our members learned by the MONTHLY REPORT the illness of Mr. J. Buckle
and Mr. D. McCarthy, and we wish them both a speedy recovery.

CHESTERFIELD. - Trade is improving but yet we have some of oun
members unemployed. During last month we had our General President
with us.

DERBY. - Trade in Derby is still very bad, the factories being
better than half time.
D


---
DUNDEE. - The position in Dundee from a trade point of view, permits
of no exultation. It moves, but exceedingly slow. It gives us pleasure,
however, to state that a section of our branch - Blackford - has shown a spirit
of enterprise in having secured an American order for their noted gents' brogue
shoe, with crepe rubber soles, which is highly commendable on the part of
Mr. Taylor, the manufacturer. A picnic and presentation of more than passing
notice took place on a recent Saturday, the occasion being the jubilee of the
firm of Messrs. Jas. Carmichael & Sons, curriers, and tanners, and until recently,
boot manufacturers, Tay Street, Dundee. A party of seventy left the city in
char-a-banes for Birnam, an ancient and beautiful country town, noted for
its Royal Forest, which figures in " Macbeth." In consequence of a continuous
downpour of rain, the Institute there became the rendezvous. Here the party
made merry in dancing, recitations and songs, which I learn, were rendered
in a highly creditable manner. The memorable item in the programme
however, came on after an excellent tea had been served. Mr. Yeaman, one
of the firm's oldest employees, in a well-set speech, presented Mr. Jas, Car
michael, senior partner, with a golfing bag and a set of golf balls. Mrs. Jas
Carmichael became the recipient of a chaste afternoon tea service of Royal
Crown Derby China. Mr. Carmichael, in returning thanks, was in a happy,
reminiscent mood, and delighted his hearers with his first acquaintance with
business. Becoming tired of conjugating verbs, his father harnessed him to
business by setting him to trundle the barrow, when occasion arose, and which
very quickly changed his opinions of life at school. This, however, did no harm
as he remarked, but rather had a chastening effect, it being the lowest rung
of the ladder. It afforded him great pleasure in referring to the very happy
relations that existed between the firm and the employees, that during all
these years there had been no serious rupture. Mrs. Carmichael, in a charming
manner, thanked the donors for her beautiful present, remarking the occasion
would be long remembered, especially when indulging in afternoon tea. The
usual votes of thanks were passed. Finally " Auld Lang Syne," and ther
homeward by the way of the "Sma' Glen." The day's outing was acknowledged
by all as one of continuous pleasure.

EDINBURGH. - The repairing trade still keeping busy. Members are
anxiously waiting developments of our claims for New Agreement to Employers
Federation. Boy labour is one of the items which our Council should not give
way on. Fancy any youth requiring to be nine years at trade before they can
receive full minimum wage. We have two members nominated as candidates
for the forthcoming Town Council election. Trust the members in these wards
will roll up and help to make their return certain. Cost of living figures having
risen to over 70 points repairers now have only 7½ per cent. reduction on wages.
Our members are rather curious about how the reduction on foodstuffs in last
Labour Government Budget has been passed on to the consumers, as they fail
to perceive any difference in retail prices. In fact if there is any difference
it is on a greater scale than even the Labour Gazette figures indicate. The
raising of State Unemployment Benefit was before our last branch meeting
and favourably commented on, but if Outdoor Relief has been reduced by this
amount, then the unemployed are in exactly the same position as before.
Members passed a resolution to be forwarded to our Central Office to try and
get the General Council of Trade Union Congress to move in the matter, and
have Outdoor Relief given as formerly.

GLASGOW. - We have to report that trade is but moderate with us.
A good number of members are working short time, half days off frequently,
others working alternative weeks. The Repairing trade has improved during
the month.

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Trade remains fair in our district, although
there has been a slight falling off during the month. Irthlingborough is worse


---
Here is the extracted text:
than previous month. A large number either standing off or on short time
The rest of the district shows slight improvement.
HULL. - Trade here is at a very low ebb; it must have departed when the
delegates of the Congress left. The all-eventful week of Trades Union Congress
passed off better than a good many expected it to do, and the most pleasing
feature of their visit is that a good many delegates departed with a better
impression of Hull than they had when they came here. One delegate remarked
he had been told its name ought to have had an E instead of a U and this sam
delegate acknowledged his changed views of the city and its citizens (Be the
war we are not alluding to our own delegates). We had a visit to our branch
by the General President and General Secretary and fellow delegates, and
for the want of cash to pay their subs. As a small branch we did our bit in
sorry to have to record a poor attendance, not due to want of spirit, but more
welcoming and entertaining our delegates, and in this we did not fail Prior
gratitude to us for their welfare they presented the Secretary and his better
to their departure we had a very pleasing little gathering, and to show their
half with a memento each in remembrance of their visit to Hull, and which wo
are pleased to say they enjoyed and will not forget it.
LEICESTER. - Sorry to report there is no improvement in trade.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S. - We still have to report trade is very slack in
Leicester, our numbers of suspension being heavier than last month, our
unemployed being stockroom and table hands. We have had very satisfactory
reports from members who have derived great benefit from the treatment
supplied by Major Stevens, the members being very grateful for the same. W
are still pricing fancy work for Leicester and other districts.
LIVERPOOL. Trade with boot repairers is fairly good. We note that
a great campaign is being organised under the name of "War Against War."
It certainly would be a great achievement if all disputes-local, national and
universal-could be settled by arbitration instead of fighting, but we are afraid
that as long as the animal nature of mankind predominates we shall always
have wars and strife, which will go on as long as the world lasts. Still it is a
good sign of the times to see that an effort is being made to infuse the idea
into the minds of the people comprised in the civilised world that war is a brutal
method of settling disputes. We were sorry to hear of Mr. D. McCarthy's
mishap, and hope he is all right again-hard lines to be gassed in peace times.
We also note with regret the paragraph in the August REPORT re Mr. J. Buckle,
M.P., and hope he will soon be fit for his Parliamentary duties.
LONDON SOUTH.-Trade is very quiet, and there does not seem to be
any chance of it improving at present. Members are still looking forward with
good hopes of things being better. The Secretary would be very much obliged
if Shop Stewards would pay their monies in regular so as to enable him to
keep his books up to date. He also calls attention to the fact, because if Shop
Stewards keep the monies in hand it all goes towards putting them out of
benefit.
MAYBOLE. Trade is a little better and sickness light. We are sorry to
have to make a claim for victimisation for one of our members who was Shops
Clerk in one of our factories. We hope Council will make a grant, as not only
has this member been dismissed. but his son was dismissed a short time before.
It is very hard that if a man takes a prominent part in his Union he is leaving
himself open to dismissal. As someone must do the work it is our duty as a
Union to do all we can for the men and women who dare to do what they con-
sider their duty on behalf of their fellow workers. We hope these dismissals
of Union officials will not have a bad effect on those who will be asked to fill
offices, as this would be playing into the employers' hands.

---
519
THE FIFTY-SIXTH TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
DELEGATES' REPORT.
The Fifty-sixth Trades Union Congress was held in the City Hall, Hull, from the
Ist to 6th September, 1924, Mr. A. A. Purcell, M.P., presiding.
The Congress was officially welcomed by the Mayor and Sheriff and representative
from the Hull Trades Council and Labour Party.
The President's Address to Congress whilst citing many of the things accomplished.
was also a plea for breadth of outlook and co-operation between the various forces that
are making for a better and brighter world, and the outlook generally to be such as will
bring into line not merely the various British elements of the Labour Movement, but also
those of other countries, especially naming Germany, Russia and India. Mr. Purcell
concluded his address as follows:-
THE FORWARD VIEW.
"It is becoming increasingly clear that deep down in the hearts of our class
and women who are coming to take our places in this movement stand out much
there exists a determination to end the present state of things. The younger men
against the evils we have permitted to continue, nationally and internationally.
more saliently as rebels against the existing order, protesting and demonstrating
"We must not grow weary or tire in our energy and enthusiasm in our efforts to
secure the co-operation of the younger generation in the work of remoulding and
rebuilding our great movement on an all-inclusive plan, giving the opportunity to
them to develop administrative skill, gifts of organisation, and power of leadership.
capable of changing the existing structure of capitalist society and bringing into being
Our aim is not merely to build big unions, but to create an instrument of solidarity
service a place, an opportunity and a life free from the horrors of poverty, ignorance,
a Workers' State which will guarantee to all who are ready and willing to render
insecurity, and disease."
The resolutions passed were of very great importance to the movement, and marked
a stage forward to bring about that understanding which will enable the trade union
movement as a whole to make real headway. For instance, what will be known in future
as THE CHARTER is really a consolidation of many resolutions that from time to time have
been passed by the movement, and now form a composite resolution so that one may see
at a glance what the movement stands for.
INDUSTRIAL WORKERS' CHARTER.
"That this Congress reaffirms the decisions of past Congresses with regard to
necessary and rundamental changes in our social, economic, and political systems,
and decides to formulate the said decisions in an industrial workers' charter, and
pledges itself to secure by every legitimate means the fulfilment of the objects con-
stituting the charter which, subject to such additions as Congress may from time
to time approve, shall be as follows :-
1. Public ownership and control of natural resouces and of services-
(a) Nationalisation of land, mines and minerals.
(b) Nationalisation of railways.
(c) The extension of State and municipal enterprise for the provision
of social necessities and services.
(d) And to make proper provision for the adequate participation of the
workers in control and management.
2. Wages and hours of labour-
(a) A legal maximum working week of 44 hours.
(b) A legal minimum wage for each industry or occupation.
3. Unemployment-
(a) Suitable provisions in relation to unemployment with adequate
maintenance of the unemployed.
(b) Establishment of training centres for unemployed juveniles.
(c) Extension of training facilities for adults during periods of industrial
depression.
4. Housing-
Provision of proper and adequate housing accommodation.
5. Education-
Full educational facilities to be provided by the State from the elemen-
tary schools to the universities.


---
Here is the extracted text:
521

(3) The Board of Education take in conjunction with the Municipal
schools within the next five years, in the meantime by gradual to
Authorities such steps as will gradually free from fees
fees to increase the percentage of entrants
(4) There be a great extension of the scholarship system in secondary
Technical Schools and the Universities with a view to the development
(5) Education in continuation schools to be made obligatory in the empl
a complete system of free Secondary, Technical and University Education
time up to 18 years."

OLD AGE PENSIONS.

"That this Conference approves the grant of adequate pensions for all
with children, or mothers whose family breadwinner has become incapacitate
pensions to be provided by the State, and administered by a committee of the Munici pal
or County Council, and wholly unconnected with the Poor Law. It pres
Chancellor of the Exchequer the urgent need of carrying out such a scheme without
delay, also the abolition of all existing disqualifications."

HOURS OF WORK.

"That this Congress presses upon the Government the importance and urgent
of passing into law an Act legalising a maximum 48 hour week, and (except where
special arrangements for a weekly half-holiday exist) of not more than eight hours
per day and excluding Sunday duty; further, that having regard to the unemployed
of morale, an ordinary working week of 44 hours for all workers be instituted."
ment existing among many thousands of workers and the consequent poverty and loss

WAGES.

upon the working classes, this Congress is of opinion that a vigorous campaign should
be initiated immediately to secure an adequate national minimum wage for all workers.
We therefore request the General Council to exercise their influence in every possible
direction to the achievement of this objective."

ORGANISATION BY INDUSTRY.

"This Congress declares:
(a) That the time has arrived when the number of Trade Unions should be
reduced to an absolute minimum.
(b) That the aim should be as far as possible organisation by industry with
every worker a member of the appropriate organisation.
(c) That it is essential that a united front be formed for improving the standards
of life of the workers.
(d) And accordingly instructs the General Council to draw up-
1. A scheme for organisation by industry; and
2. A scheme which may secure unity of action, without the definite
merging of existing Unions by a scientific linking up of same to present
a united front."

INDEPENDENT WORKING-CLASS EDUCATION.

"That this Congress instructs the General Council to take a more active part in
furtherance of working-class education and urges the General Council to adopt educa-
tional schemes in co-operation with the Workers' Educational Association, the Workers'
Educational Trade Union Committee, Ruskin College, the National Council of Labour
Colleges, and the Labour College, London, and any other Educational Bodies, provided
they are willing that the General Council shall exercise such measure of control over
their organisations as is considered necessary in the interests of the workers' educa-
tion."

TRADE BOARDS.
(HOURS OF EMPLOYMENT).
as not more than 48,
"That this Congress, recognising the successful efforts of the Trade Unions to
reduce the hours of Employment in the Distributive Trades and the importance of
supporting these efforts, and of bringing the hours of employment in Distribution
into correspondence with the hours of employment in Production, calls upon the
Government to introduce as soon as possible a measure for the establishment of a
maximum 48 hours week for all workers engaged in the Distributive Trades and
reading the passing of this measure asks Trade Boards, which are or may be created
in these Trades, to declare the normal hours of employment
and requests the representatives of workers on these Boards to resist any less favourable
declaration."


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

523
HOUSING.

The annual Housing Conference was held prior to the Trades Union Congress at Hull
and attended by many delegates from all parts of the country. It was overwhelmingly
proven that there is as great a need, if not greater, for the erection of houses as was the
case two years ago. The question of building houses affects the moral, health and domestic
questions, and we are running great risks not only from a health point of view, but of
reducing the standard of our lives by overcrowding. It is therefore incumbent upon us
to continue to bombard local authorities, M.P.'s and the Minister of Health, and constantly
remind them of this vital necessity of building houses for the people to dwell in.
The following instances recorded during the month show a shocking state of affairs

Gravel Pit as Home.

At Depwade (Norfolk) District Council yesterday the inspector reported that a man
and his wife and child were living in a gravel pit at Needham. Their covering was sack
over poles, but they had got a feather bed. The owner of the pit charged 3s. a week for
the use of the pit.
The chairman said there would be more straw stacks after the harvest, which would
make better accommodation than this. – London Daily Mail, 9th September, 1924.
* * * *
The scandal of exploiting the homeless by charging exhorbitant rents for what are
styled "Furnished Rooms" is mentioned by the Medical Officer for Oldham.
In his annual report he quotes a case of a derelict house, formerly an Inn, let by the
owners for £40 per annum, yielding a total rental for so called "Furnished Rooms" of £408.
No wonder that, as the doctor says, those engaged in this very profitable business
are always on the look out for additional houses to convert into furnished rooms.
The profits quoted by the doctor are by no means exceptional. The house is larger
than those generally converted into furnished rooms, but the rent per room is not more
than the average.

Dr. Wilkinson gave another instance where a house rented at £27 per year brought
to the tenant 54s. per week from furnished rooms, and still allowed him a kitchen and
bedroom for his own occupation.
A health inspector gave instances of tenants of four-roomed cottages letting off three
of the rooms and getting 16s. per week rent from the sub-tenants though they themselves
only paid 6s. rod. to the owner of the house.
A two-roomed back-to-back cottage was let at 5s. per room and there were many
cases of rooms being let off at 12S., 13S. and 14s. a week. The so-called furniture generally
consisted of a dilapidated bed, with a minimum of clothing, a rickety table, and a broken
chair or form.—E. L. P., Gen. Sec.

VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS.

At the recent Conference of representatives of the Union and the
Federation, on the motion of Mr. H. J. Bostock, seconded by Mr.
T. F. Richards, it was unanimously resolved—

"This National Conference again urges upon H.M. Government
the desirability of giving to National Agreements voluntarily entered
into and approved by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity
as Awards under the Trade Board Act, with the object of
ensuring the observance of fair conditions of labour, by all
engaged in the industry, and requests the Government to give
facilities for passing into law the Industrial Council's Bill read
a second time on 29th May, 1924."


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
524
"FORESTALL THE LEAGUE."
Sir Ian Hamilton's Advice to Soldiers.
General Sir Ian Hamilton, speaking yesterday at the Westminster Central Chub of
the British Legion, in furtherance of the forthcoming Congress in London of the Inter.
He declared that the meeting of Fidac, the name by which the movement is know
might yet be marked with a red letter in future calendars.
" At Geneva," he continued " the Pime Ministers of France and Great Britain haw
been writing history in letters of gold. Gold is nicer to handle than blood in which the
best histories have hitherto been written
Lion and Lamb.
but it is not so fast a colour.
"There is no cause as yet for us to frisk about Westminster in the belief that the
lamb will no longer be eaten by the lion. A beautiful resolution has been passed by the
League of Nations. Will there be any resolution' behind it?
"Not until the hour of trial shall we know whether the whole bright vision
not fade away and leave no more trace upon history than a rainbow upon the weeping
clouds.
" I do not," he continued, " make these remarks in any cynical depreciation of
idealism. Idealism is like the aeroplane which flies far ahead of the main body to bom
the entrenchments of the obscurantists and bigots, but only the solid, mud-crushing
infantry, Fidac, can charge in and take the position.
"As a mere matter of human history and common-sense we ought by now to Know
that sentimental pledges rarely stand the strain of the call to arms. Fidac is about to
break new ground.
Fighters for Peace.
"Not the pacifists, but the fighters are going to combine their forces against war
You are never quite sure of the pacifist, because his pacifism is usually an inverted for
of pugnacity. (Laughter.) We, of the British Legion, on the other hand, are perfectl
sure of one another. We are fed up with war.
"Although Fidac includes us already in a semi-military alliance, we do not want our
statesmen to sign any fresh scraps of paper.
"Surely there is a better way out than one lot signing on to fight another lot
ten years hence.
"You cannot divide the Continent into two camps and expect a single-minded Europe,
continued the General. "We hope Fidac may help us to solve these problems. Fidac
is coming here-five million fighters, a direct action crowd. At Geneva they are trying
to tie up a homicidal maniac-by which I mean war-with pink ribbons. Fidac knows
that something stronger than pink ribbons will be needed if we are to encounter and
overcome hate and the violent personal exasperation which has been engendered during
the past two years.
"Forestall the League."
"Bayonets won't do it. Nothing will avert the future conflict short of bringing the
peace-loving sections of the ex-enemy veterans into Fidac.
"As an old soldier I implore young soldiers for the honour of the profession of arms,
and in the name of ancient chivalry, to forestall the League of Nations.
"Don't, for the Lord's sake, let it be said that civilians are ahead of the soldiers where
real practical peace proposals are at issue. Fidac is still streets ahead of the League in
that it includes the U.S.A. While Geneva talks of holding out a hand to the ex-enemy,
let us shake.
"We belong to the most powerful organisation on earth. Let us use that power
to insist that America is one, and that American may not fight with American; that
Europe is one and that European may not fight with European. The rest will follow."-
Westminster Gazette, 9th September, 1924.
The above-named statements are such, that despite some of the sentiments expressed
for peace and goodwill, they are nevertheless, statements which require careful watching.
It is somewhat remarkable that there should be this call to Ex-Service men to join
in the way suggested, especially bearing in mind one or two statements made by the
General, viz.: the statement as to whether there will be any resolution behind the reso-
lutions passed by the League of Nations, and also the one that "at Geneva they are trying
to tie up a homicidal maniac-by which I mean war with pink ribbons." The state-
ment also that we belong to the most powerful organisation on earth," seems to suggest


---
an att
525
the uselessness of it. It is to be hoped the members will rally to the support of the Tea
attenipt will be made not only to belittle the League of Nations, but to try and
and more look to solve those difficulties which from time to time arises13.com.co
of Nations, and make it not only a live organisation, but one to which nations all
E. L. P., Gen. Sec.
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
GREAT BRITAIN'S TURN NEXT?
The National Minority Conference.
German or other languages,
the national
but are nourished on the specially selected articles
Mo
THURSDAY, 4th SEPTEMBER, 1924. About a fortnight ago a two day, C
was held in London by a group of persons who gave themselves out as
minority of the British Trade Union Movement. The doubtful honour of organi
National Minority Movement or, in other words, of trying to split the Broth Ft.
Union Movement, is due to our Moscow friends and their followers, the very perce
make the loudest outcry for the "united front." Having done her fatal work in Fr
Italy, Czechoslovakia and other countries, Moscow would seem to be now about to
a spring upon the British Trade Union Movement.
foreign languages; hence they do not read for themselves what Moscow pablok
Among the British Labour leaders and workers there are not many who undertal
to them by certain newspapers. They will, therefore, be not a little surprised to hea۹۳۲۰۱
in ulv last. Yet such was the case. No. 38 of the Red Labour Union Bulletin R
this British National Minority Conference was worked out in every detail in
Gewerkschaftsbulletin) German edition, published by Führer Verlag, Charité Stre
Tom Mann at the Moscow Congress of the Red International of Labour Unions is given
Berlin, N. W.6, is surely an unimpeachable authority! The speech made on 15th July by
full in this number. At the same session his colleague, the Russian Kalnin, presented
programme is "The Formation of a National Left-Wing Centre"; but, as there was some
the complete programme for this British "Minority Conference." The first item on the
edition added in brackets the explanation that by the "Left-Wing" are meant "the
adherents of the Red International of Labour Unions." The programme consists of some
twelve items, of which No. 7 runs as follows:- " To establish the closest relations with
munist records to have declined from 10,000 to 3,000 between 1921 and 1924). It was
the British Communist Party" (which Party, by the way, appears from the official Com-
apparently not thought wise to discuss this particular item, or, if it was discussed, the
reports we have received make no mention of it. But in every other respect the lines laid
down by Moscow were very fairly adhered to.
danger that on the Continent the term "
Left-Wing" might be misunderstood, the German
It is certainly a very curious fact that just at this moment when the Communists
are raising the demand for the unity of the trade union movement, and are crying from
every housetop that they desire nothing so much as to come to an agreement with the
Amsterdam International-that just now, when correspondence between Moscow and
Amsterdam has been resumed, the Red International of Labour Unions should call into
existence in Great Britain a National Minority Movement which can only undermine the
unity of the British Trade Union Movement. So far, Great Britain has been the country
which has been distinguished by a single undivided trade union movement, undistracted
by religious or political differences. For this very reason the British Trade Union move-
ment has been able to do so much for its members. Yet, in its manifesto to the Hull
Trades Union Congress, the National Minority Movement boasts that "for the first time
in the history of the Congress a definite and organised opposition within the existing
unions faces the existing leadership." The Russian comrades and their friends seem to
disruptive work": the Russians call it "the united
be proud of the destructive work which they have thus begun in Great Britain. In
Western Europe this is called
front."
A DOCTOR ON THE EIGHT-HOURS DAY AND ITS BENEFITS.
La Journée Industrielle, the journal of the French industrialists, contains a leading
a singularly unprejudiced book on "The Life of the
article, speaking in highly appreciative terms of the work of Jacques Valdour, a French
doctor, who has recently published
Worker." Valdour is a zealous student of social reform, and he spends his holidays working
incognito as a factory hand, and living in the ordinary workers' quarters. He has some
interesting things to tell us about drunkenness; he declares that it has much decreased
since the war: during the whole of last summer he saw scarcely ten cases of drunkenness
in the largest working-class districts of Paris, and the number of public-houses is fast
declining. He traces this change to the beneficial influence of the eight-hours day, which
has caused no less than 300,000 Parisian workers to move out into the suburbs and buy or
build small houses there. All these workers, says Valdour, have given up drinking, and
have returned to their families.
--- OCR End ---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
the League.
These Conventions deal with :-
527
these Conventions has been formally registered by Italy with the Secretary-General of
ing of ship.
The payment of an unemployment indemnity to seamen in case of loss or formeer
The regulation of the provision of employment for scamen.
The fixing of the minimum age for employment
eighteen.
as trimmers and stoker.
And the yearly medical examination of boys under eighteen employed in ships
adopted by the International Labour Conference at its annual Sessions dealing with:
Italy has at the same time registered her ratification of three other Conventions
The establishment of the weekly rest day in industry.
The guarantee of the right of association to agricultural workers.
And the minimum age of employment in agriculture.
TRADES UNION CONGRESS-THE LABOUR PARTY.
The Anglo-Russian Treaties.
One of the first acts of the Labour Government was to carry out its avowed policy
tions with Russian representatives have been pursued with the object of framing a series
of according diplomatic recognition to the Russian Government. Subsequently, negotia-
of Treaties by means of which assistance may be rendered to Russia to re-establish her
industries.
Many of the politicians, aided by their representatives in the Press, are conducting
a campaign of violent misrepresentation of the present proposals. In view of these activi-
Labour Government as a PRELIMINARY TO DISCUSSION BY THE HOUSE OF COMMONS, steps
ties against the ratification of the two Treaties which have been signed on behalf of the
should be taken to bring the true facts respecting the Treaties before the public generally
The main points to be emphasised in respect to the present proposals may be summarised
and the rank and file membership of the Labour and Socialist Movement in particular.
as follows:-
(a) The two Treaties already signed MUST BE RATIFIED BY THE HOUSE OF COMMONS
before they can become operative.
(b) Certain machinery provided in them will be set up to settle the claims of bond-
holders, small claimants, and ex-property owners.
(c) When satisfactory agreements have been arrived at, these agreements will be
EMBODIED IN A THIRD TREATY.
(d) Upon the SIGNATURE OF THE THIRD TREATY the British Government will "recom-
mend Parliament to enable them to guarantee the interest and sinking fund of a
loan to be issued by the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics."
(c) The loan CANNOT BECOME OPERATIVE UNTIL THE THIRD TREATY HAS BEEN
RATIFIED.
Time and time again, in days gone by, the British Democracy has headed national
opposition to the excesses of Czardom. It has defended the right of asylum in this country
for Russian refugees. At a decisive moment it successfully raised its emphatic voice
against a new war with Russia. While it opposes the suggestion that the Russian form of
Government is necessary under our Parliamentary system, it recognises that the entrance
of Russia once more into international relationships with this country and the world at
large is as imperative to the interests of Britain as to Russia.
We call on every active spirit in our ranks to let the man in the street and the woman
in the home know the true facts of the case, and so put power and moral force behind the
Labour Government to secure an overwhelming vote when Parliament is called upon to
ratify its Russian policy.
FRED BRAMLEY, Secretary.
Signed on behalf of the General Council of the Trades Union Congress,
J. S. MIDDLETON, Acting Secretary.
On behalf of the Executive Committee of the Labour Party,
9. September, 1924.


---
BOOT REPAIRING TRADE BOARD.
Report on Inspection for Second Quarter of Year.
The Boot Repairing Trade Board (Great Britain) has issued a report on inspection
and enforcement for the period 1st April to 30th June, 1924, in the course of which it is
stated that on 30th June last the number of firms on the Trade Board list was 29,021.
During the period under review 77 firms were inspected for the first time, the number of
firms previously discovered being 11, making total
inspections during the three months 88.
Of the firms inspected, 10 employed fewer than 2 workers (excluding 5 firms employing
no workers), 18 employed from 2 to 5 workers, 4 employed from 6 to 10 workers, 1 employed
between 11 and 20, and 1 employed between 21 and 100. The total number of workers
employed by the firms inspected was 100.
The total number of complaints received during the period was 63. Of this number,
57 were investigated, 18 being dealt with by correspondence. Arrangements, it is stated,
have been made for the investigation of the 36 complaints outstanding.
The activities of the inspectors are not confined to the investigation of complaints
received. A number of inspections are undertaken on the initiation of the Department.
designated "Routine Inspection," and in the following details, the routine inspections
are prefixed (A) and the inspections undertaken after the complaint has been received
are prefixed (B).
The number of firms inspected during the three months was (A) 49, (B) 39; total, 88.
The number of firms on whose premises it was found current notices were not posted
was (A) 8, (B) 9. The number of firms where it was found time records were not kept was
(A) 27, (B) 20. In (A), 12 firms were found to have kept no records of wages paid, and in
the case of 3 the wages records were inadequate. In (B), 9 firms were found to have kept
no wages records, and one had kept an inadequate wages record.
The number of firms found to be under-paying workers was (A) 6, (B) 14. The total
arrears claimed from these firms were (A) £21 9s. 10d. and (B) £205 13s. 9d. The total
number of workers under-paid was (A) 8, (B) 18, the total number of workers to whom arrears were
paid being (A) 7, (B) 15. A note is added that the arrears outstanding under (A), due
from one firm, are being paid by instalments. Of those outstanding under (B), £46 4s. 5d.
from one firm, is being paid by instalments. Action is being taken to secure pay-
ment of the remainder, which is due from two firms, and was claimed only recently.
The number of adult time workers employed by the firms visited was 86, 83 male and
3 female. It was found that 8 adult males were being under-paid, the arrears claimed
totalling £115 1s. 5d., of which £22 11s. 3d. has been paid. This was under (B), no under-
payments in this section being discovered in the course of routine inspection.
The number of learners employed by the firms visited totalled-male 44, female nil.
In (A), 6 juveniles were found to be under-paid, the arrears claimed being £19 17s. 3 d.,
of which £12 4s. 4d. has been paid. In (B), 5 learners or juveniles were found to be under-
paid, the arrears claimed totalling £27 12s. 4d., of which £13 19s. 4d. has been paid. Piece-
workers employed by the firms visited were found to total 69, all males, of whom, in (A),
two were found to be under-paid, the arrears totalling £1 12s. 7d., all of which has been
paid; while in (B), 5 were found to be under-paid, arrears totalling £63, of which £51 11s. 1d.
has been paid.
The number of firms inspected in the different divisions into which Great Britain is
divided for the purposes of the Trade Board were :-Scotland (A) 10, (B) 2; North-Eastern
(A) 3, (B) 1; North-Western (A) 1, (B) 5; Midlands (A) 11, (B) 8; South-Western (A) 11
(B) 6; London and South-Eastern (A) 4, (B) 17; total (A) 49, (B) 39. Of the inspections
undertaken, 70 occupied one day or less, 14 occupied two days, and 4 occupied three days.
The report under review concludes with "General Remarks," which are devoted to
particulars of two summonses, one at a Police Court and the other at a County Court.

BOOT REPAIRERS' WAGES.
Increase of 3s. a Week from September 1st.
The cost of living figure having reached 71, the time-rate wages of boot repairers are
to be increased on 1st September by 3s. per week, bringing them up to 60s. Notification
of the increase will be issued in the course of a few days by the Boot Repairing Trade Board.
The alterations to be made in the existing schedule of piece rates will indicate a reduction
of 7 per cent, on the previous standard instead of as formerly 12½ per cent.; the piece
rates will be those shown in column two instead of those given in column three.


---
Here is the extracted text:
529
DUBLIN.
From Our Own Correspondent.
Since September opened retailers have been unanimous in their compla
(1) taxes and (2) high prices. It is not because there is little business
and traders are missing sales because the public either cannot or will not reale
turnovers are not generally satisfactory; it is because the pinch of the test dr
Until September cheap summer shoes kept ladies' departments going togethe
plimsolls for children, but now, with the winter season approaching, more suletantu
"experimental" tariffs are of grave domestic concern.
The Press generally are very critical of the "Statistical Tax," which from 1st September
has been levied on all parcels imported by post or rail. The tax is chargeable on each
article (descriptions specified) contained therein, so that several sixpences may be charge
able on the same packet. Although this tax is not levied on dutiable goods, it is being
freely discussed by the boot trade, because laces, grindery, leather, rubber heels, window
tickets, stationery, paper and string, &c., are all affected, and this, of course, adds to the
bootman's burden.
The trade is with the Irish Times in the belief that "it is high time that the business
community of the Free State should assert itself and protest against the further Balkanisa-
Of course, this tax, like the 15 per cent. tax, promises a substantial revenue because
44.2 per cent. of the number of consignments imported by sea in September last were
under £10 in value; 45.2 per cent. of those imported by rail were under £5, and 55.4 per
cent. of those imported by road under £3. The Shoe and Leather Record, 19th Septem-
tion of Irish business."
ber, 1924.
IRISH FREE STATE STATISTICAL TAX.
Protest by Dublin Merchants.
At a meeting of the committee of the Dublin Mercantile Association held last week,
a resolution was adopted expressing the opinion that the statistical tax of 6d. recently
imposed on import trade was injurious.
It was stated that the tax, which was hitting the boot trade severely, would cost
firms anything from £100 to £500 per year, which would require a pro rata increase in turn-
over of £2,000 per year-an increase that was not likely to materialise.
Commenting on the tax the Irish Times (Dublin) writes: "Nobody wants this tax.
The public is irritated by it. The business community declares that it is defeating its
ostensible purpose; and, of course, it adds considerably to the already absurdly com-
plicated system of classification in connection with the Customs frontier. As a revenue
producer its value is likely to be negligible. It may bring a little more business to local
distributors; but, WHEN ALL IS SAID AND DONE, its chief result will be a further increase
in the cost of living."The Shoe and Leather Record, 19th September, 1924.
One more example of the burden of "Protection," viz.-increase in cost of living-
E.L.P., Gen. Sec.j
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1923 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 93,620; Females, 50,230; Total,
143,850. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 25th August, 1924 (Great
Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 9,664; Females, 2,821; Total, 12,485. Percentage
Unemployed at 25th August, 1924: Males, 10.3; Females, 5.6; Total, Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, 8.7; Great Britain only, 8.5. Increase as compared with 28th July,
1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 1.2; Females, 1.2; Total, 1.2.-The
Ministry of Labour Gazette, September, 1924.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of August, 1924,
.. Unemployed at end of August, 1924, 2,900; percentage, 3.7. Increase in
the percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.4. Decrease in percentage as
- compared with a year ago, 2.3. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, September, 1924.


---
C.W.S. TRADE INCREASES.
A Profitable Half-year. Society Growing and Prospering.
The 21s balance sheet for the half-year ended on 28th June showed an increase
to the amount of the total sales equal to 81 per cent. on the total for the corresponding
of the last year, and the directors recommend a dividend of 2d. in the pound on mem-
purchases and id in the pound on the purchases of non-members.
The total sales for the period amounted to £34,941,331, an increase of £2,689,763
equal to 81 per cent.), and the total supplies from the various productive works
amounted to 111.331.203, an increase of £1,006,502 (92 per cent.).
Before charging interest on capital and allowing for depreciation of property there
was a profit of 1,141,012.
After debiting £534,167 interest on capital (including shares).
and 1250,860 depreciation, a net profit of £355.985 is shown which, with the addition of
150,000 brought forward from the last half-year, makes a total of £505,985. Dividend
butes at 1d. per pound accounts for £768 10s. rod., and £76,343 125. Id. is written off fixtures.
to members at 2d. per pound of purchases absorbs 264,856 7s. Iod., dividend to non-mem-
be leaving a balance of £164,016 35. 4d, to be carried forward. The Reserve Fund stood
as at 28th June, and on the same date the amount to the credit of the Insurance
Fund was (1,125,078.
In the Banking Department the deposits and withdrawals for the half-year
amounted to 1273,270,505, an increase of 10 per cent. on the turnover for the corres-
ponding period of last year.
This department yields a profit of £57,323 8s. 4d., which the directors recommend
should be transferred to the Reserve Fund. Three societies opened accounts during the
half-year, and two were closed owing to amalgamation and liquidation. Now there are
only forty-eight distributive societies not banking with the C.W.S.
show substantial increases in trade. The increase is lowest in London, where it reaches
All the distributive departments of the Manchester, Newcastle, and London branches
3 per cent., and is highest in Newcastle, where it is 10 per cent. In Manchester it is
8 per cent.
The Tea Department disposed of 25,720, 141 lbs. of tea, which is an increase of 2,175,684
lbs. This is equal to 9 per cent. while the increase in the money value of the trade
represents 20 per cent of an in the cocoa and Chocolate Departments.
only represents 2 per cent of an increase. In the
however, there is a decrease both in the weight sent out and in the amount of the sales.
Losses are recorded in a number of the productive factories, the most serious loss
being in the woollen mills, the corset factories, the mantle, underclothing, and pinafore
factories, Grappenhall and Street tanneries, and the cabinet factories (except Pelaw).
The departments chiefly concerned in the losses are those which have been the subject
of discussion at recent quarterly meetings. -Co-operative News, 20th September, 1924.
COMPANY NEWS.
W. Barratt & Co., Limited, "Footshape" Works, Northampton.
The Report of Directors presented to the shareholders at the Tenth Annual General
Meeting, held at "Footshape" Works, Northampton, on Friday, 22nd August, states
that the balance of profit available for the year ending 30th June, 1924, as shown in the
Appropriation Account, is £54,031 8s. 6d. This sum, together with the £150 135. 7d.
brought forward from last year, makes a total sum available of £54,182 2s. Id., out of
which the dividends for the year have been provided and paid as on 31st January, and
31st July on the 55 per cent., 614 per cent. preference, to per cent. ordinary and founders'
shares. The progress noted in previous report has been fully maintained.
The policy of previous years in making ample reservations have been adhered to,
and the following have been provided :-Depreciation of buildings, £2,000; depreciation
of plant and machinery, £1,300; depreciation of fixtures and fittings, £4,250; reserve for
dividends, fees, taxes, &c., £16,916 5s. 3d., placed to reserve fund, £10,000. The stocks
have been most carefully taken and are certified by the works manager and managing
director. The Shoe Trades Journal, 22nd August, 1924.


---
Here is the extracted text:
531
PREMIER ON GENEVA.
A Common Aim. To Promote Goodwill and Establish Peace.
The Prime Minister received, in the Caird Hall yesterday, the freedom of the city of
Dundee.
The Premier said: Was he far wrong to take it as a little bit of encouragemed to
do the work that belonged not to a Party, but to the nation
"Of course, I am a Party man," added the Premier.
politics are Party men.
(Cheers.)
There will be Parties so long as there are States, and so logge a
and how difficult are the minds and ways of men."
"All who take an intere٠۹۱۱۱
men and women honestly apply the abilities that God gives them to the affairs of the world
absolutely wrong-but because the truth has many sides and can never be wro
We come to different conclusions-not because one is absolutely right and the other
There is one aim we must all hold in common, and that is to promote goodwill
among the nations and establish peace on earth.
When we put our hand to that work we discover how simple is the English languag
What did peace, security, co-operation mean but that the critical minds of men cola
prove beyond the possibility of doubt that it could not work?
When our ancestors were struggling and striving in their upward path, every time a
who saw ahead and were determined to struggle onward, the fireside, ditch-side, and
new faith was born, every time a new hope glimmered in the hearts of men and women
sea-side philosophers proved it was altogether impossible.
and grand-parent of the future. Backwards never; onwards yes. But let us see that it
"But as we were, so we are, and so we shall be. The past is the parent of the present,
is upward as well as onward. (Cheers.)
That is no Party faith, no partisan view, but with that faith in my heart, so long as
opportunity is given to me I will use that opportunity to try and lay the foundation of
the peace of this world."
The nations dislocated by war and rumours of war had forgotten the tears that had
fallen so copiously from the eyes of bereaved men and women, and had forgotten the
glorious possibilities of life destroyed by the brutality and folly of human passions.
So. concluded Mr. MacDonald, he was bold enough to take their welcome as an en-
ments of international right, so that in the end they could establish justice and settle the
couragement and a pat on the back to go on devising some means of simplifying the entangle-
quarrels of the world. (Loud cheers.) -Daily Herald, 10th September, 1924.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR CONFERENCE.
The General Council of the Trades Union Congress has published a 24-page booklet,
and circulated it to the Congress delegates at Hull, giving the full report of Mr. E. L.
Poulton, J.P., the Workers' representative for Great Britain, of his work at the Inter-
national Labour Office, Geneva, which report deals with the 48-hours week; night baking;
unemployment; glass workers' weekly suspension; workmen's compensation, &c.
Mr. E. L. Poulton's Initiative.
A feature of the speech delivered by M. Albert Thomas, in the name of the International
Labour Office, was the high appreciation he expressed of the work done at Geneva by the
British Trade Union representative, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P. It was through Mr. Poulton's
initiative, he said, that the I.L.O. had been able to raise industrial standards in backward
countries to a higher level.
FOOD TAXES.
12s. 9d. A Head Now; 4s. 9d. Before the War.
. Snowden, Chancellor of the Exchequer, stated on 30th July, 1924, in reply to a
question, that the taxation on food respectively per head of the population in the financial
yous 1013-14 and 1924-25 is as follows:-
1913-14-Food, 4s. 9d.; drink, 16s. 11'd.
1024-25 (estimate)-Food, 125. 9d.; drink, £3 1s. 9d.
winchices sugar, &c., dried and preserved fruits, tea, cocoa, coffe, and chicory.
cludes spirits, beer. wine and table waters.


---
BRITISH OVERSEAS TRADE.
Large Increase in Exports of Footwear to East Indies, Australia and New Zealand.
We give below an abstract of the Board of Trade Returns for August so far
and leather trades are concerned.
It should be noted that these accounts now include the trade of Grad Pa
Northern Ireland with the Irish Free State, while the direct foreign trade of the
skins, the Netherlands and the Irish Free State are now shown separately, while
of the tables, dating from 1st January. In the case of imports of wet raw hole
State has been excluded. Several other alterations have been made in the arran
In regard to exports of boots and shoes, the Irish Free State is separately date
is now included in "Other Countries.'
while Germany and Italy have been relegated to "Other Countries.
Exports of Boots and Shoes.
Of Leather-
To Sweden
Netherlands
"
"
"
Belgium
France
Egypt
Argentine Republic
Irish Free State
Anglo-Egyptian
Sudan)..
British South Africa
Anglo-Egyptian
Sudan..
British East Indies
Australia..
New Zealand
British West India
Islands (including
Bahamas)
and
British Guiana
Other Countries
Total of leather
Of other materials
Of rubber
Total
1922
Doz.
Pairs.
124
1,730
962
1,745
109
12,996
2,616
12,132
47,931
7,900
19,119
74,950
Quantities.
1923
Doz.
Pairs.
21
752
149
318
770
358
32,183
15,056
16
1,467
1,483
5,134
2,062
7,530
67,349
10,307
21,755
99,411
Month ended 31st August.
1924
Doz.
Pairs.
136
3,071
110
307
1,542
161
19,284
19,405
117
3,477
5,397
15,744
2,537
14,580
85,868
8,327
19,982
114,177
Value.
1922
£
8,102
6,037
19,7185
1,086
£
3,064
88,476
79,710
11,931
8,868
8,721
54,947
13,489
64,680
278,055
16,212
33,272
327,539
1923
285
3,571
1,542
3,431
3,714
3,645
9,543
51,970
389,878
18,899
34,423
443,200
1924
1,105
99,905
648
19,233
9,831
83,613
10,358
89,393
443,153
10,838
32,721
486,712
For the eight months ended 31st August, 1922, 1923, and 1924, the exports of British
boots and shoes of leather, rubber, and other materials were valued at £2,022,534, £2,747,696
and £3,603,040 respectively.
Imports and Re-exports of Boots and Shoes.
Quantities.
Of leather
Other materials
Rubber
Gross imports
Re-exports
Net imports
1922
Doz.
Pairs.
9,683
6,285
7,067
23,035
2,354
20,681
Month ended 31st August.
1923
Doz.
Pairs.
12,332
29,469
12,817
54,618
579
54,039
1924
Doz.
Pairs.
17,464
21,418
19,262
58,144
5,705
52,439
Value.
1922
£
77,028
15,259
10,423
102,710
13,281
89,429
1923
72,911
31,416
19,308
123,635
3,298
120,337
1924
£
107,344
34,092
43,944
185,380
20,898
164,482
For the eight months ended 31st August, 1922, 1923, and 1924, our imports of boots
ud shoes of leather, rubber, and other materials were valued at £953,054, £1,108,954,
1380,004 respectively. Our re-exports were valued at $71,917, £55,322, and
Appwa respectively. The Shoe and Leather Record, 19th September, 1924.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in the Reports. should, however, any error creep into a
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
FAT TELI 4938 MUSEUM, LONDOR.
TEL. MODRESS "NATO
12 of
tions Boot & Shoe Operatives
Apprever
and National Labor Party
the Tradion Unios Congresa
NaLocal Health insurance Acta Aperol 231
General President
SEAT OF GOVE
34.GUILFORD STREET
T.F. RICHARDS
LONDON.VCI
General Secretary
EL POULTON LP.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1
MONTHLY REPORT,
27TH OCTOBER, 1924.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE
during the month has shown a slight improvement; the figures recorded by
the Ministry of Labour Gazette are as follow:-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment during September remained moderate on the whole, and a good deal of
short time continued to be worked. There was little change compared with the previous
month, but a general improvement compared with September of last year.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 8.5 on the 22nd September, as compared with 8.7
on the 25th August.
Returns from firms employing about 38,400 operatives in the week ended September
27th showed that over 34 per cent. of these operatives were on short time in that week
to the extent of about 12 hours each on an average.
Employment in London was generally bad; but an improvement was reported in
departments making men's boots. At Leicester short time was fairly general, and em-
ployment on the whole was slack and worse than in August. It remained fair at North-
ampton, though some short time was worked. At Wellingborough employment, although
only quiet, showed a slight improvement on the previous month, women workers being
in demand. There was not much change at Kettering, where short time and unemploy-
ment were still prevalent. Some factories, however, were working full time. Most
factories at Higham and Rushden worked full time, and employment continued fair.
At Leeds employment in the heavy boot department remained slack, and short time was
general; an improvement, however, was reported. At Stafford employment was very
slack. Employment in the slipper trade of the Rossendale Valley improved slightly,
but a large amount of short time was still worked.
Conditions were not so good as in the previous month at Norwich, and employment
was only fair. In the Bristol and Kingswood district, on the other hand, there was a
further improvement, and employment was fair. At Street employment remained fairly
good.

---
553
NATIONAL (SEPTEMBER, 1924) AGREEMENT.
The full Agreement was published on pages 509 514 of the last REPORT
and the more important changes in the Agreement were set forth in ouw Addre
last month. We venture to say an impartial examination of the Agreement
and the advantages we have secured are such as to fully warrant not only
confirmation of our action, but a very big vote in favour of the accept
markets of the world are not yet normal. We confidently appeal to member
ance of the proposed Agreement, especially when it is considered that the
such an important matter affecting as it does-the members as a whole.
not only to record their vote in its favour, but to poll in large numbers upo
Meeting night. Votes to be counted on the 12th prox., and the results posted
Voting for its acceptance will take place at the NOVEMBER Monthly
to reach the Central Office by the 15th prox.
THE GENERAL ELECTION.
We have during the past few months, repeatedly urged upon the members
the necessity of keeping the political machinery in good working order, because
in our judgment an election might be precipitated upon us at any time. This
has now become a fact, and before this REPORT is in the hands of the members
it will be known whether the workers have returned a Labour Government to
power. The General Election was not of our seeking, but we are confident
upon this occasion that the policy of the Labour Party is the policy of the
workers, and also the best for the Nation generally. A majority of Labour
M.P.'s in the next House of Commons will mean real headway being made
to bring about better conditions in the lot of the workers. The work of the
Labour Party during the past few months is sufficient evidence to show what
will be done once they are returned to power.
So far as the Union is concerned, we shall have candidates at ECCLES
FROME and NORWICH. In the first-named division, Mr. J. Buckle, J.P.,
will again champion the cause of Labour; at Frome, Mr. Fred Gould, J.P.,
will be the Labour candidate; and for Norwich, Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., will
again be cur nominee. The great and outstanding need is work. We are
fully satisfied that the work our colleagues have done oit behalf of all
sections of the community during their membership of the House of
Commons is of such a character as to fully warrant their re-election to
Westminster. Their services have always been given to the community
freely, and we very sincerely hope that the electorate in the various
divisions will return our colleagues by large majorities to the House of
Commons to enable them to continue their work for the benefit of the
people as a whole. Therefore,
WORK AND VOTE LABOUR,
Both in the General Election and Municipal Borough Elections.


---
Here is the extracted text:
554

DEATH OF COUNCILLOR T. ADNITT, J.P.

It is with sincere regret that we have to record the fact that Councillor
T. ADNITT, J.P., of Leicester, passed away on the 19th inst. after a short
illness. Mr. Adnitt was elected Vice-President of the Leicester Branch
in 1919 and President of the Branch in 1920, and was a member of the
Council of the Union from September, 1921, until September, 1924.
Mr. T. Adnitt did useful service in many connections and he will be
missed from our work. We trust his good work will enable the younger
generation to take up the sword that Mr. Adnitt has had to lay down.
The funeral took place at Leicester on the 22nd inst., and
was attended, on behalf of the Council, by the General President
(Mr. T. F. Richards), Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards and Mr. D. McCarthy,
Organiser.

THE LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE.

During the month the Twenty-fourth Conference of the Labour Party
has been held in the Queen's Hall, London. The Conference was indeed a
momentous one, as during the sitting the Prime Minister decided to dissolve
Parliament and appeal to the country. Many resolutions were passed dealing
with housing, unemployment, &c., whilst it was decided by an overwhelming
majority not to accede to the request of the Communist Party and allow them
to affiliate with the Labour Party.

The Conference really resolved itself into the commencement of the
Election Campaign, the feeling of the delegates being very intense that every
ounce of energy must be put into the Election, and thereby not only repel the
attack upon the Party, but make further steps forward when dealing with the
many questions by which the real interests of the people are at present being
held back. The Prime Minister gave a magnificent speech to rally the forces
of progress against reaction, and we feel confident the effects of the Conference
generally will be felt for many days yet to come, as an incentive towards still
more determined effort being made to place the Labour Party in a majority
in the House of Commons.

We regret that Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., failed to secure re-election upon
the Executive Committee. The General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P
was elected a member of the Conference Arrangements Committee for nex
year, whilst the General President, Mr. T. F. Richards, acted as Teller to th
Conference.

A report of the proceedings appears on page 569.


---
Here is the extracted text:
555
PARLIAMENTARY AGENTS.
Mr. D. McCarthy, one of the Union's Parliamentary Agents, has tendered
to us his resignation from that post as he feels unable to face the strain necessary
for parliamentary life. We do not intend to fill the vacancy at the moment
but propose to do so when the various nominations are taken for the national
conferences in February next.
HISTORY OF THE UNION.
It will be recalled that the "Fifty Years' History of the Union" was
presented to the delegates to the Union's Conference, and also a copy has
been sent to each Branch. It has come to our knowledge that there is a
desire on the part of some of the members to secure a copy if a cheap
edition could be printed. We have made arrangements to issue such an
edition at Is. per copy. To enable the order to be placed immediately,
please send to the Central Office stating how many copies you will require
of this most interesting and valuable record of the work of the Union.

BALANCE SHEETS.
We beg to call serious attention to the fact that THIRTY-FOUR
branches failed to send in their balance sheet for quarter ending August, in
accordance with Rule 127. As a consequence unnecessary trouble and
expense is caused by having to make application for the same, and unless
balance sheets are remitted AT ONCE, we shall have no alternative but to
put Rule 302 into force.

THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.

TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
C


---
Footwear "should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
TRADE BOARD PROSECUTION.
Repairer Fined and Ordered to Pay £19 Arrears.
At the South Western Police Court, before Mr. K. McMarshall, on Friday last, Walter
Sidney Crick, boot repairer, 12 Ritherdon Road, Balham, was summoned for failing to
pay Walter Henry Clifton, an employee, the minimum wages fixed by the Boot Repairing
Trade Board. There were also two summonses against him for failing on 28th April
and 21st May to post in the workroom a schedule of the minimum rates.
The defendant, who pleaded guilty, said: "I did not know anything about it. I have
been in the business only 18 months."
Mr. Kemp, prosecuting for the Ministry of Labour, said that on 28th April an Inspector
visited the defendant's premises and found that Clifton was not being paid the minimum
rates and that no schedule of rates was posted. The defendant gave as his reason that he
did not think it necessary, and that he knew someone else who was not paying the rates.
Mr. Kemp added that Clifton was a pieceworker, and that for the week ending 17th
May he was underpaid 9s. He received £2 18s., and an underpayment of 9s. on that
amount was a considerable sum. As there was no schedule of rates posted in the shop,
Clifton was not able to tell what was due to him. On 28th April the defendant promised
to post the schedule. On 21st May the Inspector found that the schedule was not put
up properly. It was tacked down at each corner, and the rates relevant to Clifton's work
were not visible. The fact was significant, because another adult worker whose rates
were set out on the first sheet of the schedule was properly paid. A man who paid less
than the minimum rates was indulging in unfair competition with others. On the defend-
ant's conviction he (Mr. Kemp) proposed to ask for an order for the payment to Clifton of
the arrears due to him.
Mr. Victor Andrew Goddard, an Inspector under the Trade Boards Act, said he had
calculated that from May, 1923, to the date of the summons Clifton had been underpaid
£19 4s. 2d. The defendant carried on a good class business, and charged his customers
top prices.
The defendant stated that Clifton was not an ordinary workman, but a friend who
worked as he liked. Clifton had a perfect right to look at the schedule if he wished.
The magistrate said the defendant was warned on 28th April. He imposed a fine
of £5 for not paying the minimum rates, fines of 20s. on each of the two summonses for not
posting the schedule, and £2 2s. costs, and ordered the defendant to pay £19 arrears to
Clifton. The Shoe and Leather Record, 3rd October, 1924.


---
Here is the extracted text:
557
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
The past month has been one of great moment in the history of our movement
owing to the defeat of the first Labour Government, and the great gathering of the Labour
Party Conference being held at the same time in the Queen's Hall, London. The report
of the delegates to be found elsewhere, deals with the great events of that great week.
A Special Council Meeting was called immediately and the sinews of war were at onc
voted for the three constituencies in which we have candidates, these being Eccles, Norwich
Mr. W. R. Smith, and Mr. F. Gould, whom we hope will all be returned with largely increased
majorities, especially after the splendid work they and the Party have already done in
City and the Frome Division of Somerset. The respective candidates are Mr. L. Buckle,
people will be content that they have had a reasonable chance only to disprove the mis-
so short a space of time for their own country and the world, I cannot believe that the
leading statements made by those who think differently. The Government accepted an
adverse vote, or vote of censure, twelve times, and then the Prime Minister said that if
they were so suspicious of his action in the Campbell case as to refuse to believe his state-
ment, and that of the Attorney-General, he should accept it as a vote of censure, and
should resist it, and so the end came. They, the enemy, both Liberal and Tory, wanted
to prosecute a man whose only crime was to do as all we trade union officials are always
and Featherstone perhaps, but he remembers Mr. John Morley deporting Indians without
doing, advising soldiers not to shoot strikers. The Liberals are proud of Mr. Asquith
trial. He remembers Lord Birkenhead and Lord Carson's action in regard to Ulster,
and General Gough and the threat from the Curragh Camp. What action did either Mr.
Lloyd George or Mr. Asquith or Mr. Baldwin take in any of these matters, which were not
sedition, but high treason. Then we are informed by Mr. Lloyd George and Mr. Baldwin
above sum is a great inducement to prevent people looking for work? Was ever a greater
that the 18s. per week for men and 15s. per week for women are both claims that the
small sums-they would prefer to live on them rather than look for a job. This can be
libel uttered than that, unless-if both these gentlemen were reduced to receive these
the only explanation, as we cannot attribute to others anything that may not be credited
at least 250 members. May it be more! Would to goodness they had a working majority
to us in return. I am still of the opinion that our people will be returned as a Party of
for a term of five years-anything less is not giving them a chance. Our Union has three
candidates instead of seven.
NEW TERMS. I think we can all congratulate ourselves on the signing of the improved
New Terms for another two years, and the prospect of bringing a general peace to our
trade of over-at that time-thirty-one years. We are both asking that the Government
of the future shall legalise our terms, and although the Trade Union movement has not yet
endorsed our action, we, at least, are not running the risk of in anyway injuring others,
because if we can get this power, then let us experiment as we are opposed to Compulsory
arbitration, and we can see quite plainly where some industries have failed, and if such
claims were made by our employers on our Union as were made on the Miners, the Engineers
and the Agricultural Labourers, we could not be a success.
SHODDY. On this question we beg of all and sundry to return the Labour Party to
power. They are up against shoddy manufacture, shoddy dealers, shoddy thinkers, and
shoddy adulterations. This type of profiteer is the worst type of mankind, and all good
society should be purged of him if only for the sake of the poor.
SILEBY. We have had trouble with one of the firms who certainly don't seem to know
the conditions they are expected to fiil as members of the Federation. Our strength only
lies in the fact that we are fairly well organised, without which we are impotent if the
wily manufacturer and fore nan who try the bogey method with their operatives find
the whore in revolt, then they must look to their own conduct as a reason. This small
place has caused me to make four distinct visits, but the end is not yet.
DERBY.---I paid a visit here and had a fair meeting, the business being of a nature
that, in the absence of the late Secretary, left much to be desired. It appears to be the lot
of many of our members that any failure on their part must be imposed on someone else.
It is really impossible for General Officers to know the shortcomings or weaknesses of local
A short note would always awaken our interest, and cause us to make inquiries,
and this method cannot be improved upon.
men.
LEICESTER. I am sorry to learn that the President of the Leicester Branch (Mr.
T. Adpitu) passed away on Sunday, the 19th, after a very short illness. He was a very
Comen showed him to be a very painstaking officer, and being President of the Branch,
responsible for all Out-of-Work Administration, coupled with Town Council work, and
Soy the duties of a Magistrate, all added to the strenuousness of his work. We have
hate more the loss of a faithful colleague.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
558
THE LONDON DISTRICT COMMITTEE of the Trades Board held their usual meeting in
the position of amending the juvenile rate, and also object to operatives coming in after
by asking for an extra halfpenny over and above the amount now being paid. They accept
accord with the Act, and decided to take up the question of Rounding and Channelling
an interview with the Senior Partner, and found, with regret, that they had lost their
BURTON-ON-TRENT has had a dispute as to price, and I paid the firm a visit. I had
Senior Manager, who had gone to that bourn from which no traveller has returned. A
genial friend of trades unionism, he could ill be spared. We settled our differences, and hope
21 years of age.
for additions to our membership and the establishment of a Burton Branch.
had claimed Victimisation Pay. Upon investigation I found the same to be true, and
CHESTERFIELD. I had cause to visit a firin here owing to the fact that our President
advised be be paid. At the same time I asked for the return of our Trade Union Stamp.
Boot manufacturing is a business to be carried on only by those who know the trade, and
who are not getting the Graduated Scale, who we find, upon inquiry, have not even made
the application. We are sorry to have to drive these people, but it has to be done, although
WELLINGBOROUGH has been attended to owing to firms having in their employ youths
we do expect manliness in all our members.
"Rule Britannia" ought to be lived, no
not sung.
elections, and I have already filled up all my dates where I think the greatest good can be
The Council of the Union advised our giving of the best of our strength in the coming
done. Where shoemakers are employed there lies our chance and our strength.
Will all our members do as they do in their contribution to the Union, support by
vote the Party you support with cash.
Buy, read and distribute the Daily Herald, and support the Labour Party's whole-
souled policy of human help, sympathy and assistance for the love of future generationhol
7 MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1,
21st October, 1924.
Yours fraternally,
ihards
General President.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
To December, 1923
630,969 17 3
£
s. d.
£
s. d.
To December, 1923 317,643 6 1
January, 1924
..
3,358 8 4
January, 1924
..
3,653 6 9
February
..
..
3,185 9 6
February
..
..
3,207 0 3
March
..
..
3,631 10 2
March
..
3,264 18 3
April
..
..
4,339 6 4
April
..
..
4,268 6 3
May
..
..
3,372 0 10
May
..
..
3,897 18 3
June
..
..
3,305 10 4
June
..
..
July
..
..
2,483 5 6
August
July
..
..
4,249 19 3
2,492 16 9
..
2,293 12 2
September
August
..
..
2,352 15 9
..
2,682 2 6
September
..
£659,631 2 11
3,322 8 3
£348,352 15 10


---
559
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. - Trade is still failing to pick up with us, and the winter
months will make life more trying than ever. Since our last report we have
now got a decision in our test case re customary holidays. This has gone
against us, but the reasons for the decision should be noted. The argument by
the Umpire is not given in our case, but can be seen in the current issue of
the Labour Gazette in a case stated by dock labourers. In spite of the fact that
many dock labourers in different parts of the country are exempt from the
holiday rule because it is held that docks are not shut down for customary
holidays at all, this case, No. 7712, was turned down by the Umpire on very
shallow grounds. We would urge all officials of the Union to read carefully
that report, because it will show the Government attitude which we must
oppose. The Umpire, a comparatively new man by the way, rejects a number
of definite opinions of his predecessor, and goes back to an early view that the
12-day rule should apply generally, and not be limited to absolute customary
holidays of shop, or workshop, or factory. A volume of protests could soon
clear this pious view out of the way, and establish a better and fairer practice.
Just the other week our members lost one day's benefit because of the statutory
autumn holiday, even although they have not worked on a Monday for four
years. We say without hesitation that no holiday should be kept off a part-
time worker unless it deprives him or her of employment. When the worker
would otherwise have been employed, it would be unfair to expect benefit,
but when a holiday is part of idleness it should be paid as such. Our members
are interested in the New National Agreement, but before supporting same they
are to have it elucidated by a Council Member. The main objection to it falls
on the qualification to the boy question, namely, exempting heel-building,
preparing and stock rooms. In our experience this vitiates entirely the con-
cession secured. But we will reserve judgment until we have heard an ex-
planation by one who was there. We have to report this month the dismissal
of our Secretary from his employment because he insisted on his right to attend
a sitting of the Court of Referees. Although every member of the Union
employed in this factory could confirm the fact that no work in the place was
urgently needed at the time, a curt refusal to permit the Secretary's attendance
was given by the management. The sorry thing about it is the fact that the
firm which employed him agreed to represent the Employers' Panel in order
to allow our Union to be on the Workers' Panel, and yet no provision was to
be made to put it into practice. This opens up the big question of workers'
rights in connection with government organisations, and more will be heard of the
matter. Our relations with this firm have been cordial enough, and it is a
great pity they should countenance any action likely to impair these, yet there
is no justification for the arbitrary interference of one who is comparatively
a stranger to the detriment of good feeling. It is our earnest wish that some
satisfactory arrangement may be made to provide our Secretary with a modest
living to enable him to continue his helpful work on behalf of workers of all
descriptions.
CHESHAM.--The improvement in trade previously reported is main-
tained, and we are pleased to report our sick and unemployment claims for the
month are very small. During the month one case of accident, with legal
assistance provided by the Union, has reached final settlement, the sum
obtained being £35, in addition to weekly compensation from the time of acci-
dent and legal expenses.
CHESTERFIELD. We have to thank Council for granting victimisation
fee to our local Branch President. A. Simpson, who the firm in question


---
say they won't have back any more because he spoke for his class and did
his best to hold the Union conditions in the shop where he worked. We hope
the Labour Party will go back in power this time, not merely in office.
CORK. Trade remains good.
but many of our members, past and present, are either out of work or are
DERBY. Trade in Derby is improving after a long period of depression,
having to work on relief jobs, mainly due to the local C.W.S. factory discharging
operatives since they bought the firm over at Derby.
monthly meeting, when discussing the New Agreement, our members had some
EDINBURGH. Trade in Repairing section is still fairly good. At our
difficulty in understanding what was really meant by the paragraph on Boy
Labour. It is a little better than the previous agreement. We were pleased that
we have reached what members think is fair conditions for our trade. The
the age has been reduced when men are entitled to full minimum wage. This
agreement is not all we expected, but shall require to keep pegging away until
cussed the proposals submitted. Well, our side of the Committee are of the
Eastern District Committee of Wages Trade Board have again met and dis-
opinion that these District Committees are both a waste of time and money, as
Trade Board have recommended. The prices fixed for Rounding Plant will
any suggestions which are made never seem to have any effect on what the full
will be less, which means that members will be compelled to come on to Union
certainly be a reduction in wages during a slack period, or the number emplored
funds. The Committee also considered what chance there was of a Piece
side state there is no demand for statement. Certainly not when they get the
be some difficulties, but surely they are not unsurmountable. Employers
Machinery. We know
work done for sweated labour prices. By the time this appears in print we
shall know whether our members who are candidates for municipal honours
have been successful. Let us hope they will.
GLASGOW No. 2.-A meeting of Scottish District Advisory Committees
was held at Edinburgh on 27th September, 1924. The first matter of real
importance was "One Arbitration Board for Scotland." This was referred to
Council, and the feeling is that this matter should be gone into as the worst
district in Scotland has not a Board functioning, and there it is most necessary.
A great deal of time was taken up on Repairing questions and Trade Board
District Committees. The New Agreement came up for consideration, and it
was agreed to be a slight improvement on the previous one, but a good deal of
disappointment was expressed over the Boy Labour clause. Glasgow, especi-
ally, where we thought on reading Circular 336 that the difficulties there had
been overcome, but the draft copy just leaves the troublesome part as before.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.—Trade remains fairly busy in the whole
of the district. Strong objection is taken to the Award of the Umpire in respect
to the Bed Laster, especially in view of the fact that evidence was given by our
own branch officials of prices already being paid at Irthlingborough and Rush-
den of Is. 31d. per dozen pairs, this being paid for months, and in spite of this
evidence, to award Is. 2d. per dozen seems to us unreasonable. The members
are objecting strongly to this award, and naturally the local officials are the
only people they can get at, so it makes our position decidedly uncomfortable,
especially as we fought the case as hard as we could for our claim of Is. 5d.
as against the employers' offer of Is. Id.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.-Trade in this district has improved,
and it would give us satisfaction if the prospects for a long season were more
promising. During the past month our energies have been directed to strength-
ening our organisation, and the local position demands constant vigilance to
checkmate attempts to encroach on hard won conditions. The out-worker is


---
56:
still a matter of anxiety to the local officers, and we are convinced that it is
desirable in the interests of the trade of the district that the question of out-
possible to obtain a joint agreement on this question, whereby the system could
be immediately regulated with a view to its ultimate abolition.
morkers should be examined by the local Arbitration Board. It ought to be
an improvement very shortly.
LEICESTER. - Trade is still very bad, but we hope to be able to report
LEICESTER WOMEN'S. - We have again to report trade very slack,
although we only have about twelve members wholly unemployed, suspensions
of 10 towards the dispute of Jackson & Joseph's, realising the struggle
number about one hundred and thirty. Our members decided to send the sum
our officers are engaged in. The National Agreement seems to have given
general satisfaction. The women of this Branch give notice that in the next
agreement we shall require the same minimum as male employees. To this end
we begin now to concentrate our attention. At the beginning of this year the
Leicester Women's Branch asked for prices paid in other districts for fancy
shoes. We have had no prices forwarded which confirms information received
at this office, that our women in some districts are working to a price which is
far below the Leicester prices.
LIVERPOOL. - From reports to hand the boot repairing trade is much
the same as the previous month-fairly good, no complaints, and a clean sheet.
There was a meeting of the District Committee Trade Board for Lancashire and
Cheshire area held at Manchester on 11th September to consider D27 and other
important items. Our Secretary attended as workers' representative and
reported that certain of the items on the agenda were of a controversial nature
and may have far reaching results on the industry in the future if they ever
become law. There is great speculation and prophetical warnings in the public
Press that we will soon be in the throes of a General Election, with all the
excitement and wild speeches and promises that usually get dished up on these
auspicious occasions for the enlightenment and benefit of the electorate. Every
party and every candidate for Parliamentary or Municipal honours professes
to be out to make this country "fit for heroes to live in." Since writing up
the above the bubble has burst, and every Member of Parliament has been sent
back to his constituency to give an account of his stewardship.
LONDON SOUTH. - A meeting was held at Club House, St. George's
Stores, on 1st October, 1924. The chair was occupied by Mr. Owen, but
sorry to have to say that the members were very poor attenders to the meeting.
If they would only attend and bring their business before the Branch instead
of continually complaining about what should be done for them they might
have their grievances attended to, if they have got any. Trade is still very
quiet, but that will have its turn presently for there seems every prospects of it
doing so. Now, members, it is up to you to put your votes in the right directions
and vote for Labour.
MAYBOLE. Trade has improved and sickness light. We attended the
District Advisory Committee for Scotland at Edinburgh on 27th September.
Among other business the Committee unanimously agreed to press Council
to take up the question of forming one Board of Arbitration for Scotland,
and if need be to call a conference of employers and workpeople on this question.
We hope this will come to fruition as we in Maybole would benefit by it.
NORTHAMPTON. - Our attention has been called to the very flattering
report in the Daily Express as to the flourishing state of trade here, and whilst
we think they might have some considera-
We recognise that the reporters of that paper have to find something of a sensa-
tional character, or find another job,
tion for the men who are out of work who come here thinking they were sure
getting employment, only to find that their hopes are dashed to the ground.


---
562
Some men have been on the unemployed books at the Labour Exchange from
one to three years, and most of the firms are on short time, with reduced staffs.
We therefore hope members of the Union will ignore the Express statement
and thus avoid hardship. Our members are satisfied the Council has made the
best of the opportunities presented to improve the National Agreement, and
feel sure the fixing of a scale for youths from 15 years of age will be of advantage
to them. We hope in two years' time the age will be further reduced to 14 years,
the same as Northampton's local agreement, unless, in the meantime, the
school age is raised. For the present the members should vote for the ratifica-
tion of the New Agreement.

NORWICH. Trade in Norwich continues fair, although unemployment
has steadily increased during the month. The additional numbers unem-
ployed have come from firms whose machine-sewn trade extended to a later
period of the year than hitherto, and stopped with uncommon suddenness.
Apart from seasonal failure, condition of trade is generally satisfactory, the
turnshoe section showing improvement at the moment, but with no promise
to hold well into the spring of the year. As far as one can judge the new
settlement finds general favour with the members, although regret was felt that
a reduction of hours was not secured.

NOTTINGHAM.-Trade is very quiet here. There is only one shop in
the city, and they are working about 6 hours daily, Monday to Friday, in each
week. Repairing is only moderate.

PLYMOUTH (REPAIRING).-By the time this report appears in print
the great fight will be over and the verdict known, but if the Government be
judged by its success in diplomacy and the establishment of goodwill among
nations, then the verdict must be one of complete confidence, for it is here that
the spirit of Labour has been moving the hearts of men to higher and noble things.
When the Conservatives gave up the seals of office the Ship of State was moving
fast into the rapids of international strife, while the dark clouds of despair
gathered around, but thanks to tactful and courageous handling by Labour the
ship has been pulled into smooth running waters and the hope of glorious
sunshine. When we contemplate how with the stroke of the pen treaties
and agreements have been made in the past, interfering with trade and ulti-
mately forcing the wages of working men down to starvation level, then it is
we realise that the voice of the toiler must be heard and the hand of Labour
guide the pen. Nationally, we believe Labour will increase its strength, for
although the anti-labour Press is united against us, its power is already beginning
to wane, with the Daily Herald giving the truth every day and the contempt
and exposure coming from Labour platforms, the people no longer look upon
the views expressed as gospel truth, but are beginning to see that more often
than not the Press is on the side of those "who toil not, neither do they spin,"
and "against" those who live by the sweat of their brow. What the result
of the election will be we cannot tell, but those who have an abiding faith in the
progress of humanity will know that whatever the number of Labour men re-
turned to Westminster, the cause of right goes marching on.

STAFFORD.-Trade in this centre is very slack, and we sincerely hope
for an early revival as the suffering amongst the operatives is very acute.

WATERFORD.-Trade continued good for the past month.

GREAT YARMOUTH.-I am very thankful to say the Water Boot Trade
is improving, mainly through the fishing industry opening up once more in
Great Yarmouth. The prospects are very favourable, according to those who
are in a position to know. I am very glad to imform you also I have been
promised three days' work a week at the old firm, Messrs. Johnson & Sons,
after 17 months standing down. It has been a great worry to me.


---
```text
565
The position in London still needs the vigilance of the Union
fairly evident, but this in itself is not the real difficulty, it is rather that
seem to think that they must accept whatever price that is offered for the
in order to produce at the price, without any respect for National Agr
standards of the industry. We are meeting with some succes im pro
ward tendency, and though the progress is slow, it is very necesary we ar
the future progress of the industry.
THE 10-HOUR DAY IN GERMANY.
To the Editor of the Shoe and Leather News.
Sir,-On page 7 of your issue of 2nd October there is a statement about the
day in Germany. The statement is so drawn up that it would appear that the
day is a recognised working day in the shoe trade.
I beg to state that at a meeting of the International Boot Operatives
held very recently, where there came under review the various methods of c
of pay, and hours of labour in many countries, it was distinctly stated that the
boot operatives have made a new agreement with the employers of Germany, To
a 48-hour working week in the shoe trade, as also to some extent increasing the ro
wages. This agreement I have a copy of, and, as a matter of fact, as I am dictatar
letter the same is in my hands.
There is, therefore, no sort of doubt about the shoe trade having maintained a 14-1
working week.
You finish up your statement as to what the League of Nations has to say abeer
throwing overboard the Washington Agreement. Upon this point I beg to state that the
matter has constantly been before the governing body of the International Labour Office,
and the statements made at such meetings are that if there is any departure from the
48-hour working week it is only temporary, and, as a matter of fact, a good many of the
statements made relative to the hours of work in Germany are not in accordance with
facts.
It is clear, however, that in the shoe trade the hours of working are as stated above..
Yours faithfully,
October 4th, 1924.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
[We are glad to receive from so well-informed a correspondent as Mr. E. L. Poulton
the assurance that, so far as the shoe trade is concerned, there is a new agreement retaining
the 48-hour week. This, of course, does not alter the fact that the law in Germany which
established an eight-hour day has been revoked, and that it will now be legal to work
extended hours. We are glad to be assured that the governing body of the International
Labour Office is alive to the importance of the risk of throwing over the Washington
Agreement. We do not, however, like even a permissive temporary departure from the
48-hour week in Germany. - Editor, Shoe and Leather News.] -Shoe and Leather News,
9th October, 1924.
BREACHES OF FACTORY ACT.
Shepshed Shoe Manufacturers Prosecuted.
Messrs. George Green & Sons Ltd., boot and shoe manufacturers, of Queen's Works,
Shepshed, were summoned at Loughborough, on Wednesday, for not keeping certain
inside walls, ceilings, top of rooms, passages, and staircases of their factory properly lime-
washed, and also for failing to enter in the register particulars as to the limewashing.
Mr. T. C. Taylor, for the Ministry of Health, said that on October 3rd an inspector
factory and
the factory was dated 1920, though he understood that part of the factory had been lime-
washed in August, 1923.
Walter Taylor, manager, said parts of the factory had been limewashed in 1923,
and the omission of the same from the register was due to a change in the staff.
For failing to limewash defendants were fined £5 and costs, and for the other offence
f.I and costs. - Nottingham Guardian, 25th October, 1924.
```

---
```text
566
COUNCILLOR T. ADNITT, J.P.,
Passes Away after a Short Illness.

After a very short illness the death has taken place of Councillor Thomas Adnitt,
J.P., President of the Leicester No. 1 Branch of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union
As recently as Wednesday, 8th October, he was at the Shoe and Leather Fair in London.
On the following Friday he was taken ill, and had to keep at home. Serious symptoms
developed, with the result that he passed away early yesterday morning.
Born 56 years ago, Councillor Adnitt had been associated with the life of Belgrave
from his earliest days. With the keenest interest he watched the village grow into the
large and important suburb of the city of to-day; indeed, he played no small part in its
development, first throwing himself into its religious, social, and recreative affairs, and
later entering more fully into its public work.

His City Council Work.
Aspiring to represent Belgrave on the City Council, he was elected on that body as a
member of the Labour Party in November, 1912. He served for ten years, and was then
defeated at the polls by Mrs. Swainston on the question of school grouping. In the fol
lowing year, however, he was returned to the Council by Latimer Ward on the death of
Councillor N. C. Perkins. While interesting himself in Corporation affairs generally, he
specialised in the work of the Watch, Health, Sanitary, Water, and Distress Committees.

His pushfulness was seen in his activities as a worker in the shoe trade. He secured
a seat on the executive of his branch (No. 1) of the Shoe Operatives' Union, then became
vice-president, and, five years ago, succeeded to the presidency vice the late Mr. T. Orton.
He sat on the executive council of the Union for several years, and helped in the negotiation
of the last two wage agreements. He retired from this national position last August.
Recognition of his public service took the form, a few months ago, of elevation to the
position of Justice of the Peace.
Considering his physical disability, it was remarkable what a large and varied amount
of work Councillor Adnitt got through. He showed much devotion to duty, and his
colleagues and indeed all who knew him-held him in much esteem. He lost a son in
the war, and leaves a widow and daughter. - Leicester Mail, 20th October, 1924.

Funeral Service.
Many manifestations of esteem and regret were seen at the funeral of Councillor
Thos. Adnitt, J.P., of 65 Marfitt Street, Leicester, which took place to-day.
Prior to the interment at Belgrave Cemetery, an impressive service was held at
Belgrave Hall, conducted by the Rev. T. Bernard Jones (pastor).

Minister's Tribute.
The Rev. T. Robinson, in an address, said he knew full well there were many present
who could speak of the late Councillor Adnitt's work on the City Council, and as president
of No. 1 Branch of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union; while others could speak of
his presidency of the Leicester Trades Council. Others could bear witness to his active
and abiding interest in the Adult School movement, and to his splendid service rendered
on behalf of Belgrave Hall.
He was a local preacher, a teacher of young men, and a class teacher, and was always
ready to help young people. These things he accomplished in spite of a great infirmity,
and in spite of the great personal sorrow in the loss of his son, who was killed in the war
and who was organist of that Sunday School.
Whatever he undertook, Councillor Adnitt did it with great enthusiasm and con-
centration, while his sincerity and integrity earned him the love of all with whom he came
into contact. He was a man of great faith, hope and charity.

The Mourners.
Among the chief mourners were Mrs. Adnitt (widow), Miss Adnitt (daughter) and
Mr. and Mrs. Workman.
Representing the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives were the Council:
Messrs. T. F. Richards (General President), D. McCarthy (Union Organiser), and Mrs.
M. J. Bell-Richards (Council Member), W. Warner (Hinckley) and W. Wyman (Welling-
borough).
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
567
Knight, J. T. Collin, J. Greaves, G. Brooks (Executive), D. Astl
M. Parker (President's Assistant), A. Worth (Assistant Secretary), H romphean
No. 1 Branch: Messrs. J. Wheeler (Vice-President), Councillor G. Pariar٠١٢٠٠٠٠٠٠٠
F. Burchnall. H. Widdowson, W. Elliott, E. Starmer (Sectio
J. Ridout, W. Bailey and F. Wigston (Staff).
Smith (Vice-President).
tion were also present.
Astley, S Poin
ion Secretane
No. 2 Branch: Messrs. T. Vallance (President), MA. A. Hill (Secretary, and
Leicester Women's Branch: Miss A. Muir and Miss E. Sherwin.
Representatives from the Leicester City Council and the Boot Manufacturer :
Mr. H. Scotton, organist, played "O Rest in the Lord" and Beethoven's and Magi
There were a large number of wreaths - Leicester Mail, 22nd October, 1924.
Funeral Marches.
ONE NEVER KNOWS.
One never knows
How far a word of kindness goes ;
One never sees
How far the smile of friendship flees.
Down through the years
The dead forgotten reappears.
One kindly word
The soul of many has stirred.
Man goes his way
Until life's end
And tells with every passing day
"Once unto me he played the friend."
We cannot say
What lips are passing us to-day.
We cannot tell
Whose prayers ask God to guard us well.
But kindness lives
Beyond the memory of him who gives.
-Edgar A. Guest, in Seattle Star.
DATES OF COUNCIL MEETINGS, 1925.
JANUARY
FEBRUARY
..
MARCH
APRIL
MAY
JUNE
25TH.
JULY
26TH..
22ND.
AUGUST
23RD.
22ND.
SEPTEMBER..
20TH.
26TH.
OCTOBER
25TH.
24TH.
NOVEMBER
22ND.
21ST.
DECEMBER...
20TH.
To ensure correspondence being dealt with by Council it SHOULD BE DISTINCTLY
UNDERSTOOD that letters MUST reach the General Secretary by WEDNESDAY
MORNING prior to the above dates, otherwise letters will be held over for the following
month's sitting.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1923 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 93,620; Females, 50,230; Total,
43.550. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 22nd September, 1924
Greet Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 9,353; Females, 2,937; Total, 12,290.
everage Unemployed at 22nd September, 1924: Males, 10.0; Females, 5.8 Total
Britain and Northern Ireland, Great Britain only, 8.4. Compared with 25th
2014 Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, decrease, 0.3; Females,
02: Total, decrease, 0.2. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, October, 1924.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

568
MR. T. F. RICHARDS STILL ON THE WARPATH.

SHODDY

With acknowledgments to "Shoe and Leather Record."

"LEATHER AND LEATHER."

The Public and Shoddy Shoes. Guineas v. Shillings.

"Malignant Imposition" must End.

Shoes for my lady at eight or nine guineas a pair are being shown at the Shoe and
Leather Fair this week, and "shoes" for the community at 5s. a pair are mentioned by
Mr. T. F. Richards, General President of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
in his last monthly report to the members of the organisation.

My lady's shoes were described in the Daily Herald on Tuesday-black satin with
inlays of gold, and ostrich feather trimmings.

Mr. Richards describes the 5s. shoes thus: "A 'basil' upper, canvas and paper-backed
insole, with a split middle and outsole."

The selling of these goods to an inexperienced person he characterises as "nothing
short of a criminal offence in the eyes of all honest people."

"There is nothing like leather " is one of the slogans of the industry; but in explaining
that the Union does not claim that shoes are "shoddy" because they are not composed of
all leather, Mr. Richards says there is "leather and leather."

Protecting the Public.

In order that the public may not be duped, Mr. Richards throws out the suggestion
that all manufacturers should be compelled by the Government to indicate, in plain
language, by a label, tab, or warranty, the composition of the component parts of shoes.

Referring to the large number of goods that are advertised as rejects from the Army
or Navy supplies, which in many cases is to be doubted, Mr. Richards expresses the hope
that the Government will insist that all manufacturers who make shoes for the Forces
shall stamp them with the name and address of the maker.

"Surely," he concludes, "we are all interested in protecting the public from wilful
and malignant imposition."-Daily Herald, 9th October, 1924.

MEMBERSHIP OF TRADE UNIONS.

BOOT AND SHOE.-Number of Unions at end of 1923, 10. Membership at end of 1923:
Males, 60,700; Females, 24,130; Total, 84,830. Membership at end of 1923:
60,081; Females, 24,175; Total, 84,256. Percentage increase or decrease in membership
at the end of 1923 compared with the end of 1922: Males, increase, 1.0; Females, decrease,
0.2; Total, increase, 0.7. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, October, 1924.


---
```text
569
ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF LABOUR PARTY.
DELEGATES' REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
We, the undersigned delegates, attended the above
8th October. The chair was taken by the Prime Minister Mr. M.
$50 delegates.
as Chairman of the Labour Party, elected to that position last your
this country. Over sixty years since the first International Working
was formed. Fifty years since the first two Labour Members were elected to
It is over 100 years since liberty of industrial organisation
Twenty-five years since the above organisation was founded
the first group of twenty-nine Labour Members were returned to the Hou
as a Party.
vote upon the Government.
This meeting met under the shadow of a prospective Dissolution of Parijante
and the Tories formed a combination with the intention of inflicting the thirteenth
in the great speech of Mr. MacDonald, he foreshadowed what would happen if the Lite
the Communist Party, who, whilst standing for most of the principles as expounded by
The principal item on the agenda was a domestic one, and affected our relations with
Labour's Manifesto, stand also for a dictatorship of, they say, the workers. As we have
been fighting for years against the dictatorship of kings, queens and aristocracy, and the
middle and upper class capitalists, who have been so repugnant to the improvement of
the working classes, we cannot lend our aid to set back a movement so well advanced
during the past twenty-five years. If our Communists had not shown their true faith
their friends are now charging our movement with doing the work of middle class-they
in their opposition to Mr. MacDonald in the bye-election at Woolwich-and they and
might not have been rigidly excluded from coming to Conference in future. Let them
work. We have grown tired of talk in our own ranks. We think men's actions ten times
now earn their laurels for loyalty to their own class, not by lip service, but by actual
more important than their words.
Many composite resolutions had been arranged and presented to Conference, but the
political situation dominated everything, with the result that our own resolution on the
Leigh Laws Labour Party, and we should have presented the same as arranged had Con-
ference been less excited and prolonged, but as the Government was defeated for the
thirteenth time, they were determined to appeal to the country. This the King had
agreed to, and the Prime Minister was received with unbounded enthusiasm and advised
all to return to their homes and throw their heart and soul into the fight, and as we had
also had a statement from Sir Patrick Hastings on the Campbell case, we trooped out,
and to our homes determined to fight for the one and only whole-souled Government this
country has ever seen, who in nine months of office had done more than any of their pre-
decessors had done in as many years.
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS,
J. BUCKLE,
D. MCCARTHY,
W. R. SMITH,
T. F. RICHARDS,
Delegates.
RECENT CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION CASE.
Conciliators, Single Arbitrators and Ad Hoc Boards of Arbitration
Appointed by the Minister of Labour.
BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.-The two Sides of the Joint Board of Conciliation and
Arbitration for the Boot and Shoe Trade of the County District of Northampton. Differ-
ence: Claim by the operatives' side for piece-rate prices for Lasting Toes and Seats on
the Bed Laster. Arbitrator: Mr. W. Addington Willis, C.B.E. Award: The price to be
paid for the combined operation on this machine of Lasting Toes and Seats and bracing
with wire shall be one shilling and twopence per dozen. Certain payments for extras
were also fixed. The claim for an extra for "Black or Brown Zugg or Chrome Leathers
was withdrawn from adjudication, on the understanding that the Joint Board would con-
sider the framing of some provision for the protection of the operative in this class of
work. Issued 10th September, 1924. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, October, 1924.
```

---
570
BOOT OPERATIVES' SECRETARY AND THE FACTORIES BILL.
Mr. Poulton Explains Clauses to Wellingborough Operatives.
Mr. E. 1. Poulton, J.P., the General Secretary of the Boot Operatives' Union gave
the quarterly meeting of the Northamptonshire Joint District Council at Wellingborough
an able résumé of the new Factories Bill and its relation to factory hygiene. He had for
his chairman Mr. E. Law, Northampton, and the company included Mr. T. F. Richards.
the General President Mr. W. G. Cove, M.PP. Mr. G. Chester, Kettering; and many
well-known members of the Union.
and it was one upon which the Home Office always welcomed a deputation of workers
Mr. Poulton said the subject before them was assuming an international character
particularly when they desired to bring about an improvement in factory life. This new
Factories Bill was the result of many years' agitation, not merely on the trade union and
political side of the movement, but amongst many outside, who had been convinced of
the inadequacy of the existing Acts of Parliament. The last Act was passed in foot,
but anybody who had been connected with the trade since then would agree that the
Factory Acts wanted overhauling and bringing up to date. Circumstances had been
too strong against them moving in that direction hitherto.
in the heart of the Empire, where factory conditions ought to be of the best, they were
Entering on the subject of the health of the operatives, the speaker observed that
inspectors was put forward, and then when they suggested that more should be put on,
often of the worst. When complaints were made to the Home Office, the shortage of
the Home Office turned round and said they could not because of the "Treasury over the
road was that they would not cease to criticise fairly and courteously, and not to say that
road." One thing they had got to do, even if they had got a Labour Government the
everything in the garden was lovely when it was not he wanted to keep on until
they got an adequate number of inspectors who would deal with the factories, the healthy
state of which so vitally affected the lives of those who had to spend a large proportion
of their lives in them.
and refuse should be removed daily from the workrooms, staircases and passages, Mr.
Commenting on the clause in the Bill which set forth that the accumulations of dirt
Poulton called to mind the "tin tabernacles" that used to be in the district, and asked
how often it was removed, adding that it was often only when the bags were full. Another
clause was that the floor of every workroom should be thoroughly cleaned every week-day
be given to officials, but it was open to members to send in complaints without disclosing
their name and address. As to the size of the factory, it was sought in the Bill to sub-
If these two clauses were carried, not only would power
stitute for the 250 cubic feet air space for individuals no less than 400 cubic feet. In some
of the one-storied factories they found that they went to an apex, with a height of about
20 feet, and he for one had been arguing for many years past that in these cases they must
give the operatives a fair chance, and that the air space ought not to be reckoned more
than 12 feet from the ground. The new Bill now said that in such cases the air space
should not be reckoned more than 14 ft. from the floor.
He then pointed to the words in the Bill requiring substantial hand-rails for stairs
and gangways, showing that that clause had been framed to prevent accidents, for although
some manufacturers were careful to provide these hand-rails, there were others who would
not do so unless the law compelled them. Quoting the clause that every factory must be
certified by the district council as to being provided with a proper means for escape in case
of fire, he stressed the point that as the obligation was put on the district councils it would
be wise to see that the men and women elected on these bodies were imbued with the same
ideas as the workmen in seeing that they were carried out.
In the matter of laying complaints before inspectors, the Bill would bring about an
improvement in the procedure, and all that would have to be done would be to send a
postcard naming the matter of the complaint to the factory inspector, who would then be
bound to deal with it.
Getting to the welfare section of the Bill, mention was made that an adequate supply
of drinking water had to be provided. Mr. Poulton thought that would bring about some
improvement in certain of their factories. The clause as to the provision of an adequate
supply of soap and clean towels for the workpeople raised a smile, and Mr. Poulton said
there ought to have been these facilities provided years ago, as was done in America.
He was glad that the claim for first-aid boxes in factories had been secured as the result
of an agitation by men like themselves, but there was a chance in the Bill to make that
drying of clothes were provided for in the Bill, and the speaker dealt in detail with the
Seats for female workers and suitable accommodation for the storage and
provision made in it for the removal of dust and fumes of an offensive character, observing
that although many improvements had been made in these matters during the past few
years, there was room for improvement in some of the finishing departments.
more secure.
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
571
A real step forward had been made in the provision relating to underground factori
and although they had very few in that district
of the country, places which should never have been allowed at all.
Then the hours of labour were fixed not to exceed nine a day, exclusive of internal
would find their hours of labour shortened. The Home Secretary was to have to
powers to prohibit young people working in factories, and the clause in the Bill would
tighten up the procedure of medical inspection.
Under Clause 61 the district councils had still to see that the list of outworker
furnished to them, and, added the General Secretary.
work, because, we believe, on the whole, it is advantageous to the employer, the individual
worker, and the community that the work should be done in proper workshops, and not
in the homes, where very often the employer is able to cut down overhead powers
to that extent goes into the market below his competitor.”
The Bill had already begun to meet with opposition in certain quarters, and they
were told of the ruin it was going to inflict unless certain clauses were taken out.
of spade work had to be done. That was not the place for political propaganda, and
there were some men in other parties than the Labour Party who would support the Bill
and it was for the members in their several districts to do what they could to secure the
support of their respective candidates for the Bill.
Mr. Poulton was thanked for his able address.
-Shoe and Leather News, 25th September, 1924.

MORTALITY IN THE SHOE TRADE.
There has recently been published a Blue Book giving a return of the mortality among
men in certain occupations in the three years 1910-1912. The report is a very full one,
and although not exhaustive, the great majority of trades are included. An obvious
criticism of any deductions made from the figures is that they are twelve years old, and this
criticism carries very much weight in matters relating to the shoe trade. The delay in
completing the returns and the publication is partly accounted for by the war, but that
does not fully satisfy the curiosity for the reason of so long a delay.
They are not altogether pleasant reading, for they show that consumption levied a heavy
toll.
The figures we quote are all comparative, that is, they tell nothing in themselves,
but, in the words of the report, "They bear the same ratio to each other than the death
rates would."
The compilers take what they call a standard of population. That is a sample of the
general male population which may be taken to represent the average, and so the com-
parisons of any trade with this standard population show how that trade or profession
compares with the average. The number of deaths between the ages of 25 and 65 in the
standard population would have been 790. Among Shoemakers it was 820, but
among the Shoemakers of Northamptonshire and Leicestershire only, it
was only 736. Where the difference lies may be seen below.
From consumption alone the deaths in the shoe trade were very much higher than
that of the standard population. They were amongst shoe operatives as a whole, 222;
Northamptonshire, and Leicestershire only 235; and in the standard population only 142.
In these years the shoe trade had a very bad record. The following corresponding figures
showing deaths from phthisis taken at random from certain other trades for purposes of
comparison: Miners, 87; agricultural labourers, 71; doctors, 65; schoolmasters, 70;
ironfounders, 148; watchmakers, 187; bricklayers, 128; furriers, 182; curriers, 190;
saddlers, 154; printers, 210; tailors, 187; brewers, 181; hotel keepers, 198; general
shopkeepers, 185. In not many industries is there a higher death rate. The worst of
all is that of the tin miners, where the figure is 684. Other trades which are worse than
the shoe trade include lead miners, 335; stone getters, in sandstone counties, 415; file
makers, 434; potters, 282; tobacco manufacturers, 239; hotel servants, 294; barmen,
434; hawkers, 420.
Apart from phthisis, the figures show that the shoe trade is a healthy one. The deaths
The standard population from alcoholism and cirrhosis of the liver were four and 13;
xive operatives show even greater sobriety than that, for the figures were only two and
-No.amption Daily Echo, 29th September, 1924.


---
572
MOTHERS' PENSIONS-A STARTLING RUMOUR.
Chancellor of the Exchequer will very soon bring forward a scheme for pensions for widow's
with children dependent upon them would have caused deep satisfaction had it not b٢:٢١
A rumour which has been circulating in political circles for the last few days that the
scheme and to combine its administration with that of National Health Insurance. Ity.
coupled with the startling suggestion that he intended to bring forward a contributory
undoubtedly the fact that such a proposal has raised a feeling of nothing short of con-
sternation, and it can only be hoped that rumour is once again an unsure basis for Delief
thousands of clection addresses, and has been printed in millions of leaflets, has alway
The Labour demand which has been put from thousands of platforms, has appeared in
than the idea of contributory insurance and especially the idea of handing over the ad.
been for a non-contributory scheme similar to that of Old Age Pensions and administered
by a Committee of Local Authorities. Nothing could depart more from such a scheme
if this is the Chancellor's intention, he will find that he has aroused opposition among t
ministration to the Approved Societies under the National Health Insurance Act. Franel:
tion for a contributory scheme to replace the present unsatisfactory Poor Law methods.
The objections can be put in a very few words. In the first place there is no justifica.
The burden of Widows' Pensions should not be borne by the workers themselves, but by
the community as a whole, and the taxation raised for this purpose shouid fali more
scheme is introduced it raises endless difficulties as to the widow with children whose
heavily upon the well-to-do than upon the workers. Moreover, so soon as a contributOTY
husband, before his death, has run out of benefit, or who was not a person who was insurable.
was universal and included even the whole of the workers. Under such a scheme cere-
We have never yet had an insurance scheme either for health or for unemployment which
would have to be a supplementary method of dealing with those for one reason or another
fore, there would be not only the objection of a
contributory scheme in itself, but there
coming outside it or who have run out of benefit. For these presumably the Poor Law
second place it is no use saving the widow from the Poor Law only to throw her into the
stoms of the
body responsible, than to hand the administration of the scheme over to the thousand
bring before one's mind a thousand methods of harrying the widow which would be even
more burdensome than the treatment she gets to-day from reactionary Poor Law authori
administer health insurance who picture it
tus.
It is quite true that Tories and Liberals are urging such a course, and Lady Selborne's
not even then have done away
letter to the Times a little while ago, gave it very definitely as a simple method of getting
rid of the whole business of administration, but surely a Labour Chancellor is not going
to take his policy from Tory quarters. We have always stood for administration by the
Local Authorities under general regulations laid down centrally. These are necessary for
administration and must, on general lines, be uniform throughout the country in order
that it may be just to every widow. It is incredible that a Labour Government can con-
template handing over the widows and their children to the approved societies.
Everyone recognises that Widows' Pensions cannot be got for nothing, but we have
always claimed that it is better that the widows' children should be properly brought up,
have enough to eat, and decent homes to live in, without separation from their mothers,
and that in the end the community is the gainer for the expenditure which it has under-
taken. Labour Party policy has been defined time after time both at National Conferences
and in the House of Commons, and some six weeks ago a thousand delegates at the National
Conference of Labour Women carried by acclamation a resolution which not only recon-
firmed its decision but specifically declared against any scheme of insurance.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of September, 1924,
78,096. Unemployed at end of September, 1924, 3,113; percentage, 4.0. Increase in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.3. Decrease in percentage as
compared with a year ago, 1.8.- The Ministry of Labour Gazette, October, 1924.
SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.
September, 1924, 51,112; Decrease on a month ago, 1.0 per cent.; Increase on a year ago,
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.-Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 27th
3.7 per cent. Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 27th September, 1924,
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, October, 1924.
£114,733; Decrease on a month ago, 1.1 per cent.; Increase on a year ago, 11.7 per cent.


---
Here is the extracted text:
573
C.W.S. BOOT TRADE.
Report for the Past Half-Year.
Of the sales of £34,941,331 by the Co-operative Wholesale Soc
months, the boot and shoe, leather and finding departments were
over a million pounds. From the Manchester depot the turnover la
of 1923; the sales from the Newcastle branch were (271,027 al 10
sections was 687,967, an increase of £49,857 or 7 per cent, abov
16 per cent., while the London branch sales rose by 15 per cent of
The productions in the society's various productive entere 100
in the supplies to the distributive departments with the exception of
fourth of the whole. At the two Leicester works, the output was
and of this 875,543 was in boots and shoes and leather. All the boot
where there was a decreased output. But the total at these two w
is the second largest works, the production being £183,058
was £81,726; at Derby, £23.758; at Heckmondwike, £51,153 and at Na
the latter figures being double the amount in the same period a year ago.
at Pontefract was responsible for a trade of £109,762, and that at
The C.W.S. has tanneries at Grappenhall and at Street, the output at the
and £16,357 respectively. After allowing for the decreases at Leicester and
penhall tannery there was a net increase of £11,681 or 1 per cont
During the six months the seven works sent out 1393,442 pait
result that this was a decrease of 43,652 pairs, as compared with the same ٧٠٠٠٠٠٠٠
vear. At the Wheatsheaf works at Leicester the total production was fo
204,418 being supplied from the West End works in the same town.
at Buckfastin
of
The C.W.S. has declared a dividend of 2d. in the f on the purchases of Sharendant "
4
of £5,474. Substantial profits were made at Leicester, Derby, Leeds, Heckmomi
societies, and the financial results are, after charging depreciation and intere
Rushden, and the two fellmongery establishments. In the aggregate £20,896 was alleged
as interest on the capital invested in the works, and 10,433 for depreciation. Sker and
Leather News, 25th September, 1924.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
WORLD LABOUR CONDITIONS.
Meeting of the I.L.O. Governing Body.
The Governing Body of the International Labour Office of the League of Nations met
at Geneva on Thursday, 9th October, and discussed a number of important questions.
Among the items on the agenda was the fixing of the date for the 1925 Session of the
International Labour Conference. This Session will discuss generally social insurance
and also an international agreement on workmen's compensation. The 1924 Session,
which met last June, provisionally adopted Draft Conventions on equality of treatment
regarding accident compensation for national and foreign workers; on the weekly rest
in glass-manufacturing processes where tank furnaces are used; and on night work in
bakeries. These, together with a recommendation on equality of treatment, will come
before the 1925 Session for final voting and, as the Governing Body fixes the agenda of
the Conference, it will be for next week's meeting to decide formally to place these questions
on it.
The Governing Body will also discuss the agenda for the 1926 Session, having before
it the recommendation of the Joint Maritime Commission, which recently met at San
Sebastian, that the subjects (1) of international codification of regulations regarding
seamen's articles of agreement and (2) of labour inspection at sea should be included
therein.
Other questions will be resolutions referred to the Governing Body by the 1924
Session, and decisions of the Assembly of the League which affect the International
Labour Office.
The Governing Body consists of 24 persons, 12 representing Governments and six
cach the employers and workers. The British representatives are: Government, Miss
Margaret Bondfield, M:P., Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Labour ; Employers,
Vice-President of the
and Workers, Mr. E. L. Pouiton, Secretary of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Opera-
tives.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

574
ARMY AND NAVY BOOT "REJECTS."

Mr. T. F. Richards, the President of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives
once again tackles the question of shoddy shoes in his September report. And good luck
to him! This time he tells us that shoes are not necessarily shoddy because they are not
composed of all leather and in this we agree with him. He advocates a descriptive tal
or label to show just what the shoes are made of; judging by his description of one
"chamber of horrors," called a shoe, the time is ripe for this, although we rather fancy
ever, here is his description of a shoe he has before him: "A basil upper canvas and
paper-backed innersole, with a split middle and outsole to be sold at 5s." Mr. Richards
thinks the sale of such goods to inexperienced people is nothing short of a criminal
offence.

Another fraud he draws attention to is the advertising and selling of boots which are
supposed to be rejects from the War Office, Navy, or Government contractors. He
states that in a large number of cases such goods were never made or intended for these
Departments, and he advocates the stamping of rejects with the name and address of the
maker. "Surely," he concludes, "we are all interested in protecting the public from
wilful and malignant imposition." Whatever view the shoe trade may take we feel Mr.
Richards has the support of the leather trade in his efforts, at all events. -The Leather
World, 9th October, 1924.

JOIN UNIONS AT ONCE.

No Exceptions made by C.W.S. Important Ruling.

All C.W.S. employees of whatever class must join their respective trade unions or be
dismissed was the resolution adopted on Saturday at the divisional meeting of the Co-
operative Wholesale Society held in Manchester.

This important ruling has arisen out of a resolution passed by the members of the
C.W.S. in 1919 to the effect that all employees should be members of their respective
trade unions.

For various reasons this resolution has not been completely carried out, and at a recent
general meeting in Manchester and Saturday's divisional meeting a definite ruling was
sought in regard to the 1919 resolution, with the result stated.

It had been recommended that managers, buyers, heads of departments, principals,
and confidential assistants and employees over 60 years of age be exempted from the scope
of the 1919 resolution regarding trade union membership, but, after discussion at Saturday's
meeting, the recommendation was lost, 1,531 voting for it, and 1,562 against.-Daily
Herald, 13th October, 1924.

COST OF LIVING.

Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.

1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924,
January.. 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78 77
February 15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88 77 79
March .. 15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 86 76 78
April .. 15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 82 74 73
May .. 20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 81 70 71
June .. 25 45 75-80 100 105 150 119 80 69 69.
July .. 25 45-50 80 100-105 105-110 152 119 84 69 70
August .. 25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 71 71
September 25 50 80-85 110 115 161 120 79 73 72
October.. 30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 110 78 75 76
November 30-35 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 80 75
December 35 65 85 120 125 169 99 80 77
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement,
1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922)
Agreement, and present date.


---
575
WHEN A WORKER ARRIVES LATE.
Ground for Discharge if Man has Contract of Service.
Weck-End Off Sequel.
An interesting and important decision concerning employees was given by Judge
Cluer in the Shoreditch County Court to-day.
A cabinet-making foreman entered into an agreement for twelve months serve at
45 12s. 6d. a week. In August his wife went for a holiday, and he asked for, and was
granted, a long week-end. The following week he again had a week-end off, it was alleged,
without asking for it, but did not arrive at his place of business until 10 a.m. on the Monday
instead of 8.
Drawing too Fine a Line.
His employer decided that he had broken his contract of service, and he left, but he
was now asking for £50 damages as compensation for his dismissal, it being suggested
that it was drawing a fine line if a man in a responsible position had to turn up to the
minute on a Monday after a week-end off.
Judge Cluer, in giving judgment for the defendant, said the plaintiff could have got
up early and walked, and it was ground for discharge if he had a contract of service and
arrived late. Business was business, and it could not be carried on properly unless the
employees strictly adhered to their part of the bargain. -Evening Standard, 23rd October,
1924.
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st OCTOBER, 1924.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included ..
Food only
..
..
..
..
..
..
76 per cent.
..
72
FOOD.
Between 1st September and 1st October there was a further advance in the general
level of the retail prices of food. All the articles included in the statistics showed an
upward movement in price except meat and margarine, the average prices of which showed
no appreciable change. The most important increases were those in the prices of eggs
(d. each on the average), milk (d. per quart) and butter (Id. per lb.).
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of
food included in these statistics rose to about 72 per cent. at 1st October, as compared
with about 66 per cent. at 1st September. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, October, 1924.
MRS. RICHARDS FOR CITY COUNCIL.
Mrs. Mary J. Bell-Richards, President of the Leicester Women's Branch of the Opera-
tives' Union, and a member of the Executive Council, was nominated for a seat on the
Leicester City Council on 1st inst. Mrs. Richards is standing in the interests of Labour
for the West Humberstone Ward.
THE FORTY-EIGHT HOUR WEEK.
The Hours Standard.
From replies to a questionnaire sent out by the General Council of the Trades Union
Congress, it appears that in 1923 there were 3,524,714 members of 113 affiliated unions
working forty-eight hours per week or less.
A 40-hour week was worked by a membership of
24,500
800,600
"
42
305,687
"
"
"
44
8,500
"
"
"
46
11,590
"
"
"
46
964,224
47
"
"
"
"
1,409,613
48
"
"
"
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspond
being men on whom we can rely:
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prommence in the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
HAT PELI 4938 MUSEUM, LONDOR.
should, however, any errors creep into them, open the
ational Union
and National Labow Party
Affidated to the Tratos Union Congres
Approved under the State National Health Insurance Acts Apererella 281
are exclusively for the wee of Meml re
TEL. ADDYSS HATUNING FHout Loveco
ot & Shoe Operatives
GOVERNMENT
34,GUILFORD STREET
General President
T.F. RICHARDS..
General Secretary
EL POULTON LA
LONDON, VCI
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
STATE OF TRADE.
24TH NOVEMBER, 1924.
There is a slight improvement in Trade during the month, and the
figures recorded in the Gazette issued by the Ministry of Labour are as
follows :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment showed a slight decline on the whole as compared with September,
and was only moderate. Short time was still being worked to a large extent in many centres.
Compared with October, 1923, there was a fairly general improvement.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 10.0 on the 27th October, as compared with 8.6*
on the 22nd September.
Returns from firms employing nearly 40,000 operatives in the week ended 25th
October showed that over 36 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that week,
to the extent of about 14 hours each, on an average.
Employment remained bad in London. At Leicester it was still slack, and short
time was fairly general. At Northampton employment remained fair, although short
time was still worked at some of the smaller factories. At Wellingborough employment
was quiet, though somewhat better than in September; there was some unemployment
among male operatives, but on the other hand there was some demand for female workers.
Employment remained moderate at Kettering; there was a good deal of unemployment
and some firms were working short time; employment was, however, better than in October
of last year.
In the Higham and Rushden district there was an improvement, and full
time was mostly worked, and at Finedon there was even some overtime.
There was no marked change in the depressed conditions at Leeds, and a great deal of
short time was again worked, especially in the heavy boot trade. There was much slack-
supper trade of the Rossendale Valley there was a slight seasonal decline, and a good deal
f short time was worked.
Short time was worked in some factories at Norwich, but employment, although
Conse was still fair for the time of year, and noticeably better than in October of last
the Bristol and Kingswood district there was a decline; many factories, however,
prin full-time working. At Street employment was fair, but not so good
September.
*Revised figures.


---
597
THE NATIONAL (SEPTEMBER, 1924) AGREEMENT,
upon which the vote has been taken during the month, h
follows:
For the Ratification of the Agreement
Against
"
Majority for
8,264
564
7,700
Whilst the vote has empowered us to sign the Agreement, we exc
regret the smallness of the same, especially having regard to the vital primei
the standard of living of those engaged in the industry. We are aware that
involved in the Agreement, which really deals with what largely determine
the General Election did a great deal to eclipse for the time being m
hoped, in view of the importance of the matter, that a larger vote zould
and amongst them our own National Agreement. Nevertheless, we had
have been secured. We take it, however, that upon the whole, the member
feel fully satisfied with the work we have accomplished on their behalf, and
are prepared to leave the matter with us.
A copy of the Agreement, together with a letter as copy appended, has
been sent to all boot and shoe manufacturers in the industry, and if branch
officials have any difficulty they should at once communicate with the
Central Office.
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES,
34 GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
To the Manufacturer mentioned in the Address.
DEAR SIR,
20th November, 1924.
Please find enclosed herewith copy of the National (September,
1924) Agreement, which has been agreed to between the Federation of
Boot and Shoe Manufacturers and the above-named Union, and is applic-
able to both Federated and Non-Federated Manufacturers.
You will observe that the said Agreement comes into operation as
and from the first pay day in December, 1924, and that the wage rates
named therein are MINIMUM RATES. The altered and new paragraphs
are printed in red ink.
I anticipate there will be no difficulty in putting this Agreement into
operation in your factory. The Agreement being a National one, your
conformity thereto is asked for on behalf of the Council of the Union.
I am, yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.


---
```text
598
ENFORCEMENT OF AGREEMENTS.
Members are aware, that apart from our rules as to securing enforcement
of Agreements, the Agreements between the employers and ourselves are
such as to put an obligation upon both sides to see that the Agreements are
fully carried out. This work we claim we are constantly doing, and with
(financial) benefit to the membership. During the past month, an unusual
case has occurred which has created some comment as to the method of the
Union when dealing with employers. The case referred to is that of the
Wilnecote School Boot Co. Ltd., Tamworth, which company went into voluntary
liquidation. At a meeting of the creditors held at Leicester, on the
22nd ult.,
Mr. Watson said, "The decision to wind up became
necessary on account of labour trouble. It appeared that
when the company had taught their employees how to do
good work the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives
made certain demands. The operatives were members of
the General Workers' Union, but as they did not transfer
to the National Union the latter, it was alleged, made repre-
sentations to the Co-operative Wholesale Society Ltd., who
were the company's largest customers. Whether or not
pressure was brought to bear on the Co-operative Wholesale
Society was not clear, but the fact was that orders from
the Society ceased."
Several creditors strongly criticised the action of the
National Union.
It will be seen that several creditors criticised the action of the Union
regarding the matter. Our position is very clear, however, because we might,
and other manufacturers ought, to complain very strongly indeed of people
who start boot and shoe manufacturing and attempt to undersell their com-
petitors by a disregard of the duly accredited statements that have been
entered into between the Boot Manufacturers' Federation of Great Britain
and ourselves as representing the Union. As a matter of fact, we have always
been prepared to consider any special circumstances connected with any firm,
with a view to doing what is just and equitable. In cur judgment it is cause
for complaint by us that this firm attempted to disregard Agreements entered
into-and which we endeavoured to see carried out our only desire in these
matters is to see that the selling prices of goods should not be determined
by undercutting of wages. Further references to this matter will be found
on page 627.
THE GENERAL ELECTION
is now a thing of the past. The country has returned by an unprecedented
majority the Conservative Party, for which we venture to say no one was
prepared. To us this is a very great disappointment indeed, and one which
we exceedingly regret. We are aware of the many things that were brought
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
599
before the electorate in such a way as to not only stir up prejudice and fear,
but in many cases the position was deliberately distorted, the net result being
placed before them, but largely determined by the appeal of fear. Wecanol
help but think the unworthy position taken up by many on what is known
a stampede of citizens voting, not upon the programmes of what the parties
for many votes being cast for Conservatives. The state of the parties in the
as the "Campbell
new House is :-
LABOUR
LIBERAL
CONSERVATIVE
INDEPENDENTS
case and the proposed Russian Treaty, was responsible
151
42
416
6
It is quite true that the Labour vote has been very considerably increased:
this however, did not avail because the Conservative Party also increased
their vote.
We know this was largely at the expense of the Liberal Party,
which Party has been reduced to what may be termed a Group, rather than a
Party in the House of Commons.
With reference to our own colleagues, Messrs. J. Buckle, W. R. Smith
and F. Gould, it is to us a sad blow that all three of them were defeated. We
had very good grounds for considering they would be returned to the House
of Commons, but in each case the forces against us were found to be too strong,
Liberals and Conservatives joining together in their determination to prevent
our colleagues again representing the various constituencies. Thus we are
now without direct representation, and incidentally the Manufacturers have
also lost their representatives in the House. To our colleagues we express
our sympathy for the unfortunate position in which they find themselves,
especially having regard to the good work they did whilst in the House of
Commons. We know that in the constituencies which they represented, the
supporters of the Labour Party were not only bitterly disappointed, but the
result came as a stupendous blow.
Despite the set-back we have received, and the regrets caused, we never-
theless appeal to the members not to be discouraged nor in any way lose heart
in relation to the work we have in hand in trying to bring about in this country
a different frame of mind so as to ensure the putting into practice the programme
of the Labour Party. It may be that the present Government will be in office
for some years; we must not, however, because of that, relax our efforts to
educate the people of this land to put into office and authority men and women
representing Labour views. Indeed, the result of the election should be to
nerve us afresh for the fight which is continuous, and must be, if we are to
make progress.
Let us, then, be up and doing,
With a heart for any fate;
Still achieving, still pursuing,
Learn to labour and to wait.

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

600
If the spirit shown in these lines takes possession of us, we shall be
enabled so to mould public opinion and to consolidate our forces that when the
opportunity comes either at bye-elections or general elections, stunt press
propaganda or camouflaged untruths will not deflect the people from recording
their votes in such a manner as will enable men and women of progressive
ideas being sent to both the National and Local Parliaments.
The result of the election shows the following position in the three divisions
in which the Union bad candidates:
ECCLES
Bethel, A. (U.)
16,823
Buckle, J. (Lab.)
14,798
Unionist Majority
2,025
FROME.
Peto, G. K. (U.)
16,397
Gould. F. (Lab.)
14,652
Unionist Majority
1,745
NORWICH (2).
Young, Com. E. Hilton (L.)
28,842
Fairfax, J. G. (U.)
28,529
Smith, W. R. (Lab.)
23,808
Jewson, Miss D. (Lab.)
22,931
Liberal Majority
5,034
Unionist
4,721
ORGANISERS.
The position brought about in the three constituencies named above will
have to be further considered by us at a later date. Meantime, according to
Rule 107, last few lines-
".
Should a Parliamentary Agent be elected to the House of
Commons who was a full time national official before the election to the
House, and fails to secure re-election to the House of Commons, he should
act as organiser for the Union until the following Conference, when his
position would be determined."
Messrs. Buckle and Smith will act as organisers of the Union, pending the
next Conference determining their position.
GREETINGS.
We wish every member the Compliments of the Season, and trust that
1925 will be brighter and happier than 1924 has been.
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.


---
It will be recalled that the
601
HISTORY OF THE UNION.
" Fifty Years' History of the Union wa
presented to the delegates to the Union's Conference, and also a copt ha
been sent to each Branch. It has come to our knowledge that there is
desire on the part of some of the members to secure a copy if a chea
edition could be printed. We have made arrangements to issue such an
edition at 6d. per copy. To enable the order to be placed immediately,
please send to the Central Office stating how many copies you will
require of this most interesting and valuable record of the work of the Chie
THE “DAILY HERALD.”
We trust that all our members will take every available opportu
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the moveme
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as soon be
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretario-
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
make a success.
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMIΤΗ.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
B


---
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS.

GENERAL ELECTION. We are sorry to have to report that the General Election
in which we spent many days, has not reached our anticipations, even so far as our repre-
sentatives are concerned. It is a source of deep regret that we have lost in the Eccles
Division, our member, Mr. J. Buckle, J.P., who had successfully repelled the attacks of
the enemy on two occasions, but who on this occasion, fell a victim to the vitriolic utter-
ances of his opponent and the Russian Letter. He was always a very dutiful represent-
ative, and I think, after the good work done by the Labour Government in increasing the
financial position of the Unemployed, Old Age Pensioners, and bringing peace to Europe,
Labour members are entitled to expect from the rank and file of their own order. We
these matters in themselves should have obtained a renewal of that confidence which
do not expect others to be so considerate, or so desirous of making permanent, so far as the
Union is concerned, the position of the average working man or woman. We are also
sorry to report the fact that our other member, Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., who occupied the
distinction of being Parliamentary Secretary for the Board of Agriculture, was unable
in the field. On this occasion the Liberals and Conservatives combined, and when one
world for some time felt that the vote obtained at the last election was with three parties
to win in the town of his birth, viz., Norwich, but some of us who have known the political
considers seriously that is an important factor in the situation, and it is a most remarkable
achievement to have got within 5,000. Mr. Smith's local assistance and his activities
for many years in the labour world warrant certainly greater confidence, but as we are
also human, we must not expect too much, because there are so many working people
to-day whose lot in life is anything but rosy, and they are often prepared to risk a change
in their position. Personally, I am very pleased to see that the Labour Party itself has
so long as it is a change under the delusion that it is going to bring them some improvement
added over a million votes to its voting strength and its adherents, in spite of all the
vilifications with which they have had to encounter. I am sanguine enough to believe
that the time is not far distant when there will be a further opportunity given to our
representatives, when there is little doubt that they will be returned with great majorities,
and thus enable them to finish the work so well begun. In this connection I should also
like to refer to Mr. F. Gould, J.P., of Frome, who, although only a candidate of the Union,
is an ex-Member of the House, and had taken part in bringing about the improvements
above referred to. Mr. Gould being so well known in the district to which he has devoted
much of his life, and considering the large number of people with whom he has come in
contact from time to time, it certainly was a great surprise that the people who had already
given him a very short trial and in a short space of time preferred another member. Here
again, we believe the time is not far distant when he will place his services at the disposal
of his fellows, and I hope receive that reward to which he is legitimately entitled. It
would be as well if all our members were to exercise themselves in the question of politics,
which to most of us forms part and parcel of the Government of our lives, and it would be
well if all can be induced to show a more vigilant interest. Many people attribute the
failure to the fact that the women had become frightened; to this I do not subscribe.
I take the contrary view and say that our working-class women are thinking women.
and those who have stood loyally by the Labour movement and who are helping to increase
the voting strength of the Labour movement as the results of the General Election show.
Let us hope that at the next election, in spite of the threatened attitude the present Govern-
ment is likely to take towards Trades Unions, that we shall resist all their efforts to interfere
with our liberties. They would be well engaged if they put their own house in order
first before turning their attention to those Unions who are rendering yeoman service by
utilising their funds for the benefit of their members, and thereby easing the rates and
taxes of the Kingdom. My own particular part in the recent contest was spent in Leicester,
Leicestershire, Eccles, and Wellingborough.

LEICESTERSHIRE COUNTY BOARD. It has been my duty to attend the Leicestershire
County Board where our relationships in Leicestershire are so good that we have not met
for several months. The appointment of officers was duly recorded, and Mr. Denman, on
behalf of the Manufacturers, was put forward as Chairman for the ensuing year, and as
is our custom we unanimously supported that gentleman's nomination, and prevailed
upon our old friend, Dan Astley, of Earl Shilton, the past year's Chairman, to take the
position of Vice-Chairman for the coming year. The only matter of any importance was
the notice given to adopt a Pressman's Statement for the County, the same being presented
by the No. 2 Branch of Leicester, endorsed by our side, was referred to a sub-committee
by the Board for consideration and report. This matter will come up in the usual way,
and will be dealt with upon its merits.


---
WELLINGBOROUGH. - I have had to pay two visits to Wellingborough owing to
firms not meeting the demands of the Union with the carrying on
ment. This is very unfortunate, and we have entered into arrangement with the
would be as well if our officers, whenever they find a new firm starting in
whereby in a very short time they will be meeting our demands, In this 
to set aside the feeling that we all have in the interest of the trade generally d
to enter into any arrangement other than the National Agreement. 1
in boot and shoe making. In the larger centres it often happens, and
colleagues will be more vigilant in future to see that these people are puh
rather than let them get established on wrong lines.

SILEBY - Here again we have had no less than three instance, where
loyal to the National Agreement as they ought to be, and although we have witud
from time to time, we don't seem to make the headway that we should like
if more time is taken up with federated firms than is legitimate, we are thereby
have said before, and also endeavoured to inform the National Conference, is met lutad
from paying attention to those businesses where we have got very few mem

TRADE BOARD - I have also had a further meeting of the Trade Board in
Government for the training of ex-boot and shoe operatives who are in the
policy adopted by the Government in order that shoemakers who joined up
lose touch with their own industry, and by this means they are made more etheient then
they otherwise would have been. I have also been requested by the Ministry of L
to attend a meeting arranged by their representative between ourselves and M
Jackson & Joseph, which dispute is still continuing. It would be as well just to re
here, that after a discussion lasting three hours, we have found out the differences
us, which I hope will be ultimately surmounted. Suffice be it to say that the mecting
both by correspondence, and ultimately a further conference will be arranged at no hetong
was very pacific, no heat on either side. Negotiations are still open and are contiming
date, when we hope we may be able to report more satisfactory progress.

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - It has been my pleasure, with my colleague, to attemi the
Annual Gathering of the Higham and Rushden Branch in their Hall, on the 8th in-t.
a policy that has become an annual affair and a social which bids fair to keep Shop Presi
dents and Sectional Secretaries and Officials in harmonious relationship. After a few
remarks from myself and the General Secretary, the meeting was addressed by Mr. Cove,
M.P., who successfully held the seat that we once had in our possession. He is a very
good representative, and it is a pleasure to all of us connected with our industry to give
him our support and to tender to him our heartiest congratulations in holding the seat in
which we have such great interest.

STAFFORD. It was my pleasure to also attend the Monthly Meeting of the Stattord
Branch, and a very goodly number, for the size of the branch, turned up to the meeting
The organising of Stafford was dealt with, and intensive organising was the subject taken.
Personally, I am of the opinion that we ought to put forth our greatest efforts for the
purpose of increasing our membership, which is still going up. Whilst there I had occasion
to call in the factory of Lotus Ltd., in order to visit the Department at the request of the
Council of the Union. One is always pleased to go to the Lotus factory, the courtesy
shown to a Trade Union Official is most marked; anything one wishes to see is immediately
placed at your disposal without any embargo, and although it is not my duty as an official
to advertise methods of manufacture which are entirely of an organising character and for
which the firms must be credited with, so long as our terms and conditions are carried
out we have no necessity to interfere with successful management.

LEICESTER. I have also had the pleasure of being shown round the Brockton Heel
Building Co., of Leicester, where all employees are members of our Union, the Manager
being an old member of ours, and ex-Executive Officer and a man highly esteemed amongst
the members of the No. 1 Branch of Leicester City. It was indeed a pleasure to find
again here what a method of management can do in an auxiliary branch of the industry,
which most people look upon as being of a minor character, but where the men employed
earn as good wages as ever they do in the more experienced part of the craft.

MANSFIELD.--I have paid a visit to Huthwaite near Mansfield, owing to a situation
given at least to the Closers that their wages were much higher than they ought to be.
Upon my arrival it was unfortunate to find that the Manager that day had had to go away
very suddenly owing to illness, and consequently my journey was not as profitable as it
otherwise might have been. I am pleased to say this little firm of Betts & Broughton
are making headway. They have a Manager who has a knowledge of the productive side
of the boot and shoe making, and who puts forth his very best energies from the original
point of view to keep the firm going. New machines are being installed, and they appear


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
604
to be getting on the right lines and being able to hold their own with other people in their
It will be necessary to pay them another
particular line of business, viz., Pitmen's boots.
visit at an early date.
In the meantime may I beg of all our members to devote themselves to the purchase
and spreading of our only daily paper, the Daily Herald. Anyone interested in the Labour
movement cannot but admire and give the credit to that little paper when, during the
which speaks very higbly for this little journal. May its strength grow until it reaches
election, it produced ten times more votes than the daily circulation of the paper itself.
five million subscribers.
Hoping that the Trade Union Boots are not being lost sight of by the members.
7 MECKLENBURG STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
18th November, 1924.
Yours fraternally,
General President.
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
During the past month we have been very busy with the firm of Messrs. Hertz & Son.
The position here was that so far as piecework operatives were concerned there was no
restriction in working hours-7 o'clock in the morning to 10 p.m. was quite a common
occurrence, and always Sunday labour. The first climax came when a penny per pair
reduction was put to the men at a meeting held by the employer in the factory. A vote
was taken when a majority voted in favour of acceptance. We at once called a meeting
of the operatives, the whole of them attending. After two and a half hours animated
discussion, a majority decided to resist the reduction, and instruction was given to the
officials to enforce the 48-hour week, and in all circumstances resist Sunday opening of
the factory. An interview was arranged with Mr. Hertz and the proposals laid before him.
He agreed to withdraw the notice of reduction, and also put up notices in each depart-
ment, stating the hours of working, and instructions to the doorkeeper would be given
to open and close the door according to the posted notice.
A fortnight later 22 lasters were discharged on the plea of shortage of work. A
meeting of those discharged and those still at work was held. It was a lengthy and wordy
meeting, and after a considerable time a resolution was unanimously carried that those
still employed should continue to work at the old prices, and accept no reduction. A week
later information was received that a reduction had been offered and accepted by those
working. A meeting was called and the rumour was found to be correct, but the men
concerned claimed that they only accepted the Id. per pair reduction on the understanding
that this should be confirmed by the Branch Committee. A deputation was elected to
attend committee, when they would receive instructions as to what action to take.
We have also been engaged in assisting the Sew-Round Branch in organising out-
workers. We spent the whole of one day when the men were shopping their work, and
interviewed each one.
impression is that with a little more persuasion all these can be organised. We attended
About 100 were seen, of whom half were members, and our general
the executive and monthly meeting of this Branch.
We have had several meetings of Meltzer's operatives in the Finishing and Clicking
Departments. Interviews were arranged and many difficulties were cleared away by
frank discussion. The only difficulty now existing is the pricing of fancy styles in the
Clicking Department. An early interview has been arranged.
A meeting was held of the operatives working at Wachman's and 15 operatives
joined. We have visited in the dinner hours, the firms of Lipman's,
We also interviewed the men working at Lynn's, a repairing shop, and 16 promised to
join, one volunteering to act as Shop President.
ves were
s, Chissick's and Cohen's.
The strike at Jackson & Joseph's is still proceeding, and after 22 weeks the men are
still firm. We feel that the pressure which is being imposed is having its effect, and that
we are now within reasonable distance of a settlement.
LEN. SMITH.
J. H. BAUM.


---
```text
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. — Trade is no better here, and our members are duly anxious
about the future. We have had great excitement during the election, a Labour
candidate not only fighting the Montrose Burghs as formerly, but one was also
entered for the County Division for the first time. This gave our Carnoustic
members a chance to strike a blow for Labour, and right well did they help.
The candidate was put forward by the Railway Clerks' Association, and a very
excellent fighter he proved to be. Although an agricultural constituency.
which has shown an equality between Liberalism and Toryism in the past,
the Labour candidate persuaded nearly four thousand electors to vote his
ticket. Had the election been fought on clean lines, the Labour vote would
have been much greater, but the power of the Press, and the influence of all
the well-to-do wirepullers in the division, scared many from voting as their
conscience dictated. The unscrupulous misrepresentations of the Russian
Treaty, and later by the " Red Plot," was bound to succeed with such a short
time at the disposal of Labour. Any idea that the Capitalist Class will ever
allow themselves to be voted out of existence has got a rude shock this election.
Those who argue, and there are many, that force will yet be the only power to
subdue them, have their arguments greatly strengthened now. One likes to
think it could all be done constitutionally, but when you find the master class
turning like a vicious animal at bay when very little danger is in the air, one is
left to wonder what would happen if there was a serious danger of their power
being destroyed. A first step towards depriving the Capitalist Class of their
sharpest and most venomous claw would be the nationalisation of the Press.
That these great organs should be left in the hands of wealthy individuals to
use in any way they think fit to poison and inflame the minds of the public is
to incur the danger of the very forces of revolution which everyone deplores.
We regret the defeat of our three candidates, and the regret is the greater when
we realise that small opportunity will emerge to let them go back for a long time
to come. Again will be seen the point we make about the Press. When the
orthodox parties staged their Punch and Judy Shows, the different Liberal and
Tory papers would attack according to needs of the occasion, but when we are
left in the position of the combination majority as it is, and with only one small
daily newspaper to tell the truth, and that paper only read by a handful of
people, when will the people ever get a chance of change. The future is dark
and one can only hope for brightness in a collapse or rupture in capitalistic
forces which have in the past brought about progress even when intelligence
was muzzled and in chains. May truth prevail against the forces of evil.
BRISTOL No. 1. — We are sorry to report trade as bad, with very little
prospect of the improvement we have so long been hoping for. The General
Election has come again, and we are sorry to report we were only able to hold
one seat out of five in Bristol. The only consolation we have is the increased
solid Labour vote, the aggregate being much larger than 12 months ago. We,
in common with other parts of the country, suffered from the effects of the
poison gas let loose by our opponents. Whilst it has given us a set-back for
the time being, we must plod on, feeling assured that in the very near future
truth will prevail, and Labour will come into its own as a result of honest
plodding work. We much regret that our three agents were unsuccessful in
their fight. We, in Bristol, mourn with Kingswood at the loss of our comrade,
Geo. Jones, who was a real stalwart in the Union's cause. To his widow and
family we extend our deepest sympathy. Our Secretary should have repre-
sented the Branch at the funeral, but was prevented at the last moment owing
to urgent Guardians' work.
BRISTOL No. 2. — We can only report that trade is rapidly declining,
for members working only three days a week. The immediate
```

---
outlook is not encouraging. We deeply regret that our three
results, which came as an unpleasant shock. We deeply regret that our three
colleagues were among the defeated and sorrowfully realize that at present
we have no representative in the House. We feel the Party will be weaker
through their absence. All the forces of wealth, backed by a powerful Press
were arrayed against us. We emerged from the onslaught forger in number
but more determined in spirit to carry on until the result of the poll reflects
the judgment of the people rather than that of inflamed passion and panic
generated by base misrepresentation. The voting for the New Agreement
shows a big majority in favour. Regret was expressed that we had not been
able to get a greater restriction in the number of boys. What we desire is that
all those who are admitted should have opportunities to become efficient in
their trade, and be assured of being able to earn a living in the industry.
CHESHAM. Trade here remains good. It was with the deepest regret
we learned of the defeat of all the Union's candidates after the recent election,
but we can, as supporters of Labour, feel pleased with the increase of the
Labour vote.
CHESTERFIELD. Trade is fair. We have still some of our members
unemployed, and our sick list is heavy at the time of writing. We were sorry
to see all our three representatives defeated in the General Election, and also
to see the numbers of the Labour Party reduced when we were hoping for
something better. In a great many instances the Labour vote was consider
ably increased. Mr. G. Benson increased his vote here by over 6,000-last
election 6,000, this time 9,000 - and the Tories supported Mr. Kenyon, the
Liberal. We are improving and next time we shall win.
CORK. Trade remains good.
DAVENTRY. There is an improvement in trade, which we hope will
continue. The Council Member for the district (Mr. W. R. Townley) addressed
a special meeting of the Branch on the 13th inst. and explained the New Terms
of Agreement to the members, who accorded him a very hearty vote of
thanks, and the view was expressed that it was the most successful meeting
the Branch had held for several years.
DERBY. Trade in Derby has greatly improved since the last report,
all the firms being practically on full time.
DUNDEE. It is very gratifying to be in a position to report that the one
(and only one) shoe factory in this large city of ours is busy, viz., the Angus
Shoe Manufacturing Co. Ltd. The repairing section of the trade may be defined
as being in the doledrums. There has just passed beyond our Ken, for all time
coming, one of our oldest members, William Sievwright, a man who did yeoman
service in the cause of trade unionism. He occupied the position of Branch
President for several years, also the vice-presidency of the Dundee Trades
Council. Some twenty years ago he was largely instrumental in bringing into
being the Dundee and District Master Boot Repairers' Association, which
earned for him the sincere thanks of that body. The welding together of the
employers into a concrete organisation resulted in better wages and a con-
siderable improvement in conditions generally for the employees, which testified
to the sagacity and foresight of him, whose death it is our painful duty to
chronicle in this report. Several members at our last monthly meeting paid
warm tribute to the memory of our late friend and shopmate. The Secretary
was instructed to send an expression of sympathy to the family of the deceased,
and that it be duly entered in the minutes of the Branch. The tragic and
painful suddenness of the death of Mr. E. D. Morel, senior M.P. for the City
of Dundee, has cast a gloom over the town, especially in labour circles. Just
a short fortnight ago he was returned with a large majority. In his triumph
death stalks in. "Whatsoever thou hast in hand, availeth not, thy task is
finished." Exeunt.


---
EDINBURGH.- Trade remains much about the same in this district.
After a long period the Branch seems to be going to have some results of our
organising in a factory which has, up till now, refused to become members
of our Union. If the conditions are as stated by the employees, well, they want
some overhauling. We have not been successful in having either of our can
didates returned as members of the Town Council. But we have this consola
tion, that a very good fight has been put up and that the Union will, whenever
they get the chance, again nominate the two members. Well, Edinburgh has
not done so bad in having a Labour gain at the General Election. The Labour
Party must keep pegging away until there is not only Members of Parliament,
but a general desire on the part of all the working class to have better con
ditions on which their lives depend. We were sorry when results came through
to see that our colleagues, J. Buckle, F. Gould, and W. R. Smith, had not been
returned to the House of Commons. They only fall to rise again in greater
strength for the next fight. Our New Agreement seems to be meeting with
general approval of the members. It is not all that could be desired, but still
there is slight improvements.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.- Trade continues fairly good in the dis
trict generally. Finedon, several firms being on overtime; Irthlingborough,
not so busy, three firms working short time er reduced staff; Higham and
Rushden, fairly good; Raunds, Ringstead and Stanwick, no improvement,
while Irchester, Wollaston and Bozeat trade has improved. The whole of our
district is seething in election excitement at the time of writing this report
(28th October, 1924). It is remarkable at the number of our own members
whose names are on the list of assentors to the Conservative candidates' papers.
It convinces us that it is exceedingly difficult in England to break from the old
traditions, and yet we are told of Red Revolution. It seems almost impossible
to rouse the great majority of our members to see that the Members of Parlia-
ment they too often support are also the men they pay trade union subscriptions
to be protected against. Parts of our Branch lie in three different Divisions,
viz., Wellingborough, Peterborough and Bedford. The General Secretary's
addresses at Ringstead and Rushden were much appreciated. The Branch
President has been very busy assisting generally.
KINGSWOOD.- Trade is still fairly good, and we trust this will continue
for some time. Since our last report a General Election has swept over the
country like a tornado. Some constituencies, like the five "Wise Virgins,"
had their lamps trimmed and burning; others, like the "Five Foolish Virgins,"
were unready and there was much wailing and gnashing of teeth. The mag-
nitude of the turnover can now be surveyed in the calm that follows the storm,
and though the casualties are heavy new ground has been gained, new converts
made, new enthusiasm fired. Consolidate your defences against the day.
The tide (like day following night) never fails, but returns again fresh and
strong to bear us firm in faith to our goal-the Co-operative Commonwealth.
We record with deep sorrow the loss of our colleague and friend,
Councillor George Jones, who died 1st November, as the result of a chill
contracted during the election campaign. He was held in the highest
esteem by all sections of the community, and the attendance at his
funeral which our General Secretary attended-was a remarkable
tribute to a good and useful citizen. A close and personal friend for
many years is able to estimate the true worth of a departed friend,
and now George has gone we can realise that the Union is the poorer
for his untimely death. The district has lost a trenchant champion for
all that was worth while his family have lost a kindly father, and his
widow a husband who was a lifelong lover. Faithful and chivalrous,
he was a bonny fighter, and every inch a man.


---
LEICESTER No. 1. It is with deep regret that we have to report the
death of our President. Councillor Thomas Adnitt, J.P. The Branch has
suffered a great loss. A letter of sympathy and condolence has been sent to
the widow and daughter. The Branch was represented at the funeral by
G. Parbury (Secretary), J. Wheeler (Vice-President), A. Worth (Assistant
Secretary), M. Parker (President's Assistant), J. T. Collin, G. Knight, J. Greaves,
H. Cramphorn, G. Brooks (Committee), W. Bailey and F. Wigston (Staff).
H. Widdowson (Anstey), W. Elliott (Oadby), H. Taylor (Wigston), F. Burchnall
(Enderby), S. Bruin (Blaby), representing the Section Secretaries. Trade is
still very bad, in fact we have never had such a long spell. There is no sign
of improvement. We are pleased to report that our Secretary has again been
returned to represent the Wyggeston Ward on the Leicester City Council
by a large majority. He has also had the honour of being appointed High
Bailiff for the City.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S. The Leicester Women's Branch have to
report that trade is still slack, much short time being worked in our Closing
Rooms. Our Branch regrets the result of the General Election, in so far that
we have lost our three members, Mr. J. Buckle, J.P., Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P.,
and Mr. F. Gould, J.P. We did our best by sending our women out to help,
and in the financial part as far as we were able. However, the future is ours,
and we are looking forward thereto. Our Social, Dance and Whist Drive held
on the 13th November, was a huge success, the Trade Hall being crowded
with mostly young members of our Branch.
LIVERPOOL. The boot repairing trade has shown a marked decline
during the past month. The elections are over and, like a tornado, have
swept the country, with the result that a lot of good men have lost their seats.
Such are the fortunes of battle, and we have to bow to public opinion for the
time being whether we like it or not, and hope for the best. Nil desperandum.
This being the last report that will be in the hands of members before
Christmas, we wish all officials and members the Season's Greeting.
N.B. We have a new stock of Union Buttons and Brooches, which can
be obtained from the local secretary at sixpence each.
LONDON SOUTH. The monthly meeting was held at the Club House
Stores, Newington Butts, the chair being occupied by the President, W. Owen.
A fair number of members attended, when the report was accepted, as also
was the correspondence in connection with the size longer and toe caps; the
men of Freeman, Hardy & Willis receiving 6d. per pair above the price they
have been having, but are still in doubt as to the price. The above sum has been
fought for by the General President, and he is still doing his best for the men
for a further advance, as he considers that there is still some misunderstanding.
He also wishes that the members would take a little more interest in their
trade affairs and not accept any statements that might be offered to them,
but always refer to statements that are official and the ones that they are
supposed to be working to. This would save time and trouble and members
would get things settled more promptly.
MAYBOLE. Trade is very slack, some of our members only getting
16 hours' work in three days, and three days at the Labour Exchange. The
Secretary, who has been on the Town Council for five years, was again nominated
and stood for election last week and was second on the poll with 712 votes.
We are indebted to the members for the part they played, but for them the
result would have been impossible. Since then the Secretary has been made
a Baillie the first Labour Baillie in Maybole. We are sorry to see that our
good friends, Messrs. Buckle, Gould and Smith, were unsuccessful at the General


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

609
that count, but worth. We are also sorry to see that Chris. Blakley
defeated in the Municipal Election at Edinburgh. Better luck next time,
Chris.
NORTHAMPTON No. 1.—Trade remains quiet here in spite of the
election is over and the Tory pack are in full armour in the Commons. We
rumours of extraordinary good trade. But the usual cries are about most of
will the people realise there is no hope under capitalism for either regular work
or a comfortable existence for the mass of workers, and that the only hope of
permanent improvement is by the workers using their political power alone
with their industrial organisation to substitute Communal Ownership of the
means of life with production for use in place of the present chaotic
private ownership with production for profit.
NORWICH No. 1.-Trade during the month declined in Norwich with
marked tendencies, although claims for the month do not support that view.
Returns for the current month will greatly emphasise the state of trade, and in
that particular, for the worse. Many operatives are signing the out-of-work
book with little or no prospect of securing work until the New Year. There
is, however, scope for consolation to those unfortunate members in the know-
ledge that we have at last a great Conservative Government anxious and willing
to deal with the poverty problem. What an unfortunate election for the
National Union! Three men, good and true, fighting, but to lose their seat-
Eccles, Frome, Norwich-what a tale-to say nothing of Northampton. Well, in
Norwich we faced a combination of forces as great as any in the country, and in
spite of all arrayed against us the Labour Party increased its solid party vote
by four thousand. We are confident that in the near future Norwich will
rise true for Labour, even though we have to fight Liberals and Tories joined
together under the banner of Anti-Labour. Expressions of regret to Johnnie
Buckle and Fred Gould.
PLYMOUTH (REPAIRING). The election is over. Locally our parlia-
mentary representation is unchanged. The excitement has died away, and we
are all in a position to review the past and speculate concerning the future.
Looking back over the past we can safely say that on no previous occasion do
we remember the anti-Labour forces so united against us, or the Press of the
country so overwhelming hostile and unscrupulous in their attack. Whether
the Labour leaders acted wisely or not in accepting the challenge on such an
issue as the Campbell case and the Russian Treaty, which were open to so
much prejudice, misrepresentation and misunderstanding (for we find that
some of our own candidates did not understand the Treaty), will always remain
a controversial point. We had always supported the acceptance of office
largely because of the possibility of choosing our own time and programme for
an appeal to the country, hoping that on the presentation of Labour's own
Budget early in 1925 would be the most favourable opportunity. However,
the battle was joined on an issue not entirely of Labour's own seeking or crea-
tion, but on the shifting sands of bitterness and hatred flung up by the back-
wash of the Old Brigade-Liberals and Tories. Upon this shingle Labour
endeavoured to build its castle of peace and goodwill; the attempt failed
lamentably and Labour has been given the task of criticising and looking on.
Let us hope that our criticism will be more generous and helpful. Let our sense
of British fair play remain untarnished by the lying and deception which has
befouled the name of English journalism during this election. Already we
see signs of doubt and misgivings among the scribes, for unwittingly they have
knocked out their sparring partners, the Liberals. Henceforth the fight must
be in earnest between Labour and privilege. We quote from one of our local
papers who fought with surprising bitterness: - "The Conservative success
was beyond all expectation, and in a mood of introspection and analysis, which
marks the reaction from the election fever of the last few days, we cannot


---
610
a little stronger."
forbear asking whether, in going to such an extreme, the country may in three
or four years' time wish it had made the Opposition
STREET. There has been a considerable falling off in trade during the
month, especially in machine sewn goods, with the result that one small firm
however, have had a busy time, and the prospects of this class of trade are
has had to suspend the greater part of their operatives. The turnshoe worker
distinctly good. We have made a special effort to attain a 100 per cent. mem
bership to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of our Union. The result has been
most satisfactory, and we have increased our membership by over one hundred
SOUTHAMPTON. Slight improvement in trade.
WATERFORD. Trade still continues good.
GREAT YARMOUTH. Trade is good in Great Yarmouth, mainl
through a successful fisning season. Our Scotch fishermen are also doing well.
Prices of herrings are keeping well up, there being good markets open now for
them. Very sorry to see our candidates beaten at the election. The struggle
has ended now, but Labour still counts after all the results of the Press poison
gas used against our cause. Keep shoulder to shoulder, brothers, and stand
firm. Organise more and attend your monthly meetings regular. Study your
own interests and help you officers more in their good work. Without good
leaders our cause is lost. Workers, wake up now!
LEICESTERSHIRE ARBITRATION BOARD.
Mr. G. A. Denman Elected Chairman.
The annual meeting of the Leicestershire County Arbitration Board was held at the
City Hall, Leicester, on the 5th inst., under the chairmanship of Mr. D. Astley. There
were also present Messrs. G. Geary, G. A. Denman, J. H. Bott, W. Harvey, H. Leader,
H. P. Atkins, T. J. Bellamy, J. A. Smith, J. W. Hunt and J. Palmer, representing the
manufacturers, and Messrs. T. F. Richards, A. Hill, G. Parbury, M. A. Parker, W. Warner
J. H. Osborne, A. Needham, W. Woodward, F. Leader and F. W. Burchnall, representing
the operatives, and Mr. H. A. Flavill, secretary.
Sympathetic reference was made to the loss sustained by the Board by the death
of Mr. T. Adnitt. A vote of condolence was passed with his widow and daughter.
The decisions of the Finishing Statement Committee authorising a reprint of the
complete Finishing Statement for the Operatives' side, and fixing the extra for scouring
heels with aluminium plate insertions at 5d. per gross pairs were confirmed by the Board.
Mr. G. A. Denman was elected chairman and Mr. D. Astley vice-chairman for the en-
suing year. The secretary, Mr. H. A. Flavill, was re-appointed. The members of the
district inquiry committees were also re-appointed the operatives' side to fill the vacancy
caused by the death of Mr. Adnitt. The financial statement for the past twelve months
was presented and adopted, and the compilation of a piecework statement for the press
department was referred to a joint committee consisting of the chairman and vice-chairman,
with five members from each side. -The Shoe and Leather Record, 14th November, 1924.
MR. T. F. RICHARDS ON STRIKES.
Mr. T. F. Richards, of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union, made a very sensible
speech about the futility of strikes the other evening. We agree with most of his points.
Where is the practical sense in working for peace abroad, as Trade Unions profess
to do, and organising for industrial strife at home?
Every strike punishes the working people more than it hurts any employer.
As Mr. Richards says, strikes lead eventually to the Conference table. Why not
begin there, and stick there until a settlement is reached ?
If war between nations is wrong, so is war between capital and labour. Leicester
Mail, 13th November, 1924.


---
012
RUSHDEN BRANCH ANNUAL RE-UNION.
Mr. W. G. Cove, M.P, and the principal officers of the National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives were the chief guests at a tea and social held at the Trades Hall, Rushden,
on Saturday, 8th November, 1924.
Mr. Charles Bates, president of the Higham and Rushden Branch, welcomed the
guests, making special mention of Mr. R. D. Mayes (head of the Insurance Department)
and Mr. Cove, who, he said, had "come back to the fold." The Wellingborough Division
seemed to be the only bright spot in Northamptonshire, but he did not doubt their friends
in the other districts had done their best.
Giving figures to show the rapid growth of the Higham and Rushden Branch. Mr.
Bates said that 21 years ago they had 783 members and 140 probationers, and the funds
amounted to £700. The minimum wage for lasters was 27s., and the operatives worked
50 hours a week. In 1922 the membership was 7,600, in 1923 it was 7,685, and the present
total was 8,050. The funds had increased by £3,663 in the last three years, and the
minimum wage was £3.
Mr. Mayes (manager of the Insurance Department) said the Approved Societies had
two sets of enemies, the doctors and the Health Insurance Committees, and both would
gladly see them pass out of existence. Of all trade unionists only one-eighth or one-tenth
had insured through their own unions' approved society. The Boot Union had 32,000
members approved through its society, and the operatives had close upon £200,000 invested.
In the Rushden and Higham Ferrers district 2,400 out of 8,000 members were approved
through the Union. He would like to see that proportion grow.
Mr. T. F. Richards, the General President of the Union, said he was pleased to be
there, if only to congratulate them on their good sense. He had always had a sneaking
regard for East Northants-even when he was their nominee. (Laughter.) He was glad
that their friend Cove had retained his seat; it was quite as pleasing to the Union as it
was to Mr. Cove. He was glad that all the things that had been said had not had the
effect of driving them from their steady goal. Trade union men were making members
and adherents, and it was delightful to think that they had added one million members
to their 4 million voters. The 5 million voters were solid trade unionists and
Labour men.
When one thought of the big struggles the members of other unions and federations
had had, they were pleased to think that their own policy of arbitration and discussion
had borne good fruits. The employers had agreed, in the last negotiations, that when dar
or piecework was to be started upon, at least they would have a month's notice. Reason
had got to be given if they could not earn, by their piecework prices, 75s., and he must
say that when they had had to investigate these matters the employers had generally
given a good reason if the pieceworkers had not been able to earn the amount mentioned.
The Union were anxious to get back the minimum rate of wages at 21 years-a point
they let slide during the war. In the recent agreement the employers hedged, but did
give the minimum wage at 22.
Mr. E. L. Poulton (General Secretary) said the Labour people of the Wellingborough
Division managed to resist the "slide" in the district, and maintained the position intact.
A certain thing happened during the contest which lost them a good many seats, but the
people in the Wellingborough Division were able to stop the stampede. Sir Robert Horne
had given them notice of what he thought those tyrannical trades unions were.
Sir Robert would have a tough job if he thought he could upset them. Sir Robert
had already said what he hoped the Government would do with the trades unions of the
country. In the new Parliament Mr. Cove would find still more scope for his ability if
the Government endeavoured to put new burdens upon the people. It was rumoured
that the Government would bring in new schemes in connection with insurance. They
were not going to agree quietly to being "improved" off the face of the earth.
When the boot operatives had a 56-hour week the pressman had 22s. a week. That
same man to-day, if he was on piecework, must have at least 75s. for 48 hours. They
had also done a great deal to increase the status of the men engaged in the industry. They
had taken great pride in the fact that the unofficial understanding with the employers for
a shortage of work there should be general short time rather than discharges. He wanted
years past had been that discharges must be kept to a minimum, and that if there was
to bear his testimony to the way the employers had carried that out.
Mr. Cove said he was very glad to get into touch with the local trade union movement.
He did not believe that anybody could be an efficient representative in Parliament unless
unionism. He had had experience of another union whose methods of conciliation
were similar to those of the Boot Operatives' Union. He referred to the National Union
of Teachers.


---
613
The only alternative to collective conciliation and agreement was each man and
woman relying on his or her own power, which in modern industrial conditions a little
There was less excuse for non-unionism than there was for voting against the Laboar
He could never understand the man or the woman who had on the rurale
going on, and who would reap the benefit of the struggle and yet keep aloof
He wanted to congratulate them on the work they had done through their organadien
He wanted to emphasise what Mr. Poulton said: "Go on, get that fool-proof union ith
more virile, active and intelligent during the next couple of years than they had
them during the last nine months. He only hoped, for the good of the country and ph
that the Tory Government would not " try on" certain things which had been come
They would find that the struggle would be transferred to
a roo per cent. membership."
He felt that they would want their trades anion tower
anted
to the industrial field ing
It was a bad thing for evolution to have the weight of their moveme
wing more than on the other. Politically and industrially they wanted to go on catchm
side by side towards their objective. The movement had been born out of Vittor
class experience it had been born, historically, out of the oppression
sion
nds
Мг.
nds
xed
ent
the
of the nation,
ad
ild
th
DO
d.
ed
De
13
d
it
e
'S
'S
1
う
1
sion of the chilled
The guests were entertained by Miss Millicent Childs (soprano). Mi 1 n
Velocutionist), Miss M. Newman (pianist); Mr. H. Letts, and Mr. Chris Green
LEGAL CASES AFFECTING LABOUR.
Workmen's Compensation Acts, 1906-1923.
APPLICATION TO REDUCE WEEKLY COMPENSATION-REFUSAL TO UNDERGO OPERATIOS.
An application was made at the Hanley County Court for the diminution of the
unreasonably refused to undergo an operation. It was stated, that the respondent met
weekly amount of compensation being paid to a collier, on the ground that the man lad
with an accident in November, 1922, which resulted in a rupture, and he had not worked
since, but was drawing compensation and Unemployment Insurance benefit. The collier
objected to the idea of being operated upon, and told the firm that he would not conser
the matter unless the surgeon gave a written guarantee that the operation woul
success.
His employers contended that this was an unreasonable attitude to take up.
Judge Ruegg, K.C., said: "I have been asked over and over again to stop com-
pensation on the ground of a man refusing to undergo this very operation and in every
case I have refused. It means that I am being asked to say that every miner who is bad!
ruptured and does not submit to an operation ought to have his compensation stopped.
It will be a long time before I say that." His Honour added that he could not encourag
these applications to stop compensation because workmen refused to submit to an opera-
tion. Florence Iron and Coal Company v. Whittaker.-Hanley County Court. September
9th, 1924. Ministry of Labour Gazette, November, 1924.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BENEFIT.
It was reported that the applicant had been drawing benefit from 10th April to 30th
October, 1922, and from 1st April, 1923, to 16th February, 1924, periods during which
he had in fact worked as a theatre attendant. His claim for benefit was therefore disallowed
under Section 7 (1) (ii) in respect of these periods, on the ground that he was not unemployed.
The applicant admitted that he had been employed during the periods referred to,
but a representative of his Association submitted that the applicant was entitled to benefit
for the second of the periods because the work as theatre attendant had by that time
become an additional occupation from which the applicant derived only 195. per week,
or less than 3s. 4d. on the daily average.
as theatre attendant
The Umpire's decision shows the essential dates and other information in the case.
Recommended by the Court of Referees that the claim for benefit should be disallowed
in respect of both periods. The Court held that the occupation
had not by 1st April, 1923, become an additional occupation within the meaning of the Act.
The applicant's Association appealed to the Umpire and attended an oral hearing
of the case.
Decision." On the facts before me my decision is that the claim for benefit should
be disallowed." - Ministry of Labour Gazette, November, 1924.


---
```text
614
ORGANISER'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since my last report I have been organising mainly at Barwell. The weakness
in this area has been due to the want of Shop Presidents and the absence of accurate
information on the position of each factory in organisation. Mr. Dan Astley and I have
been trying to put things in the first state of order by getting factories to elect Shop
details that make for success or otherwise in the trade union movement. The records
of our Union prove beyond doubt the value of Shop Presidents to good organisation.
Our experience at Barwell and Nuneaton recently justify our faith in them. At Hall &
Geary's, Barwell, we elected a Shop President on 31st October. Eight members joined
President, but when we did get one he joined about a dozen members the first week. This
new members when he started. At Nuneaton Mr. W. Warner and I had a meeting of the
seven joined with him, and since then (7th November) many more have joined. At the
workers at a factory there. A Shop President was elected and the day following twenty-
firm of Leader's, Barwell, it was difficult for us to get anyone to take on the job of Shop
has been our general experience with the newly elected Shop Presidents.
25th November, 1924.
D. MCCARTHY.
LABOUR'S PROGRESS.
General
Election.
1900
1906
1910 (Jan.)
1910 (Dec.)
1918
1922
1923
1924
Members
Returned.
2
29
40
42
57
142
193
152
::::::::
Labour
Vote.
62,698
323,195
505,690
370,802
2,244,945
4,251,011
4,508,504
5,525,072
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
s. d.
To December, 1923 630,969 17 3
January, 1924
..
3,358 8 4
February
..
3,185 9 6
March
..
3,631 10 2
April
..
4,339 6 4
May
..
3,372 0 10
June
..
3,305 10 4
July
..
2,483 5 6
August
..
2,293 12 2
September
..
2,682 2 6
October
..
2,280 4 3
£661,911 7 2
To December, 1923 317,643 6 1
January, 1924
..
3,653 6 9
February
..
3,207 0 3
March
..
3,264 18 3
April
..
4,268 6 3
May
..
3,897 18 3
June
..
4,249 19 3
July
..
2,492 16 9
August
..
2,352 15 9
September
..
3,322 8 3
October
..
3,127 8 0
£351,480 3 10
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
History of the Union
A cheap edition of the "Fifty Years'
History of the Union" will be available
shortly at
SIXPENCE PER COPY.
Orders should be remitted through Branch Secretaries as
early as possible.
This "History" gives an interesting and valuable record
of the Union.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.

WAGES IN THE FRENCH BOOT AND SHOE
INDUSTRY.
The manufacture of boots and shoes is one of the important industries of France,
employing approximately 220,000 workers. While there is no census showing the number
and capacity of plants, it is certain that there are more than 600 factories engaged in this
a day.
About two-thirds of these are of small capacity making fewer than 100 pairs
Under normal conditions there is a lack of labour in French boot and shoe factories,
particularly in the more skilled occupations, and workers engaged in this industry are,
in consequence, relatively better paid than others. The wages of competent workers
range from 160 francs to 250 francs a week, the average being probably about 200 francs.
The labour cost on a pair of boots, the retail price of which is 100 francs, amounts to about
11 francs, while the cost of material is from 45 to 50 francs. Although the greater part
of the material manufactured is made on American lasts and with American machinery,
the average daily production per worker is stated to be much lower than in the United
States. Ministry of Labour Gazette, November, 1924.
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st NOVEMBER, 1924.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included ..
Food only
..
FOOD.
..
80 per cent.
79 "
During October the average level of the retail prices of food continued to rise. The
most important increases in prices affected eggs (1d. each on the average), potatoes (1d.
per 7 lbs.), flour (nearly 1d. per 7 lbs.), and bread (between 1/4d. and 3/4d. per 4 lbs.). Milk,
butter, bacon, tea and cheese were also dearer on 1st November than on 1st October.
On the other hand, sugar was cheaper at the later date by about 1/4d. per lb. The prices
of meat, fish and margarine were approximately the same at both dates.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of
food included in these statistics rose to about 79 per cent. at 1st November, as compared
with about 72 per cent. at 1st October, 1924, and 73 per cent. at 1st November, 1923.---
Ministry of Labour Gazette, November, 1924.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
Altered and new paragraphs
are printed in red Ink.
NATIONAL
CONFERENCE
(September 1924) AGREEMENT.
The Incorporated Federated Associations of Boot and
Shoe Manufacturers of Great Britain and Ireland
and the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
NATIONAL CONFERENCE
Of REPRESENTATIVES OF THE FEDERATION and THE NATIONAL
UNION, held at 7 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. I., on 18th and
19th September, 1924.
COPY OF AGREEMENT arranged by the Conference and of the RATIFICA-
TION thereof by the respective organisations.
In the motion of Mr. H. J. Bostock, seconded by Mr. T. F. Richards, it was
unanimously resolved :----
"This National Conference again urges upon H.M. Government the desir-
ability of giving to National Agreements voluntarily entered into and
approved by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity as Awards
under the Trade Boards Acts, 1909 and 1918, with the object of ensuring
the observance of fair conditions of labour, by all engaged in the
industry, and requests the Government to give facilities for passing
ince law, the Industrial Councils Bill, read a second time on 30th
May, 1924,"

---
CONFERENCE AGREEMENT.
Uniformity in Labour Price of similar classes of Goods.
1. (a) Subject to resolutions 1 and 5 (d) of the Terms of Settlement it is desirable
that a uniform system of prices should obtain, and that the general outline or groundwork
of such system should be arranged on a broad basis, so that the essential conditions and
prices can be applied or adapted to the same class of labour and materials in all areas
producing similar classes of goods.
Notice of alteration in System.
Manufacturers shall, before changing the method of working from piece.
work to daywork, or vice versa, oive four weeks' notice of their intention
operatives, and also notify in writing the local branch secretary of the Lion
Basis of Piecework Statements.
to the
2. Where general or shop statements do not at present exist, the Local Arbitration
Boards, at the request of cither side, shall proceed forthwith, upon the ratification of this
agreement, to prepare piecework statements for their respective districts (subject to
Clause 1). All manufacturers and operatives shall accept such statements in their entirety
as a basis of payment, but the system shall be termed a daywork system, and the wages
weekly according to the
done at the prices fixed by the statements for each operation or process, provided that ork
adult operative shall be engaged at less than the minimum wage rate without the written
permit of the Union or the Local Arbitration Board in cases where the minimum wage
peapplicable, and provided also that when operatives, whether on full or short time, have
been supplied with a full quantity of work and have been granted reasonable facilities
for the proper performance of their work, and do not earn the minimum or agreed wage
rate at the statement prices, they shall be paid only for the actual work done at the state-
ment prices. In cases where circumstances arise that prevent the operatives earning the
minimum or agreed wage rate owing to bad materials or special care required in the per-
formance of their work, such cases shall be subject to special adjustment between the
employer or his representatives, and the operatives or their trade union officials.
Non-Restriction of Output.
3. It is understood that operatives use their trade skill and productive ability to the
best advantage and fullest capacity provided they are paid the full rate of wage for all
output.
Regulation of Conditions of Employment.
4. (a) Where operatives attend at the factories on the instructions of the employers
or their representatives, work shall be found for them for at least half a day, except when
short time is being worked, and in that case operatives, whether engaged on day or piece-
work, shall be informed overnight if their services will not be required on the next working
day, and shall be informed before the midday interval if they will not be required to attend
in the afternoon. If no such intimation is given, and operatives attend at the factories,
work shall be found for them for a period of not less than four hours in the morning and three
hours in the afternoon, or they shall be paid for the four hours and three hours respectively
at not less than the minimum or agreed wage rate.
(b) This clause shall not apply in the case of machinery breaking down in any factory
after the operatives have entered, or in the case of illness or absence of any operative
which interferes with the organisation of the factory, in which cases the operatives shall
be allowed to leave the factory at once.
sentatives will take all reasonable precaution to avoid the necessity of sending operatives
It is understood that employers and their repre-


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

JA
OPERATIVES EMPLOYED IN THE CLOSING AND HEEL
RUI DEPARTMENT OR THE STOCK OR SHOE ROOMS.
teh mein Flame Over 20
Apor Jodex Figure Falls to:
50
70
30
1)
17.10
17
15/0
17
13
14/0
19/0
ero
18/3
17
13
25/6
24.3
23/0
21/9
31/0
20/6
28/0
26/0
10
36/0
34/0
33/0
31/0
20
Confirmed.
D
PIECEWORK STATEMENTS shall be revised in conformity with the schedule
set out in paragraph 6 (b) of the February (1922) Interim Agreement, as follows:--
(a) MALE OPERATIVES.
Ifter Index Figure
Falls to:ー
70 points
50
30
"
Percentage to be deducted from Total Earnings on :--
Statements Statements Statements Statements
Corresponding
Minimum
Wage Rates.
A.
B.
C.
D.
56/0 per week
Nett.
2¼%
10%
5%
54/0
2½%
5%
12½%
72%
50/0
7½%
10%
17½%
12½%
REFERENCE.
Statements A.-All Statements compiled or revised under the 1919 Agreement, which came
into force on or before 31st December, 1919, and upon which 10 per cent. was added
to the total earnings under the Interim (1920) Agreement.
Statements B.-All Statements which came into operation on or after Ist January, 1920,
and upon which 7½ per cent. was added to the total earnings under the Interim
(1920) Agreement.
Statements C. Those Statements, the Piecework prices of which include the percentage
increases granted by the Interim (1920) Agreement.
Statements D.-The Northampton County Clickers' Statement, which came into operation
on the 2nd June, 1919, and upon which only 5 per cent. was added to the total
earnings under the Interim (1920) Agreement.
(b) FEMALE OPERATIVES.
Percentage to be added to or deducted from Total Earnings on :-
し
Statements
C.
Deduct 7%
Corresponding
After Index Figure
Minimum
Falls to :-
Wage Rates.
Statements
A.
Statements
B.
70 points
34/0 per week
Plus 21%
Nett
50
"
33/0
"
"
14%
Deduct 1+%
30
"
31/0
"
Nett
"
2½%
"
8½%
10
دو
REFERENCE.
Statements A.-All Statements compiled or revised under the 1919 Agreement, which came
into force on or before 31st December, 1919, and upon which the to per cent. was
added to the total earnings under the Interim (1920) Agreement.
Statements B.-All Statements which came into operation on or after ist January, 1920,
and upon which 7½ per cent. was added to the total earnings under the Interim
(1920) Agreement.
Statements C.-Those Statements, the piecework prices of which include the percentage
increases granted by the Interim (1920) Agreement.


---
Holiday (Provision) Scheme.
0. The Holiday (Provision) Scheme adopted by the Joint Industrial Commil for the
tegral part of this Agreement.
5A
Rot and Shoe Manufacturing Industry on 27th May, 1910, is hereby confirmed
in this Agreement.
Variation of Day Rate Wages.
operation, are employed at or above the minimum wage or graduated scale rates applicable
10. (a) The day-rate wages of the operatives who, when this agreement come, into
the amounts of reductions made in the corresponding minimum wage rates provided for
to them by this agreement shall not be reduced in consequence of this agreement, beyond
Compilation of Piecework and Quantity Statements.
Boards will forthwith prepare new Piecework or Quantity Statements on a basis to ensure
(b) Where Piecework or Quantity Statements do not at present exist Local Arbitration
necessary will revise the existing Statements on the same basis.
the average worker earning not less than 25 per cent. over the minimum wage and where
Revision of Anomalies.
(c) Local Arbitration Boards are recommended to exercise their power of reviewing.
on the request of either side, existing Piecework or Quantity Statements, other than the
specific anomalous item or items, whether unfavourable to employers or operatives,
Government Green Book Statement Handsewn List, for the purpose of adjusting any
that any adjustments of existing Statements or any new Piecework Statements shall
brought before the Boards in accordance with the customary procedure provided always
ensure the average worker earning not less than 25 per cent. over the minimum wage in
operation for the time being.
Country District Piecework Statements.
11. Local Arbitration Boards operating in outlying districts accustomed to manu-
have regard to the grade when estimating the productive capacity of the average worker
facture goods of lower grades shall, in the compilation of Piecework or Quantity Statements,
Settlement of Differences.
to be adopted in giving effect to Clauses 10 and 11, either side of the Board may require
12. In the event of differences arising on a Local Arbitration Board as to the procedure
the Standing Committee of the Conference to advise upon such procedure, provided
always that the piecework rates to be finally fixed shall be determined in accordance with
the rules of such Board.
Freedom of Contract with Operatives under 15.
13. The employers shall retain freedom of contract with all operatives under
15 years of age.
Exemptions from Minimum Wage.
1.4. The minimum wage or graduated scale rates shall not apply to clerks, engineers,
mechanics, electricians, stokers, porters, sweepers-up, lift or hoist men, caretakers and
timekeepers, or to labourers and odd job men not engaged in actual manufacturing.
Procedure on Claims for Minimum Rate and for Payment of less than the
Minimum Rate.
15. The Federation recognises the obligation upon the employers to pay the minimum
wage and graduated scale rates to all operatives to whom such rates apply, except in cases
where they hold the written permit of the Union or the Local Arbitration Board to accept
less than such rates, but the obligation upon an employer to pay such rates in cases where
the operatives attain the specified ages whilst in his employ shall be dependent in every
case upon a separate application in writing being made to him or to the manager or foreman
f the department, stating the age of the applicant (of which the employer may require
easonable proof) and the wage claimed, such application to be made by the operative,
by the Union on his or her behalf, notwithstanding anything contained in the Award
Roth February, 1898; and the liability of the employer to pay the prescribed rate in
the ease of every lawful application shall commence at the expiration of eight days from
the dadating the date of the receipt by him or his manager or foreman of the application.
s the employer decide that the operative is not qualified to earn such rate, the
300 Woran end Union representative shall endeavour to arrive at a sum to be
1
t


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

**7A**

**General application of Minimum Rates and Holiday (Provision Scheme.**
20. The minimum wage and graduated scale rates fixed by this Agency and
applied to federated and non-federated manufacturers and the Union undertake
with the Holiday (Provision) Scheme as confirmed in Clause 9 shall in every
ment has been fixed it can be shown that the Union has failed to put such r
operation throughout the non-federated districts it shall be competent for the
ery district up to such rates; but if at the expiration of the period for which
or any of its local Associations to decline to consider any further applicato
such rates.

**Compliance with National Agreements by Local Arbitration Boards.**
21. (a) In no case shall a Local Arbitration Board upon which the Trades
Union is represented, its Arbitrators or Umpires, make any agreement or award at A
hours of labour, or conditions of employment, which shall be less favorable general
the operatives (having regard to the local circumstances of the districty than the
and the Union, or which extends beyond the period for which any such national agre
hours and conditions contained in any agreement or award made between the Feder
or award, or any local agreement or award of a similar character affecting federate and
(b) Local Boards of Arbitration are recommended to bear in mind the importa
maintaining national uniformity, in regard to the conditions of employment, hour
labor, the basis of the rates of wages, and the Holiday (Provision) Scheme.
facturers has been fixed.

**Strikes and Lockouts.**
22. The Conference re-affirms Resolution 8 of the Terms of Settlement of 19th April,
1895, which is as follows:-
"No strike or lockout shall be entered into on the part of any body of workm
members of the National Union, or any manufacturers represented on any loc
Board of Arbitration."
(a) Where grievances exist they shall be investigated immediately by representative
of the Local Manufacturers' Association and of the local branch of the Union
concerned, with a view to adjustment.
(b) Where any strike or lockout takes place and is continued beyond the period of
three days allowed by the agreement of 31st March, 1910, the right of the Federa-
tion or the Union, as the case may be, to claim upon the monetary guarantee
under that agreement and the Trust Deed, may be exercised by application to a
National Umpire appointed in accordance with Clause 9 of the Trust Deed and
on the recommendation of the Minister of Labour for a forfeiture either (a) by
way of fine or penalty, or (b) by way of damages or compensation for loss sustained,
and in any case where the latter alternative is adopted the amount of such loss
shall be assessed by a committee of three representatives of the Federation and
three representatives of the Union, and in the event of their disagreement the
question shall be referred to the National Umpire.

**Joint Standing Committee.**
23. A Standing Committee of three representatives of the Federation and three
representatives of the Union, with the Chairman of the Conference, shall be appointed to
deal with all matters arising out of or in connection with the Terms of Settlement of 1895,
so far as they are now operative, and any other national agreement between the Federation
and the Union and this agreement, including any disputes that may arise as to the inter-
pretation of such agreements, provided that due regard is paid to the authoritative decisions
that have already been given under the above-named agreements.

**Conflict with Local Arbitration Boards.**
24. Anything in this Agreement which is in conflict with existing local awards or
agreements shall be remitted to the parties by whom such agreements were made, or to the
Local Arbitration Board. Failing agreement by the local authority, the matter in dispute
may be remitted to the Standing Committee, acting in an advisory capacity with a view
to obviating the necessity of a reference to the Arbitrator for such local Board.

**Responsibility for Observance of Agreement.**
25. Both parties to this agreement undertake to use such means as are at their disposal
to ensure its due observance by all employers and workers, whether members of their
respective organisations or not.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

SA

Duration and Ratification of Agreement.

26. This Agreement shall come into operation on the first pay day of the National Conference (September)
and shall be known as the Agreement, and shall remain in force to the last pay day in October, 1926.
ment shall have been ratified. Either side may on
a monthe’ notice to terminate or revise the Agree-
a ment.

meil a

in
The conference aproval of each organisation.
tified, shall
DATED this 10th day of September, 1924.
SIGNED on behalf of the Manufacturers' side of the Conference

H. J. BOSTOCK, President.
RUTH TOMLINSON, Secretary.
SIGNED on behalf of the Operatives' side of the Conference

T. F. RICHARDS, General President.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
COUNTERSIGNED ......

W. ADDINGTON WILLIS, Chairman of Conference.
RATIFICATION OF AGREEMENT.
WE, the undersigned, Representatives of the Federated Associations of Boot and
Shoe Manufacturers and the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives respectively.
acting in pursuance of the express authority and instructions of our respective organisa-
tions, HEREBY RATIFY AND CONFIRM on behalf of such organisations the Agreement,
dated the 19th day of September, 1924, made by the National Conference of Representa-
tives of the Manufacturers' Federation and the Operatives' Union, such Agreement with
this Ratification thereof to be registered with the Board of Trade and Minister of Labour
as a National Agreement made between the Federation and the Union supplemental
to the Terms of Settlement dated 19th April, 1895, and the supplementary National
Agreements 26th January and 28th July, 1909, 5th May, 1914, 28th September, 1914.
13th February, 1919, 29th March (Interim), 1920, and 6th February (Interim), 1922,
and December, 1922.
SIGNED on behalf of the Manufacturers' side of the Conference-

H. J. BOSTOCK, President.
RUTH TOMLINSON, Secretary.
SIGNED on behalf of the Operatives' side of the Conference-

T. F. RICHARDS, General President
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
COUNTERSIGNED-
W. ADDINGTON WILLIS, Chairman of Conference.
DATED this 19th day of November, 192.4.


---
```text
617
LOOK ON THIS AND ON THAT.
TOY DOGS FED ON CHICKEN.
Life of Luxury for Valuable Pets. Nothing too good.
Strange Scenes at Crystal Palace Show.
Toy dogs had their day in this season of
shows at the Toy Dog Show at the Crystal
Palace yesterday. Hundreds of little animals
worth many thousands of pounds, were the
objects of adoring eyes. Nothing was too
good for them. The bird cages in which they
were housed were daintily equipped with
cushions and curtains. Attentive owners.
with brushes, combs, and other impedimenta,
watched incessantly over their toilets.
Canine Luxury.
In one cage, where a Pekingese peered
imperiously from between silk cushions,
there were the following articles :
2 Thermos flasks,
I scent spray,
i bottle of hair lotion,
1 bottle of beef tea, and
2 boxes of fancy biscuits.
THE POOREST TOWN IN
ENGLAND.
13,000 out of 35,000 on Dole
or Relief.
A Tragedy of Bright Air.
Out of a population of 35,000, more than
13,000 people in Jarrow are in receipt of
parish relief or the unemployment allowance.
These figures illustrate the tragic plight to
which the town has been reduced by trade
depression. Jarrow is now the poorest town
in the North Country.
With its air no longer smoke-laden and
grimy, it has also become the brightest town:
but it is a tragic brightness, for the atmosphere
is clear and clean because the works stand
silent.--Daily Chronicle, 3rd November, 1924.
The lunch hour provided a curious scene.
Fat hampers were brought up, cage-doors
were opened, and dogs and their owners
partook of dainty meals of chicken and other
tasty dishes
Manchester Evening News, 23rd Oct., 1924.
[No wonder there is dissatisfaction in the country when such contrasts as named
above can be found existent. The wonder is that the people have been so quiet for so long
a period in view of the proved wealth of the country which could deal with the unemploy-
ment problem in such a way as would ensure upkeep for those out of work.--E.L.P., G.S.]
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel
and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924
January.. 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78 77
February 15 35 65-70 90 130 130 151 88 77 79
March 15-20 35-40 70 90-95 115 130 141 86 76 78
April 15-20 35-40 70-75 95-100 110 132 133 82 74 73
May 20 40-45 75 100 105 141 128 81 70 69
June 25 45 75-80 100-105 105-110 150 119 80 69 70
July 25 45-50 80 110 115 152 122 81 71 71
August 25 45-50 80-85 110 115 155 120 79 73 76
September 25 50 115-120 161 120 78 75 80
October 30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 80 75 80
November 30-35 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 77
December 35 65 85 120 125 169 99
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement,
1020 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922)
Agreement, and present date.
```

---
618
SANITY IN TRADE UNIONISM.
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
For an industry to have been free from a national stoppage of production, either
by a general strike on the part of the operatives or a lockout by the employers for a period
approaching 30 years, is a record of sanity in industrial relations upon which both the
employers and the operatives' organisations are to be congratulated.
It was in November, 1804, that the last national strike in the boot and shoe industry
began, and the fight was waged until April, 1895, when a settlement was effected between
the Federated Association of Boot and Shoe Manufacturers and the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives at a joint conference held at the Board of Trade. There have
been many difficulties to arrange many adjustments to make as an outcome of changes
in machinery and methods of production; there have been local disputes to settle. But
all these things have been done through the conciliation machinery which has been brought
into existence, and is now so long and well established, to regulate wages, hours and
conditions of work.
What is the explanation of these agreements being honourably observed by both
employers and operatives? It is true that when the Board of Trade strike settlement
was effected on 19th April, 1895, a clause was inserted that "No strike or lockout shall be
entered into on the part of any body of workmen, members of the National Union, or any
clause in 1910 setting up a guarantee fund for the observance of the agreement. To this
Arbitration," and to this was added
fund the Federation and the National Union have both deposited £1,000.
But I firmly believe that the spirit of confidence which has been created, the feeling
which has been engendered on both sides of the conciliation table that they must " play
the game," is a far greater and more binding obligation than the legal power by which
observance can be enforced.
The Operatives' Gain.
The operatives have gained substantially by the agreement, and wages and working
conditions in the boot and shoe industry are a model upon which those of other trades
could be fashioned to the real advantage of the workers. When the agreement was
originally made in 1895 the minimum wage of the boot and shoe industry ranged from
26s. to 30s. for a working week of 54 hours. Under the new agreement, which is to be voted
upon by the operatives at their November meetings, the minimum wage rates for male
operatives are to be:-
AGE.
With index
figure over
70 per week.
After index figure falls to
70
50
30
s. d.
s. d.
15.......
16..
17..
18..
19..
20..
21..
22..
14 6
19 6
23 0
29 0
35 6
42 6
53 0
60 0
13 0
18
27
33
40
50
56
s. d.
12 6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
11 6
17 6
20 3
26 0
31 9
38 6
48 6
54 0
s. d.
16 0
18 9
24 0
29 6
35 6
44 6
50 0
Thus the present minimum wage of the male adult worker at day rates is £3 per
week, and if the cost of living should fall to 30 points above the pre-war level the minimum
will be 50s. per week for a working week of 48 hours. In the case of female operatives the
adult minimum is 36s. per week.
In the boot and shoe industry much of the work is done at piece rates. This agree-
ment contains a clause which has obviously been framed to afford protection to those
operatives who, by their skill, dexterity and energy, are giving of their best.
Thus the minimum wages to be earned at piecework rate is not less than 25 per cent.
above the minimum day wage rate. This brings the minimum wage of the adult male
pieceworker to £3 15s. per week and of the female worker to £2 5s. per week, with the
same proportionate increase of the earnings at all the earlier ages.
Advantage to Employer.
What is the advantage to the employer of these agreements? There can be no
question that they have resulted in establishing excellent relations between the workers
and their employers. A basis of remuneration has been fixed by mutual agreement


---
ovided 619 wwwon the parties. There is, as a consequence, no such evil as going slow or artificial piction of output. Clause 3 of the agreement reads:" It is understood that operatives se their trade skill and productive ability to the best advantage and fullest capacity, An admirably drafted clause, holding the balance of advantage equally between they are paid the full rate of wage for all output." mployers and workers. The public may ask. "Where do we come in?" cumstances. That crucial question can be answered to the satisfaction of those consumers who are ready to weigh up all the cir In a national industry where there are a large number of firms competing for the home and export trade. the cash value of that comes in large measure to the constiner. The worker is giving best value; the consumer gets best value, and so both reap an production, freed from the wasteful cost of strikes and lockouts. conomic advantage. Then there is the enormous economic gain which comes from regular If it were possible to conduct all our great industries on the same lines as that of the boot and shoe industry, most of our industrial and economic troubles would be minimised, even if they were not solved - The Financial Times, 3rd November, 1924. DEAR SIR, THE FUTURE OF INDUSTRY. 24th October, 1924. With reference to your letter, 300/1/11, dated the 23rd October, addressed to Mr. Stanley Baldwin. asking him to make clear the attitude of the Unionist Party in regard to the following four questions which are dealt with in the Government's Election Pro- gramme :- 1. The production and supply of coal and its by-products; 2. The generation and supply of electricity; 3. The supply and distribution of foodstuffs 4. Transport. I am desired by Mr. Baldwin, who left for Scotland this morning, to reply as follows:- In Mr. Baldwin's view the Labour Government's schemes in regard to the above are too nebulous for critical examination. On the question of the general principle, however, he feels that it is hardly necessary for him to assure you that the Unionist Party is opposed to the Nationalisation of Industry in any form whatever. I am further to say that he made the Party's attitude towards this proposal quite clear in his speech at the Queen's Hall on the 15th of this month. I enclose the Times report of the speech, and am to invite your particular attention to the passage marked. (Signed) Yours truly, LANCELOT STORR. [The speech at the Queen's Hall to which Mr. Baldwin refers, contained the following passages:- "We are told that the universal panacea-this time not for unemployment; We know that, contrary to what our opponents that we were promised a year ago-is national ownership and national control. We had our experience of that in the war. The prospect would try to persuade us, whatever may be said for national control and ownership, it must make for greater expense and it must tell against cheapness. We know from our experience that whatever else may be said for national control, private enterprise, given fair play, means efficiency and cheapness. of profit and gain, which is the great incentive of private industry to the individual, is withdrawn by national ownership, and when that stimulus is absent you have the tendency in the national control of industry for that keenness to cease which is essential in competition and essential for efficiency; and you have what is far more dangerous that constant pressure on the Government as the national owner, so to benefit the conditions of those who are working for the State that you add enormously to the cost and render it hopeless in any industry where you may have to meet foreign competition, for that industry to survive. is to encourage in this country individual effort, to protect the consumer, to secure o-operation whenever possible, and to aid liberally scientific research whether by private individuais, research societies, or by universities."] The true function of Government The above is an outline of Mr. Baldwin's policy which he sent in answer to a letter The Federation of British Industries, and contained in the British Industries Magazine, ovember, 1924.-E.L.P., G.S.] 1 Γ S S d t g


---
620
DAVENTRY'S NEW MAYOR.
Councillor I. H. Johnson's Good Work.
Councillor Isaac Johnson, J.P., C.C., one of the Labour members, was unanimously
elected Mayor of Daventry, at the meeting of the Town Council on Monday.
Mr. Johnson's election was proposed by Mr. E. T. Browning, who thought the member
would be all agreed that Mr. Johnson was a gentleman who deserved his very high honour
Mr. Browning had worked with Mr. Johnson for a considerable number of years, and had
found him straightforward, conscientions, fearless, and yet courteous to his opponents.
the support of the whole Council. This was the 350th year since a Bailiff or Mayor was
Mr. Johnson was of a minority party, and they were glad to know that he was to receive
first appointed in the Borough; certainly it was the first occasion upon which one of the
political faith of Mr. Johnson had been elected. Mr. Johnson early in his career grasped
the idea of self-help, and seeing its value, attached himself to the Friendly Society move
ment in the Ancient Order of Foresters, and had served in all the offices in the town in the
Order. In the Co-operative movement, Mr. Johnson held the office of president, and from
these he went into the Trade Union movement. Mr. Roche seconded, and added his
testimony to the excellent work of Mr. Johnson.
Mr. Johnson said that the honour was one of which he was proud, but nothing gave
him greater pleasure than the support of the whole Council, and especially the support of
Mr. Roche. He thought he could claim to be the first of the rank and file - by that he
meant a wage earner - to occupy the position. Looking down the list of Mayors one found
most of them were men of position and influence; what he might lack in that way he hoped
to make up in work and usefulness. - Northampton Echo, 11th November, 1924.

THE UNION'S SOUVENIR.
A quarto souvenir volume for the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, and
produced by the Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Ltd., is a credit both to this
association and to the printer. The pages place on record the history of the Union, and
there are many illustrations, including portraits in half-tone, and reproductions of emblems
in colour. The whole is admirably produced. Colour is used to advantage, such as in
the red rule borders, and the whole is provided with a tasteful gold blocked cover and
attractive end papers. - British Printer.

APPRECIATION OF OUR MEMBERS.
Councillor George Parbury has been appointed High-Bailiff for Leicester.
Councillor I. H. Johnson, J.P., has been elected as the first working-man Mayor for
Daventry.

BENEFITS OF THE EIGHT-HOUR DAY.
An interesting summary of the benefits accruing to the community from a shorter
working day is given in a letter addressed to the Press by the Czechoslovakian Minister
of Social Affairs in discussing the attack by German employers on the eight-hour day.
"Since the introduction of the eight-hour day in our country," he declares, " there
has been a decrease in the use of alcohol, an improvement in the standard of housekeeping.
and a rapid increase in the membership of workers' athletic clubs, educational unions,
and so on." - Labour Press Service, 30th October, 1924.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
FOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270; Total,
142,490. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 27th October, 1924
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 10,343; Females, 3,904; Total, 14,247.
Percentage Unemployed at 27th October, 1924: Males, 11.2; Females, 7.8; Total,
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 10.0; Great Britain only, 9.9. Compared with 22nd
September, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, increase, 1.1; Females,
increase, 2.0; Total, increase, 1.4.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, November, 1924.


---
621
OUR CHIEF LESSON.
Within a week we have managed to get through Parliamentary and municipal elections
from Land's End to John o' Groat's.
we from fifty years use of the political franchise. At least they have more substantial
He have fought the fight, but we have said on more than one occasion that the people
salts to show.
this country have benefited more from fifty years of co-operative activity than they
Our progressive efforts in the co-operative movement are slow, but steady and sure.
If the laws of the country were as bad as some people say they are, or even as bad
s they might be, so long as we have the liberty to join our co-operative organisations.
and so long as those organisations have liberty to trade on conditions as fair as thos
which govern other trading concerns, we have at our disposal the most effective instru
ment yet discovered for working out our economic salvation.
There is, however, no organisation in the country which affords the enthusiast so murin
supe for his activity or affords the thinker more opportunity for advancing the progress
is to recognise, first of all, that whatever Parliament may be and we have seen that it
of himself and his fellows than the co-operative movement does. Our duty, therefore
can make that what we like. We can develop its trade by our own loyalty.
is always the creature of passing impulse-our co-operative movement is our own. We
If there is one lesson the election teaches us to apply to our own co-operative move-
ment it seems to be this: that we must reinforce our faith with knowledge. If the people
ittle danger of their being swayed from side to side as the electorate is so often swayed.
Tasp the real meaning of principles and recognise the true from the false, there will be
We must be prepared for attack and we may take it that the movement on some
future date, apart from any political question, but purely on the question of trade and
commerce, will find itself attacked and similarly defenceless unless co-operators begin
to prepare themselves not only for a daily paper, but for a widespread combination of
co-operative publications which, largely circulated and largely read, will plant the germ
of the co-operative faith so deeply in the bosom of the ordinary citizen that when he finds
himself in the throes of a vital struggle between co-operation and competition his faith
will be unshaken. - The Co-operative News, 8th November, 1924.
SECURITY OF EUROPE.
The Next War.
Lord Grey of Fallodon, speaking at Newcastle-on-Tyne on Saturday at a meeting
arranged by the League of Nations Union, said that there was less risk to-day than ever
that the League of Nations would be made a party question. Neither the League nor
foreign politics had been made a matter of party politics during the last year.
"I associate myself with the tribute paid the other day by Mr. Baldwin to Mr. Ramsay
MacDonald," he continued, "for the part he has taken in bringing about the London
Agreement on the German reparation question. (Cheers.) The question of reparations
was a great obstacle to getting Germany into the League. That obstacle, I hope, has been
removed, or has been put into the way of being removed, by the London Agreement
which was brought about under the Labour Government, and I hope that by that means
the way has been cleared for Germany to enter the League. I would also like to say
that the late Government did make the League of Nations one of the cardinal principles
of its policy and devoted much thought to the development and strengthening of it.'
The purpose of the League, he continued, was to give a sense of real security to the
nations of Europe so that they might feel it unnecessary to depend on armaments for
same competition in armaments as before 1914, and the same result in another great
European war. If Britain wished to use her influence to secure future peace she must
make it clear that she stood for something. (Cheers.) Rightly, British public opinion
had declared that it would have nothing to do with separate entangling alliances. If
Brithin meant to make the League of Nations 2 reality she should say "We will not stand
for separate alliances. There is one thing only for which we are prepared to stand, and
that is the Covenant of the League of Nations. (Cheers.).
The next war would be a concentration of bombs and poison against the great centres
A population. It would be a victory over civilisation itself, and civilisation could not
tand it. The Times, 17th November, 1924.
Here is a challenge to create the "will for peace," and thereby prevent any "next
ELP, G.S.J.


---
```text
623
TRADE DISPUTES "DOWN UNDER."
Effect of Compulsory Arbitration. Strikes Still Occur. System
Supported by Australian Labour.
Compulsory arbitration on industrial disputes exists in Australia. In the fol
article the leader of the Australian Labour Party, Mr. M. Charlion, who has been in
adopted and some of its effects. Mr. Charlton, tells how it routin
felt for home yesterday.
The British Labour Movement is strongly opposed to compulsory arbitration
By M. CHARLTON,
Leader of the Australian Labour Party.
The Labour Party in Australia was formed as the result of the seamen's
1890, compulsory arbitration being made a prominent plank of the platform
In 1900, Mr. Wise, the Attorney-General of the then Government, which w in a
minority and had to depend on the Labour Party, passed the first Arbitration Act
The Act provided for the settlement of all disputes by the Court, which ou
employees, penalties being provided for strikes and lockouts.
a judge, as chairman, and a representative of the employers and a representative of
More Trade Unionists.
the court.
It was necessary for industrial unions to register before they could invoke the aid of
As a result of this legislation workers were encouraged to organise, and it soon became
apparent to those unorganised that, whilst the conditions of organised labour were im
proving by awards of the court, their standard remained as formerly.
In consequence, large bodies of shop employees and clerical workers formed union
and registered, thereby improving their conditions.
boards were appointed to expedite action.
Owing to the large number of claims lodged, the court became congested, and wages
At a later date the Commonwealth Parliament passed an Arbitration Act, which,
owing to the provisions of the Federal Constitution, could only deal with disputes which
extended beyond the boundary of more than one State.
This Act has done much to improve the conditions of the workers in the larger unions,
which are inter-state, such as the shearers. They have received substantial increases.
Fewer Stoppages.
During the war period an Industrial Disputes Act was passed by the Commonwealth
Parliament to deal with miners' grievances. Substantial increases in wages were given.
There have been disappointments in the working of arbitration in Australia, chiefly
owing to the congestion of business, which has occasionally caused a cessation of work.
It has never been claimed by the strongest supporters of arbitration that it
would completely prevent strikes and lockouts. It has, however, considerably
minimised them, and has materially assisted in raising the standard of living.
In addition, since the advent of arbitration the membership of trade unions has
greatly increased.—The Daily Herald, 7th November, 1924.
THE SPITALFIELDS DISPUTE.
It is regrettable that the National Union should find it necessary to intervene between
a shoe manufacturer and his customers. But the action taken recently by that body
is fully approved by the Boot Manufacturers' Federation; it is, in fact, supported by that
organisation. Certain members of the Union were withdrawn a few months ago from a
the National Agreement. They preferred to ignore the arrangement which ninety-five
per cent. of the boot manufacturers in the country deem quite satisfactory. The men
are, of course, receiving strike pay, and we learn that the Federation has raised a special
fund out of which the sum of five shillings a week is to be paid for each of the strikers'
children. It is possible to set at defiance for a time the Federation and the Union, though
that attitude cannot be maintained indefinitely. And now that the largest buyers of shoes
are unwilling to obtain supplies from what they regard as tainted sources, the end cannot
be far distant.—The Shoe and Leather Record, 31st October, 1924.
```

---
624
LATE MR. A. G. H. JONES.
Funeral of Kingswood Councillor. Representative Congregation.
There was a full muster of Kingswood councillors at the funeral of one of their number,
the late Mr. A. G. H. Jones, at Hanham Road Congregational Church, yesterday afternoon,
who said that while the late Mr. Jones did not take an active part in the work of the church,
The service was taken by the Rev. Enoch Jones (pastor of Whitefield Tabernacle),
he was a faithful and consistent member.
Councillors Line Church Approach.
The members of Kingswood Council lined the approach to the church. There were
present Messrs. W. S. Rudge (chairman), A. G. Randall (vice-chairman), and others.
Members of the Kingswood Fire Brigade acted as bearers, Captain S. Peese being in
command.
Boot Operatives' Representatives.
Representing the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives were Mr. E. L. Poulton,
J.P. (London), general secretary; Kingswood and District branch, Messrs S. Iles, C.C.,
president: A. G. Randall, secretary; W. E. A. Payne, G. Gay, F. Britton, G. Brent
(Paulton): Bristol and Kingswood No. 2 Branch, Messrs. J. Manners (secretary), n
Peacock, F. Gardiner, A. Monks; Kingswood and District Boot and Shoe Trade Arbitra
tion Board, Messrs. J. Manners, S. Iles, S. Peacock, and A. G. Randall. Mr. G. E. Britton,
past chairman of the Arbitration Board, and president Kingswood Manufacturers' Associa-
tion, was unavoidably prevented from attending. Representing Thornbury Division
Labour Party, Messrs. S. Iles, C.C., president; J. H. Alpass, A. G. Randall (treasurer)
M. Giles, E. C. Parker, J. H. Lacey, and H. Clements (secretary, Kingswood Labour Party):
U.A.O.D., Messrs. W. Payne, past-president Bristol and West of England District: A. G
Randall, and S. Iles.
The wreaths included flowers from the Kingswood and District Branch of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, Bristol and Kingswood No. 2 Branch, Chairman,
Vice-Chairman and members of the Kingswood Council, the Thornbury Divisional Labour
Party, Kingswood Labour Party, Messrs. G. F. Hutchings & Co., Bristol, boot manufac-
turers; "Fellow workmates," and the Kingswood Philharmonic Male Voice Choir.
The interment took place at the Kingswood Wesleyan Cemetery, Mr. H. Painter
carrying out the funeral arrangements.
Colleagues' Tribute.
At a meeting of Kingswood Urban District Council, last evening, the chairman, Mr.
W. S. Rudge, referred to the loss the Council had sustained since the last meeting in the
death of Mr. Jones, whom he characterised as one of the ablest of their citizens, who had
a great heart, was broadminded, tolerant, and public-spirited. Although Mr. Jones was
not a native of Kingswood, he had great love for the district, in which he was a pattern
to many who had been born there. Mr. Jones differed from several of the councillors
politically, but they felt he was sincere in his political views. He was the soul of enthu-
siasm in anything he undertook, and Kingswood was the poorer by his loss, especially
the young people. Mr. Jones believed in doing well everything he was engaged in. His
diligence was amazing, and his resolutions were an example to them all. The Chairman
moved a vote of sympathy with the widow and family, which was carried by members
standing.
The Chairman expressed gratification that every member of the Council was present
at the funeral.-Western Daily Press, 6th November, 1924.
MULTIPLE SHOE FIRMS.
While it is possible for a firm to reduce labour costs by underpaying their operatives,
that is a policy which has its disadvantages. We understand that a London firm, who
seceded from the Federation in order to evade the conditions set forth in the National
Agreement, have discovered that some of their most important customers are no longer
willing to do business with them. One of the largest multiple firms in the kingdom, it
is stated, has decided to place no further orders with the manufacturers in question, with
the result that they find it difficult to keep their factory running at full capacity. Attention
may also be called to the statement made by Mr. James Manfield. It was alleged that
his firm were purchasing shoes from a concern which do not conform with trade union
hours and wages. Mr. Manfield admitted that his company formerly obtained certain
goods from the firm alluded to, but the last delivery from that source was received four
months since. And he added that no more orders would be placed. The Shoe and Leather
Record, 31st October, 1924.


---
625
SIR ARTHUR WHEELER.
Some of His Impressions of America.
Sir Arthur Wheeler. Bart., returned to Leicester this week from a visit to America.
In the course of a brief conversation we had with Sir Arthur Wheeler this morning, we
father that he had been greatly impressed by what he had seen in the United States.
"There is NO MORE HUSTLE in America than there is in this country, PERHAPS NOT
SO MUCH," said Sir Arthur, "and THEIR GENERAL EFFICIENCY IS BY NO MEANS GREATER
THAN OURS, and yet there is something in the 'push and go' of America which impres
one, and which is a good tonic for the average Englishman.
"Their adaptability is greater than ours, largely because they are not so embedded
in tradition as we are.
"For instance, everywhere in America I SAW WOODEN HOUSES. The best of people
live in delightful villas built of wood, yet we in this country are held up for houses because
of the inability of our people to face the new conditions which obtain.
"It is not as though the climate in America was better than the climate here.
matter of fact, in the winter it is much worse, but yet houses of wood are quite comfortable
commonplace substitutes for the bricks to which we pin our faith in this country.
Leicester Mail, 30th October, 1924.
One is glad to have the testimony of Sir Arthur to the fact that the "old" country
is not the sleepy, inefficient place that is sometimes stated. Regarding houses built of
wood, it is indeed strange that no serious attempt is made to erect houses of wood. It is
not, however, the workers' fault. - E.L.P., G.S.].
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION.
At the Holsworthy (Devon) County Court on the 15th inst. Judge Higgins, when
hearing the case of a servant girl suing her employer for compensation to her right hand,
said "he should not allow the girl compensation if it were found that she neglected or
refused, any practical aid towards her restoration to a normal state."
SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.-Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 25th
October, 1924, 51,739; Decrease on a month ago, 0.7 per cent.; Increase on a year ago,
3.3 per cent. Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 25th October, 1924,
£114,499; Decrease on a month ago, 1.7 per cent.; Increase on a year ago, 9.1 per cent.
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, November, 1924.
EMPLOYMENT OVERSEAS.
GERMANY. - BOOT AND SHOE (Social-Democratic). - Membership of Unions at end
of September, 1924, 89,514; Percentage Unemployed at end of Month, September, 1924,
9.0; August, 1924, 12.2; September, 1923, 8.2.
NORWAY. - BOOT AND SHOE MAKERS. - Membership, 31st August, 1924, 1,013;
31st July, 1924, 997; 31st August, 1923, 701. Percentage Unemployed, 31st August,
1924, 1.8; 31st July, 1924, 2.4: 31st August, 1923, 6.8.-Ministry of Labour Gazette,
November, 1924.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of October, 1924,
78,138. Unemployed at end of October, 1924, 3,000; percentage, 3.8. Decrease in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.2. Decrease in percentage as
compared with a year ago, 1.3. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, November, 1924.
CANADA AND COMPETITION.
A Reuter Montreal telegram states that one of the chief topics scheduled for discussion
at the Convention of the Shoe Manufacturers' Association of Canada in December is the
competition of British-made boots and shoes. - Daily Telegraph, 9th November, 1924.


---
Here is the extracted text:
rks
and
the
the
ur
on
al
ht
va
ne
11
S.
CO
e
11
allowed.
to the injurious effects of benzol.
627
(0) where fresh air is not available a five minutes rest period in each hour shall be
RULE NO. 2. - PROHIBITION AND REGULATION OF BENZOL AND WOOD ALCOHOL,
(a) Paint containing benzol shall not be used; nor shall benzol as such be added to
are used, as many men as practicable shall be employed to minimise the period of exposure
any paint material on the job. Where penetrating stains or removers containing benzol
(b) Shellac cut in wood alcohol shall not be used; nor shall wood alcohol as such be
RULE No. 3. - REGULATION AND ELIMINATION OF PAINT MATERIALS INJURIOUS TO HEALTH
Paint materials which are suspected to being injurious to health are to be investigated
by the Trade Board for the purpose of their regulation or elimination.
used on any job.
RULE NO. 4.-- IKABELLING OF PAINTS.
The Joint Trade Board is on record as favouring and advocating legislation requiring
the labelling of paint materials in original containers to show ingredients as manufactured
or offered for sale.
RULE NO. 5.--DRY SANDPAPERING.
(a) To reduce the hazards of lead poisoning surfaces painted with lead paint shall not
be sandpapered or scraped by a dry process.
SMOKING.
(b) By carrying lead to the mouth, smoking is a source of lead poisoning and should
therefore be avoided during working hours.
RULE NO. 6. ADEQUATE WASHING FACILITIES.
む
Where running hot or cold water is not available in or about the clothes locker,
sufficient supply of pails of water and soap powder shall be furnished to the men twice a
day to provide adequate facilities for clean washing.
No common pail or bucket shall be used for washing by more than five (5) men.
RULE NO. 7.- DRINKING WATER.
Fresh drinking water and sanitary cups shall be provided twice a day during working
hours.
RULE NO. 8. - EATING PLACE.
Men shall not eat their lunch in paint or clothes locker on new operations.
RULE NO. 9. - DROP CLOTHS.
(a) Drop cloths shall be maintained in a sanitary condition by the employer.
OVERALLS.
(b) Overalls shall be kept clean by the journeymen.
RULE NO. 10. CARE OF INJURED.
Men, no matter how slightly injured, shall be immediately taken care of by a physician.
WILNECOTE SCHOOL BOOT со.
At the meeting of creditors of the Wilnecote School Boot Co. Ltd., it was stated that
the liquidation of the concern was due to labour trouble. Regarded as an explanation,
the statement is unconvincing, seeing that the loss on trading in the nine months since the
company was formed accounts for £1,739, the turnover during that period having been
$10,500. The company, it would seem, has never made a profit in spite of the fact that
the efforts the were in observance of the agreement were ineffective
the operatives employed were not paid in accordance with the National Agreement, and
In the circumstances, it is not surprising that the National Union informed the Wholesale
Co-operative Society Ltd., who were the principal customers of the company, that the
factory was being worked under unfair conditions, with the result that no further orders
were placed by the Co-operative Society. This precipitated the collapse of the Wilnecote
concern, but on the facts as reported, it is evident that the company was already insolvent
and could not have continued trading. Its downfall was due not so much to labour
trouble, as to selling its output at prices which did not cover the cost of production.
The Shoe and Leather Record, 31st October, 192.4.
1
!
(
d
of
S
ts
d
it
g


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
RAT TOWER 958 MUSEUM, LONDON.
National Union
Boot & Shoe Operatives
TEL. ADDRESS: "NATUNISHOP, PHONE, LONDON"
Affiliated to the Trade Union Congress
and National Labour Party
Approved under the State (national health Insurance Acts Approval No. 231
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
General President
T.F. RICHARDS.
General Secretary
E.L. POULTON J.P.
SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
34, GUILFORD STREET
LONDON, W.C.1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE
22ND DECEMBER, 1924.
has slightly improved as compared with the previous month, the figures recorded
in the Gazette being as follows :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment during November was only moderate on the whole, and much short
time was again worked. It showed little change as compared with October.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 9.7 on the 24th November, as compared with 10.0
on the 27th October and 9.6 on the 26th November, 1923.
Returns from firms employing over 38,000 operatives in the week ended 29th November
showed that 35 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that week to the extent
of about 11 hours each on an average.
Employment in London showed a slight improvement and was better than in Novem-
ber of last year. At Leicester conditions were still slack, but showed an improvement;
there was an increased demand for workers. Employment was quiet at Northampton
and showed a decline; some short time working was reported. There was a further
slight improvement at Wellingborough, but a number of firms were still unable to work
full time. A good deal of short time was worked at Kettering, though some of the larger
factories were able to maintain full-time working, and there was even some overtime;
employment was generally moderate and about the same as in October. Employment
was poor, and worse than in October, in the Higham and Rushden district, and short
time was worked by some factories. Employment at Irthlingborough and Raunds was
very bad.
Employment declined at Leeds and was generally bad; in the heavy boot section
short time was generally worked, but fair conditions again prevailed with makers of light
footwear. There was much short-time working at Stafford, and employment generally
was very slack. At Norwich employment was fair and much better than in November
of last year. A further decline was reported in the Bristol and Kingswood district, where
employment was generally poor. At Street employment was fair, but not so good as in
the previous month. The seasonal depression in the slipper trade of the Rossendale
Valley continued, and employment declined.


---
645
SPITALFIELDS DISPUTE.
The Spitalfields Dispute at Messrs. Jackson & Joseph continues, but
we are hopeful of coming to an agreement within the near future

NON-OBSERVANCE OF AGREEMENTS.
We would once more impress upon the whole of the membership the
absolute necessity of at once reporting to their officers any breaking away from
or non-observance of, the Agreements which have been entered into nationally
and locally so far as wages, hours and conditions are concerned. It is the
more essential that this should be done at once, because of the fact that
certain employers are making complaints of non-observance of conditions,
these complaints when followed up are found to be of such a vague character
owing to the unwillingness of employers to give names of firms which they
allege are not carrying out Agreements. We have stated upon many
occasions that we are always willing to deal with real cases in such a way
as will show that we, as a Council and Union, are determined that Agreements
should not be broken if we can prevent it. We would remind employers,
and especially those who indulge in this grumbling—although they refuse
information to enable us to deal with cases—that there is an obligation upon
the employers as well as the Union to carry out the Agreement, and that
we should assist one another in the enforcement of the same.
Clause 25 of the National (September, 1924) Agreement, states: —
25. Both parties to this Agreement undertake to use such means
as are at their disposal to ensure its due observance by all employers and
workers, whether members of their respective organisations or not.
We hope, therefore, that there will be a full appreciation of this fact by
the employers, and that in future they will do their part to secure full observance
of the conditions, and thus remove unfair and unjust competition of people
who might otherwise be inclined to cut prices by non-adherence to the National
Terms.
ANOTHER J.P.
Our colleague, Mr. A. J. Dobbs, has been appointed a J.P. for the City of
Leeds. We beg to heartily congratulate him upon this honour, which in our
judgment is well deserved, and we are quite sure he will carry out the duties
of such office in a manner both creditable to himself and with honour to the
organisation of which he is a member.

£1,000,000.
It is not often that we refer to the very considerable financial benefits
of the Union paid to the members from time to time, especially having regard
to the small contribution paid. We think it of interest, however, to state that
at the commencement of this month, we had passed the £1,000,000 sterling


---
Here's the text extracted from the image, with some minor corrections:

646

work in out of work, sick and funeral benefits paid to members, the figures

Out of Work Benefit
Sick and Funeral Benefit

Total...

£354,555 14 7
664,430 13 3

£1,018,986 7 10

This is indeed a very large sum to have paid out, more especially having regard
to the fact that the employment benefit has only been paid for a comparatively
short period. Not only does this sum of money represent help at a time of
need, but it also means that in very many cases it has enabled homes to be
kept together, and has given both to men and women fresh heart and encourage-
ment to keep a cheery outlook, because of the help granted through the agency
of the Union in their times of stress,

There is, moreover, the wider question which is often overlooked, and
which we venture to say some day will receive adequate recognition at the hands
of the historians, i.e., the great help nationally and the good – socially
upon the lives of the people which trade unions have so beneficently rendered
in providing means for out-of-work benefit, sick and funeral pay. This work
constantly goes on without any flourish of trumpets, but nevertheless it is a
work which has helped tremendously the working classes of the country to
maintain their homes intact and to preserve manhood and womanhood from
degradation.

POLITICAL.

The political situation is now somewhat clearer, due to the fact that on
the 9th inst., the King's Speech—otherwise the policy of the Government was
declared, whereby we are able to judge of some things which may take place
within the next year or so. First the Government declare that the Treaties
which were before the last House of Commons are to be thrown on the scrap
heap, and that they do not intend to ratify such agreements with Russia.
The Government also state that they propose to proceed with the plans for
increasing the naval base at Singapore. Thus upon two matters there is a
reversal of the position adopted by the Labour Government. It is also evident
from speeches that have been made—particularly by one of the Under Secre-
taries of State—that although it is not named in the King’s Speech, trade
unionists will have to be very much alive and tenacious of their rights; par-
ticularly on the political side, because of the fact that a number of members
on the Government benches are opposed to the existing conditions by which
trade unions have the right and authority to carry on political work,
nationally or locally. In this connection there is a great deal of misunder-
standing and wrong views held as to the amount of money that unions con-
tribute for this purpose. Cases have come under our notice regarding the
amount of money we are authorised to place on one side for Political purposes;
and when it has been explained as to how small the same is - threepence per


---
647
quarter per full male member both surprise and astonishment has been
expressed thereat. Other cases have been brought to our notice where it was
the intention of a member to ask for exemption from payment to the Political
Fund, but when the small amount was mentioned to them they withdrew their
opposition because, whilst there may be some members who take a different
view from the great majority, we are confident that the local work done throughı
the Union and with the full approval of all sections of the Union is worth more
than the small sum asked from the members towards the Political Fund.
It would also appear from one or two phases of the King's Speech that any
provision for an improved old age pension and pensions for widowed mothers
will be based upon a contributory basis from the people themselves. Here
again great vigilance will be needed and all the support possible required for
members of the Labour Party who are in the House of Commons, so that they
can speak effectively and also with the full knowledge that they have the
authority and influence of the general membership of the Party and trade
unions behind them in any action they may be called upon to take from time
to time in the House of Commons itself.
Meanwhile, we would again impress upon the members the absolute
necessity of keeping the machinery in good working order in each district.
A good deal can be done locally through the existing parties if opportunity
is taken of them to send to local authorities men and women who are supporters
of the Labour programme. There are a great many laws already which are
not taken full advantage of, and which we hope with increased local activity,
will be used to their utmost in the interests of the country as a whole.
ANNUAL RETURN PRESCRIBED BY THE REGISTRAR FOR A REGISTERED
TRADE UNION.
A full return of Income and Expenditure for the Union (Council and
Branch combined) has to be sent to the Registrar of Friendly Societies in
compliance with the different Acts of Parliament covering Trade Unions.
Branch Secretaries are requested to help me by completely filling in the form
already issued, and send it back to the Central Office NOT later than
January 31st, 1925.
HISTORY OF THE UNION.
It will be recalled that the " Fifty Years' History of the Union" was
presented to the delegates to the Union's Conference, and also a copy has been
sent to each Branch. It has come to our knowledge that there is a desire
on the part of some of the members to secure a copy if a cheap edition could
be printed. We have made arrangements to issue such an edition at 6d. per
Please send to the Central Office stating how many copies
Copy
you will require of this most interesting and valuable record of the work
of the Union.


---
```text
649
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
The proverb says "Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty," and in this sense we
again revert to the question of "Shoddy," and its effect on the community. In this
connection we hope to see some very drastic changes, and the help of the Employers'
Federation (although they have members who manufacture this stuff), yet there is in any
industry an overwhelming number of employers who are proud of their callings, and have
a great deal of respect for a genuine article and a good reputation for fair dealing; but
there are others, whose object in life is a cash result. They don't ever introduce, if they
can help it, the human aspect as some of my advisers in public life have been advised to
express themselves, freely say, "Ah, it don't pay," and whilst men or women live by that
alone it matters not a jot whatever their political opinions are. They are a clog on the
wheel of progress and suffer as much from some kind of fear as does the man who is in some
cases afraid to ask for his price for fear he should get the "sack." Therefore, if we are
to improve the industry by purifying it, then all sections must throw in their lot. We
have nothing to lose by letting the public know that our object is not only avoidance of
disturbances, but good conditions for the operatives and a sound and solid article for the
consuming public, and when we recall the outstanding fact that in our industry, without
counting the eight shoe factories belonging to the C.W.S., we have in this England of ours
no less than sixteen shoe factories owned and controlled by the members of the Union
and their friends, and to the best of our knowledge every man, woman, boy and girl over
sixteen years of age are members of our Union. This gives us an insight into the troubles
that employers have in their business by being able to get first-hand information respecting
all aspects of the industry. Not one of those factors on principle produce any shoddy.
If working-class factories can produce honest goods, so ought others.
We are pleased to see that the Employers' Federation have agreed to a specification
for an All-Leather Boot, or what should be understood to be the minimum of what one
should be, although I am sorry to see the sectional heel unlimited. To my mind this
should be confined to not more than two lifts thick. The "ALL-LEATHER" BOOT SPECI-
FICATION of the Employers' Federation, appears on page 656.
Should I think read Outsole and Toppiece.
OUTSOLE OR TOPPIECE . . . . . Leather.
INSOLE . . . . . . . . . Leather, grain or split, single or two whole piece.
MIDDLESOLE . . . . . . Leather, grain or split, single or two whole piece.
STIFFENER . . . . . . . Leather, grain or split, single or two whole piece.
HEEL . . . . . . . . . . Leather lifts, whole or sectional.
The Employers' Committee considers that it is not necessary that toe puffs, shanks
or bottom fillings, should be all leather, as other suitable materials are available, and say
further:-
BOTTOM FILLING . . . . Leather, felt or cork composition, such as Besto.
SHANK . . . . . . . . . Leather, felt, wood or combination made of steel and
board.
TOE PUFF OR BOX . . . . Leather, felt, celluloid or canvas.
The Employers' Committee recommends members to limit the use of an ALL LEATHER
Stamp to boots complying with the above specification on orders placed and accepted
after 1st December, 1924.
The above marks an important step forward, and in addition I am informed they are
seriously considering whether some mark, informing the public that their goods have been
made under "National Conditions" might be helpful. I am bound to say truthfully
that the non-federated are mainly the producers of Shoddy, and they, like the non-unionist,
want the world for themselves.
ALL TO JOIN THE UNION.
The Federated Employers for their own safety would be well advised to start no
non-unionist for the simple reason that if he got a majority, then the Union could not be
responsible for the conduct of such non-members, we having had recent experience upon
this point speak with definite knowledge when two firms left the Federation for the deliber-
ate purpose of evading the National Conditions.
In addition to the above they should refrain from purchasing from these Shoddy
firms themselves, and also refrain from purchasing from the Cut Stuff firms whether of
Leather or Heels or Stiffeners or anything auxiliary and the industry, unless they recog-
nised the National Conditions.
B
```

---
650
They would also do well to consider whether the time has not arrived to have state-
ments for all factories and for all departments where possible.
DAY V. PIECE.
We find a general complaint and suspicion of the Piecework Manufacturers against
the Daywork firms, whom they think have an advantage over them. As I hold the same
views, they have my sympathy.
NO ANTI-UNION GOODS SOLD HERE.
Retailers could advertise goods made under National Conditions.
WHITE LIST.
Could we do as we were able to do with the Government during the war, to only deal
with fair houses? We, as a Union, named only those houses that recognised Trade Union
Conditions. We wish they would do as W. Timpson, Ltd., of Kettering, do, hang in their
shop a Certificate signed by the General President and the General Secretary of the Union,
stating "All goods made under Trade Union Conditions." A copy of this certificate
appears on page 657.
FACTORS SHOULD REFUSE TO DEAL
with those firms who had the reputation to pay less than our rates and evade our National
Conditions. If so we should make a remarkable step forward as we know of one big factor
in Leicester who has refused to take any goods from a firm who are evading our National
Conditions. Another factor in Leicester advertises his goods largely and is buying from
a non-Union centre whose conditions are deplorable.
THE SPITALFIELDS DISPUTE.-At the request of the Ministry of Labour we have had
two interviews with Messrs. Jackson & Joseph's, Spitalfields, and the dispute still con-
tinues. The firm have entered into an agreement with some twenty of their key men,
and are not prepared to discharge operatives who have accommodated them through the
strike. There appears only one way for us and that is to let the firm have that reputation
they deserve of being a firm where National Conditions cannot be accepted and our members
prohibited from going.
Another firm in London is in a similar position, but the organisation is so poor that
action cannot be taken to compel these firms to play the honourable trade game.
MOUNTSORREL and SILEBY have had several visits this month. We have a firm in
each place without a member, although numerous attempts have been made by the usual
dinner hour meeting to organise these people, yet they appear devoid of thought of the
present or future, and can only blindly accept anything done for them without the simplest
thanks. I am of the opinion that our Organisers should work together in two's in these
difficult districts-to my mind the most successful way without interfering or depending
on any local efforts.
OUR SHODDY BOOTS COMMITTEE has met and decided to have some Shoddy Boots
dissected by the Research Department of the Manufacturers' Association, and approach
the Manufacturers' Federation and the Repairers' Association in order that we may get
their views with the ultimate object of a massed attack on the Shoddy man.
WOLLASTON.-At the request of the Higham and Rushden Branch we held a meeting
at Wollaston for organising and educational purposes. We cannot boast of the size of
the attendance, the general view being expressed that the Union has done so well that the
members are requiring to be spoon fed. Let us hope this is wrong, but we cannot imagine
our members paying is. and 6d. per week for nothing to see what they are getting for
their money after and during the threatened attack by the Tories on the Unions, they are
not even ruffled with the prospective danger lurching in the way.
COUNCIL MEETINGS.-We considered the position of the Eccles, Norwich and Frome
Parliamentary seats, and advised continuance and with the same Candidates, if the local
people so desire.
ORGANISING.-We now have five Organisers who can do an enormous amount of work,.
and my old wish of four Organisers in 1914 is at last consummated. If the names, ages,.
wages, and occupation of all factories in the industry were obtained, and they ought to be,
the present staff of organisers could not do that work once round under five years, and as
local officers spend a much busier time now than ever before, the organiser brings a fresh
mind to bear and is able to rectify the daily wrongs he finds as he proceeds. If he feels
lonely, the Repairing side of our industry will allow him to fill up his time.
STAFFORD.-A further visit to Stafford at the Council's request has been made and
the Chairman of Lotus Ltd. and his staff interviewed, and the question of Heel Building
fully entered into. The firm claim they are merely doing what has always been their


---
651
custom, and see no real reason for a change. Further, they also daim to be payinga better
price than any other district for this class of work. Eeny, and would
add this that their's is a good and satisfactory business and they a holding their own
with all competitors.
When we are prepared to talk of the sex question, we must funt look at our own
offices and boldly face the honest and only position of equal pay for equal work in cord
with Clause 20 of our rules. The establishment of a sociel and economic equshty ltseen
the sexes.
TRADE BOARDS, Six days during the month has been spent on Trade Road work,
and during the meeting of the full board, the prices we as an Advisory Committee recom
mended to the trade, were ultimately unanimously accepted and ordered to be printed
and sent out. The two months' report of the Inspectors during the montle, of Anest
and September are as follows:---
Number of firms in the Trade Board List 31
Visited during these two months
Number of workers employed at these firms
Arrears claimed
604
121
428
..1290 15 11
This little table of facts ought to convince our members and those non members
receiving their benefits and not paying for them, that they ought to find their cars burn
when they read this. On one occasion during the month I was one of a deputation to
Portsmouth Navy Dockyard to see the training in Boot and Shoe Repairing of men about
to leave the Service. During the last six months they are permitted to go into the Shoe
Shop and have six months' training of two hours per day, four days per week, or one day
a week for the six months, which means all the man has had is about 25 days' work and
training, and as he is then discharged the Government think they have fulfilled their
obligations. We, as a Trade Board, think that further provision should be made for
them. We think that the Army and Navy Authorities ought to do no less than the Marines
do, that is, make and mend all the boots (handsewn) that they need, and in this connection
maintain the handsewn boot as voted by the Marines themselves to be the best boot for
comfort and wear, and it would be worth while if the Army and Navy did this in Govern-
ment Workshops, and save the awful spectacle cf turning on the streets so many young
men who could be adequately and remuneratively employed by the services for service
work only, but until this becomes an accomplished fact, we are prepared to make provision
for these men to continue their training under some employer at rates commensurate with
their lack of being fully qualified men, and in this connection we are willing to help.
The Inspectorate for Trade Boards is very interesting.
In 1919 the number of firms per Inspector under Trade Boards was 408 to 1.
In 1920 the number of firms per Inspector under the Trade Boards was increased
to 818 to 2.
In February, 1922, the number of firms per Inspector under the Trade Boards was
966 to 4.
In January, 1924, there was a Staff of 39 Inspectors, which meant every Inspector
was responsible for 4,830 firms. As five Inspectors were engaged solely at Headquarters,
this left only 34 Inspectors for actual inspection.
In January, 1923, the number of firms on Trade Board Lists was in all trades 188,405.
And between Ist January, 1922, and March, 1923, 4,723 firms only were inspected, repre-
senting about 2 per cent. At this rate if every firm is to be inspected once only, it will
take fifty years to go round once, but the Ministry of Labour brought the 39 Inspectors
up to 60, which will permit inspection amounting to not more than 4 per cent.
COMPETITION AMONG UNIONS.
One Shoe Union for All.
We have had occasion to again complain of some of our members on one firm clearing
their cards and joining another Union. We complained, and ultimately took the matter
to the Disputes' Committee of the Trades Union Congress, and found that these men had
joined the other Union in such a manner that that organisation did not know the facts
or they would not have taken them, as the officials of both bodies work amicably together
on other matters. We are determined not to allow the greed of a few disgruntled men
from that good fellowship continuing. It so happened that five out of the six did not find
the haven of Trades Unionism until they were over fifty years of age, and at sixty years of
age they have transferred. We can well afford to let them go, and we feel sure such attempts
in future will be refused if we only inform the other Union in time.
The time has arrived when all Shoe Unions should be rolled into one whatever the
cost, whatever the inconvenience. There are already a body whom both could appeal
to to act as mediator between us if we cannot agree, and I trust when next we make this
attempt we should be determined to amalgamate for unity's sake.


---
652
In the meantime wear only those goods made under Trade Union Conditions, and
examine honest trims, and read the Daily Herald daily. If you are loyal to your
Even you all read the Daily Herald
Wishing every member the Season's Compliments.
Yours fraternally,
MICKLENBURG STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
19th December, 1921
General President.
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
What the Employers think about Improving Working Conditions.
Various employers' organisations have recently held conferences to discuss questions
which affect the workers. The two chief questions discussed have been working hours
and workers' insurance.
AN INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF MASTER BAKERS, which met at Brussels, con-
demned the draft agreement compiled by the Geneva Conference for the prohibition of
night work in bakeries, and passed a resolution to found an International Union of Master
Bakers, to fight this Agreement.
A GENERAL MEETING OF DANISH EMPLOYERS' ASSOCIATIONS formulated the demand
that the management of factories must be left wholly in the hands of the employers, and
diminished Parliament not to pass legislation regulating working hours.
A GENERAL MEETING OF THE FRENCH UNION OF EMPLOYERS' ASSOCIATIONS in the
TEXTILE INDUSTRY demanded that more work should be done in order to increase output,
and thereby cheapen production. It also demanded that social insurance should be
developed only gradually, and should be guided in its development by the experience
and desires of the industrial and commercial associations.
THE ASSOCIATION OF FRENCH INDUSTRY AND AGRICULTURE protested against the
present institution of the eight-hours day, which, it declared, places French industry at a
great disadvantage compared with most of its strongest competitors. The Government
must amend the existing regulations establishing the eight-hours day.
THE ASSOCIATIONS OF THE FRENCH PRINTING PRESS-OWNERS consider that, in view
of the financial difficulties of the country, the time is not suitable for the introduction of
the proposed social insurance. They also object to the compulsory employment of war
wounded.
THE ITALIAN INDUSTRIALISTS' ASSOCIATION disapproves of the general establishment
of the eight-hours day, and demands that international labour legislation shall be restricted
so as to prevent its hampering the increase of production in Italy.
THE POLISH NATIONAL UNION FOR INDUSTRY, MINING, COMMERCE AND FINANCE
demands the modification of the existing regulations on the subject of working hours,
paid leave, and holidays for festivals.
THE ROUMANIAN MANUFACTURERS' ASSOCIATION declares that the only benefit to be
obtained through labour legislation is the establishment of the practice of free negotiations
between employers and workers; the State must not interfere with these negotiations.
THE NATIONAL UNION OF SWISS EMPLOYERS' ASSOCIATIONS demands that efforts
shall be made to lengthen the ordinary working week to 52 hours on the basis of Article 41
of the Swiss Working Hours Act.
In every country, therefore, the employers' organisations are combating the eight-
hours day, and the advancement of the workers towards improved conditions; and
always one country complains that another is ahead of it in exploiting the workers, and
that for this reason it cannot compete with its wicked neighbour. Obviously there is
only one remedy for this. When every worker on the face of the globe enjoys the benefit
of the eight-hours day, there will be an end of all this unfair competition based on long
working hours. Why do not the employers grasp this simple fact, and turn their energies
to spreading the gospel of the eight-hours day among their own ranks ?
[The above extracts show the absolute need for keeping our machinery in an high
state of efficiency and also that the workers should become active members of their trade
unions.--E.L.P., G.S.].


---
```text
653
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH.-Trade is still bad in this district, and our festive season
will be like the weather, very variable. It seems inevitable that an extended
holiday will be given to a large number of our this season, with
all its consequent hardships. If this additional period is added to the holiday
it will bring us again in contact with the customary holiday rule of Unemploy-
ment Insurance. We still think it a shame that this rule should be used to
stop benefit to claimants even when the customary holiday does not deprive
short-time claimants of work. It is a pity we cannot get a united front by all
the large unions on such a matter, because it requires only this pressure to have
it altered. Another matter which is clamant is the offer of potato-picking to claimants as a test of their genuine desire for
work. Throughout Scotland this work is paid for at the princely wage of 45
45. 6d. and 5s. per day, while frequently you have to find your own form of
conveyance to the fields which may be a few miles away. Many claimants
draw considerably more benefit than would be paid for a week at potatoes.
It is not insurable work, and although it is used by the Ministry of Labour as
a "test," there is another point that the same Ministry decides against a claim-
ant when he has been working for any length of time at non-insured employ-
ment. The unions must join in protesting against such underpaid and unprofit-
able uninsured work being offered their idle members who are drawing extended
benefit, and their being penalised when it is refused. A very large number
have been punished severely in this district over their refusal to accept this
scandalous alternative. Arising out of disallowance of benefit by the Chief
Insurance Officer, if upheld by the Court of Referees, is the further evil of an
extended penalty at the option of Local Employment Committees. When
such difficulties confront a large number of idle workers, the work of using
existing machinery is very great and very unsatisfactory, as can be judged
when a Court of Referees may have as many as 35 cases to deal with at a sitting.
No full or fair hearing is possible in the time allowed the Court. There are
two other points being dealt with just now which should interest trade unions
and officials everywhere. One is a Divisional Office decision to refuse benefit
unless a claimant has at least twelve stamps to his or her credit. Regulations
at present allow a discretionary power to waive a definite number if oppor-
tunities have not existed, especially for young persons just starting insurance,
for securing stamps. These regulations are to be scrapped if this decision is
allowed to pass, and branches should join in upholding the practice of " waiving"
the definite number of stamps in exceptional circumstances. The other point
is serious to a greater degree. Central Office of the Ministry has sent out an
instruction to refuse benefit to any claimant returning from abroad until they
have had work of an insurable nature since their return. Many young men in
the Iron Trades and Building Trades, forced to go abroad and then in turn
forced to come home, have large reserves of unexhausted contributions, and
yet they are to be refused benefit until they have found work of sufficient
duration to prove they are normally insurable. It is terrible, and a flaming
protest should be sent to the Ministry in order to have this decision cancelled.
Every town will have many cases of this kind at the present moment, and serious
hardship will be inflicted if the decision stands. The fight is being taken up
by some Labour Exchange Committees, but the unions should use every effort
to press home the protest. Unemployment Insurance may yet be the rallying-
ground for the unions and produce that united front which is often spoken of-
The one union for all workers.
BELFAST. There is no improvement in the state of trade. We are
sed to report that the effort put forth to increase our membership has met
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
654
with some success, although not all we would have liked. We extend to each
Officer and Member of the Union the Season's Greetings, wishing one and all
a Bright and Prosperous New Year.
CHESHAM. Trade here remains very good for the time being, and we
have only a few members signing the out-of-work book, and our sick list is
light.
The New Agreement meets with the general approval of the members.
This being our last report before the Xmas holidays we take this opportunity
of wishing all the Officers of the Union the Season's Compliments.
CHESTERFIELD. Trade is fair. We have still some of our members
out of work. We are pleased to state we have put on four new members at
Stoney Middleton section and are in hopes of some more during the month.
We wish all members Compliments of the Season, and hope that next year
will be better for our members than the years since the war.
CORK. Trade here still remains good. We wish all the members of the
Union a Bright and Prosperous New Year.
DERBY. Trade in Derby is rather good at present, all the firms being
on full time. The past year was one of the worst for the shoe trade in Derby
that we have ever experienced. Wishing all our members a Bright and Pros-
perous New Year.
GLASGOW. We have to report that trade has fallen off during the
month, especially with the Repairers. Wishing all officers and members the
Season's Compliments, and trust 1925 may give us prosperous trade.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. Trade has fallen off during the month.
All round the branch (except Raunds who have an order from Admiralty)
Irthlingborough seems to be the worst place in our district now. We regret
to report the death of Tom Wilson, of Finedon, who for many years was
Secretary for Finedon Branch before it became a Section of the Rushden and
District Branch. He was able to go to vote at the election, and caught a chill
which soon ended fatally. (The Finedon Section was taken over in December,
1905). We wish the General Officers and Staff of the Headquarters the Com-
pliments of the Season.
KILMARNOCK. - Trade is fairly good in Kilmarnock, but quite the
reverse at our Section at Kilmaurs, where the members have been working
short time for a considerable period. The Kilmaurs factory has been closed
for an indefinite time. We hope brighter times are in store for them, and that
trade in general will take a turn for the better. The Branch held a Social and
Dance in the Art Galleries on the evening of Friday, 21st November, the first
in the history of the Branch. There was a large and thoroughly representative
gathering of the Saxone Shoe operatives, both male and female. About 210
sat down to a very select and sumptuous meal preparatory to the music and
harmony being proceeded with. Mr. Geo. Clark, Managing Director, occupied
the chair, and was supported by Messrs. C. Bleakley, Council Member, W. F.
Smith, M. Henderson and W. H. Dempster (Saxone Shoe Co.), J. J. Horn, jun.,
Glasgow, representing the Shoe and Leather Record, and W. Henderson, Presi-
dent, J. Campbell, and A. Flanagan, Secretary. The speeches were lucid and
crispy, educative and interesting, special reference being made to the process
of building up the trade in Kilmarnock, the great changes that had taken place
during the last 30 years, the old method and the new, the introduction and
development of high speed, highly productive labour-saving machinery, and
in face of that, paradoxical as it may seem, the expansion and growth of the
excellent programme of music and song was gone through with the customary
National Union, not only in Kilmarnock, but throughout the country. An
votes of thanks to the chairman, speakers and artistes, and last, but by no means


---
655
least, the Arrangements Committee, for the able manner in which they had
carried out the evening's entertainment, concluding a delightful and happy evening. Wishing
all the members a Bright and Happy New Year, hoping that trade will improve
in the coming year.
KINGSWOOD. Trade in this district is distributed very unevenly,
some firms working full time, others half time or less. As this is the last report
of the year, we wish all officers and members a Bright and Happy New Year.
LEEDS. We regret the heavy and medium work here has fallen off very
much, and as a consequence our out-of-work list has been considerably increased.
We are pleased to report that our Branch President, Councillor A. J. Dobbs,
has been included in the latest list of new J.P.'s. We would also draw the
attention of our members who are in arrears, if they would make an effort
to reduce the same according to rule. This being our last report before
Christmas, we wish all officers and members a Merry Christmas and a Happy
and Prosperous New Year.
LEICESTER. There is a slight improvement in trade.
LIVERPOOL. The boot repairing trade is quiet as is generally the case
at this time of the year. We note in the Shoe Trades Journal, 5th December,
a report of the twenty-first meeting of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade
Board (Great Britain), held at the Office of Trades Board on the 26th-27th
November. We note that some of the items under discussion have been
referred back for further consideration, whilst others have been recommended
to the Ministry of Labour to come into operation in January.
NORWICH. Trade has fallen off badly during the month and the immedi-
ate outlook seems bad indeed. Turnshoe makers are especially feeling the
pinch, a greater number of that section being unemployed than has been the
case since the slump. Constantly changing methods providing alternative
means of securing light ladies' footwear appears to account for this feature.
However, we wish our fellow members in the country a Bright and More
Prosperous New Year than 1924 has given us, and hope that by the time
these lines are read many of our members will have secured work again.
PLYMOUTH. During the month we have lost one of our members,
John Proctor. He was at work a few days before his death and passed away
quite suddenly. Although he never interested himself in Trade Unionism
or Labour Politics, being more inclined to Conservatism, he was, nevertheless,
a man of exceptional tastes, and every spare moment in the workshop was
employed in reading some musty old volume of recent purchase; almost
every second-hand bookshop in the town was visited by him, and his know-
ledge of English History would have put many a secondary school pupil in the
shade. Later years he studied Greek and was often to be seen, sat upon his
bench with paper and pen in hand attempting a translation of some old manu-
script. He also had some knowledge of music and was well acquainted with
many biographies of the old composers. To the widow and family we extend
our sympathy. The funeral was attended by our President and Secretary,
together with sixteen of our members. We wish all members a Happy New
Year.
STAFFORD. Trade in this centre is still very slack, and we are very
much afraid that the happiness that abounds at the festive season will be
absent from the homes of many of our members, but we are hoping for better
times in the new year. The General President attended our November branch
meeting and addressed our members, taking for his subject: "Intensive
Organisation." His speech was greatly appreciated by our members and the


---
Here is the extracted text:
657
THIS IS TO CERTIFY that we,
the undersigned, are entirely satisfied
that THE BOOTS MANUFACTURED
BY THE FIRM of
WM. TIMPSON Ltd.,
KETTERING,
ARE MADE UNDER CONDITIONS
satisfactory to and in conformity with the principles
and agreements of the NATIONAL UNION
OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
Signed,
T. F. RICHARDS, President.
E. L. POULTON, Secretary.
Trade Union Stamp No. 29.
March, 1922.
C

---
Here is the extracted text:
658
Reprint of Circular No. 325. issued in March, 1924.
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
34 GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
December, 1924.
FELLOW OFFICERS AND MEMBERS,
DAY-WORK METHODS OF EMPLOYMENT.
I beg to call your attention to an important point in connection
with the policy and procedure of the Union regarding day-work methods of
employment.
Some employers appear to be under the impression that once day-work
is the method of employment, the piecework statements are not the basis for
measuring the wages paid. It cannot be too clearly pointed out that the
policy of the Union has always been, that if day-work is the method by which
wages are paid, then the amount of work done for the wages paid MUST
be based upon the quantities statements which have been drawn up from
time to time by the Boards of Arbitration, and which, therefore, can easily
be applied as to the output when on day-work.
For instance, supposing an employer pays an operative (male) 62s. per week.
such 62s. should be measured by the statement as to the number of pairs or
operations to be done for this wage. It has not been unknown that some
employers have expected that for the 62s. paid, the amount of work done
would be nearer 70s.
So far as women operatives are concerned, it has also been known that
some employers expected for 37s. per week paid as wages, 45s. worth of work
as judged by the Statement. The same method must also apply to Youths'
wages on the Graduated Scale, which are governed by the piecework and
quantities statements. I trust NO MEMBER will be under any misappre-
hension that the output MUST be regulated by the statement according
to the wage paid to an operative on day-work.
Yours faithfully,
On behalf of the Council,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.

---
LEICESTER BOOT AND SHOE TRADE:
BOARD OF CONCILATION AND ARBITRATION.

The Annual Meeting of the Board was held on this
Mr. G. Parbury, in the Chair. Messte. G. W. Thard, W.
T. W. Smith, representing the Manufacturers. Mear
T. H. Vallance, G. Smith, Miss A. Muir, and Miss Sherwin
Mr. A. E. W. Chamberlin, Secretary.

Apologies for non-attendance were received from Mr. J.
Bell-Richards.
The Members of the Board expressed their very deep regret at the death of Mr. 3
his widow and family.

and Mr. A. E. W. Chamberlin, Secretary, for the ensuing year.

Mr. J. A. Sabin was elected Chairman of the Board, Mr. G. Smith, Vice Chairman,

Messrs. W. A. Thompson and G. W. Hunt (nominated by the Manufacturer) and
Messrs. J. Wheeler and M. A. Parker (nominated by the No. 1 Branch of the Operatives
Union), were elected the Committee of Enquiry for the ensuing year, it being under tood
that in all cases before the Committee where the No. 2 or No 3 Branch of the Union is
concerned, representatives from those branches shall be substituted on the Operative
side of the Committee.
The Umpire's Award in the matter of the Reference as to Leather Layer Liits was
ordered to be recorded in the Minutes.
The claims of the Operatives' side for a price to be fixed for the use of the rasp in
connection with the rubbing-down machine, either with or without the aid of the wheel,
and for the revision of the prices for Knocking Up and Seat Sinking, upon which the
Lasting Joint Committee reported their inability to agree, were referred to the Arbitrators
for adjudication.
Supplementary piecework prices of general application fixed by the Clicking, Closing
and Finishing Joint Committees were approved and confirmed by the Board.

History of the Union
A cheap edition of the "Fifty Years'
History of the Union" available
NOW.
SIXPENCE PER COPY.
Orders should be remitted through Branch Secretaries as
early as possible.
This "History" gives an interesting and valuable record
of the Union.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```
661

INTERNATIONAL BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES
AND LEATHER WORKERS' FEDERATION.

INTERNATIONAL SECRETARIAT.

Re-affiliation of the American Boot and Shoe Workers' Union with
the International Federation.

Since the end of the Great War the International Secretary made repeated effort
to bring about the re-affiliation of the American Shoe Workers' Union having been affiliated
with the International Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives before the war. During the
past years these efforts had had no success. At the last meeting of the International
Council, on 23rd July, 1924, this question was again discussed and the members were of
unanimous opinion that the efforts to bring about the affiliation of the American Union
had to be continued. Colleague Poulton, General Secretary to the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives, England, was charged to use his influence to reach this aim.
Poulton and Simon's united efforts have had now the desired result. On 30th October
the Secretariat had a letter from the American brother Union where the American comrades
declared their re-affiliation with the International. As the different affiliated Unions
will be interested in these negotiations the respecting correspondence will be herewith
notified:

MR. E. L. POULTON,	BOOT AND SHOE WORKERS' UNION,
General Secretary,	246 SUMMER STREET, BOSTON.
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,	18th August, 1924.
34 Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1, England.

DEAR MR. POULTON,

Your communication of 28th July, 1924, relative to the matter of the Boot and
Shoe Workers' Union becoming affiliated with the Shoe and Leather Workers' Inter-
national, has been referred to me upon my return from a brief vacation.

The question of re-affiliating with the Shoe and Leather Workers' International
has been discussed at several of our Board meetings during the last few years, but
no definite action has been taken.

In view of the fact that our General Executive Board is scheduled to meet begin-
ning Monday, 8th September, 1924, we have decided to submit your communication
to the Board for such action as they may desire to take, and the decision of our General
Board will be immediately communicated to you.

Trusting, &c.
Fraternally yours,
(Signed) C. L. BAINE,
General Secretary and Treasurer.

MR. E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary,
BOOT AND SHOE WORKERS' UNION,
246 SUMMER STREET,
BOSTON (9), MASS.
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
34 Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1, England.
DEAR MR. POULTON,
17th September, 1924.

Your communication of 28th July, 1924, together with a communication from
Brother F. Simon, requesting the Boot and Shoe Workers' Union to affiliate with
the International Shoe and Leather Workers, were given consideration at a meeting
of our General Executive Board, held in Boston during the week of 8th September.

After careful consideration of the subject it was decided to re-affiliate with the
International Shoe and Leather Workers, and I am writing to Brother Simon, Secre-
tary of that Organisation, advising him of the action of the General Executive Board.
```

---
```text
1662
Labt our brother
ble in do toward this favourable decision.
with m
be the
Fastos, Secretary,
ly and Gatomally you
Pagnol
1
BAINI,
Ne sal lovedie Bourd
BOOT AND SHO WORKP
International Shree and Leather Workers,
Nacrabere, Germany
PEAP SIRROR.
BOSTON (0), MA
wyth September, 194
Poion, held in Boston, Mass., during the week of 8th September, the greation of
Ma meeting of the General Executive Board of the Boot and Shoe Worker
nethliatine with the International Shoe and Leather Worker Wa
consider.dion.
Your communication upon this question,
given careful
as well as a letter from Brother E. L
England, were placed before the General Board, and I am pleased to be able to inforro
Poulton, General Secretary of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives of
von that our General Board decided to re-affiliate and will await from you such infor
the International, together with such requirements as we would be called upon to
mation as you deem necessary for us to have in connection with the workings of
observe.
With best regards and good wishes to yourself and colleagues, I am,
Fraternally yours,
(Signed) C. L. BAINE,
Secretary, General Executive Board..
This letter did not reach the Secretariat before 30th October, due to somewhat un-
intelligent delivery by the post. The International Secretary, J. Simon, answered as
follows:-
MR. C. L. BAINE,
General Secretary,
Boot and Shoe Workers' Union.
Boston, U.S.A.
DEAR MR. BAINE,
NUERNBERG,
30th October, 1924.
Your letter of 17th September, by which you informed me that your General
Board decided to re-affiliate with the International Union, reached me this morning.
It is with great pleasure that I take notice of this decision and so it will be at the
different affiliated Unions. Your not being affiliated meant all the time an important
want of our International. I most sincerely welcome your Union as new worthy
member of our International, and hope our collaboration will do much good to the
workmen we represent.
You received the publications of the Secretariat, I suppose, up till now. The
International Correspondence will further be sent to you in as many copies as you
want for your singular branches.
In the beginning of every year a return is to be furnished by the affiliated
Unions in order to inform the Secretariat of the Unions' position.
As to the affiliation fees nothing has been changed-they amount to 5 Pfennig
per member per year, that is to say one dollar per 84 members.
of the International Executive Board, and informs you of the decision that the next
The last International Correspondence contains the report of the last meeting
I am hoping very much to be able to welcome at this Congress a representative of
International Congress is to be held in PARIS, the FIRST WEEK OF AUGUST, 1925.
```

---
to you in time.
663
Union. The Order of the Day, date of the beginning, No, will be communicated
With my best wishes and kind regards, I am,
Faithfully yours,
(Signed) J. SIMON,
Secretary of International Boot and Shoa
Operatives and Leather Workers Federatior.
18th December, 1924.
Thanks to the combined efforts of the International Secretariat of the International
Federation of Boot and Shoe Operatives and Leather Workers and Comrad Poulton, the
Secretary of the British National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, the American
Boot and Shoe Workers' Union has decided to affiliate with the international. The Boot
and Shoe Workers' Union has its headquarters in Boston.
Affiliation of the Leather Workers of Yugo-Slavia in View.
The Leather Workers' Union of Yugo-Slavia which, last year already gave notice
of their intention to affiliate with the International, opened anew the negotiations with
the International Secretariat and their affiliation will probably become definitive.
BETTER BOOTS.
The Value of Goodwill in Industry. A Thoughtful Lecture.
"Shall we not work for greater efficiency and a greater measure of goodwill because
of a certain knowledge of the necessity of each individual to the other. Then will come
a greater satisfaction in labour, and all is labour whether employer or employed. Let
each man know his best is expected, is appreciated, and that his best is a sound policy
for all concerned."
These were the concluding words of an exceedingly interesting lecture by Mr. E. T
Hawthorne, of Messrs. William Timpson Ltd., Kettering, on "What of To-morrow?"
at a meeting of the Northampton and District Boot and Shoe and Allied Trade Managers'
and Foremen's Association, held at the Black Boy Hotel, Northampton, on Wednesday
evening. Mr. G. Macready (president) was in the chair.
Mr. Hawthorne said some people might argue that the workman had lost his indi-
viduality, that he was a drop in the ocean, that his view-point was no longer of any
importance. But were these the facts? A HEALTHY TRADE UNION WITH LIVE, LEVEL-
HEADED OFFICIALS WAS THE FINEST POSSIBLE THING FOR THEIR TRADE OR ANY OTHER
TRADE. He suggested that rather than losing status the individual had more status under
the present order of things.
What would be their factory methods and organisation of the future? It was safe
to say that specialisation of individuals in the various details of management, supervision,
and operation had come to stay. The future would demand greater efficiency and larger
co-operation between the units that made up a manufacturing concern. The work of
employer, manager, foreman, and operative would not be less arduous, but it would be a
combination of first-class organisation, better working conditions, and last, but not least,
a closer mutual understanding between all grades which would lead to a much larger
measure of mutual satisfaction for all those concerned. What industry needed, and
THE
what industry was getting was men with vision, men with the ideal of service and a square
deal. No man asked for more.
THE SAME APPLIED TO THE WORKMAN.
INEFFICIENT EMPLOYER WAS GOING. SO HE OUGHT. THE UNSATISFACTORY MANAGER
AND FOREMAN WAS GOING TOO, AND RIGHTLY SO.
He ought not to be expected to ask for less.
What was to be the future of the managers and foremen themselves in the industrial
life of the future? One thing was certain. Foremen, managers, and executives would
be required as long as they had industry. But what of their functions? THE OLD ORDER
THE FOREMAN WHO DROVE IS GIVING WAY TO THE ONE WHO COULD LEAD.
The foreman of the future would be chosen more and more according to his knowlgdge
of men.
WAS CHANGING.
The result would be found in a better product.
"
Mr. Hawthorne went on to emphasise the great responsibility which was theirs.
Do you always give a sympathetic ear to any complaints that may arise? Do you
You may say you are not appointed
always see that justice is done? Will your men ever come to you and ask your advice
in their private difficulties and personal worries ?
for that purpose. I say that if they do come to you you are to be congratulated on having
the confidence of your subordinates, and such a thing is the finest motive force extant.-
Northampton Echo, 11th December, 1924.


---
Follow MEMBERS,
ORGANISER'S REPORT.
During the past month we have increased the membership of the Union at Barwell
by too, and for the period I have been in the district there has been an addition of over
At all the principal factories Shop Presidents have been elected, and in
very instance it has been helpful. The good effects of this work will be noticed in the
future of the Union at Barwell more than at the immediate time. The fact of ShoD
Presidents meeting their local Secretary and one another week by week must influence
the position for good. With Mr. Dan Astley I went into several factories over small
The position of the clickers at one factory is not satisfactory
the holidays we shall see their employers and I think, get matters squared up to the men's
1. Tom ollance, Leicester No. 2. Mr. Needham and I had a meeting of the men. After
grievances of members.
advantage
ud December, 1024.
D. MCCARTHY
FINAL MEETING OF PIONEER BOOT WORKS LTD.
Presentation to Councillor J. Gribble, J.P.
tive Boot Works Ltd., which has been voluntarily liquidated, came definitely to a close
This was the last meeting of shareholders in the company, called to pass the last report,
At a meeting held in Kingsway Hall, London, on Saturday last, the Pioneer Co-opera-
to adopt the last balance sheet, and to decide the custody of the books and papers belong-
ing to the company.
Councillor James Gribble, J.P., who founded the business and has been its manager through-
Mr. H. W. Lee, editor of Justice, was in the chair, and among those present were
out, Mrs. Gribble, Mr. J. F. Green (ex-member of Parliament for Leicester), Mr. F.
Davey (secretary of the company), and Mr. D. Barratt, of Northampton.
The report and statement of affairs were presented by Mr. Gribble, who has been
acting as liquidator. It showed that not only had all creditors been paid twenty shillings
congratulate themselves. A resolution that the report be adopted was carried, as was
result on which Mr. Gribble said, amid applause, he thought they had every right to
also a resolution that the books and papers be left in the custody of Mr. Gribble.
Rising at the close of the formal business, the Chairman said the meeting so far had
gratification. That was to make some recognition of the splendid services of Mr. Gribble,
not been a pleasant occasion, but he now had a duty to perform which gave him the greatest
not only to the company throughout its existence, but during the process of liquidation.
When the notice of the final payment was sent out, a suggestion was made that some
testimonial should be given to Mr. Gribble. The response had been as encouraging as it
was fitting, and he had the greatest possible pleasure in handing to Mr. Gribble a cheque
for £115 17s. 6d. as a tribute from the shareholders in the company. (Applause.)
Mr. J. F. Green said he claimed that the company had been a success even though
they were winding it up. It had given splendid service to the movement. As they had
made up their minds that they could not carry on, it was better to wind up when they
could pay twenty shillings in the pound than to hang on and in the end have to miserably
fizzle out. (Applause.) He knew the meeting would endorse every word that had been
said about the services of Mr. Gribble. Mr. Kay and Mr. Davey also spoke.
Mr. Gribble, who was visibly moved, said the kindness he had received the whole
way along had been quite a revelation to him. He had been very much touched not only
by the kindness he had received from his old comrades in the Socialist movement, but also
from his old colleagues of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union. It made him feel that his
work had not been in vain. The cheque would be very handy (laughter), but he did not
value it because of that so much as because it represented the gratitude of practically all
the shareholders in the company. They had accomplished what they set out to do up to
a point. They had contributed a great deal of money to the support of the movement,
and that was what the Pioneer Boot Works was started for. In the end they had been
crushed out through no fault of anyone, and they had wound up in an honourable manner.
If he could not have paid everyone twenty shillings in the pound, it would have been the
greatest blow of his life. He had been proud of his work for the company, and he was
proud to have their confidence to the last. (Applause.)
think Mr. Lee had missed a meeting of the committee of the company in the whole twenty
A vote of thanks to the chairman was moved by Mr. Gribble, who said he did not
years.---Northampton Daily Echo, 22nd December, 1924.
---

---
665
LATE COUNCILLOR T. ADNITT, J.P.
Memorial Unveiled at Bath Street Adult School.
Ald. Hill unveiled a photograph of the late Councillor Thomas Aduitt
At the Bath Street (Belgrave) Men's and Women's Adult School yesterday morning
president of the School.
year
how much they felt his death.
Ald. Hill referred to the great work which Comcillor Adnite did for the school, and
Several other members also paid a tribute to their late president.
The service was appropriate in every way. The following hymns scere contributed,
and "O Rest in the Lord" by Miss Candy, and aly Hope"
"Nearer my God to Thee
and Anchored," by Mr. Fred Radford.
Miss Faulkner accompanied on the pianoforte, and Mr. George Talbot presided.
Leicester Mail, 22nd December, 192.4.
BIG INCREASE IN C.W.S. SALES.
The Co-operative Wholesale Society's total sales for the thirteen weeks ended 27th
Quarterly Meetings.
September were £17,104,566, an increase of £1,922,363, or 124 per cent. on the corres-
ponding period of last year. The total supplies from the various productive works for the
thirteen weeks were £6,101,507, an increase of £1,094,115, or 21 per cent.
Banking Department.
The deposits and withdrawals in the banking department for the thirteen weeks
amounted to £132,921,760, as compared with £119,918,512 in the corresponding period of
last year, an increase of £13,003,248, or 10 per cent.
During the thirteen weeks two societies' accounts have been opened, and owing to
amalgamation two have been closed. The number of accounts is as follows :-
Co-operative Societies
Trade Unions and Friendly Societies
Clubs and other Mutual Organisations
Individuals
Total
Current.
Deposit.
1,027
(a)
8,766
720
3,454
1,285
5,137
22,224
18,384
24,229
(a) Societies' Loans and Deposits are in Trade Department.
There are 46 distributive co-operative societies not banking with the C.W.S.
The supplies from the tea department for the thirteen weeks were 13,882,256 lbs., an
increase of 1,698,035, or 137 per cent. on the corresponding period.
The average weight of cocoa and chocolate sent out from the Luton works was 500
cwts. per week, as compared with 536 cwts. in the corresponding period of last year, a
decrease of 36 cwts., or 68 per cent.
The weekly average weight of soap sent out from Irlam, Silvertown, and Dunston
was 776 tons, a decrease of 70 tons, or 84 per cent.
Eight mills between them sent out 842,150 sacks (280 lbs.) of flour and wheat meal,
an increase of 130,447 sacks, or 181 per cent. on the corresponding period.
---Co-operative News, 27th December, 1924.
We cannot all be heroes
And fill a hemisphere
With some great feat of daring,
Some deed that mocks at fear.
But we can fill a lifetime
With kindly acts and true.
There is always noble service
For noble souls to do.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
666
FACTORY ACT PROSECUTION.
Inspector’s First Visit in Three Years.
At the hincles Police Count on the 18th inst. Messrs. Ladkin Bros., boot manu-
beras Fal Shitten were summoned at the instance of Mr. T. C. Taylor. H.M. Inspector
of Pactorie for not keeping a register in accordance with the actory and Workshop
Arts, and tot net alising in the factory an abstract of the Act.
V laves, on behalf of the min admitted technical offences, and said Messrs. Ladkin
of the insper for one of the partnerd Leicester to secure the necessary forms. There
hud mu edes that the abstract and regter were required. Immediatele after the visit
hud been no intention to break the Law and it was regrettable that a firin should be penalised
for such an offence.
The magistrates having imposed a fine of /r in each case, Alderman Hurst, who
presided, said the factory had been open for three years without an inspector
having called.
they ought to be. We make no charges against
[Here is a clear case of what we have been saying for a long time past, viz. Factories
the Staff. What is wanted is a very considerable increase of Inspectors.- E.L.P. G.S.,
were not visited nothing like so often as
WEEDING OUT!
A gentleman well-known in the trade of Leicester is responsible for the statement
and arrangements, is not an unadulterated evil. It is not good, we were told, for reputable
made to us that the long list, constantly recurring of shoe trade bankruptcies, liquidations
but, apart from this unpleasantness, they would be all the better ultimately for the purge.
firms to be losing so much money through the break-down of so many weak-kneed concerns,
get adequate prices for his production. He finds he is having to pay more and more for
The trouble in the shoe trade to-day is, said our informant, that the manufacturer cannot
his materials, his labour is going to cost him a bit more, but he cannot see even the shadow
of a hope that he will make better prices for boots and shoes. The factors will not listen
to any talk of more money; indeed very frequently they will talk of lower prices, and
the average manufacturer is helpless, for he knows it is not vain talk. Shoes can be
obtained at old prices, and sometimes at less than old prices; the factor knows it and
makes the most of it. - The manufacturer knows it and makes the best or worst of it.
The cause of this ridiculous situation, continued the Leicesterite, are the people,
and their kind, who figure week by week in the "black list." Without means they are
forced to go on as long as they can; they obtain leather where they can, the factory and
machinery are hired and they work for a bare living; so long as they are able to obtain
a little credit they continue to turn out what they can, and accept for it just what thev
can get they cannot hold for a better price, for they have to pay wages every week!
This is the reason there is such competition, this is the reason why it is so difficult to obtain
adequate prices, this is the reason why so many boot manufacturers are fearing their next
balance sheet. "I say the long roll of casualties week by week is not an unmixed evil,
it is proof the trade is being purged of those who may ruin it, and while the process may
be painful while it lasts I am convinced it will be for the ultimate good of the trade."
We refrain from comment, for the criticism does not unfairly represent one of the
awkward problems of the shoe manufacturing industry. --Shoe and Leather News, 25th
December, 1924.
[The above-named statement surely calls for a tightening up of the laws on Bank-
ruptcy. It is unfair to the general community that persons can so easily start in business,
cause a great deal of trouble while in business, go through the Bankruptcy Court, pay
anything from Is. to 7s. in the f, and yet manage to re-start in business as "manager
or its equivalent to some other person, and in a year secure their discharge and once more
go along the same path. It is a matter to which we have called the attention of the Board
of Trade very recently.-E.L.P., G.S.]
TRUTH WILL, OUT!
has been exposed in the House of Commons. We called attention last week to the belated
Little by little, the cynical hypocrisy of the Tory campaign in the General Election
admission made by Mr. Austen Chamberlain of the wisdom and decision with which Mr.
Ramsay MacDonald handled the Red Letter when it came before him as Foreign Secretary,
and of the fact that the Foreign Office had issued the Note to Mr. Rakovsky without


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

Now the Tory Government has reluctantly been compelled by the Labour Cabinet to its Attorney-General to the effect that in Stanley Baldwin about a week ago rose in the House to say with the primness that the instruction given was to be instituted without its knowledge or sanction. This was the ground upon which the Tory Party conducted its election campaign on the Campbell case. From hundreds of platforms the electors were told that the Labour Ministers had interfered in justice for political reasons; and Lord Birkenhead, as a former Attorney General, called heaven and earth to witness that no Cabinet before had dared to lay a sacrilegious hand upon the sacred mysteries of the Law Officers, and that when greatly daring a Cabinet of which he was a member had ventured to suggest to him that he should prosecute, etc. had sternly ordered them to mind their own business. Challenged by Mr. MacDonald and his colleagues on the Front Bench, the Tory Government does not only that it is the duty of an Attorney-General to inform himself of all the relevant facts regarding such prosecutions, but also to take account of the views of the Government or the appropriate Minister before coming to a decision. Mr. Baldwin, in fact, has grudgingly acknowledged that the Labour Cabinet did nothing improper or unusual in defining the procedure in regard to political prosecutions. It is true that Mr. Baldwin said that in the view of his Government the Labour Cabinet’s “instruction” went beyond this ; but it is perfectly obvious that there is no real difference between the attitude of the Labour Cabinet and that of its successor on the question of political prosecutions. It is well known that if the Prime Minister had not made his statement, the debate on the adjournment of which Mr. MacDonald had given notice would have gone to prove that precedents for the action of the Labour Cabinet existed in great numbers, and they would have been produced. With more magnanimity and forbearance than Tory or Liberal leaders have shown, Mr. MacDonald indicated his willingness to let the matter rest where Mr. Baldwin’s statement left it. Labour has been justified out of the mouths of its enemies: and there we can leave it. — Labour Press Service, 24th December, 1924.
LOBBY NOTES.
(By Our Lobby Correspondent.)
Perhaps no better Minister than Mr. Churchill could have been selected by the Government to shatter the illusion that the removal of the McKenna Duties had brought about the ruin of the motor industry.
In an official statement circulated on Tuesday, he reported that the number of motor-cars imported into this country during the six months from May to October this year was 7,055, or only 22 more than during the corresponding period of last year. Moreover, during the same comparative period the number of imported chassis actually decreased from 5,418 last year to 5,268 this year.
The fact that the motor trade has not been ruined is also apparent when another angle of view is adopted. According to the official figures, the number of unemployed in the motor industry on 20th November, 1923, was 21,489. By 24th November this year the number had been reduced to 17,398. Further, the number of workers engaged in the industry has grown from 193,020 in November last to 201,790 in November of this year.- C.E.L.
Labour Press Service, 24th December, 1924.
RESOLUTIONS.
I wish for peace at twilight,
And happiness at dawn;
The help of God as slow I trod
The way that leads me on.
For strength to aid another,
Who needs the aid of me;
The gift of smiles through weary miles,
And blest humility.
For some place in the future
To serve or to command;
And to the ends some gallant friends,
Who love and understand.
For mind forever open
And soul with courage high
To see the light and do the right,
When life has cast the die.
For hopes within my power
To better me and you;
And then the will to keep them still,
And faith to see them through.
-HENRY GILLEN.


---
668
MR. W. R. SMITH.
Receives Address from Former Supporters.
A picturesque ceremony took place at a meeting of the Wellingborough Divisional Labour
Co-operative Hall, on Friday evening, when Mr W. R. Smith, formerly
Party, held at the Rushden Co-operative Hall,
in the grateful appreciation of the members of
M.P. for Norwich, who formerly represented Wellingborough, was presented with an
illuminated address, testifying to the grateful appreciation of the members of the party
for his service in Parliament from 1918 to 1922.
At the top of the address was a picture of the House of Commons, and two colla
ledge wore those of a boot factory and a ploughman at work, those illustrating
Smith's activities, on behalf of boot operatives and agricultural workers.
The presentation was made by Mr. James Coles (president of the division).
In acknowledging the gift, Mr. Smith said that Labour's period of office had been
the old story of Labour being unfit to govern.
Northampton Echo, 6th December, 1924.
Councillor J. Spencer, J.P., presided.
A PICKET ASSAULTED.

Mr. Joseph Bound Over to Keep the Peace.
At the Old Street Police Court, on Saturday, Mr. Joseph, of Messrs. Jackson & Sons,
boot manufacturers, 11 Princelet Street, Spitalfields, E., was summoned by Mr.
Gibbins for having assaulted him outside the factory on 22nd November.
Mr. Hornby, who defended, said his friend, Mr. Thompson, had had an opportunity
of speaking to him on the matter. His client would be prepared to be bound over to
the peace towards the complainant and pay 21s. costs. Both his friend and his client
would like to say something on the case.
Mr. W. H. Thompson, who appeared for the complainant, said the matter had arisen
out of an unfortunate dispute between the firm and the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives. His client was acting as a picket on behalf of the Union, and had no desire
to be vindictive. He only wished to say that the Union endeavoured to conduct the
disputes in the spirit in which they ought to be conducted, and wanted employers to un-
stand that they had a right to expect similar conduct from them.
Mr. Hornby said that if the case had been gone into he should have had indisputable
evidence that there was a push and nothing more. His client said that in picketing those
concerned came rather too close to the premises, and he hoped in the future that they
would endeavour not to annoy the firm more than they could help. In paying costs,
it did not necessarily mean that the defendant should have been ordered to do so.
Mr. Watson (to defendant): You are bound over to keep the peace for six months
and pay 21s. costs. —The Shoe and Leather Record, 5th December, 1924.

WAGES IN THE BOOT-REPAIRING TRADE.

Minimum Rates to be Fixed.
At a recent meeting of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board (Great Britain,
it was resolved to fix certain general minimum piece rates for male and female workers
employed on work preparatory to rounding and channelling machines, in accordance
with the proposals contained in the Notice of Proposal D. (27) issued by the Trade Board
on 6th September, 1924. The Board have requested the Minister of Labour to confirm
the rates as fixed and to bring them into operation under the Trade Boards Act on 5th
January, 1925.
Due notice will be sent to all employers in the trade as soon as the minimum rates
have been confirmed by order of the Minister of Labour. In the meantime information
in respect of the minimum rates may be obtained from the Secretary, Office of Trade
Boards, I Whitehall Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
The Trade Board have not yet varied the general minimum time rates and overtime
rates for male apprentices in accordance with the proposals contained in their Not
D. (27), but will resume consideration of the question of making the proposed variat
at their next meeting.—The Times, 2nd December, 1924.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

669

INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.

Steady Advance. WORLD LABOUR LAWS.
A steady advance in the application of world labour laws during the last three year
is shown by figures issued by the International Labour Office of the Leagune of Nation
regarding the ratification of Conventions adopted by the annual Sessions of the International
Labour Conference, as will be seen from the following table:

October, 1924. 1923. 1922.
Ratifications formally registered
Ratifications of Berne Phosphorus Convention since 111 86 51
first International Labour Conference
Ratifications authorised but not yet communicated 13 12 10
Ratifications recommended by Governments 20 16 16
Legislative measures adopted to give effect to 133 126 31
decisions
Legislative measures proposed.. 106 98 78
83 72 64

TRADE UNIONS IN CHINA.

How they are Developing.
Details of the growth of trade unions in China are given in the latest number of
Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly publication of the International Labour
Office of the League of Nations.
China may, from the point of view of trade union organisation as it exists at present
be divided into three zones-the North, the Yang-tze-kiang Valley and the Kwang-tung
province, says Industrial and Labour Information.

THE NORTH. - In the North the movement for the organisation of the workers is
comparatively feeble; though, the railwaymen of the Peking-Mukden and Peking-Sui-
yuan lines have powerful trade unions.

THE YANG-TZE-KIANG VALLEY. The great river Yang-tze-kiang waters the two
industral provinces of Hu-pei and Kiang-su. The first is served by the river port of
Hankow, the other by Shanghai on the estuary.
The workers of Hu-pei have made considerable efforts to organise themselves, and
towards the end of 1922 they set up a workers' federation including 24 trade unions and
about 40,000 members.
About the same time the workers on the Peking-Hankow railway formed themselves
into a trade union with 11 local sections.
At Shanghai, according to a report of the Economic Information Office of the Chinese
Government, 47 trade unions were created in 1922, and out of a total of about 120,000
Chinese workers engaged in industry in the district, about 80,000 are members of trade
unions.
The workers' organisation movement also included 30,000 coolies, 50,000 dockers,
and about 5,000 drivers.

THE SOUTH. - But the greatest progress has been made in the South, in the province
of Kwang-tung. This may be partly due to the support given to the trade union move-
ment by Dr. Sun-yat-sen, whose advanced tendencies are well known.
There are 200 trade unions at Hong-kong and 300 at Canton, and some of them are
very powerful. The most important and active is probably the Mutual Assistance Society,
a Socialist organisation which endeavours mainly to co-ordinate the work of the trade
unions and publishes several papers for this purpose.

This was the society which conducted the great seamen's strike at Hong-kong from
November, 1921, to March, 1922. At that time it succeeded in collecting $20,000, and
was able to pay every striker, whether a member of the union or not, strike pay varying
between 45 cents and Ș1 per day. It also succeeded in producing sympathetic strikes
among the workers of Hong-kong and Canton. The seamen were successful and obtained
a wage increase and also the recognition of their trade union, which in 1923 had about
30,000 members.

National Developments.
At the present moment the trade union movement is tending to overstep the bounds
of districts and to constitute itself as a national organisation for the whole of China.


---
Here is the extracted text:
May, 10
Neaily the delegat
anions and 300,000 workers.
670
tes were present at the Congress, representing 200 trade
The Congress adopted several resolutions, one of which
One fit top n this direction was the National Workers' Congress at Canton in
deo appointed permanent secretariat with headquarters at Shanghai and branches at
tomanded the eight-hour day, while another recominended the organisation of trade
amions in industry and the establishment of a National Workers' Federation. The Congress
it the beginning of 1023 they decided to bold a conference for the foundation of a National
ailwaymen on the different Chinese lines have made similar efforts to amalgamate.
The decision of General Wu-Pei-fou to prevent the meeting gave
Peking. Canton, and other big towns.
The ta
rise to a peneral caihyay strike which had a tragic ending.
Union of Railwaymen.
The first industrial State among the European countries which have introduced a
HOURS OF LABOUR IN CZECHO-SLOVAKIA.
statutory eight-hour day to ratify the Eight Hour Convention was Czechoslovakia..
A report on hours of labour in Czechoslovakia has recently been issued by the Inter-
of the Czechoslovak Republic Act of 1918, by which the eight-hour day or 48-hour week
The first part of the monograph is devoted to an account of the scope and provisions
national Labour Office.
was introduced in the Republic.
The monograph devotes special attention to the methods of applying the Act in
is followed by data concerning the administration of the Act. The third part of the study
railway undertakings and the provisions for permanent or temporary exemptions. This
detos in some detail with collective agreements regarding hours of work.
Labour Office are Belgium, France, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, the Netherlands and
Among the countries already covered by this series of publications of the International
Switzerland.
CHILD LABOUR IN THE EAST,
Child Labour in Shanghai.
published a report which throws a striking light on conditions of child labour as they
The Child Labour Commission appointed by the municipality of Shanghai recently
exist in Shanghai.
The report sums up the result of the investigation, so far as concerns mills, factories,
and similar places of industry, in the following words -
The commencement age varies with the nature of the employment, but it can be
asserted that, generally speaking, the child begins to work in the mill or factory as soon
as it is of any economic value to the employer. The Commission have seen very many
children at work who could not have been more than six years of age.
"The hours of work are generally twelve, with not more than one hour off for a meal.
The children frequently have to stand the whole time they are at work. In many industries
day and night work is the rule, there being two shifts of twelve hours each.
"In many cases the atmospheric and dust conditions are bad. The sanitary arrange-
ments in the majority of mills and factories leave very much to be desired.
"The contract system of employment is common.
contractor supplies the requisite labour and is paid on production. This system is obviously
open to grave abuse. In some instances the children employed receive no money and their
Under this system the native
conditions of life are practically those of slavery."
The Commission recommends that regulations should be made prohibiting the employ-
ment of children under 10 years of age, rising to 12 years within four years.
Child Workers in Japanese Mines.
A considerable decrease in the number of child workers in Japanese mines has taken
place. This is shown by an investigation by the Japanese Bureau of Social Affairs regarding
children and young persons employed in mines during the period 1918-1922, the results
of which are reproduced in the Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly publication
of the International Labour Office.
about 440.
6,038 in 1918 to 3,840 in 1922, a fall of 36 per cent. In coal mines the percentage of
The total number of male and female workers under 15 years of age decreased from
decrease was 16. In metal mines, it was 77 per cent, for boys and 85 per cent for girls.
The actual to


---
Here is the extracted text:
671
THE EIGHT-HOUR DAY.
The Eight-Hour Day in Canada.
The results of a recent enquiry made by the Canadian Department of Labour to ascer
tain the present position of the eight-hour day movement in industrial undertakings in
Canada have been made known to the Select Committee on Industrial and International
Relations by the Assistant Deputy-Minister of Labour.
The enquiry showed that 54.22 per cent. of the employers of firms making returns
work an eight-hour day, or 48-hour week, or less.
The enquiry was based on returns received from employers having fifteen or more
employees in the various industries, excepting agriculture and fishing. Information
was received from 5,263 employers having 690,317 employees.
It is interesting to note that the industry in which the highest proportion of employees
was working a 48-hour week or less was transportation, with 91.5 per cent., and the
industry in which the smallest proportion of the employees worked a 48-hour week and
less was logging, with 19.23 per cent.

THE PROGRESS OF INTERNATIONAL LABOUR LEGISLATION.
Rapid progress continues to be made in giving effect in the national legislation of
various countries to the decisions of the International Labour Conference.
Up to 15th November, 1924, ratification of International Labour Conventions had
taken place in 141 cases.
It is interesting to note that the Conventions which have been ratified by the largest
number of countries are the Unemployment Convention (17 countries), the Convention
prohibiting the night work of women (13 countries), and the Convention prohibiting the
night work of young persons (13 countries).

CLITHEROE HOUSING COSTS.
Direct Labour Contracts.
In a report to Clitheroe Corporation on housing costs, the surveyor (Mr. A. R. Blezard),
who is in control of the Town Council's building scheme, states that when tenders were
asked for 20 houses of Class B type (three rooms upstairs and three down), the highest
price received was £1,313 per house, and the lowest tender £1,255. The Building Guild
estimated the cost at £1,020 per house, but the Government declined to accept any of the
tenders and approved of the Corporation's plan to proceed by direct labour, providing the
cost did not exceed £950 per house. Mr. Blezard now reports that the 20 houses have
been completed for less than £700 each.
For houses of Class A type (two rooms downstairs and three up) the tenders ranged
from £492 10s. to £650 per house. Again, the Ministry of Health declined to accept the
tenders and allowed the Council to construct the houses by direct labour, with the maxi-
mum cost fixed at £400. The surveyor states that 20 are almost complete and the price
of the finished dwellings will be under the figure sanctioned by the Government.-The
Times, 9th December, 1924.
[Yet another example of the saving to the community by direct labour being em-
ployed.-E.L.P., G.S.].

APPRECIATION OF MEMBERS.
MR. A. J. DOBBS, president of Leeds Branch and Council Member for No. 10 District,
has been added to the magisterial bench for the city of Leeds.
Congratulations to Mr. J. McCulloch upon his election as the first Labour Baillie
for Maybole.
Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., has been appointed by H.M. Government to the Royal Com-
mission on Food.


---
673
IN DARKEST LONDON.
Seven Living in One Small Room. Baby Suffocated.
A verdict that a child's death was due to the bad housing conditions under which the
family were living was returned at a Southwark inquest on 4th December, 1924.
Five children, their mother and father, had been compelled to
sleep in one room so tiny that it would not hold a cot.
There were five similar houses, four of them being occupied by families
Walk Sideways.
Asked by the coroner whether the stairs were substantial, Mrs. Butler said, "The
coroner's officer had to walk upstairs sideways."
Sergeant Gunns, the coroner's officer, describing his visit to the Butlers' rooms, said
Six people standing upright would fill the downstairs room.
By sitting on the stairs one could almost reach the stove.
Before he could go upstairs he had to pull back the chest of drawers and clamber
over them, thus reaching the narrow, winding staircase.
The coroner remarked that in the matter of overcrowding, Southwark was infinite,
worse than the East End.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
ADMIRALTY.—BOOTS, HALF : Adams Bros. Ltd., Raunds; R. Coggins & Sons Ltd.,
Raunds; Owen Smith, Raunds.—The Ministry of Labour Gazette, December, 1924.
"HULLO !"
When you see a man in woe,
Walk right up and say "Hullo!"
Say "Hullo!" and "How d'ye do?"
"How's the world a-usin' you?
Slap the fellow on his back,
Bring your hand down with a whack.
Walk right up, an' don't go slow.
Grin, an' shake, an' say "Hullo!"
Is he clothed in rangs? Oh, sho!
Walk right up and say "Hullo!"
Ragin is but a cotton roll,
Jest for wrappin' up a soul;
An' a soul is worth a true
Hale, an' hearty "How d'ye do?"
Don't wait for the crowd to go,
Walk right up an' say "Hullo!"
We've big vessels meet, they say,
They saloot an' sail away,
Jest the same are you an' me,
Lonesome ships upon the sea,
Each one sailing his own jog
For a port beyond the fog.
Let your speakin'-trumpet blow;
Lift yer horn an' cry
"Hullo!"
Say "Hullo!" an' "How d'ye do?"
Other folks are good as you.
W'en you leave your house of clay,
Wanderin' in the far-away,
W'en you travel through the strange
Country to'other side the range,
Then the souls you've cheered will know
Who ye be, an' say "Hullo!"
—S. W. Foss.


---
of airmen's high-legged boots out of sheep
skins. This new type of protective foot-
wear proved to be extremely successful
and my firm was kept busy on these until
the close of the War.
In the boom years which followed,
factories were stacked with orders and
everybody was fully employed.
On my return to civilian life I immedi-
ately interested myself in Union affairs. I
was elected part-time President of the
Wellingborough Branch in November,
1918. In common with other branches,
there was a great increase in membership
and it became necessary for another full-
time official to be elected. In July 1919
I was elected as the first full-time Branch
President.
My long years as a Trade Union Official
had commenced-years which have been
full of adventure, disappointments and
triumphs, but with it all an intense feeling
of satisfaction.
By 1921 the boom had petered out and
the industry entered into the years of un-
precedented unemployment. Looking
back over those years, one realises the
fortitude and courage with which both
employers and operatives faced those
tremendously difficult times. I am con-
vinced that the industry was saved from
complete collapse because we had a
National Agreement in operation. What
would have happened if it had been a free
for all is difficult to contemplate. It was
not, of course, without difficulty that the
agreements were enforced, especially in
some districts, but the fact that there was
an Agreement enabled the Union, some-
times with assistance from the Federation,
to insist on its observance
With the national spending at its lowest
ebb, the demand was for the cheapest
product. Piecework, which had grown
during the War and the boom years, was,
in many instances, being replaced by day-
work in the mistaken idea that this would
cheapen production. This led to numer-
ous disputes and much heart burning
among our members. Still trade did not
improve and unemployment and short-
time working was widespread.
The records of the Union show that,
from 1920 to 1939, £1,210,999 was paid
out in unemployment benefit; in the peak
year, 1921, £96,457 was paid. In addition,
the Union, acting on behalf of the Ministry
of Labour under the State Unemployment
Acts, paid £3,633,233 State benefit. Few
homes escaped the tragic consequences of
unemployment.
Many firms closed down, but still the
industry survived and fought back to get its
share of trade from the purchasing public.
The industry is under a deep debt of
gratitude to the leaders of both sides of the
industry, who, by their foresight and
tenacity, guided the industry through those
difficult years.
My work as a branch officer, in common
with my colleagues, was an exacting one.
Many small firms, which had commenced
business during the War with a certain
measure of success when trade was good,
now found themselves in difficulties. They
had not the background or foundation of
the older established firms, and unfortun-
ately many of them had tried to meet the
situation by adopting methods outside the
National Conference Agreement. This
led to many arguments and minor disputes,
and their actions would have undoubtedly
undermined the structure of the industry
had not the Union taken firm action.
The best elements within the Federation
were sympathetic to the Union and gave
moral support which had a great bearing in
restoring confidence in the negotiated
agreements.
During these eventful years the industry
had spasmodic periods of trade revival,
but these soon passed and the bad times
reappeared. It is true, of course, that
individual firms maintained a fairly even
rate of production; when one looks back
and realises more fully the difficulties they
were up against, it is to their credit that
they were able to do this in view of the
general situation.

Disappointments, Disputes and
Achievements

IN DECEMBER, 1929, I WAS ELECTED AS A
National Organiser of the Union. I
commenced my new duties by working in
the Leicestershire and Northamptonshire
districts. It will be readily understood
that, to induce non-members to join the
Union was no easy task, especially when
trade was so bad. Factory gate meetings
were the then accepted method of organi-
sing. You usually got a sympathetic
hearing although, at times, vocal opposition
was in evidence. Gradually but surely,
opposition was broken down and you had
the satisfaction of handing in to the local
office a batch of names of new members.
My advent as a National Organiser
coincided with another serious recession in
trade. The National Joint Conference


---
Here is the extracted text:
6
If there should be any cases occur in future where members transfer from
membership of the Union to the N.U.D.A.W., branch officers are requested to
at once send along particulars to the General Secretary, so that the matters can
be dealt with along the lines named in the agreement above.
GENEROSITY OF NORTHAMPTON FIRM.
On page 60 will be found the outline of a scheme which has been put into
operation at Messrs. Crockett & Jones, Northampton, whereby considerable
financial assistance will accrue to the employees of the said firm. We are
glad of this recognition of the fact that there is some responsibility owed one
to another as members of the community apart from that of bare employees.
We feel confident the workpeople of Messrs. Crockett & Jones, whilst fully
appreciating all the firm has done, will see in the scheme, not merely help for
themselves, but one more fact of the necessity of rendering to one another
that assistance which, from time to time, is required to help along the pathway
of life, one of the most effective being membership of the Union.
THE POLITICAL WORLD.
Although Parliament is not sitting, it does not mean there is no need for
doing political work. There is a good deal of activity going on in various
parts of the country, and we would urge upon the membership how necessary
it is to keep fully in being, the local organisation, and to constantly carry on
the work of informing the public of the necessity at all times to send men and
women both to the House of Commons and local councils, who are in sympathy
with the aims, objects and ideals of the Labour Party.
BALANCE SHEETS.
The following branches have not yet sent along a copy of their balance
sheet for the quarter ending November, 1924, and in accordance with rule we
regret that we have no alternative but to fine branches in accordance with rule.
This is a matter of grave importance, and Branch Officials are particularly
requested to see that a copy of their balance sheet is sent to the Central Office
immediately they have been audited. The Branches who have defaulted for
the last quarter are :-
Belfast
Burnley
Halifax
Oldham
Reading
Sheffield
Shepshed
Sileby
HALF-YEARLY STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS.
The Half-yearly Statement of Accounts are presented herewith. There
are no items calling for special comment, other than the fact that we are
steadily making progress, but although the amount of money now standing
to the credit of the Union appears to be a large sum, it should be borne in mind
that the obligations to members as named in the rules, is also very big, and the


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
7
amount of money per head is not at all a large sum if such facts are remembered. We would, however, call attention to the very great help rendered to members in their time of necessity as shown by the amount spent in unem-ployment, sickness, payment of contributions whilst unemployed, and funeral benefit to relatives. These benefits, as we have pointed out upon several occasions, whilst helping the members to maintain their homes, have a direct bearing upon the social and financial problems, because it is quite clear to us that if the large sums of money paid out by trade unions and friendly societies ceased, there would be a very big call at once upon the various Boards of Guardians and municipalities for help. Thus in a very real sense we are doing work of great social value to the community.
TRADE DEPARTMENT.
For the
half-year ending
31st Dec., 1924.
£ s. d.
33584 3 7
26540 2 5
Funds, Trade Dept. 171306 11 6
Total Income
Expenditure
For the
half-year ending
31st Dec., 1923.
£ s. d.
33364 7 6
33737 12
6..157677 4
Increase on the
corresponding
half-year.
£ s. d.
219 16 1
0..13629 7
Decrease on the
corresponding
half-year.
£ s. d.
7197 9 7
6
The Detailed Items of Trade Expenditure are as follows:-
Travelling Assistance
13 6 1
142 17
2
21 3 6
43 1 8
1231 5 10
2
18440 18
6
23904
104 3 8
59 10 0
884 13 1
1129 7 4
412 6 5
9 19 1
95 19 6
1 0
40 12 0
153 17 6
175 13 6
23904 2 0
519 15 1
758 12 0
1072 2 1
103 10 6
1539 11 6
1079 13 2
1486 9 2
285 16 6
449 12 3
109 11 4
1625 11 11
3 6
0
1077 8 4
3 5
57 5 3
0 13 2
1539 11 6
47 12
1330 16 0
5463 3 6
107 8 8
218 19 11
193 11 9
49 18
2
SICK AND FUNERAL DEPARTMENT.
Total Income
31673 2 4..28304 6 3 3368 16 1
Expenditure
.. 17672 8 3.. 16962 2 3.. 710 6 0
Funds, Sick Dept.
150736 7 3..130247 14 5..20488 12 10
The Detailed Items of Sick and Funeral Expenditure are as follows:-
Sickness Benefit
14153 5 10..13485 17 0.. 667 8 10
Funeral Benefit
1587 0 0.. 1311 10 0.. 275 10 0
Share of Out-of Work Cons.
261 10 0.. 382 13 3.. 121 3 3
One-fourth Share of
Organising
294 17 9..252 17 2.. 42 0 7
One-fourth Share of
Printing and Stationery
376 9 3.. 358 14 1.. 17 15 2
Management Expenses
491 5 5.. 458 10 9.. 32 14 8
Miscellaneous Expenses
(Major Stevens)
508 0 0.. 712 0 0.. 204 0 0


---
Here is the extracted text:
9
GAINS AND LOSSES ON THE HALF-YEAR.
Total Funds at Central Office, now
£
s. d.
325291 4 11
305174 1 0
last Half-year..
Net Gain on Half-year
Total Funds at Branches, now
111637 1 1
102735 15 3
last Half-year
Net Gain on Half-year
Total Gain
£
s. d.
20117 3 11
8901 5 10
£29018 9 9
GAINS AND LOSSES (CENTRAL & BRANCH FUNDS).
Gain on Sick Fund
Trade Fund
Fidelity Fund
Less Loss on Political Fund
14000 14 1
7044 1 2
0 15 0
Net Increase on Central Office Funds
Increase on Branch Funds
21045 10 3
928 6 4
20117 3 11
8901 5 10
£29018 9 9
MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNION.
Financial Members-
Males
Females..
51666
20981
Probationary
GRAND TOTAL
72647
6098
78745
1924. 1924. 1923. 1923. 1922. 1922. 1921. 1920. 1919.
DEC. JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. DEC. DEC.
Financial 72647 70494 69112 68403 68787 69174 71224 81874 84949
Probationary 6098 7250 6553 6772 6310 7019 5986 6986 12748
Totals 78745 77744 75665 75175 75097 76193 77210 88860 97697
NOMINATIONS
for delegates to the Trades Union Congress, Scottish Trades Union Congress,
National Labour Party, one Parliamentary Agent, delegates to the Women's
Labour Conference and Scottish Labour Advisory Committee, MUST be taken
at the monthly meetings held in February. All nominations must be despatched
to reach the Central Office by the first post on the 16th prox., otherwise they
cannot be included in the voting papers. It is NOT necessary to nominate
either the General President or General Secretary for the National Labour
Party or Trades Union Congress, as they attend by virtue of their office.


---
Here is the extracted text:
10
ANNUAL RETURNS.
A full return of Income and Expenditure for the Union (Council and
Branch combined) has to be sent to the Registrar of Friendly Societies in
compliance with the different Acts of Parliament covering Trade Unions.
Branch Secretaries are requested to help me by completely filling in the form
already issued, and send it back to the Central Office NOT later than
30th January, 1925.

HISTORY OF THE UNION.
There are still a number of copies of the " Fifty Years' History of the
Union " in stock, and members desirous of securing a copy should place their
orders at once. They can be purchased through the branch officers at 6d.
per copy, and all members desirous of learning about the work of the Union
should not fail to obtain a copy of this most interesting and valuable record
of the work of the Union.

FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.

THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same.
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
make a success.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
Returns
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

11
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£
s.
d.
To December, 1923 630,969 17 3
January, 1924
3,358 8 4
February
3,185 9 6
March
3,631 10 2
April
4,339 6 4
May
3,372 0 10
June
3,305 10 4
July
2,483 5 6
August
2,293 12 2
September
2,682 2 6
October
2,280 4 3
November..
2,519 6 1
December..
3,481 15 4
£667,912 8 7
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
s. d.
To December, 1923 317,643 6 1
January, 1924
3,653 6 9
February
3,207 0 3
March
3,264 18 3
April
4,268 6 3
May
3,897 18 3
June
4,249 19 3
July
2,492 16 9
August
2,352 15 9
September
3,322 8 3
October
3,127 8 0
November..
3,075 10 9
December.
4,057 1 0
£358,612 15 7
EMPLOYMENT OVERSEAS.
SWEDEN. BOOT, SHOE AND LEATHER.- Membership reporting on 31st October,
1924, 8,100. Percentage Unemployed, 31st October, 1924, 4.9; 30th September, 1924,
5.5: 31st October, 1923, 3.4.- The Ministry of Labour Gazette, January, 1925.


---
12
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
SHODDY. The Shoddy agitation has drawn the attention of one of our leading
daily papers, and they have been at some trouble to visit various people interested in the
industry, and will no doubt express their views of a trade which during the great lament-
able war, did their duty to both friends, Allies, and to the public. When requested to
make a war-time boot (and the Government of the day were prepared to assist the general
public by putting on the market an honest and unadulterated article at a price as reason-
able as possible), every effort was made, but the distributive section of the trade som
refused to accept the recommendation of the Committee and distribute at 12½ per cent.,
but demanded and got their usual 33⅓ per cent., irrespective of the wants, requirements,
or poverty of the munition workers, for whom this class of boot was made. Some of the
largest firms of boot manufacturers were prepared to distribute on the Committee's terms,
and when the Chairman put the question in the event of the retailers refusing to distribute,
how would the public get the goods? he was advised that the Co-operative Movement
would be able and undoubtedly willing to help. The interested persons had visions
immediately that the Co-operative Movement would immediately become known-as
they are to-day-the most genuine and reliable distributors in the nation. Think of it-
5 per cent. for manufacturers, retailers demand more than six times that amount for
their share of the spoils. To my mind this and the other parties, the factors, are the only
departments of the shoe industry where legitimate and beneficial economies can take
place in the interests of the public. The enormous profits and dividends made and paid
call for drastic improvements in the industry. The question has been put to me again,
"Why don't the Union order its members not to make
Shoddy;" such a statement must be answered because it has been asked by grown men.
Answer One.- Ought the operative, bound as he is willing to be by the Terms of
Agreement which has been in existence for thirty years, to interfere with the Management?
Answer Two. - Can the Union itself agree on what is Shoddy, and impart that know-
ledge to its members?
Answer Three. Ought that to be the perogative of the Union?
Answer Four.- Is not the simplest, safest, and best way to stamp the shoes as they
do in the City of Leicester for the Australian market- "Warranted Solid Leather Outsole
and Insole, Wood Heel"? We should then be able to eliminate the practice now made
by those one would describe as "Shoddy Dealers," who are known to the trade, although
for the crimes committed in their name.
stock, and then sandwiching in a line of rubbish of the pick-pocket kind. Until each
industry takes up the purification of their own industry, they may be held responsible
Rumour has it that one factor who advertises
largely, is said to be buying stuff from a non-union centre where hours and wages don't
matter so long as men get work, and the employers persuade the "natives" that if they
join the Union they will lose their work, so give a Is. rise for a few months, then take it
again, and by this means keep the operatives in constant fear. We hope to be able to
give the opinion of the Medical Profession on the danger to health of the Shoddy goods
we wish to see marked down, or rightly named, as this form of espionage must cease.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH. This Branch had cause to carry a resolution of protest
against a federated firm who prosecuted a young woman for leaving without notice. The
facts are, as this young woman was on short time, she wished to leave; she asked per-
mission, and was refused. She was then advised to leave, as such an attitude on the part
of the firm was unreasonable. In Northants the law of the land is carried out, a full week's
work or a full week's money on either side. Leicester Branches only claim for the same
time as the factory is making when a member is discharged, and they expect no obstacle.
If, when working short time, an operative asks permission to leave, they should be per-
mitted. I have a case in mind where an employer put out a paper-"Wanted: an
Operative." One applied. "Are you out of work?" "No!" says the operative, "I want
to better myself and intend leaving." He was promised the situation. After he left, his old
firm objected to another employer setting one of his workmen on unless the man was
thrown out of work first, or allowed his late employer to give him a rise to keep him. I
know an employer who has a workman who was bought in three times by one firm:
apparently his worth was only recognised each time he got a better berth offered him.
What a pity commercialism only moves when pushed. Leicester Branches ought to have
a better understanding on this subject, as the Women's Branch have expressed their
determination to contest all such cases, and had the operative informed the Branch they
would have sought legal assistance. The Leicester No. 1 Branch also passed a strong
resolution on the subject, and do not permit the employers to enforce on their members
the right to refuse a reasonable request to leave a firm when working short time, and my
indictment against this firm, or any firm, is that had the Employment Exchange fund
been used to pay this young woman to stand by for the convoni


---
13
not have prosecuted, but as the Union funds were at stake only, no respect for the Union's
funds were regarded as of any importance. This matter cannot be left where it is.
SPITALFIELDS DISPUTE. -This strike still continues, and additional attempts have
been made to bring about a settlement. We are in the following position :-Some twenty-
three agreements are already in existence prohibiting the holders from calling in either
the Trade Union representatives, or the Employers' Federation representatives, in case
of dispute between the firm and the signatories, and we want the reinstatement of the
strikers who have been reduced to nineteen. To leave the accommodators in, is a big
s'ice of over-generosity on our part, and we want an opportunity to organise the rest of
the firm before we agree to settle. All this must, even if modified, be reduced to writing
by the Ministry of Labour and a real settlement made that will not jar on the nerves of
anyone interested. There are others in London whom the settlement will affect, if well
settled.
ADVISORY COMMITTEE OF TRADE BOARDS.-We have held a further meeting of this
Committee and have appointed deputations to the War Office and Admiralty with a view
of asking them to extend the training time from six months to at least twelve, to those
men who are leaving the service at the end of their period, and to where possible allow
them to remain as Hand-Sewn Makers, on similar lines to the men engaged at Eastney
Barracks, where they employ some fifty men in the Hand-Sewn shop. It would at least
find more employment by paying out more wages and keep many of these men from being
thrust into an already overstocked human market. We also find a big difference on policy
and scope with the legal department of the Ministry, who have taken so narrow an attitude
that may have such far-reaching results as to jeopardise any benefit we, or the Trade,
may have received from Trade Boards, and the enemy is already being helped by those
unions who have experienced the apparent weakening of the Boards which appears to be
very obvious since the advent of the Tory Government. Prepare yourselves, fellow
members. In railway trains and other places you hear the rumbling of "what are they
going to do with the Trade Unions"?
TRADE BOARDS' EXECUTIVE. - A meeting of this body has been held at Eccleston
Square, in the General Council Room, and the report of the work of the Executive Council
carefully examined, because one Board in the Distributive Trade had deliberately broken
the 48-hour week by extending the hours. One Union has been compelled to withdraw
their representatives from that Board rather than be responsible for extending hours of
labour. Had these employers shown any wisdom they would be well advised to shorten
the hours and give employment to those now receiving payment without working.
BARWELL. I attended a meeting there to try and remove the impression that when
we ask our members for names, ages, and wages, that we have specially sought some
individual firm for treatment. I think they ultimately agreed that it was the wisest course
when some imputation has been levelled at a district, that a couple of representative firms
should be taken until we are able to take others. Our five organisers will be a long time
taking this evidence from the 800 factories connected with the Federation, as a week is
required to take one firm if each department has to be summoned to a meeting, and the
evidence then obtained, but the Leicester method of filling up cards by the operatives
from the worker to the Central Office is most reliable.
MESSRS. JOHN Clemson LTD., Derby.-Owing to the operatives on this firm falling
in membership, we called a special meeting, specially warned, to be held not five minutes,
walk from the firm; so few turned up that I drafted a circular to each operative informing
them that there were more out of the Union than in, and as the governor belonged to the
Federation, I felt sure he would be disappointed to know the true state of affairs on the
firm. I simply hoped we should be able to be content with the progress made by the
end of the month without going any further.
C.W.S., DERBY ----We have had to call the attention of the Management of this firm
to the small earnings of the Turn-Shoe Department, and the fact that although the Manage-
ment had signed statements as far back as August, 1923, there were girls working contrary
to the National Terms, in wages, hours, overtime, and conditions, with the result that
a 10 per cent. increase has been given and the shortcomings in the Management minimised.
This is very unfortunate when a firm with a reputation admit nearly all the complaints
made on behalf of the operatives, and then would look upon you as the culprit. If they
will attempt this on a National Officer, what chance has a local one with them ?
MANSFIELD.-Two visits have been paid to the firm of Messrs. Faire Bros. who have
somewhere about 130 employees at wages far below the scale, many of them being on
piecework. They cut Slipper Soles, Insoles, and make Stiffenings. We have organised
about 100 of them, and we have appointed four Shops' Presidents. Now the test comes;
will the Management do as they did before, call the girls into the office one by one and
induce them to leave the Union; the firm won. I have promised them help before Easter
if they prove their loyalty to the Union.
BURTON-ON-TRENT has been visited four times. Having no local Secretary, a hall
had to be obtained, bills printed and distributed. Not many came to the meeting, although
Mrs. Bell-Richards was advertised as an inducement to the girls to attend. We are
C


---
Here is the extracted text:
5
SPITALFIELDS DISPUTE.
Negotiations have been carried on during the month by the General
President, the General Secretary, and the Organisers, and a settlement has
been arrived at whereby the National Conditions have been observed.
OURSELVES V. N.U.D.A.W.
From time to time we have had to complain because members of our
Union have been accepted into membership of the National Union of Dis-
tributive and Allied Workers without any consultation with our officers.
Quite recently we had a case before the General Council of the Trades Union
Congress regarding the matter, and as a result of the negotiations we have
entered into an agreement which should obviate any friction between the
two organisations in the future. Appended is a copy:—
[COPY.]
TRADES UNION CONGRESS GENERAL COUNCIL.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT between the National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives and the National Union of Distributive and Allied
Workers.
MUTUAL. PROTECTION OF MEMBERSHIP.
In pursuance of negotiations which have taken place between the
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, the National Union of
Distributive and Allied Workers and the Disputes Sub-Committee of the
General Council of the Trades Union Congress, it is mutually decided
that the following undertaking shall be entered into :—
" That the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives and the
National Union of Distributive and Allied Workers hereby agree that
neither Society shall in the future take members from the other
without consultation and agreement with the Society concerned."
Signed, this Third day of January, 1925:
On behalf of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives :
T. F. RICHARDS,
General President.
On behalf of the National Union of Distributive and Allied Workers :
J. HALLSWORTH,
Industrial General Secretary.
On behalf of the General Council of the Trades Union Congress :
FRED. BRAMLEY,
Secretary, T.U.C.
B


---
Here is the extracted text:
If there should be any cases occur in future where members transfer from
membership of the Union to the N.U.D.A.W., branch officers are requested to
at once send along particulars to the General Secretary, so that the matters can
be dealt with along the lines named in the agreement above.
GENEROSITY OF NORTHAMPTON FIRM.
On page 60 will be found the outline of a scheme which has been put into
operation at Messrs. Crockett & Jones, Northampton, whereby considerable
financial assistance will accrue to the employees of the said firm. We are
glad of this recognition of the fact that there is some responsibility owed one
to another as members of the community apart from that of bare employees.
We feel confident the workpeople of Messrs. Crockett & Jones, whilst fully
appreciating all the firm has done, will see in the scheme, not merely help for
themselves, but one more fact of the necessity of rendering to one another
that assistance which, from time to time, is required to help along the pathway
of life, one of the most effective being membership of the Union.
THE POLITICAL WORLD.
Although Parliament is not sitting, it does not mean there is no need for
doing political work. There is a good deal of activity going on in various
parts of the country, and we would urge upon the membership how necessary
it is to keep fully in being, the local organisation, and to constantly carry on
the work of informing the public of the necessity at all times to send men and
women both to the House of Commons and local councils, who are in sympathy
with the aims, objects and ideals of the Labour Party.
BALANCE SHEETS.
The following branches have not yet sent along a copy of their balance
sheet for the quarter ending November, 1924, and in accordance with rule we
regret that we have no alternative but to fine branches in accordance with rule.
This is a matter of grave importance, and Branch Officials are particularly
requested to see that a copy of their balance sheet is sent to the Central Office
immediately they have been audited. The Branches who have defaulted for
the last quarter are :--
Belfast
Burnley
Halifax
Oldham
Reading
Sheffield
Shepshed
Sileby
HALF-YEARLY STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS.
The Half-yearly Statement of Accounts are presented herewith. There
are no items calling for special comment, other than the fact that we are
steadily making progress, but although the amount of money now standing
to the credit of the Union appears to be a large sum, it should be borne in mind
that the obligations to members as named in the rules, is also very big, and the


---
```text
7
amount of money per head is not at all a large sum if such facts are remem-
bered. We would, however, call attention to the very great help rendered
to members in their time of necessity as shown by the amount spent in unem-
ployment, sickness, payment of contributions whilst unemployed, and funeral
benefit to relatives. These benefits, as we have pointed out upon several
occasions, whilst helping the members to maintain their homes, have a direct
bearing upon the social and financial problems, because it is quite clear to
us that if the large sums of money paid out by trade unions and friendly
societies ceased, there would be a very big call at once-upon the various
Boards of Guardians and municipalities for help. Thus in a very real sense
we are doing work of great social value to the community.
TRADE DEPARTMENT.
For the
half-year ending
31st Dec., 1924.
£ s. d.
33584 3 7
26540 2
171306 11
5
6
For the
half-year ending
31st Dec., 1923.
£ s. d.
33364 7 6
219 16
33737 12 0
157677 4 0
Increase on the
corresponding
half-year.
£ s. d.
219 16
13629 7 6
Decrease on the
corresponding
half-year.
£ s. d.
7197 9 7
Total Income
Expenditure
Funds, Trade Dept.
I
The Detailed Items of Trade Expenditure are as follows:—
Travelling Assistance
Investigation
13 6
142 17
21
1
2
Loss of Tools by Fire
3
6
3
8
5 10
6
Victimisation Benefit
43 1
Dispute Benefit
1231
175 13
18440 18
412 6
Arbitration Expenses
Out-of-Work Benefit
Share of Out-of-Work Cons.
Three-fourths Share of
Organising
Three-fourths Share of
Printing and Stationery
Legal Expenses
Grants
884 13
1129 7 4
104 3 8
59 10
1
0
1
153 17
394 13
519 15
758 12 0
1072 2
103 10
0
5
6
I
1
7
2
1
1539 11 6
1079 13 2
1486 9 2
285 16
449 12 3
109 11
1625 11
I
188
98
6
4
II
I
II
Gen. Fed. of Trade Unions
Political Fund
1112 18
155 13 2
335 14 8
256 0 6
297 II
1723 17 10
British Trade Union Congress
Delegations and Conferences
Upkeep of Central Office
Miscellaneous Expenses
Management
SICK AND FUNERAL DEPARTMENT.
Total Income
Expenditure
Funds, Sick Dept.
31673 2
17672 8
150736 7
4
3
2
3
3
4..
3
2..
28304 6
16962 2
130247 14
6
3
5
3368 16
710 6
20488 12
1
0
10
The Detailed Items of Sick and Funeral Expenditure are as follows:—
Sickness Benefit
Funeral Benefit
Share of Out-of Work Cons.
14153 5 10
1587 0 0
261 10 0
13485 17
1311 10
382 13
0
0
3
667 8 10
275 10 0
121
3
3
One-fourth Share of
Organising
One-fourth Share of
Printing and Stationery
Management Expenses
Miscellaneous Expenses
(Major Stevens)
294 17
376 9
191 5
508
9
5
0
0
0
42
17 15
32 14
7
2
8
0
0
0
0


---
7
amount of money per head is not at all a large sum if such facts are remem-
bered. We would, however, call attention to the very great help rendered
to members in their time of necessity as shown by the amount spent in unem-
ployment, sickness, payment of contributions whilst unemployed, and funeral
benefit to relatives. These benefits, as we have pointed out upon several
occasions, whilst helping the members to maintain their homes, have a direct
bearing upon the social and financial problems, because it is quite clear to
us that if the large sums of money paid out by trade unions and friendly
societies ceased, there would be a very big call at once-upon the various
Boards of Guardians and municipalities for help. Thus in a very real sense
we are doing work of great social value to the community.
TRADE DEPARTMENT.
For the
half-year ending
31st Dec., 1924.
£ s. d.
33584 3 7
26540 2 5
,, Funds, Trade Dept. 171306 11
Total Income
Expenditure
For the
half-year ending
31st Dec., 1923.
£ s. d.
33364 7 6
33737 12 Ο
6..157677 4 0.13629 76..
Increase on the
corresponding
half-year.
£ s. d.
219 16 I
Decrease on the
corresponding
half-year.
£ s. d.
7197 9 7
The Detailed Items of Trade Expenditure are as follows:-
Travelling Assistance
13 6 I
Investigation
142 17 2
Loss of Tools by Fire
21 3 6
9 19 I
95 19 6
I I Ο
3 7 0..
46 17 8..
20 2 6..
Victimisation Benefit
43 I 8
Dispute Benefit
1231 5 10
Arbitration Expenses
175 13 6
Out-of-Work Benefit
18440 18 6
40 12 0
153 17 6
394 13 5
23904 2 Ο
2 9 8
1077 8 4
Share of Out-of-Work Cons.
412 6 5
519 15 I
218 19 11
5463 3 6
107 8 8
Three-fourths Share of
Organising
884 13
I
758 12 0
126
..
I I..
Three-fourths Share of
Printing and Stationery
Legal Expenses
1129 7 4
104 3 8
Grants
59 10 Ο
Gen. Fed. of Trade Unions
Political Fund
1112 18
I
British Trade Union Congress
155 13 2
Delegations and Conferences
335 14
8
1072
103 10 6
107 2 Ο
1539 11 6
1079 13 2
1486 9 2
285 16 6...
2
I
57 5 3..
0 13 2
47 12 0
1539 II 6
33 4 II
1330 16 0
49 18 2
Upkeep of Central Office
256 Ο
6
449 12 3
193 11 9
Miscellaneous Expenses
297 11 5
109 11
4
Management
1723 17 10
1625 11 11
188 Ο 1
98 5 11
Total Income
Expenditure
,,Funds, Sick Dept.
SICK AND FUNERAL DEPARTMENT.
31673 2
17072
8
1
3.
2830.1
()
10002 2
3. 3368 16 1
710
3
Ο
150736 7 3 130247 14 5 ..20.488 12 10
The Detailed Items
of Sick and Funeral Expenditure are as follows:--
Sickness Benefit
14153 5 10
Funeral Benefit
1587
() ()
Share of Out-of Work Cons.
201 10 (..
13485 17 0..
1311 10 ()
382 13 3
007
8 10
275 10
()
121
33
One-fourth Share of
Organising
29.4 17
り
..
252 17
..
に ()
7..
One-fourth Share of
Printing and Stationery
370 9
3..
Management expenses
191 5
5..
358 11
458 10
1..
17 15
32 1.4
8
Miscellaneous Expense
Major Stevens)
508
() U
71 () ()..
20.4
() ()


---
```text
9
GAINS AND LOSSES ON THE HALF-YEAR.
Total Funds at Central Office, now
, last Half-year..
Total Funds at Branches, now
last Half-year
Net Gain on Half-year
Net Gain on Half-year
Total Gain
GAINS AND LOSSES (CENTRAL & BRANCH FUNDS).
Gain on Sick Fund
Trade Fund
Fidelity Fund
Less Loss on Political Fund
Net Increase on Central Office Funds
Increase on Branch Funds
L s. d. L s. d.
325291 4 II
305174 I 0
111637 I I
102735 15 3
£29018 9 9
14000 14 I
7044 I 2
Ο 15 0
21045 10 3
928 6 4
20117 3 II
8901 5 10
MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNION.
Financial Members-
Males
Females..
Probationary
GRAND TOTAL
1924. 1924. 1923. 1923. 1922. 1922. 1921. 1920. 1919.
DEC. JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. DEC. DEC.
72647 70494 69112 68403 68787 69174 71224 81874 84949
6098
7250
6553 6772 6310 7019 5986 6986 12748
Totals 78745 77744 75665 75175 75097 76193 77210 88860 97697
NOMINATIONS
for delegates to the Trades Union Congress, Scottish Trades Union Congress,
National Labour Party, one Parliamentary Agent, delegates to the Women's
Labour Conference and Scottish Labour Advisory Committee, MUST be taken
at the monthly meetings held in February. All nominations must be despatched
to reach the Central Office by the first post on the 16th prox., otherwise they
cannot be included in the voting papers. It is NOT necessary to nominate
either the General President or General Secretary for the National Labour
Party or Trades Union Congress, as they attend by virtue of their office.
```

---
10
ANNUAL RETURNS.
A full return of Income and Expenditure for the Union (Council and
Branch combined) has to be sent to the Registrar of Friendly Societies in
compliance with the different Acts of Parliament covering Trade Unions
Branch Secretaries are requested to help me by completely filling in the form
already issued, and send it back to the Central Office NOT later than
30th January, 1925.
HISTORY OF THE UNION.
There are still a number of copies of the "Fifty Years' History of the
Union" in stock, and members desirous of securing a copy should place their
orders at once. They can be purchased through the branch officers at 6d.
per copy, and all members desirous of learning about the work of the Union
should not fail to obtain a copy of this most interesting and valuable record
of the work of the Union.
FIVE-WEEK ΜΟΝΤΗ.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEΕΝΤΗ!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same.
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Returns
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**11**

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.

Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.

We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.

T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.

W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.

BENEFITS.

Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-

SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£ s. d.

To December, 1923 630,969 17 3
January, 1924
3,358 8 4
February
3,185 9 6
March
3,631 10 2
April
4,339 6 4
May
3,372 0 10
June
3,505 10 4
July
2,483 5 6
August
2,293 12 2
September
2,682 2 6
October
2,280 4 3
November..
2,519 6 1
December..
3,481 15 4

£667,912 8 7

OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.

To December, 1923 317,643 6 1
January, 1924
3,653 6 9
February
3,207 0 3
March
3,264 18 3
April
4,268 6 3
May
3,897 18 3
June
4,249 19 3
July
2,492 16 9
August
2,352 15 9
September
3,322 8 3
October
3,127 8 0
November..
3,075 10 9
December..
4,057 1 0

£358,612 15 7

EMPLOYMENT OVERSEAS.

SWEDEN. - BOOT, SHOE AND LEATHER. - Membership reporting on 31st October,
1924, 8,100. Percentage Unemployed, 31st October, 1924, 4.9; 30th September, 1924,
5.5; 31st October, 1923, 3.4. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, January, 1925.


---
12
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,

SHODDY. The Shoddy agitation has drawn the attention of one of our leading
daily papers, and they have been at some trouble to visit various people interested in the
industry, and will no doubt express their views of a trade which during the great lament-
able war, did their duty to both friends, Allies, and to the public. When requested to
make a war-time boot (and the Government of the day were prepared to assist the general
public by putting on the market an honest and unadulterated article, at a price as reason-
able as possible), every effort was made, but the distributive section of the trade soon
refused to accept the recommendation of the Committee and distribute at 12 per cent.,
or poverty of the munition workers, for whom this class of boot was made. Some of the
but demanded and got their usual 334 per cent., irrespective of the wants, requirements,
largest firms of boot manufacturers were prepared to distribute on the Committee's terms,
and when the Chairman put the question in the event of the retailers refusing to distribute,
how would the public get the goods ? he was advised that the Co-operative Movement
would be able and undoubtedly willing to help. The interested persons had visions
immediately that the Co-operative Movement would immediately become known-as
they are to-day-the most genuine and reliable distributors in the nation. Think of it-
5 per cent. for manufacturers, retailers demand more than six times that amount for
their share of the spoils. To my mind this and the other parties, the factors, are the only
departments of the shoe industry where legitimate and beneficial economies can take
place in the interests of the public. The enormous profits and dividends made and paid
call for drastic improvements in the industry. The question has been put to me again,
as put by a journal some time ago, "Why don't the Union order its members not to make
Shoddy"; such a statement must be answered because it has been asked by grown men.

Answer One.-Ought the operative, bound as he is willing to be by the Terms of
Agreement which has been in existence for thirty years, to interfere with the Management?
Answer Two. Can the Union itself agree on what is Shoddy, and impart that know-
ledge to its members ?

Answer Three.- Ought that to be the perogative of the Union ?

Answer Four.-Is not the simplest, safest, and best way to stamp the shoes as they
do in the City of Leicester for the Australian market"- " Warranted Solid Leather Outsole
and Insole, Wood Heel" ? We should then be able to eliminate the practice now made
by those one would describe as "Shoddy Dealers," who are known to the trade, although
not to the public, with enticing people with a genuine line of misfits and samples and surplus
stock, and then sandwiching in a line of rubbish of the pick-pocket kind. Until each
industry takes up the purification of their own industry, they may be held responsible
for the crimes committed in their name. Rumour has it that one factor who advertises
largely, is said to be buying stuff from a non-union centre where hours and wages don't
matter so long as men get work, and the employers persuade the "natives" that if they
join the Union they will lose their work, so give a Is. rise for a few months, then take it
off again, and by this means keep the operatives in constant fear. We hope to be able to
give the opinion of the Medical Profession on the danger to health of the Shoddy goods
we wish to see marked down, or rightly named, as this form of espionage must cease.

LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH. - This Branch had cause to carry a resolution of protest
against a federated firm who prosecuted a young woman for leaving without notice. The
facts are, as this young woman was on short time, she wished to leave; she asked per-
mission, and was refused. She was then advised to leave, as such an attitude on the part
of the firm was unreasonable. In Northants the law of the land is carried out, a full week's
work or a full week's money on either side. Leicester Branches only claim for the same
time as the factory is making when a member is discharged, and they expect no obstacle.
If, when working short time, an operative asks permission to leave, they should be per-
mitted. I have a case in mind where an employer put out a paper" Wanted: an
Operative." One applied. "Are you out of work? " "No!" says the operative, "I want
to better myself and intend leaving." He was promised the situation. After he left, his old
firm objected to another employer setting one of his workmen on unless the man was
thrown out of work first, or allowed his late employer to give him a rise to keep him. I
know an employer who has a workman who was bought in three times by one firm:
apparently his worth was only recognised each time he got a better berth offered him.
What a pity commercialism only moves when pushed. Leicester Branches ought to have
a better understanding on this subject, as the Women's Branch have expressed their
determination to contest all such cases, and had the operative informed the Branch they
would have sought legal assistance. The Leicester No. 1 Branch also passed a strong
resolution on the subject, and do not permit the employers to enforce on their members
the right to refuse a reasonable request to leave a firm when working short time, and my
indictment against this firm, or any firm, is that had the Employment Exchange funds
been used to pay this young woman to stand by for the convenience of the firm, they dare


---
12
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
SHODDY. - The Shoddy agitation has drawn the attention of one of our leading
daily papers, and they have been at some trouble to visit various people interested in the
industry, and will no doubt express their views of a trade which during the great lament-
able war, did their duty to both friends, Allies, and to the public. When requested to
make a war-time boot (and the Government of the day were prepared to assist the general
public by putting on the market an honest and unadulterated article, at a price as reason-
able as possible), every effort was made, but the distributive section of the trade soon
refused to accept the recommendation of the Committee and distribute at 12 per cent.,
but demanded and got their usual 33½ per cent., irrespective of the wants, requirements,
or poverty of the munition workers, for whom this class of boot was made. Some of the
largest firms of boot manufacturers were prepared to distribute on the Committee's terms,
and when the Chairman put the question in the event of the retailers refusing to distribute,
how would the public get the goods? he was advised that the Co-operative Movement
would be able and undoubtedly willing to help. The interested persons had visions
immediately that the Co-operative Movement would immediately become known-as
they are to-day-the most genuine and reliable distributors in the nation. Think of it-
5 per cent. for manufacturers, retailers demand more than six times that amount for
their share of the spoils. To my mind this and the other parties, the factors, are the only
departments of the shoe industry where legitimate and beneficial economies can take
place in the interests of the public. The enormous profits and dividends made and paid
call for drastic improvements in the industry. The question has been put to me again,
as put by a journal some time ago, "Why don't the Union order its members not to make
Shoddy"; such a statement must be answered because it has been asked by grown men.
Answer One.-Ought the operative, bound as he is willing to be by the Terms of
Agreement which has been in existence for thirty years, to interfere with the Management?
Answer Two. Can the Union itself agree on what is Shoddy, and impart that know-
ledge to its members ?
Answer Three. - Ought that to be the perogative of the Union ?
Answer Four. - Is not the simplest, safest, and best way to stamp the shoes as they
do in the City of Leicester for the Australian market- "Warranted Solid Leather Outsole
and Insole, Wood Heel"? We should then be able to eliminate the practice now made
by those one would describe as "Shoddy Dealers," who are known to the trade, although
not to the public, with enticing people with a genuine line of misfits and samples and surplus
stock, and then sandwiching in a line of rubbish of the pick-pocket kind. Until each
industry takes up the purification of their own industry, they may be held responsible
for the crimes committed in their name. Rumour has it that one factor who advertises
largely, is said to be buying stuff from a non-union centre where hours and wages don't
matter so long as men get work, and the employers persuade the "natives" that if they
join the Union they will lose their work, so give a ls. rise for a few months, then take it
off again, and by this means keep the operatives in constant fear. We hope to be able to
give the opinion of the Medical Profession on the danger to health of the Shoddy goods
we wish to see marked down, or rightly named, as this form of espionage must cease.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH.- This Branch had cause to carry a resolution of protest
against a federated firm who prosecuted a young woman for leaving without notice. The
facts are, as this young woman was on short time, she wished to leave; she asked per-
mission, and was refused. She was then advised to leave, as such an attitude on the part
of the firm was unreasonable. In Northants the law of the land is carried out, a full week's
work or a full week's money on either side. Leicester Branches only claim for the same
time as the factory is making when a member is discharged, and they expect no obstacle.
If, when working short time, an operative asks permission to leave, they should be per-
mitted. I have a case in mind where an employer put out a paper -" Wanted: an
Operative." One applied. "Are you out of work?" "No!" says the operative, "I want
to better myself and intend leaving." He was promised the situation. After he left, his old
firm objected to another employer setting one of his workmen on unless the man was
thrown out of work first, or allowed his late employer to give him a rise to keep him. I
know an employer who has a workman who was bought in three times by one firm;
apparently his worth was only recognised each time he got a better berth offered him.
What a pity commercialism only moves when pushed. Leicester Branches ought to have
a better understanding on this subject, as the Women's Branch have expressed their
determination to contest all such cases, and had the operative informed the Branch they
would have sought legal assistance. The Leicester No. 1 Branch also passed a strong
resolution on the subject, and do not permit the employers to enforce on their members
the right to refuse a reasonable request to leave a firm when working short time, and my
indictment against this firm, or any firm, is that had the Employment Exchange funds
been used to pay this young woman to stand by for the convenience of the firm, they dare


---
13
not have prosecuted, but as the Union funds were at stake only, no respect for the Union's
funds were regarded as of any importance. This matter cannot be left where it is.
SPITALFIELDS DISPUTE -This strike still continues, and additional attempts have
been made to bring about a settlement. We are in the following position: Some twenty-
three agreements are already in existence prohibiting the holders from calling in either
the Trade Union representatives, or the Employers' Federation representatives, in case
of dispute between the firm and the signatories, and we want the reinstatement of the
strikers who have been reduced to nineteen. To leave the accommodators in, is a big
s'ice of over-generosity on our part, and we want an opportunity to organise the rest of
the firm before we agree to settle. All this must, even if modified, be reduced to writing
by the Ministry of Labour and a real settlement made that will not jar on the nerves of
anyone interested. There are others in London whom the settlement will affect, if well
settled.
ADVISORY COMMITTEE OF TRADE BOARDS.We have held a further meeting of this
Committee and have appointed deputations to the War Office and Admiralty with a view
of asking them to extend the training time from six months to at least twelve, to those
men who are leaving the service at the end of their period, and to where possible allow
them to remain as Hand-Sewn Makers, on similar lines to the men engaged at Eastney
Barracks, where they employ some fifty men in the Hand-Sewn shop. It would at least
find more employment by paying out more wages and keep many of these men from being
thrust into an already overstocked human market. We also find a big difference on policy
and scope with the legal department of the Ministry, who have taken so narrow an attitude
that may have such far-reaching results as to jeopardise any benefit we, or the Trade,
may have received from Trade Boards, and the enemy is already being helped by those
unions who have experienced the apparent weakening of the Boards which appears to be
very obvious since the advent of the Tory Government. Prepare yourselves, fellow
members. In railway trains and other places you hear the rumbling of "what are they
going to do with the Trade Unions"?
TRADE BOARDS' EXECUTIVE. -A meeting of this body has been held at Eccleston
Square, in the General Council Room, and the report of the work of the Executive Council
carefully examined, because one Board in the Distributive Trade had deliberately broken
the 48-hour week by extending the hours. One Union has been compelled to withdraw
their representatives from that Board rather than be responsible for extending hours of
labour. Had these employers shown any wisdom they would be well advised to shorten
the hours and give employment to those now receiving payment without working.
BARWELL.-I attended a meeting there to try and remove the impression that when
we ask our members for names, ages, and wages, that we have specially sought some
individual firm for treatment. I think they ultimately agreed that it was the wisest course
when some imputation has been levelled at a district, that a couple of representative firms
should be taken until we are able to take others. Our five organisers will be a long time
taking this evidence from the 800 factories connected with the Federation, as a week is
required to take one firm if each department has to be summoned to a meeting, and the
evidence then obtained, but the Leicester method of filling up cards by the operatives
from the worker to the Central Office is most reliable.
MESSRS. JOHN CLEMSON LTD., DERBY.-Owing to the operatives on this firm falling
in membership, we called a special meeting, specially warned, to be held not five minutes,
walk from the firm; so few turned up that I drafted a circular to each operative informing
them that there were more out of the Union than in, and as the governor belonged to the
Federation, I felt sure he would be disappointed to know the true state of affairs on the
firm. I simply hoped we should be able to be content with the progress made by the
end of the month without going any further.
C.W.S., DERBY -We have had to call the attention of the Management of this firm
to the small earnings of the Turn-Shoe Department, and the fact that although the Manage-
ment had signed statements as far back as August, 1923, there were girls working contrary
to the National Terms, in wages, hours, overtime, and conditions, with the result that
a 10 per cent. increase has been given and the shortcomings in the Management minimised.
This is very unfortunate when a firm with a reputation admit nearly all the complaints
made on behalf of the operatives, and then would look upon you as the culprit. If they
will attempt this on a National Officer, what chance has a local one with them ?
MANSFIELD.-Two visits have been paid to the firm of Messrs. Faire Bros. who have
somewhere about 130 employees at wages far below the scale, many of them being on
piecework. They cut Slipper Soles, Insoles, and make Stiffenings. We have organised
about 100 of them, and we have appointed four Shops' Presidents. Now the test comes;
will the Management do as they did before, call the girls into the office one by one and
induce them to leave the Union; the firm won. I have promised them help before Easter
if they prove their loyalty to the Union.
BURTON-ON-TRENT has been visited four times. Having no local Secretary, a hall
had to be obtained, bills printed and distributed. Not many came to the meeting, although
Mrs. Bell-Richards was advertised as an inducement to the girls to attend. We are
C


---
14
informed that the Rossendale Slipper Union has many members, and although two of our
Organisers have been over and were permitted to stay, we appear to have had little effect
upon them. The firms are the greatest competitors to our Leicester Canvas firms. I
strongly hold the opinion that it is unfortunate that the Rossendale Valley Union, who
could do good work by organising Paul Berry's, of Preston, and would not, and have not
although we continued a twelve month strike.
LEATHER EXHIBITION AT LEICESTER.—I visited the Leicester Leather Exhibition,
which was held from 12th to 17th January, and the exhibits were very fine indeed, showing
the wonderful progress being made by the County in attempting to imitate an improve
ment of the industry as represented by the City's products, and being so successful. It was
a really good Exhibition and worthy of a visit from all within fifty miles.
"DAILY HERALD."—On Sunday, the 18th inst., Mr. Frank Hodges attended at the
De Montfort Hall, to press upon the labour movement the need for all adherents to buy
and continue to use all reasonable endeavours to increase the circulation of our valuable
little paper. My own criticism of the Herald is that we get too much Communism, and
too much of one or two individual's and their families, and many have held, or told me,
that these were their impressions, but as those at the head of affairs have been also informed,
we must do all we can, even though the non-Unionist element shines most in the world
for whom the Trades Unionists have provided an organ and kept it going, and many of our
members do not belong to our Socialist movement. I hope, therefore, that we shall get
enough trade union supporters and readers to make the paper a paying proposition, and
thereby cease to be held up by the Trade Unionists of the country, who are the only real
power. The absence from Mr. Frank Hodges' platform on the 18th of the local trade
union Aldermen, Councillors, Guardians and Executive, looked middling. I hear they
had not received an invitation. This is poor organisation. Let us hope such will not
occur again.
TRADE UNION STAMP.—In the meantime wear only those goods made under Trade
Union Conditions, and only patronise honest firms.
Yours fraternally,
7 MECKLENBURGH STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1,
19th January, 1925.
ihards
General President.
THE LATE COUNCILLOR T. ADNITT, J.P. (FUND).
President of Leicester No. 1 Branch.
The amount subscribed by the Council and Branches of the National Union of Boot
and Shoe Operatives :-
Council of the Union £ s. d. Rushden £ s. d.
Leicester No. 1 Branch 50 0 0 1 1 0
Northampton No. 2 50 0 0 Bromsgrove 0 10 0
Stone 2 2 0 Daventry
Wellingborough 1 1 0 Wolverhampton 1 0 0
Leicester No. 2 1 0 0 Kendall 0 13 0
Derby 1 1 0 Leeds No. I 1 0 0
Kingswood 5 0 0 Arbroath 1 0 0
Norwich No. I 0 10 0 Chesham 1 1 0
Norwich No. 2 1 1 0 Kilmarnock 1 0 0
Stafford 5 0 0 Desborough 1 0 0
Leicester Women's 2 0 0 Street 1 0 0
Kettering No. 2 1 1 0 Manchester 1 1 0
Bristol No. 2 5 0 0 Attendances on Trades Council
Kettering No. 1 5 0 0 (T. Adnitt) 0 19 0
Worcester 2 0 0
London Metro. 5 0 0 Handed to Mrs. Adnitt ...£155 17 0
Northampton No. 1 0 10 0
We have to-day examined the Bank Book and receipts for subscriptions to
this Fund, and hereby certify the above statement to be correct.
16th January, 1925.
J. RIDOUT, G. IRELAND.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
15
THE CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LIMITED.
AUDIT DEPARTMENT.
99 Leman Street,
London, E. 1.
The Executive Council,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
I beg to report that I have examined the Accounts of the Union with
the books and vouchers relating thereto, and have obtained all the
information and explanations I have required, and am of the opinion
that they exhibit a true and correct view of the Union's position
according to the information given and as shewn by the books. The
Deeds of Investments have been examined and found to be in order.
Yours faithfully,
A. E. NEWMAN,
Public Auditor under the Industrial and
Provident Societies Act, 1893-1913.
and Friendly Societies Act, 1896.
19th January, 1925,



---
```text
50

BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH.—Our members have had an extended holiday for the p
pose of enjoying the start to a " Happy New Year," and by the time th
written each and all will be wishing for the feel of some " filthy lucre." T
only good point affecting a considerable number is the fact that no benefit
lost at the Labour Exchange over this holiday, because it is long enough
have it paid in full. We wish our friends in the Bristol and Kingswood Distric
the best of luck in their protest against this iniquitous deduction. It sho
never have been authorised in its present form, and it is up to the Unions
object to the rule affecting their members too harshly. A great many of
members, however, lose the benefit for the customary holiday because the
period is less than the time stipulated for it to be paid. When the customar
holiday does not even serve as waiting days, the position created produces
hardship to an extreme degree. A point made in our reports some time agr,
deserves attention. The present practice is based upon the assumption that
industrial conditions are normal, whereas they demand the same emergency
provisions which were applied during 1921. The assumption of normality
and the payment of benefit to be hedged in by limitations which are justified
only by normal conditions of employment, may be good for preserving the
Unemployment Fund, but it simply throws on to the Poor Law large numbers
who cannot live otherwise. We should demand still the treatment of idleness
as an abnormal condition, and the payments of benefit to be governed b
emergency regulations. No doubt it sounds plausible to be asked to consent
to the application of general principles which will restore the true purpose ci
Insurance, but in the continued absence of stable conditions in industry, our
first thought should be for the misery and unhappiness produced prolifically
by unemployment. And the cost is not being reduced by the present method.
even although it falls on two different departments-Insurance Fund and
Poor Law and the only justification for such a course is the trouble and
harassment the recipient is put to in the matter. We referred to two matters
of importance last month, the Divisional Office decision affecting claimants
at Labour Exchanges with less than 12 stamps to their credit, and a Central
Office of the Ministry decision re returned emigrants from abroad. The first
is still being maintained, although it seems likely to be withdrawn, but the
second failed in its intention. It is not cancelled yet, but payments have been
authorised until Central Office of the Ministry lays down a ruling after full
consideration. The change of front in each case is due to workers' repre-
sentatives on Labour Exchange Committees convincing those bodies to protest
to the Ministry, and the opposition has been taken up by some Unions also.
Departments can be influenced, and officers and branches should be ready
always to join in with attempts to correct injustices, the more so with Un-
employment Insurance because this Department bases its defence of regulations
on the way in which the country has received and accepted them. We have
won an important point in this area on the question of potato-lifting as a
" test " form of work to offer claimants. Through the Labour Exchange
Committee, and the Court of Referees, we have arrived at a position that no
man will be asked to take this work in future unless the remuneration is doubled.
Further efforts are being put forward to establish fair and acceptable conditions
for country work, which will put a stop to farmers claiming underpaid labour,
and using as a lever the threat of reporting men who refuse. Although progress
is slow, it is comforting to get there sometimes
```

---
BELFAST.--Trade remains very bad. The firm of Williamson Bros. when
stopping for the Christmas holidays informed the workers that they would
be sent for when required. We sincerely hope that trade will soon pick up
again. The Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board (Northern Ireland) has
been reconstituted, five seats out of the twelve having been allocated to members
of our Union.
CHESHAM. -Trade here remains fair.
CHESTERFIELD.--Trade is again falling off and all our members making
new work are again on short time.
DERBY.--Trade in Derby continues fair, all firms being practically on
full time, but we have a good number of shoe-hands who are unemployed or
on temporary work.
EDINBURGH.--Trade during the month has been very quiet. Factories
have had an extended holiday. Some of our members have been compelled
to claim at Labour Exchange to help them over their bad period. Repairers
have also experienced rather a dull time during December, but when sending
report trade has improved greatly. We are now working to new prices for
Rounding and Channelling. Our experience is that even with the additions,
the deductions for this work are too much. Our members in Repairing Section
are of the opinion that the twenty points in cost of living between 70 and go
are too great, and some alteration should be made. Something on the same
lines as are at present when prices fall below the 70 mark. Others again want
the present 7 per cent. to operate when a workman who is on piece rates has
earned the minimum wage and over.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.--Trade has been affected by the holidays,
some firms closing for 14 days, and a few for three weeks, but generally the
usual week was kept as holiday. Trade seems to be reviving slightly all
round, except at Finedon, where two firms dismissed most, if not all their
employees, viz., Messrs. Bailey & Son, and Knight's. Those not dismissed
have been asked to stand off.
We regret to report the death of Mr. Tom Wilson, of Finedon, for
fifteen years Secretary of the Finedon Branch (before it was included
in the Higham and Rushden District Branch). The Finedon Branch was
taken over by us on 30th November, 1905.
KILMARNOCK.--Trade is still fairly good at Kilmarnock, but we are
sorry that we cannot say the same of our Section at Kilmaurs, where the
members have been suspended from work for the past five weeks. We are,
however, hoping that after the New Year holidays are over that the trade in
Kilmaurs will pick up. Will Branch Secretaries please note the change of the
address of the Kilmarnock Office: Mr. William Henderson, 11 Fowlds Street.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.--At the time of writing this report
98 per cent. of the firms have not reopened after the Christmas holidays.
At a recent meeting of the Kingswood Arbitration Board the "Industrial
Councils Bill "--as introduced last year by Mr. F. Murrell, ex-M.P. for Weston-
super-Mare, was under discussion. It was resolved that the Secretary should
write Miss Tomlinson and Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., requesting them to issue a
joint letter to all Members of Parliament, asking them that, when balloting
Private Members' Bills, precedence should be given to an Industrial Councils
Bill. The National Union and the Employers' Federation (September, 1924)
have again expressed their strong opinion of the need for legislation which will
give statutory power to the National Agreement. Having reached agreement,


---
that power of legal enforcement, similar to that provided by the Trade Board
Act for Boot Repairing Section of the trade, should be applicable to the cor
ditions governing the making of boots and shoes. The question arises as to
whether the Joint Executive who signed the National Agreement, have an
definite proposals as to the exact form this proposed legislative power to
proceed against an employer who evades the National Conditions-shoul
be expressed. In October, 1924, a conference was held-under the auspice.
of the Bristol Association for Industrial Research at Penscott, Somerset,
consider the Bill introduced by Mr. F. Murrell, M.P., and was read a second
time. A close study of the details of the Bill proved conclusively that if the
Bill became law in its present form, it would be ineffective, and even dangerou
It may be argued that the Bill would have been amended in its Committe
stage, but we wish to suggest that our industry, which has been commended fo
its ability to legislate its own Agreements, should note that the Bill under
discussion proposed to establish a "Central Industrial Council."-Clause
par. I. Also sub-section of Clause 4 reads: (c) the avoidance of conflicting
decisions by Industrial Councils in different industries, and the harmonising
of the effects of such decisions in the interests of industry throughout Great
Britain. What is intended here? (Clause 4). The implications have not
been thought out, and surely we could not tolerate interference from such a
body as this Clause proposed to constitute. It will be noticed that Sub-Section
D. of Clause 3, states that it shall be the duty of the J.I.C. concerned to take
such proceedings against such persons with a view to his conviction and punish-
ment. This Clause was originally drafted to read: The Minister of Labour
shall take proceedings, &c. It will be noted that in its present form, no power
of enforcement is provided. We understand that 19 J.I.C.'s are definitely
pledged to support the Industrial Councils Bill, and 25 are sympathetic, but
are embarrassed by the hostile attitude of the Trades Union Congress to the
Bill. The Conference formulated its conclusions to the effect that Industrial
Councils should be empowered to obtain legal sanction to their determinations;
that they adhered to the principle of the Bill, that the power of the Minister
to make an order should be permissive and not obligatory; that the penalty
clause is too drastic; that Clause 4 is not essential; that questions such as
Clause 4 provides for, cannot be properly decided by an assembly composed
of probably 100 persons. That a Central Board might be formed to (a) advise
the Government on industrial and economic questions, and (b) to give general
assistance and advise in the work of Industrial Councils. That in the opinion
of the Conference the expenses of the Central Board should be provided out of
money provided by Parliament. In conclusion we may state that Mr. A. G.
Randall attended as a delegate from the Branch, and was impressed with the
value of the decision formulated above, and trust that the interest of the
members will be stimulated thereby, particularly as it is probable that a similar
Bill will be introduced into this present Parliament.
LEICESTER. -Trade is slightly better than last month, but there is not
the improvement anticipated.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S. We have to report trade improving, our un-
employed having gone down to eleven this week. Our Branch Officers are
being kept busy. There is an attempt to cut down labour costs to the minimum,
9th inst., one of our members was taken to the Police Court and sued for a
week's notice. The member, who is only 18 years of age, did not acquaint
us of the summons. The first we knew was the report in the Evening Paper.
The Branch immediately sent the following resolution to the Press: " The
Leicester Women's Branch of Boot and Shoe Operatives deplores the fact that
a firm should take a member to the Court to force a week's notice or a week's
money, on one-sided evidence, that member having asked permission to leave.


---
53
and been refused by the firm, who were losing time. We only regret the Union
were not aware of the case coming before the Court, or legal assistance would
have been provided. The Women's Branch will watch carefully in future,
and defend in our own way to the uttermost, any such cases." The advice
given to the members of this branch, is to serve a week's notice according to
custom, excepting when firms are working short time, or our members are on
suspension.
LIVERPOOL. At the time this report was written the year 1924 has
become a thing of the past—another milestone on life's journey towards the
great beyond. With regard to the boot repairing trade it has finished up
better than it began. We have not paid out any unemployment Union benefit
for the past six months. As a nation we have muddled through without
disaster, and from time to time mirages of better trade have gladdened our
hearts, but looking back over the twelve months we now know we have done
little beyond marking time. We still have a great army of unemployed, and
our house builders have not made that progress that we expected. Except
in the early part of the year we have been fairly free from industrial strife.
We have certainly made some progress towards the re-settlement of Europe,
and according to the Press the sovereign is to-day worth 19s. 6d. in New York.
If we have had no summer our winter's have been mild, and that is something
to be thankful for. The New Year came in with a brisker step and a brighter
face than did the old. In welcoming it, let us all resolve to do everything
we can in the spirit of real brotherhood to make it the best we have known
since the outbreak of the war.
LONDON SOUTH.-At our monthly meeting the chair was occupied by
the President, Mr. W. Owen. After the usual business of reading and passing
of minutes, the President informed the members that the Organisers, Mr. Len.
Smith and Mr. J. H. Baum, had organised the firm of Lynn & Co., and the
Secretary was pleased to state that he had the names of thirteen members.
A proposition was put and carried, wishing the Council and all of the members,
old and new, a Prosperous New Year, and success to the Union.
NORWICH.-The new year has commenced very badly for many of
the Norwich operatives, the number unemployed being greater than at any
time since the recovery from the slump. Turnshoe makers are feeling the
depression most acutely, there being no great amount of that trade in any
factory in the City.
PLYMOUTH.-Looking back over the past year we must say trade has
been bad, with short time from January to December. This has meant small
wages and short rations. We sometimes doubt if the necessity for an eight-
hour day will ever arise again, especially when all the unemployed are set to
work and the modern machinery coming into our trade is set in motion. This,
with the many devices for saving labour all have a tendency to displace man-
power, unless the organisation of the workers keeps pace with the many changes
of our age and demand a shorter working day. This custom of working short
time with low wages is beginning to be accepted as inevitable, but is really no
more inevitable than bobbed or shingled hair, but is just a custom sprung up
since the war, because the workers have allowed the privileged classes to take
more than their fair share from modern progress and invention, and have been
too modest in their demands. We commend to our comrades the words
written by Dickens, and taken from "Little Dorrit," “Be as rich as you honestly
It's your duty, if not for yourself, for others."
can.
WATERFORD.-Trade remains still good. We wish all the members
a Bright and Happy New Year.
GREAT YARMOUTH.--Sorry to report Water Boot trade slow in Great
Yarmouth. Best Wishes for a Prosperous New Year to all.


---
54
SHODDY FOOTWEAR.
Bill to Prevent ts Sale. Women's Shoes that Injure Health.
LEICESTER, Saturday.
Recent investigations have satisfied the Leicester Boot Manufacturers' Association
that the time has arrived when a determined attempt must be made to prohibit the sale
of shoddy footwear which, in the words of one of the members, " is a disgrace to British
manufacture and a grave menace to the health of the nation."
To-day I have discussed with Messrs. Arthur Wilkes, Harry Roberts, and William
Heath, three prominent manufacturers, the causes which have led them to demand immedi
ate action. These causes, they declare, are to be found in every town and village in Great
Britain, being boots and shoes, but especially women's shoes, exhibited in the window,
of those boot-sellers who particularly cater for the middle and working classes.
They are shoes made in the latest styles from inferior leather, wood pulp and material
which is frankly cardboard and even paper. Mr. Wilkes declared :
Even an expert can be deceived at a cursory glance, so perfect is the imitation
finished, so it can be understood how an ordinary purchaser is imposed upon.
These shoes are real "gullers," and the public should remember that more often
than not the thing they see in the window is not the same thing as they are sold in
the shop. In many instances the shoe in the window has been specially prepared
for window dressing.
Mr. Harry Roberts said:
It does not always follow that shoes warranted all-leather are the most reliable
or are above the category of shoddy footwear, because in some cases shoes made of
good quality substitutes are in wear better than those made of bad or inferior leather.
Sweated Labour.
Mr. T. W. Smith, secretary of the Leicester Boot Manufacturers' Association, produced
two women's shoes that on dissection had revealed their shoddy components. One appeared
to be a smart glacé kid walking shoe with a patent leather toe-cap. It was sold retail
at 5s. to 7s. 6d. per pair and wholesale at 3s. 9d. per pair. Mr. Wilkes said:
That shoe which is a real "guller" would practically fall to pieces in wet weather.
At the best it would always be sodden, and not only represents so much waste of
money on the purchasers' part, but also strikes at the health of the wearer, for she
would always have damp feet.
In a factory which conforms to the national agreements between employers
and employees that shoe could not be made for the money at which it is sold. The
labour alone would cost 3s. 3d. per pair.
To make the sale of such footwear impossible reputable manufacturers through their
associations are promoting a Bill in Parliament to make the adoption of the national
agreements as to hours, conditions of labour, and rates of pay compulsory.
This alone is not thought to be a sufficient safeguard for the public, nor is the com
pulsory stamping of boots as "all-leather" regarded as entirely satisfactory for the reasons
given by Mr. Harry Roberts, who urges that the sure guarantee of quality, so far as the
public is concerned, is the manufacturers' branded article. Because, he says, "it would
not pay manufacturers to advertise their goods unless they had made them up to standard
quality and maintained that standard." - Daily Mail, 5th January, 1925.
NO SHODDY SHOES IN NEW ZEALAND.
Interesting Debate on Amending Legislation.
As already reported in the Record, an amendment to the Footwear Regulation Act
1913, has been introduced into the New Zealand Parliament. The principal clause of the
amending Bill is the provision THAT WHERE FOOTWEAR IS NOT ALL LEATHER IT MUST BE
PLAINLY STAMPED WITH A STATEMENT OF THE NATURE OF THE MATERIAL USED.
of the introduction of the Bill.
An illuminating debate took place in the New Zealand Parliament on the occasion


---
Mr. Sullivan (a Christchurch Labour member) said he did not agree with the recom-
mendations of the Bill as it stood. It ignored the wishes of all branches of the boot trade,
and was contrary to the interests of public health. All branches of the boot trade, speaking
with a united voice, desired that no boots be sold in the Dominion anless made entirely
of leather, but the Bill permitted boots to be imported, manufactured and sold even if
they were composed of a composition of cardboard, brown paper, &c. There was a pro-
vision that this footwear must be branded in such a way as to indicate the material of which
it was made, but this was not a sufficient safeguard to the public, who would seldom see
the brand. He hoped the Bill would be amended in the direction of insisting that all
footwear sold in the Dominion be composed of leather.
Mr. J. A. Lee (an Auckland Labour Member) urged the prohibition of imported shoddy,
adding that New Zealand manufacturers used sound material.
Mr. J. M'Combs (Lyttelton, Labour) thought the question was a difficult one, and
that certain composition stiffeners used in footwear were better for certain purposes than
leather stiffeners. One could easily brand a boot "leather," which would be composed
of leather scrapings, and would be the worst type of shoddy.
Mr. W. Parry (Auckland Central, Labour) said Labour would endeavour to have
inserted in the Bill provision to protect the long-suffering public against the importation
of rubbish.
Mr. H. E. Holland (Leader of the Labour Party) said he thought shoddy should be
prohibited, and Mr. W. J. Girling (Awarua--a Blenheim draper) said he was glad an effort
was being made to prevent the importation of shoddy footwear, and he thought the Minister
might look into the question more than he had done. Mr. A. L. Monteith (Wellington
East, Labour) said he hoped legislation would be passed which would do away for ever
with shoddy.
Mr. Harris (Government Member) said that the demand for the all-leather boot had
come as the result of keen competition from overseas, which local factories had felt. Foot-
wear was much cheaper in Britain than in New Zealand. He was not sure that undue
profits were not being made by boot retailers in New Zealand on imported boots. The
agitation was not so much for the continuation of branding, but for the absolute restriction
of boots not entirely made of leather, and in that he saw danger.
Mr. T. W. Rhodes (Thames, Liberal) said he was convinced that under the present
system of branding the public were deceived, but on the other hand, the public had to be
protected from deceiving themselves. While it might increase the initial cost to buy
all-leather shoes, it would be cheaper in the long run. The greatest obstruction was
local prejudice, and local manufacturers had had to use names for their goods which gave
the impression that they had come from overseas.
Mr. J. S. Dickson (Parnel-a draper), chairman of the Labour Bills Committee, said
that few members seemed to understand the position. Shoddy footwear must be stamped.
To-day some of the worst shoddy wer all-leather articles. It had been practically ad-
mitted to the committee that New Zealand manufacturers were far behind Australian
manufacturers, and ought to specialise in certain classes of boots.
" There is leather and leather," remarked the Hon. G. J. Anderson, Minister of Labour
in reply. He explained that some chrome leather would absorb water like a sponge
It was principally used for children's boots, and on a wet day wearers could not possibly
keep their feet dry. On the other hand, some substitutes, even of paper, had been sub-
jected to tremendous pressure, and would resist water more effectively than some kinds
of leather. There was not sufficient evidence to warrant the extreme step of prohibiting
the importation of footwear other than leather. It was an extraordinary thing that
such a step was not favoured by any of the Department's inspectors of footwear, who were
all experienced bootmakers, thoroughly conversant with the trade.
When he first called a conference of parties interested in the subject, added the Mini-
ster, the opinions expressed were so diverse that no conclusion could be obtained. He
was surprised at the sudden unanimity of the boot trade on the question of prohibiting
the import of shoddy in ladies' footwear. Wooden heels were more efficient and lighter
than leather heels.
The Australian Leather Journal states that the committee has added a new clause
dealing with boots and shoes in stock when the Act commences. If the holder of stock
which does not comply with the Footwear Regulation Bill delivers a full statement thereof
to the Inspector of Footwear, he will be permitted to sell it without complying with the
requirements of the Bill that the use of material other than leather shall be plainly
indicated on the goods by a legible stamp showing the nature of the substitute The.
Show and I eather Record, oth January, 1925.


---
Mr. Sullivan (a Christchurch Labour member) said he did not agree with the recom-
mendations of the Bill as it stood. It ignored the wishes of all branches of the boot trade,
and was contrary to the interests of public health. All branches of the boot trade, speaking
with a united voice, desired that no boots be sold in the Dominion anless made entirely
of leather, but the Bill permitted boots to be imported, manufactured and sold even if
they were composed of a composition of cardboard, brown paper, &c. There was a pro-
vision that this footwear must be branded in such a way as to indicate the material of which
it was made, but this was not a sufficient safeguard to the public, who would seldom see
the brand. He hoped the Bill would be amended in the direction of insisting that all
footwear sold in the Dominion be composed of leather.
Mr. J. A. Lee (an Auckland Labour Member) urged the prohibition of imported shoddy,
adding that New Zealand manufacturers used sound material.
Mr. J. M'Combs (Lyttelton, Labour) thought the question was a difficult one, aud
that certain composition stiffeners used in footwear were better for certain purposes than
leather stiffeners. One could easily brand a boot "leather," which would be composed
of leather scrapings, and would be the worst type of shoddy.
Mr. W. Parry (Auckland Central, Labour) said Labour would endeavour to have
inserted in the Bill provision to protect the long-suffering public against the importation
of rubbish.
Mr. H. E. Holland (Leader of the Labour Party) said he thought shoddy should be
prohibited, and Mr. W. J. Girling (Awarua-a Blenheim draper) said he was glad an effort
was being made to prevent the importation of shoddy footwear, and he thought the Minister
might look into the question more than he had done. Mr. A. L. Monteith (Wellington
East, Labour) said he hoped legislation would be passed which would do away for ever
with shoddy.
Mr. Harris (Government Member) said that the demand for the all-leather boot had
come as the result of keen competition from overseas, which local factories had felt. Foot-
wear was much cheaper in Britain than in New Zealand. He was not sure that undue
profits were not being made by boot retailers in New Zealand on imported boots. The
agitation was not so much for the continuation of branding, but for the absolute restriction
of boots not entirely made of leather, and in that he saw danger.
Mr. T. W. Rhodes (Thames, Liberal) said he was convinced that under the present
system of branding the public were deceived, but on the other hand, the public had to be
protected from deceiving themselves. While it might increase the initial cost to buy
all-leather shoes, it would be cheaper in the long run. The greatest obstruction was
local prejudice, and local manufacturers had had to use names for their goods which gave
the impression that they had come from overseas.
Mr. J. S. Dickson (Parnel-a draper), chairman of the Labour Bills Committee, said
that few members seemed to understand the position. Shoddy footwear must be stamped.
To-day some of the worst shoddy wer all-leather articles. It had been practically ad-
mitted to the committee that New Zealand manufacturers were far behind Australian
manufacturers, and ought to specialise in certain classes of boots.
" There is leather and leather," remarked the Hon. G. J. Anderson, Minister of Labour'
in reply. He explained that some chrome leather would absorb water like a sponge
It was principally used for children's boots, and on a wet day wearers could not possibly
keep their feet dry. On the other hand, some substitutes, even of paper, had been sub-
jected to tremendous pressure, and would resist water more effectively than some kinds
of leather. There was not sufficient evidence to warrant the extreme step of prohibiting
the importation of footwear other than leather. It was an extraordinary thing that
such a step was not favoured by any of the Department's inspectors of footwear, who were
all experienced bootmakers, thoroughly conversant with the trade.
When he first called a conference of parties interested in the subject, added the Mini-
ster, the opinions expressed were so diverse that no conclusion could be obtained. He
was surprised at the sudden unanimity of the boot trade on the question of prohibiting
the import of shoddy in ladies' footwear. Wooden heels were more efficient and lighter
than leather heels.
The Australian Leather Journal states that the committee has added a new clause
dealing with boots and shoes in stock when the Act commences. If the holder of stock
which does not comply with the Footwear Regulation Bill delivers a full statement thereof
to the Inspector of Footwear, he will be permitted to sell it without complying with the
requirements of the Bill that the use of material other than leather shall be plainly
indicated on the goods by a legible stamp showing the nature of the substitute. The
Shoe and I eather Record, oth January, 1925.


---
SHORT TIME AND NOTICE.
That the custom of a week's notice on either side in the boot
industry is not affected by the necessity of working short time was the
ruling of the Leicester Magistrates when they ordered a girl operative
to return to her former employers and serve her notice, or, in default,
pay the equivalent of a week's wages.

SHOE OPERATIVE FINED.
(To the Editor of the "Leicester Mail.")
SIR,---May I on behalf of the Members of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Opera
tives, express my indignant disapproval of the conduct of the Magistrates, who on Wednes
day last decided against a boot and shoe operative, and ordered the girl either to return
to work and work out a week's notice, or pay a week's wages.
The girl had asked to leave, and as she was on short time thought the firm would
allow her to do so, but instead they have proceeded against her in Court for leaving witho
notice.
Had the girl been on the National Funds of the Labour Exchange, no such actio
could have been taken. Will my working class Tory friends notice the difference in thi
class legislation? There is evidently one law for the Labour Exchange and a different
one for the trade union. Yours, &c.,
T. F. RICHARDS
(General President of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives).
In his letter Mr. Richards makes an attack on the Chairman of the Magistrates, who adjudicated
in this case. As the Magistrates were merely carrying out the law as it stands, we ha
deleted this attack from Mr. Richards' letter.
This is not a matter of personalities, but of the law, and it is only fair that there should be one
law for the operatives and the employers. If the employers had wanted to discharge the
girl, they must either have given her notice or have paid her wages in lieu of notice, and
the same procedure must apply in the opposite direction. Does Mr. Richards claim that
operatives can leave when they please, but that employers must always observe the law
with regard to notice or wages?-Editor, "Leicester Mail."
The General President replied as follows to the Leicester Mail, but the newspaper
was not courteous enough to publish the letter :--

10th January, 1925.
DEAR SIR, -It would be well if you understood the position, as I happen to be the only
person, a member of the Leicester Board of Arbitration then and as at present when an
Agreement was arrived at, viz. :-to be content with notice on either side, to be determined
by the amount of time being made, be it much or little. You will see by this that custom,
not law, governs the Leicester operatives, and the proviso was also accepted that in return
for this the employer would not prevent any operative from leaving without notice when
working short time always. Here was the slight compensation given the operative in
return for the demand of a full week's work or a full week's pay as is the case in Northampton
--and Northamptonshire in a judgment given by Judge Snagge and demanded by our
000 members in that district ever since. This means that the law gives the operative
e than we claim on the Leicester Agreement, and you, Mr. Editor, don't face the fact
3 not have refused to allow her to leave without serving a week's notice. My original
had the Labour Exchange, instead of the Union, found this girl employment, they
estion still stands, why prosecute the girl when subsidised by Union funds, when you
now you dare not had she been on Public funds; you who believe the Dole leads to abuse,
as Tories dare not face the facts.
Yours fraternally,
(Signed) T. F. RICHARDS.
My advice to our Women members is : demand the law, a week's notice, a full week's
work, or a full week's pay, otherwise the employers have all their own way.
The parts of the letter erased by the Editor referred to the fact that the Chairman
was Mre at Ward. My sorrow was that this misguided the fact that her Branch
Tomlinson & Riley, Bridge Road, Evington, have another case, but they are too big
Focal employers, through their Secretary, are behind thi
cowards to press their claim. My feeling in the matter is increased by the fook that thi
guided girl had not told her


---
```text
57
REPORT OF MAJOR STEVENS
On the Cases under his Treatment of Union Members suffering
from Tuberculosis, January, 1925.
Name.
Record No.
Mr. T. A., Northampton
Mr. F. A., Northampton
Mr. C. E. A., Wellingborough
Miss S. A. B., Bozeat
Mr. G. T. B., Leicester
Mr. L. B. Leicester
Mr. H. B., Wellingborough
Mr. C. B., Dudley
Mr. W. B., Staffs.
Mr. J. B., Aberdeen
Mrs. B.
Mr. W. E. B.,
Mr. J. B., Rushden
Mr. E. C., Northampton
Mr. J. C., Mansfield
Mrs. L. C.
Miss A. C., Northants
Mr. B. H. C., Higham Ferrers
Mr. T. C., Kettering
Mir. G. C., Northampton
Mrs. E. D., Northampton
Mr. C. H. D.
Mr. A. D., Bozeat
Miss D. D., Rushden
Mr. G. R. D., Rushden
Mr E. D., Norwich
Mr. H. D., Leicester
Mrs. W. L. F., Leicester
Mr. A. F., Northampton
Mr. C. W. F., Leicester
Remarks.
5183 No replies to letters since October, has gone to
hospital, but do not know for what reason.
Previous to this had an attack of pleurisy.
9249 Gradually improving but is still a bad case.
2809 New case.
3002 Commenced treatment in July, previously had not
worked for four months, was able to return in
September, by November was on full time work.
Very much better, Doctor pleased with condition,
gaining weight.
602 Unsatisfactory case. Second time he has been
placed under treatment, but will not continue.
Have not had reply to last three 'etters.
248 WORKING regularly. Feeling very well, has lost
his cough.
809 WORKING. Doctor examined him in December
and says he is a lot stronger. Cough easier and
feels better generally.
5920 Very much better. WORKING.
9596 WORKING. Is now one stone above normal
weight. Favourable reports from Doctor.
2876 Says he has not had any sign of trouble since last
May.
2801 Still keeping well. No medicine since January,
1924.
1579 WORKING. Doctor gives good report on chest;
is gaining weight and progressing very well.
1207 Improving generally and gaining weight.
2741 Was getting on very well, then neglected treat-
ment and ultimately gave it up.
7497 Chest much better, used to expectorate 2 to 3 ozs.
during night, now often does not expectorate
at all.
405 Has recently had an attack of influenza and
pleurisy, also has severe stomach trouble, the
latter undoubtedly keeping patient back.
7342 Doctor reported in December that patient better
than on any previous examination.
5380 WORKING. Gaining weight, feeling better gener-
ally.
270 Still improving, but has recently had a set-back
owing to a severe cold and touch of pleurisy.
2152 General improvement.
9047 Still keeping well.
9248 Is a very severe case of chronic hæmoptysis, and
has recently had an attack of bronchitis, but
appears to be holding his own.
9218 Very much better, cough and expectoration
almost gone.
2907 Has WORKED without a break for the last 12
months, and is still going on well.
2907 Progressing satisfactorily.
1173 Has recently had an attack of influenza, but is
feeling a little better in spite of set-back.
931 WORKING. Cough very much better, general
progress.
906 Feeling much better.
1469 Cough and amount of sputum already less,
Doctor surprised at improvement. Is now
ready to commence WORK.
439 WORKING. Was 7st. rolbs. when commencing
treatment, is now rost. Is feeling much better
generally.
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
Name.
Mr. F. A. C., Rushden
Mr. W. F. G., Leicester
Miss A. E. G., Leicester
Mr. A. V. G., Norwich
Mr. E. G., Northampton
Mr. G. R. G., Leicester
Mrs. H., Rushden
Mr. J. H. H., Leicester
Mr. H. J. H., Northants.
Miss E. E. I., Northants.
Mr. F. I., Northants.
Mr. I. J., Staffs.
Mr. A. J., Leicester
Mr. F. J., Kettering
Mr. J. J., Northampton
Mr. C. E. K., Rushden
Mr. H. K., Northampton
Mr. T. G. K., Rushden
Mr. W. L., Glasgow
Mr. F. L., Sileby
Mr. B. W. M., Loughborough..
Mr. D. M., Long Buckby
Mr. E. E. M., Rushden
Mr. A. M., Northampton
Mr. A. McK., Aberdeen
Miss P. P., Leicester
Mr. A. P., Leeds
Mr. G. P.
Mr. E. A. P., Rothwell
Mr. W. R., Leicester
Mr. P. R., Belfast
Mr. W. J. R., Northampton
Mr. A. S., Leicester
Mr. W. S.. Somerset
Mrs. S., Leicester
Mr. R. S., Stone
Mr. W. S., Kettering
Mr. W. A. T., Semilong
Mr. H. E. T., Northampton
Record No.
5839
3037
3926
678
2657
158
361
952
3811
2701
1133
9381
287
747
8905
9433
8407
1046
7479
6590
684
2353
1859
294
4185
4026
493
101
484
395
2067
6246
5818
9336
86
5577
27
3265
8055
Remarks.
Was getting on well, but overstrained himself a
work and had a hæmorrhage. Is not able to get
sufficient nourishment, and is now graduall
going back.
WORKING and feeling very well, gaining weight
and symptoms gradually diminishing.
Improving.
Has been having trouble with stomach which
undoubtedly retards his progress, but in spite
of it is holding his own.
Improving.
WORKING, feeling much better.
WORKING. Keeping well.
WORKING. His own Doctor and Tuberculosis
Officer cannot find anything definite wrong with
his chest now.
Improving.
Progressing very well, expectoration practically
disappeared.
General health very much better. General
improvement.
No reply since October. Doctor said was not
getting sufficient nourishment. When last
heard of was arranging to go to hospital.
WORKING. Is feeling very well.
WORKING and feeling very much better.
Improving, still has good reports from Doctor.
Has recently had a severe cold, which has retarded
progress.
Doctor has good report to give on lungs in spite of
fact that patient recently had an attack of
pleurisy.
WORKING, gaining weight, feeling very much
better.
Improving and gaining weight.
Has given up treatment, no reason given. Has
recently had an attack of pleurisy.
WORKING. Progressing very favourably.
Discontinued treatment in July.
Improving.
Has had severe colds lately, previous to which he
was improving, but progress retarded to great
extent by severe stomach trouble.
WORKING. Improving.
Gradually improving.
WORKING. Still progressing favourably.
Still well. No medicine since February. Has not
lost any time from work since taking up treat-
ment.
Cough and expectoration have now gone.
Improving, breathing easier.
Progressing favourably and gaining weight.
Improving. January 19th, reported going to
hospital for operation for appendicitis.
WORKING. Gaining weight and generally pro-
gressing.
WORKING and feeling very much better.
Still well. No medicine since March. Reported
still keeping well 3rd January, 1925.
New case. Improving.
WORKING. Making good progress. Good report
from Local and County Doctors.
Gradually improving, but is a severe case.
Progressed very favourably under treatment and
able to return to WORK. Gave up treatment m
October, although unwise in having done so,
so soon.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
Name.
Mr. C. H. W., Northampton
Mr. F. M. W., Northampton
Mr. R. W., Staffs.
Mr. P. W., Norwich
Mr. A. W., Leicester
Miss D. W., Leicester
Mr. F. W., Somerset
Mrs. A. W., Leicester
Mr. J. R. W., Leicester
59
1
Record No.
805
7015
6202
8555
4316
1742
2119
2926
1379
Remarks.
Severe case: has had a growth removed from
throat in October, previous to which mable to
keep food down, consequently general health
became undermined.
WORKING and keeping fairly well.
Cough not so troublesome. General improvement.
WORKING. On 26th December Doctor could not
find much wrong with his lungs.
Is now troubled with nervous asthma, otherwise
feeling better and Doctor has good report to
give regarding Tubercular trouble, which be
says is not active.
Very much better and gaining weight.
WORKING, and keeping very well.
Improving.
New case. Was off work for three months before
commencing treatment, has now recommenced,
and is progressing very favourably.
MEETING OF THE C.W.S. HELD IN LONDON ON 3rd JANUARY, 1925.
The following matters were discussed :-
Direct Supplies of Grain.
Mr. Charter. in reply to a delegate, stated that the Board had no grain elevators.
The question was being seriously considered by the Board. He had no doubt that the
policy the Board were carrying out in regard to flour would have a leveling effect on the
Hour and wheat markets of the world.
As one of the deputation who had recently returned from Canada and America, he
might say tha, they had spent a good deal of time in discussing the question, with a view
to getting behind the influences governing and controlling the wheat market, and in getting
into direct touch with the co-operative farmers in Canada. They hoped by the mutual
ownership of the necessary machinery in Canada they would be able to attract their pro-
portion of Canadian wheat straight from the co-operative farmers to the Wholesale Society's
flour mills in this country. Action like that carried to fruition could only have a very
great effect on the wheat and flour markets.
He stood in the Chicago Wheat Market, and had heard a thousand
brokers calling out at each other in buying and selling wheat which
they had never seen. He also stood in the Winnipeg Market and had
seen the entire field crop of Canada bought and sold twice over
in a week.
This would give them some idea of the whole horde of people standing between the
Canadian and other producers and the consumers in this country. It was their business
to get through these people, and to draw their supplies as economically and direct as
possible to use in their own mills in the interests of the consumers of this country. This
was the board's policy. (Applause).
The Boot Trade Booming.
Mrs. E. Palmer (Southampton) said they were all pleased at the increased trade in
the boot and shoe department. She thought it would be right in saying that this was
largely due to the great improvements effected in connection with the production, which
compared very favourably with the best houses. As far as quality, finish, and price were
concerned, she suggested there was a demand for a cheaper shoe.
Mr. Oliver replied that the board were determined to keep up the quality of the boots
and shoes. The board believed that they were catering for all requirements. They had
opened at Northampton the best equipped factory in the kingdom.
The report was approved, as were also the Committee's recommendations with regard
to the purchase of land and properties and the charitable grants.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

60
GENEROUS FIRM
Crockett & Jones give over £20,000 to Workers. A Provident Fund.
With generous solicitude for the welfare of their employees, Messrs. Crockett & Jone,
shoe manufacturers, of Perry Street and Artizan Road, Northampton, have set aside
large sum of money, variously stated as being between £20,000 and £25,000, to establish
a provident fund in which the staff and the workpeople in all departments participate.
The money has been invested in the names of trustees, and is to be administered in
accordance with a trust deed prepared for the purpose.
On Friday evening each employee received a book in which was entered the amount
which has been placed to his or her credit. This amount is arrived at on a calculation
of an employee's earnings spread over a period of years, and is on a percentage basis,
according to status and length of service. The sums vary considerably, therefore, and
we understand that some of the workpeople who have been employed by the firm for many
years have had over £100 placed to their credit.
The firm's action is very deeply appreciated throughout the factory. and the scheme
is considered to be an extremely good one.
The amount standing to the credit of each member of the fund becomes payable a
follows:-
(1) At the age of 60 years in the case of men, and 50 years in the case of women.
(2) At the death of a member, to the next of kin or such other person as the member
may have appointed.
(3) Twelve months after a member ceases to be in the employment of the firm.
(4) In the case of a woman, six months after her marriage.
(5) At the discretion of the trustees, in special circumstances such as the prolonged
illness of a member.
Interest on the amount standing to the credit of each member may either be left
in the fund or be paid out each year. The money in the fund is the property of the members
in trust, and the firm may from time to time make additions to it, but are under no obliga-
tion to do so.
An Echo reporter, who sought information about the scheme this morning, found
Sir James Crockett, J.P., and other members of the firm, too modest to discuss it, and the
foregoing particulars have been obtained as the result of inquiries in other directions
They are, nevertheless, perfectly accurate.—Daily Echo, Northampton, 7th January, 1925.
History of the Union
A cheap edition of the "Fifty Years'
History of the Union " available
NOW.
SIXPENCE PER COPY.
Orders should be remitted through Branch Secretaries as
early as possible.
This "History" gives an interesting and valuable record
of the Union.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.


---
61
CO-OP. TRADE UP £6,400,000.
Sales for 1924 Nearly 73 Million Pounds. C.W.S. and Unions.
Retail Societies to Vote Shortly.
Last year's trade of the Co-operative Wholesale Society showed an increase of no less
than £6,400,000 on that of the previous year.
This announcement was made at the general quarterly meeting of the C.W.S. held
in Manchester on Saturday by the chairman, Mr. H. J. A. Wilkins, of Plymouth.
The total sales for the year amounted to £72,900,000, and the
supplies from C.W.S. productive works were valued at £24,210,000,
representing an increase in Co-operative workshop productions of
£3,500,000.
This, said Mr. Wilkins, may be regarded as a big forward step in the trade of the
movement.
They were doing well in flour, and the sales of tea were going up week by week. They
were now hoping for an improvement in the textile trades.
The boot and shoe trade had been considerably improved, and all the works of the
C.W.S. were now on full time.
All round there was a brighter outlook for 1925.
C.W.S. and the Unions.
The question of compulsory membership of a trade union among employees of the
C.W.S. was further discussed.
It was raised (as at the divisional meetings the previous Saturday) on a resolution
from Wallsend Society, which was to the effect that the decision of the previous quarterly
meeting on compulsory Trade Unionism be rescinded.
Mr. Rigg (president of the Wallsend Society) said he thought the position of com-
pulsory membership of a trade union had been forced upon them by the apathy of the
Conservative element of the movement, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, by the
persistency of "professionals," who hoped to make Co-operation a happy hunting ground
for trade unionists.
He thought this attitude on the part of trade unionists was going to interfere with
the progress of the movement, which existed to remedy the anomalies of the present
industrial system.
No decision was arrived at, as the directors of the C.W.S. had decided to submit the
resolution to a referendum of shareholding societies. Voting papers will be distributed
within the next few days.—Daily Herald, 10th January, 1925.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light,
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925.
January 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78 77 80
February 15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88 77 79
March 15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 86 76 78
April 15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 82 74 73
May 20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 81 70 71
June 25 45 75-80 100 105 150 119 80 69 69
July 25 45-50 80 100-105 105 110 152 119 81 69 70
August 25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 71 71
September 25 50 80-85 110 115 161 120 79 73 72
October 30 50 55 75-80 115 120 120 164 110 78 75 76
November 30 35 60 85 120 125 125 176 103 80 75 80
December 35 65 85 120 125 169 99 80 77 81
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922) Agreement, and present date.


---
Here is the extracted text:
62
REPORT OF THE STANDING JOINT COMMITTEE OF INDUSTRIAL
WOMEN'S ORGANISATIONS.
November, 1923, to December, 1924.
The addition of another organisation has been made, the Women's Sanitary i
and Health Visitors' Association.
Meetings.
During the year the full Committee has met seven times, the General Purpo
mittee six times. and a special Agenda Committee for the Annual National Confer
Labour Women once, and other sub-committees for particular matters from time t
International Work.
We reported last year that the Congress of the International Federation of
Women had agreed to the proposals of the British Delegation and since then these prope
were submitted by the Secretary, Edith McDonald, at a Special Conference on the orga
sation of women called by the International Federation of Trade Unions in Vienna
June, 1924. The proposals involve the setting up by the latter of an Advisory Commi
of women and the holding of a Biennial Conference of women on Trade Union matter
These steps are now being taken and the International Federation of Working Wome
will cease to exist as a separate organisation, full responsibility now being with the nationa
Trade Union centres affiliated to the International Federation of Trade Unions. Wec
therefore feel satisfied that the work in which we co-operated has led to this developme
of international interest and concern in the Trade Union organisation of women, and expre
the hope that our co-operation may be sought by the Trade Union organisation whenever
we can be of assistance.
The Presidium appointed by the International Conference of Labour and Social:
Women at Hamburg in 1923 has continued to act through its chief correspondent, Fra
Adelheid Popp, in Austria, and has been represented on the invitation of the Council
the Labour and Socialist International at the meetings this year. In Vienna, Frau Por:
was present, and in London, Dr. Marion Phillips. At the latter meeting it was agreed c
Dr. Marion Phillips' proposition that the next Congress, to be held in 1925, should be
preceded by a Conference of Women to discuss how best to increase the organisation:
women in the Socialist and Labour Movements in the different countries.
The international connection of our movement with others was greatly increased by
the visit of five fraternal delegates at the National Conference of Labour Women, held
London in May.
It was felt that this personal contact had been of great value in improving our know
ledge of one another, and the proposal of the Standing Joint Committee to invite iratern...
delegates again has been accepted by the Labour Party Executive for the Conferer.c
of 1925.
National Conference of Labour Women.
The Conference was held in London at the Holborn Empire, and attended by
delegates-a record number. Mrs. Harrison Bell was in the Chair, and Reports prepare.
by the Standing Joint Committee and accepted by the Labour Party Executive wee
presented to the Conference and adopted practically unaltered.
The following matters have been dealt with during the year :-
MATERNITY PROBLEMS.
PENAL REFORM.
WIDOWS' PENSIONS.
THE HOUSEWIFE AND WORLD SUPPLIES.
CHILD ADOPTION.
WOMEN AND THE SUFFRAGE AND EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY.
NURSING.
PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION FOR WOMEN.
Labour Women M.P.'s.
During the year under review, we had the great pleasure of seeing our first womed
Parliamentary representatives in the House of Commons. Miss Margaret Bondfield and
Miss Susan Lawrence were old members of the Committee and Miss Dorothy Jewson,


---
62
REPORT OF THE STANDING JOINT COMMITTEE OF INDUSTRIAL
WOMEN'S ORGANISATIONS.
November, 1923, to December, 1924.
The addition of another organisation has been made, the Women's Sanitary i
and Health Visitors' Association.
Meetings.
During the year the full Committee has met seven times, the General Purp
mittee six times. and a special Agenda Committee for the Annual National Confere
Labour Women once, and other sub-committees for particular matters from time t
International Work.
We reported last year that the Congress of the International Federation of We
Women had agreed to the proposals of the British Delegation and since then these prop
were submitted by the Secretary, Edith McDonald, at a Special Conference on the org
sation of women called by the International Federation of Trade Unions in Vienna
June, 1924. The proposals involve the setting up by the latter of an Advisory Comm
of women and the holding of a Biennial Conference of women on Trade Union matter
These steps are now being taken and the International Federation of Working Wor
will cease to exist as a separate organisation, full responsibility now being with the nati
Trade Union centres affiliated to the International Federation of Trade Unions. We ca
therefore feel satisfied that the work in which we co-operated has led to this developme
of international interest and concern in the Trade Union organisation of women, and expre
the hope that our co-operation may be sought by the Trade Union organisation whemer
we can be of assistance.
The Presidium appointed by the International Conference of Labour and Somal
Women at Hamburg in 1923 has continued to act through its chief correspondent. Fr..
Adelheid Popp, in Austria, and has been represented on the invitation of the Counci
the Labour and Socialist International at the meetings this year. In Vienna, Frau Pu
was present, and in London, Dr. Marion Phillips. At the latter meeting it was agreed
Dr. Marion Phillips' proposition that the next Congress, to be held in 1925, should
preceded by a Conference of Women to discuss how best to increase the organisation:
women in the Socialist and Labour Movements in the different countries.
The international connection of our movement with others was greatly increased
the visit of five fraternal delegates at the National Conference of Labour Women held
London in May.
It was felt that this personal contact had been of great value in improving our know
ledge of one another, and the proposal of the Standing Joint Committee to invite irater...
delegates again has been accepted by the Labour Party Executive for the Conferen
of 1925.
National Conference of Labour Women.
The Conference was held in London at the Holborn Empire, and attended by 14
delegates-a record number. Mrs. Harrison Bell was in the Chair, and Reports prepare
by the Standing Joint Committee and accepted by the Labour Party Executive wee
presented to the Conference and adopted practically unaltered.
The following matters have been dealt with during the year :-
MATERNITY PROBLEMS.
PENAL REFORM.
WIDOWS' PENSIONS.
THE HOUSEWIFE AND WORLD SUPPLIES.
CHILD ADOPTION.
WOMEN AND THE SUFFRAGE AND EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY.
NURSING.
PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION FOR WOMEN.
Labour Women M.P.'s.
During the year under review, we had the great pleasure of seeing our first womed
Parliamentary representatives in the House of Commons. Miss Margaret Bondfield and
Miss Susan Lawrence were old members of the Committee and Miss Dorothy Jewseil,


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
63
and it was very satisfactory to have them doing their work in those new surroundings.
In October this year, we had the sorrow of their losing their seats, though we believe this
loss is only temporary, and the pleasure of welcoming as an M.P. another member of our
Committee, Miss Ellen Wilkinson, now Labour Member for Middlesborough East.
During the latter part of the year, our Chairman, Mrs. Harrison Bell, was absent on
a very interesting Commission, of which Miss Bondfield was Chairman, investigating the
conditions of emigration in Canada for the Home Government.
Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards is the Union's representative on the Standing Joint Committee
of Industrial Women's Organisations.
MARION PHILLIPS,
Secretary.
MESSRS. J. SEARS & CO. LTD.
Another Successful Year.
The Directors of Messrs. J. Sears & Co. (True-Form Boot Co.), Ltd., in submitting
their thirteenth annual report, state that the profits for the year 1924, after charging all
working expenses, including Managing Directors' salaries, and after providing for reserves
and for taxation on the profits of the year, amount to £172,948 16s. 7d. (against £169,695
last year).
After provision for dividend accrued on the 7 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares,
and on the 12 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares to 31st December, 1924, and pay-
ment of a final dividend of 3s. per share upon the Ordinary and "A" Shares, making a
total for the year of 4s. 6d. per share free of Income Tax, together with the transfer to
general reserve of £25,000 (same last year), a balance is carried forward to next year of
£104,312 13s. 7d. (against £87,900 last year).
8/- WEEK FOR BRAKE AS HOME.
"What a Delightful Place?" Plight of a Sileby Family.
Man Now in Hospital.
Strong comments were made at a meeting of the Barrow-on-Soar Rural District
Council meeting to-day, when the Sanitary Inspector reported that a man, his wife, and
two children, aged 14 months and two months, were living in a brake in a field on the
Barrow-Sileby road, for which he was paying 8s. a week rent, and also 3s. per month
ground rent.
The officer said that the man was now in hospital. The brake had been partitioned
off for a bedroom. There were no sanitary arrangements, and the vehicle let in water
and was mildewed.
A Member: Eight shillings a week for a dog kennel!
Ald. C. Goodacre moved that the owner be served with a statutory order asking him
to put in sanitary arrangements and water.
Mr. V. R. Pochin said it was an outrageous state of affairs. They ought to consult
the Ministry on the matter.
It was decided that Mr. W. L. Everard, M.P., consult the Ministry.
Mr. Bunney said there was a somewhat similar case at Cropstone, where a man was
paying 10s. and 2s. 6d. ground rent for a hut.-The Leicester Mercury, 20th January, 1925.
WORLD PEACE THROUGH INDUSTRIAL PEACE.
A League of Nations Union delegation is being organised to visit the 7th Session of
the International Labour Conference which opens on 19th May in Geneva.
Facilities to visit the International Labour Office and the Secretariat of the League
and informal talks about the Conference agenda have been arranged.
The Party, which will spend the week, 22nd to 29th May, in Geneva, leaves London
on the 21st. Some delightful excursions in Geneva are in prospect. The inclusive fee
for 2nd class travel and one week's residence is £10 or £13 10s. od. for a fortnight.
Further particulars will be forwarded on request to the League of Nations Union,
15 Grosvenor Crescent, London, S.W. 1.


---
64
NEW PREMISES FOR THE INTERNAΤΙΟΝΑL
LABOUR OFFICE.

Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., the British Workers' delegate to the International
Office, and member of the Governing Body, made the following statement on 24th
1925, in reference to the hatred displayed by the Rothermere Press towards the
tions concerned with the improvement of the conditions of labour. It attac-
unions; the co-operative movement; the salaries of teachers because they e
children of the workers " above their station "; the Ministry of Labour bec
ministers Unemployment Insurance and Employment Exchanges; in fact mot for
activity which seek to raise the standard of life of the working people.

One of the chief objects of its rancour at present, is the International Labor
at Geneva, against which it carries on an intermittent campaign of abuse and misre
tion. In its latest effort to discredit the Office it has surpassed even itself in fals
On the 16th inst., there appeared in its columns an article headed "Labour's Pala
Geneva," with a sub-title "British Taxpayers foot the Bill." It stated that the new b
of the International Labour Office, which is nearing completion, was like a royal pa
that it was built to contain bureaucrats who did nothing, and declared that the
affair was a sheer waste of British money.

It will surprise no intelligent person to learn that this effusion is full of inaccu-
and is deliberately calculated to mislead the public.

The new building is one of simple character; it is built mainly of artificial st
without any architectural embellishment. Visitors from England who have seen it
described it as being a barracks or a workhouse. It is, indeed, designed to be a ho
work, and not an adornment of the landscape. Its total cost will not exceed ₤125.000
of which the share of Great Britain will be ₤11,000. It will be noted that the he
of the article implies that the whole cost will fall on the British taxpayer. As a mar
of fact, the British proportion is 9.4 per cent. of the total.

The new building was ordered to be erected by the League Assembly, because
present temporary building in which the International Labour Office carries on its acti
is inconvenient and relatively costly. The cost of the new building will mean a saving
rent and other expenses of over £5,000 per annum, so that the erection of the buil-
means in reality no additional cost to Great Britain, or to the other countries which be...
to the League of Nations.

As to the statement that the Office does nothing, this is too foolish to need reíntar
Indeed, it was refuted by the Daily Mail itself the other day when it quoted with appro
certain publications which the Office had issued.

One other point should be mentioned; the Rothermere Press is always prote-
against the idea that there is a class war.
everything that Mr. Wheatley has recently said on this subject. The International Lab
Yet its whole attitude towards Labour justif
Office is governed by representatives of Governments, employers and workers, who m
together for the purpose of coming to a common understanding with regard to lab.:
problems. The results of these endeavours are well known. Yet the Rothermere Pres
is constantly seeking, by its attacks upon the Office, to demonstrate that all constitution
effort to promote social peace is futile extravagance. The moral, therefore, would seem
to be that the class war advocates are right. Does the Rothermere Press really wish:
promote the idea of the class war, or is it simply blindly and malevolently stupid?

As showing the work the Office has done, nearly 400 ratifications have been registered
by the various countries affiliated, and in our own country seven ratifications have let
registered and two recommended for ratification, whilst others have been authorised an...
Bills introduced into Parliament for their application; moreover, the fact that repre
sentatives from so many nations meet together to deal with problems common to the
various countries cannot but be advantageous, not merely to one country, but to all the
countries who are suffering at the present time from industrial and economic troubles.

SHORT TIME AND NOTICE.
Protest by Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union.
The Leicester No. 1 Branch of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives has
passed a resolution strongly protesting against any employer refusing to give permission
to any operative to leave their employ without serving a week's notice when on short time,
after the operative has asked permission to leave.

This, apparently, is the sequel to the decision of the Leicester magistrates that
workman is not entitled to leave without notice even though his employer cannot keep
him fully employed.---The Leicester Mercury, 10th January, 1925.


---
BOOT TRADE PROSPERITY.
In spite of unemployment and other adverse influences British boot manufacturers
continue to enjoy considerable prosperity. Their foreign trade is expanding, and the home
demand, especially for the fancy varieties of women's footwear now in vogue, is very heavy.
Foreign competition long ago ceased to be formidable, and though imports increased last
year they were again substantially exceeded by the exports, the not imports being valued
at £1,750,000 and the exports of British manufactured boots and shoes at somewhat over
£5,000,000. The increase in the exports exceeded £700,000, and was, it is true, largely
due to abnormal shipments to the Irish Free State in anticipation of the imposition of an
import duty by that country. But even if that exceptional circumstance is allowed for
the record of the industry is extremely satisfactory. All the Dominions, except Canada,
are large consumers of British boots, and business with other countries is progressing.
Even in the improbable event of the Irish Free State's experiment in protection proving
a success, British manufacturers will still be able to find elsewhere a good market for the'r
wares.
Results just announced by that representative Leicester undertaking, Freeman,
Hardy & Willis, reveal further progress in the development of that company's extensive
business now carried on through upwards of 500 retail branches scattered all over the
country. The directors refer to largely increased competition, but that has not prevented
a further improvement in profits to a figure equivalent to over 26¼ per cent. on the issued
share capital. For the tenth consecutive year Ordinary shareholders receive a dividend
at the handsome rate of 17½ per cent., of which 5 per cent. is payable free of tax, while,
including a provision of £50,000 for income-tax, £149,000 is set aside for other purposes.
In addition to paying a handsome dividend the directors propose to capitalise reserves to
an extent sufficient to provide a bonus to Ordinary shareholders of one Six per cent. Pre-
ference share for every two Ordinary shares now held. Even when that operation is
carried out the company will have reserves to the amount of £113,500 in hand. Its
financial position remains extremely strong, for while liabilities to creditors fall short of
£400,000, stocks, British Government securities and cash balances together exceed £1,000,000.
The directors, therefore, are fully justified in assuming that the position disclosed will be
a source of much pleasure to the shareholders. ---Financial Times, 14th January, 1925.
IMPORTS AND EXPORTS IN 1924.
The Board of Trade Returns, published this week, for December last, show that our
exports of footwear, made of leather or mainly of leather, averaged practically one million
pairs a month during 1924. To be exact, the total for the whole year was 11,986,296
pairs-a notable advance on the overseas trade of 1923, which amounted in all to 9,551,532
pairs. The table printed hereunder shows the number of pairs and value of the goods
exported each month.-
	Pairs
£
	Pairs.
£
January
..	838,296
360,927	July
..	1,410,612
610,425
February
..	843,732
343,168	August
..	1,030,416
443,153
March
..	802,656
346.648	September
..	1,126,572
462.674
April
..	737,700
315,217	October
..	1,264,308
525,323
May
..	1,164,324
525,532	November
..	1,219,008
473,610
June
..	693,282
287,538	December
..	855,264
329,249
As will be seen, the largest quantity exported in any one month was during July, when
the total reached 1,410,612 pairs. That December failed to return the million or more
pairs recorded in each of the five preceding months may be attributed to the long holiday
period which it included, and does not necessarily indicate that overseas trade is decreasing.
Generally, the last six months of 1924 were the most satisfactory in any recent year,
and, if the same rate of progress be maintained, firms interested in export business will
have little cause for complaint when they reach the end of 1925.
There was a fairly substantial increase of imports last year of footwear made wholly
or mainly of leather. The total importation for 1923 was 2,282,604 pairs, valued at
£1,147.951; and that for 1924 totalled 2,744,640 pairs, valued at £1,413,166. Compared
with the aggregate sales of boots and shoes in this country, the business done in imported
goods represents a very small percentage, and is probably no larger in proportion than that
of any recent year. It should also be remembered that overseas visitors to this country
were more numerous than usual last year, and those who purchased footwear during their
stay would, in many cases, favour imported shoes. A certain amount of trade in foreign-
made footwear will always be transacted, no matter how good the shoes produced in this
country may be. While, however, the total imports are no larger than at present, British
manufacturers have no cause for anxiety. The Shoe and Leather Record, 16th January,
1925.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
66
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
During December we have again had some difficulty with the operative, working
at Hertz's. So serious was the position that the Branch placed the whole matter in the
hands of the Council. We have been dealing with this firm for the past three weeks
and with a certain amount of success in so far that they had adopted the 48-hour week.
The present difficulty was in the Lasting Department, which unfortunately was aggravated
and intensified by the attitude of the men.
We have held two meetings with the clickers working at Levine's. There appears
to be some misunderstanding with regard to the Terms of Settlement, and further, and
with the result that matters were adjusted, and that in order to deal with the rapid
changes in designs were a little confusing to them. We interviewed Mr. Izelman, and
prices, he decided to put the men on piecework, working to the London Clicking Statement.
We have also met the operatives at the following firms:- Solomon's, Meltzer,
Cohen's, Wackman's, Lipman's, Franks', Cunnington's, Hyam's, Mindle's, Franklin's.
Pursuing our investigations, we are far from satisfied with the conditions existing at
of these firms. So serious is the position that the London Federation will be compelled
to take the matter in hand, and demand that all their members carry out the Terms of the
National Agreement. The clickers are fairly well organised, but the system of working
is a gross violation of the London Clicking Statement, while in the other departments
the tendency on minor operations is to get as near the minimum as possible, and so far as
the youths are concerned, no due regard is paid to the Graduated Scales. The girls are
not well organised, consequently the wages are considerably less than in other organised
centres. At some of the meetings we have held we have gone very fully into the method
of working, and from our inquiries the system of working is antiquated. It is just the
old way, that the only method to conduct a business is to pay as low a wage as possible
because they have not got sufficient technical skill to manage a business unless they take
it out of labour. It is very encouraging to find, therefore, especially where the clickers
are concerned, that continued pressure is being applied, which inevitably must mean the
adoption of more up-to-date methods. The difficulty of organisation in London is very
largely the result of the cosmopolitan nature of the population, together with the fact
that many of the operatives reside considerable distances from their employment. This
mainly accounts for the insular mentality which is such a pronounced feature of the average
London operative, that produces a mind which, if he belongs to a Trade Union, will willingly
work by the side of another operative without inquiring if he is a member of a Trade Union.
We are confident only by persistent work that we shall eventually raise the standard of
the London operative. Mr. Mason is untiring in his efforts, as local president, and his ready
advice and assistance is invaluable in all the work that we endeavour to carry out.
The strike at Jackson & Joseph's is still continuing, and we have now entered on the
26th week. The men are remaining firm, and negotiations are proceeding, which we hope
will bring about an honourable settlement. We wish to thank all those branches who
have responded most generously to our funds.
During the past month we have been engaged in the London area, steadily pursuing
our policy of trying to consolidate the district. We have been devoting our attention
chiefly to those firms who are not complying to the whole of the terms of the National
Agreement. We have also rendered some assistance to the local branch, in order to
enforce the London Clicking Statement. Meetings of clickers from a number of firms have
been held, and interviews arranged with the firms. As a result prices have been adjusted
on new designs, and a general improvement has taken place in the working conditions in
the clicking departments. We have endeavoured to negotiate with the following firms
Kay's, Solomon's, Steinhart's, Wackman's, Mindle's, N. Bloom's, Lipman's, in order
that they should adopt the Holiday Scheme. None of these firms definitely refused to
adopt the Scheme, and promised to give the matter their consideration. From our
observation there appears to be a number of firms in this district who produce a similar
class of work, and each claim that owing to the competition of the other, they find it
impossible to include the scheme in their costs of production. This position presents a
deplorable condition of affairs, and demonstrates as to what methods many of the buyers
will adopt, in order to enrich themselves at the manufacturers' expense. But while they
can find employers willing to crush labour, and prevent them from adopting the National
Agreement, there will always be a number of buyers of atavistic minds, ever ready to
exploit any conditions without any consideration for fair dealing, and with no considera-
tion for the operative; and less for the consumer, who never receives any benefit whatever
prices the shoes are produced at. This position is at present receiving the consideration
of the local Board of Arbitration, and so far as we are concerned we are determined to deal
with these firms. The whole of the operatives have been met working at a number of the
firms, and we are gradually building up a position, which though slow will eventually
lead to a gradual levelling up of conditions in this industry.
formation from the operativ


---
07
of the operative, can we hope to raise the general status of these firms, to adopt the full
terms of our agreement. We are pleased to report that two firms have agreed to adopt
the Holiday Scheme, and that other firms have given quite definite assurances that they
will carry out their promise. We have made frequent attempts to organise the women
at various firms, and on investigation we have found that the wages are far from satis-
factory, but we are hoping to make decided progress in this direction.
During the past month negotiations have been continued with the firm of Jackson &
Joseph's, with a view to terminating the dispute, and we are very pleased to report that
the dispute is now settled, on terms that are mutually acceptable. The firm has put into
operation the Terms of Settlement that govern the industry, and the men are to be rein-
stated as early as possible.
WAGE DEMAND.
J. H. BAUM.
LEN. SMITH.
W. R. SMITH.
Bozeat Operatives and the Minimum. Action Decided at Mass Meeting.
Manufacturers Complain of Unfair Competition.
Trouble that has been threatening for some time has arisen at Bozeat, relative to the
wages paid by the Bozeat boot and shoe manufacturers to their employees. We are
informed that the rate of wages paid in Bozeat is five per cent. less than the minimum,
and this state of affairs has brought complaints from Leicestershire, and, in the immediate
district, Raunds, Wollaston, and Irthlingborough.
Mass Meeting Called.
The National Union of Boot Operatives took steps in the matter, and arranged a
mass meeting at the Council Schools, Bozeat, on Wednesday evening, presided over by
Councillor C. Bates, J.P., of Rushden (branch president). The speakers were Mr. T. F.
Richards (general president), Mr. W. A. Wyman (secretary of the Wellingborough branch),
and Mr. W. Langley, J.P. (secretary of the Rushden and Higham Ferrers branch).
Minimum Not Paid.
In the course of the meeting it was explained that complaints had been received
from workers and manufacturers from many parts of the country, as Bozeat was the only
district in the country where the minimum rate was not paid.
Mr. Bates gave a resume of the history of trade unionism in Bozeat, and stated that,
as the whole of the employees were federated, they would be bound to pay what the work-
men demanded.
First Trouble for Thirty Years.
Mr. Richards stated that the employers were aware of the demands, and it was so
unanimous that they would have to comply with it. This was the largest meeting of
operatives ever held in Bozeat, and, he added, it was the first instance of national trouble
for 30 years. Discussions had taken place between the speaker and Mr. A. E. Marlow
(the late president of the Manufacturers' Federation) as to why Bozeat was permitted
to pay is. less prior to the war. He was also informed that a Northampton manufacturer
had raised the question at National Federation meetings, and there the officials had pre-
mised to deal with the matter.
Other Manufacturers Anxious.
A manufacturer a few miles from Leicester had made the demand that he, too, should
pay the same rate of wages as the Bozeat manufacturers. They were, he said, his com-
petitors. The Wollaston manufacturers had requested the speaker to bring pressure on
the Bozeat manufacturers, and the secretary of the Employers' Federation had also asked
him when the Union were going to bring Bozeat manufacturers to pay the minimum
rate of wages. He had replied, "As soon as the time is opportune." The present, he
thought, was an opportune time.
Peaceful Means before Striking.
In the course of his address, Mr. Richards dealt with the methods to be used in the
situation. Arbitration was preferable to striking; peaceful means should be used before
anything drastic was resorted to.
Peaceful Persuasion.
Mr. Langley, the branch secretary, briefly referred to the fact that they had in Bozeat
about 300 members. Six members had joined the previous week, and 20 had joined the
---

---
Wellingborough Branch. There remained, however, about 20 people w
members, and in this matter he advised the members to use peaceful persua
to join. At any rate, strict measures should be taken with non-membe...
outside the Union after 31st January.
A resolution, carried unanimously, was to the effect that the demand for
in wages should be made to the manufacturers at once by the General So
E. L. Poulton.---The Evening Telegraph, 23rd January, 1925.
FAMILY LIVE IN AN OVEN.
Father, Mother and Eight Children. Hole in the Top as Windo
A workless farm labourer, H. Lee, his wife, and their eight children, are...
disused coke oven at Dronfield, Woodhouse, Sheffield. They can get no other
The coke oven has not been used for nearly thirty years, and is hardly high,
stand upright in. It is not big enough to hold any furniture.
The door, an arch three feet high and three feet wide, can only be entered a
and knees.
There is a little hole in the top which Lee has covered with glass, and this is
window.
Cooking is done on an upturned bucket drilled with holes.
The children's ages range from nine months to thirteen years.
Mrs. Lee told me to-day that for twelve months a man about 70 lived in a
adjoining. He had plenty of money, and owned property, but could not get his ter
evicted. He had neither furniture nor cooking utensils. He lived on water and
and cooked foods. On Monday of this week he left to go into one of his own home,
which a tenant had gone.
Lee bought a caravan, but the local authority told him it was not big enough
large family, and would not let him live in it. He has been told he must get out of th
oven, but he has nowhere else to go.
Another adjoining coke oven is used to keep a perambulator in.-Westminster G
23rd January, 1925.
TRADE RETURNS FOR 1924.
Imports and Exports Increase.
The Board of Trade returns of British trade during 1924 show a big jump up to:
our imports and our exports.
The year's figures are :-
Imports
Exports
::
Both these totals are the highest in the past three years.
::
£1,279,844,597
£795,364,581
1924
The figures of the imports for the past three years are :-
1923
£1,279,844.597
1922
£1,096,226,214
£1,003,098,899
The exports, too, have risen steadily in the past three years, and 1924 is better in
respect by £28,106,810, the figures for the three years being :-
1924
1923
1922
£795.364,581
£767.257.771
£719,507,410
Good Finish to Year.
In the month of December, it is shown, the imports reached a higher figure than these
of any month in the past three years notwithstanding the interruption of business caust
by the Christmas holidays. They were nearly £13,000,000 higher than those of November.
The totals for the last three Decembers are:-
1924
1923
1922
£131,009,508
£100,104,012
294.937,721
The totals for the past three Decembers were :--
The December exports showed an increase of 71,147,000 over those of November
1924
1923
1922
409,307,800
404,115,180
£58,883,032
Daily News, 13th January 1925-


---
69
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACTS, 1920-24.
Decision Given by the Umpire.
CASE NO. 8561, SECTION 8 (2).-EMPLOYMENT LEFT VOLUNTARILY-SHORT-TIME WORKER
GAVE UP SPARE-TIME OCCUPATION IN ORDER TO QUALIFY FOR BENEFIT ON DAYS
OF UNEMPLOYMENT-NOT JUST CAUSE.
The applicant, a spinner, was employed on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday in each
week under a system of short-time working. On Saturdays he was employed during the
evening as a pianist at a local hotel, and for this additional employment he received ten
shillings. He had carried on the spare-time employment as a pianist for 25 years, but
on the 8th March, 1924, he gave up this employment in order to become eligible for unem-
ployment benefit on the three days in each week, viz., Saturday, Monday and Tuesday,
on which he was not employed in his usual trade as a cotton spinner. Under the regulations
governing the payment of benefit the applicant was not entitled to benefit in respect of
Monday and Tuesday in each week, as he was "not unemployed" on Saturday.
He gave as his reason for leaving the spare-time employment that he would have
received more by way of unemployment benefit for the three days in question than he did
by playing the piano, and that he wanted to qualify for benefit which would be set off
against an overpayment of benefit recorded against him at the Employment Exchange.
Recommended by the Court of Referees that the claim for benefit should be allowed
on the ground that the applicant was justified in leaving his spare-time employment,
but the Insurance Officer declined to accept the recommendation of the Court of Referees
and referred the matter to the Umpire.
Decision.-" On the facts before me my decision is that the claim for benefit should
be disallowed.
"The applicant had two employments. Three days a week he was employed in his
usual occupation of a cotton spinner, and on Saturdays he had a spare-time employment
which he had followed for 25 years, in respect of which he received 10s. a day.
The Insurance Officer claims that he voluntarily left this spare-time employment
without just cause and therefore is disqualified for benefit for 6 weeks. His only reason
for leaving it was that, so long as he followed it, he was employed on four days in each week
and therefore was not entitled to benefit in respect of the two days on which he was un-
employed.
"It sometimes happens, no doubt, that a person would be better off when unemployed
and in receipt of benefit than he is whilst employed, but in my opinion this is not in itself
just cause for leaving employment, and in several cases it has been so held (see Cases
Nos. 637, 1257, 1770).
"The Court of Referees appear to have been of the opinion that there should be no
disqualification on the ground that Section 8 (2) of the Act of 1920 has no application to
spare-time employment. I am not prepared to say that that Section is applicable to all
kinds of occupations the following of which would disqualify for benefit under Section 7
(2) (a), but I see no reason for thinking that the spare-time employment followed by this
applicant was not 'employment' within the meaning of that expression as used in Section
8 (2)." The Ministry of Labour Gazette, January, 1925.

NEW TRADE BOARD SCHEDULE.
Piece Rates for Work Preparatory to Rounding and Channelling.
The London Gazette of the 13th inst. publishes the new Trade Board general minimum
piece-rates for work preparatory to rounding and channelling machines. These rates are
effective as from 12th January, and are subject to percentage reductions according to the
fluctuation of the cost of living. The rates set forth are:-
Soleing Only.
For stripping, levelling, fixing sole and riveting across waist.
Men's up to size 10, 61d. per pair.
Youths' sizes 2's to 5's, 51d. per pair.
Boys' sizes II's to I's, 51d. per pair.
Boys' sizes 7's to 10's, 5d. per pair.
Ladies' up to size 7, 51d. per pair.
Girls' sizes II's to I's, 5d. per pair.
Girls' sizes 10's and under, 4d. per pair.
If work returned to benchman for re-laying channels, 1d. per pair more.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

70

LEGALISATION OF JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL AWARDS.

MR. E. L. POULTTON, J.P. (Boot and Shoe Operatives): I beg to move
desirability of giving to national agreements voluntarily entered into and a
This Congress instructs the General Council to urge upon H.M. Govern
Joint Industrial Councils the same validity as awards under the Trade a
1909 and 1918, with the object of ensuring the observance of fair conditions of
all engaged in the industry whenever requested by the parties to the agreeme
I hope we may be successful in securing a majority of votes for this resolution.
is only following upon the work that we have been engaged in for many years p
ticularly in regard to our Trade Boards. Although I know there are some insta
it may be said that the work has not been of full advantage to the workers, gerr
spirit in these Trade Boards and the law behind them has been distinctly advanta
many thousands of workers engaged in those trades which come under the Trade
Moreover, this Congress has carried a resolution-certainly the General Council was
with the view-asking for power to get more trades under the Act. What we dest
is that in regard to voluntary agreements entered into by representatives of the r
and the employed, if they so desire, those agreements shall be made obligatory up
employers in the industry, the authorities to deal with the matter in the same way
Trade Boards.

Take an example of my own trade. We in our trade have about 90 per cent.
employers in our organisation. We submit that it is unfair and unjust that the othe
per cent. should so constantly strive to evade the obligations put upon the trade gerer
We have in our trade a great many small employers from one end of the country to anc
who employ possibly three, four, or six men.
to evade their obligations. Therefore, they make the position of those of the others
strive to do the right thing harder than otherwise it would be. There is in our judgmenta
These employers are constantly str
another reason in favour of what we are asking. We want to conserve to our friends:
protection of their hours of labour and other conditions. Some seem to misunderst
and suppose that this is compulsion. We say that steps shall not be taken at any r
unless both sides agree to ask the Government to put the thing into force. Under th
conditions, I hope Congress will give us their support and pass the resolution.

MR. T. F. RICHARDS (Boot and Shoe Operatives): I beg to second the resolut
We are not in favour of compulsory arbitration. Their 29 years' experience, went
Mr. Richards, suggested that this policy they were putting forward should at least
mand the attention of other industries and other organisations who, it appeared to
were favourably inclined towards our suggestions.
policy," said Mr. Richards.
dispense with militarist wars, but we should dispense with industrial wars, seeing th
"We have come to the conclusion that not only should
For 29 years we have adopted
these bring pain and tribulation upon the women and children who are dependent upen
efforts of this great Trades Union Congress. We think that if it is possible to persua
the employers, with ourselves, to bring about a better sate of affairs then it ought to t
done. Some have asked us what have we gained. Well, we have gained two or thre
things which I wish others had gained. We have gained a minimum day's labour and
time wage of 60s. per week, while the piecework rate in our trade works out at about
per week. If what in the past has been gained by struggles can be gained by conciliati
and arbitration, well and good, and may I add that probably it may be because we ku
more of our employers' difficulties than some other industries that we have achieved the
position we have. How do we stand in this England of ours? We own 17 factors
assistance of our members. Therefore, we know the difficulties of foreign competiti
under the control of our Trade Unions, purchased with their money that is with the
and other matters of that sort. I am informed that one or two organisations have already
decided, before coming to this Congress, to oppost one or two organisationer for the life
of me see where there is any reasonable policy in opposing the resolution, which can only
be applied to the business jointly by employer and employed, Federation and union,
already said. Our friends in the mining industry enjoy it. I have the greatest possible
what loy college.
pleasure in seconding this resolution, and ask Congress only to give us a chance to prot
by experience."

MR. JOHN HILL (Boilermakers and Iron and Steel Shipbuilders): This resolution seeks
to make
in it, to accept a decision without any opportunity of submitting their position and their
claims or their case. They are to be brought under an abritting their they have been ne
partye bit is the application of that principle to which some of whichjects it is getting
principles at the time. This is the thin end of the application of the principle that Lord
Askwith's Committee endeavoured to force upon the Tu
years ago. "We are not having it Ma
---

---
"Take any particular section of the boot and shoe industry; they are already represented
on the Industrial Councils. To this principle of general application to all trades we want
to take very definite exception. I trust Congress is not going to commit themselves to it,
to a principle which they have opposed at all times."
MR. M. COHEN (Tailors and Garment Workers) opposed the resolution. " I think,"
he said, "that this resolution will bring the trades into further slavery in so far as the
workpeople of this country are concerned. The resolution shows clearly that the Joint
Industrial Councils are a failure. It shows that absolutely and clearly, because of the fact
that you are seeking further protection to carry out any agreement that you may have
come to as a result of the Joint Industrial Councils. I would urge on my friends who are
pleading for the adoption of such a resolution that they are going along the wrong road to
get a better status for the workers. Those of us who have had experience in the working
of Trade Boards know that when you get awards under Trade Boards legalised that you
are only driving members out of the Trade Unions, because they turn round and they say :
'We do not need to be in the union, our rates of wages are protected by the Government.'"
They did not know for certain, proceeded the speaker, but the boot and shoe operatives
would probably say the same thing if their wages were legalised by the Government, for
it must be remembered that most of the people in the Trade Unions were probably not
members from real principle. They were forced into them by economic circumstances,
and the moment another way was found of protecting the rates of wages they deserted.
"We have got to be quite frank about it," said Mr. Cohen, " and I would urge upon
Congress that the right way to protect the wages of the workpeople is by organisation,
by real, thorough organisation, that is the only way that we will ever get up the status
of our workpeople. If you can legalise wages, you will find a minimum fixed, which will
also be the maximum; then you will not know where you are. You will only be reducing
the status of the worker instead of making it higher. I hope Congress will turn this
resolution down absolutely, because it is of no value whatever to the Trade Union Move-
ment."
At this point "the previous question " was moved and carried. Extract from Trades
Union Congress Report, 1924.
HOUSING.
MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P. (Boot and Shoe Operatives): I beg to move :-
This Congress instructs the General Council to make urgent representations
immediately to His Majesty's Government to adopt still further measures providing
for the erection of houses for the working classes.
The Congress would notice, said Mr. Poulton, that the terms of the resolution were
general terms. That had been deliberately done. They wanted to support to the utter-
most the present Government in the work they had undertaken in getting houses for the
people. They certainly had an interesting discussion, which should make them ashamed
of what had been happening in many instances up and down the country in consequence
of the shortage of houses. This was not merely a question of dwellings. It was also a
great moral question. It was also a great health question. But he had not time to go into
the matter in consequence of the time limit imposed on the debate. He would, however,
call attention to the fact that at the Housing Conference on the previous Saturday, at which
were present representatives from all parts of the country, delegate after delegate got up
and implored them to do something to accelerate the pace at which houses were being
provided for the people. Moreover, there was one other point, and this, he was bound to
add, he considered most important. He referred to the overcrowding which was taking
place. By that alone they were unwittingly themselves at present reducing the standard
of life amongst the people. It was alarming how in a short while they willingly agreed to
that reduced standard because there was nothing else to take its place. "I trust, there-
fore," said Mr. Poulton, "we shall not only carry the resolution, but support the Labour
Government and our party to the utmost of our power in insisting upon, in the shortest
possible time, an adequate supply of houses for the people."
MR. W. PITTS (Boot and Shoe Operatives) seconded the resolution. He had, he said,
very great sympathy with the workers in other parts of the world. He could tell them
that in Northampton there were at least a thousand people waiting to get decent dwelling
houses. Mr. Pitts invited Congress to endeavour to force the pace with a view to helping
unemployment. Mr. Poulton had pointed out the serious effect upon health and morals
in the case where grown-up families were congested in two rooms, and he trembled to think
of what the conditions would be in another twenty years unless there was great improve-
ment. In the course of further observations Mr. Pitts was understood to refer to the
desirability of getting more labour into the building industry for the purpose of putting
up houses, and that the payment might be made on a piecework basis, a suggestion that
provoked some dissent.
The resolution was carried. Extract from Trades Union Congress Report, 1924.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

72
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANISATION.
The Year's Work.
Steady progress has been made in 1924 by the International Labour Orga
of the League of Nations in its various fields of activity. The following brief
surveys the more important events connected with its work during the year.
The Annual Conference.
Thirty-nine States, represented by 124 delegates and about 150 advibers, zere
at the sixth annual Session of the International Labour Conference, which ou
Geneva on 16th June. Complete delegations--two representatives of the
and one each of the employers and workers-attended from 29 countries,
Rumania, Cuba, and Argentina.
The Conference adopted a Recommendation dealing with the provision of
for the use of workers' spare time. There were also adopted provisionally, for final
at the seventh Session next May, three Draft Conventions and one Recommen
One Draft Convention and the Recommendation dealt with the equality of treain
national and foreign workers as regards accident compensation, while the ch
Draft Conventions dealt respectively with the weekly suspension of work in glas
facturing processes where tank furnaces are used and the prohibition of night
bakeries.
A resolution was also adopted approving the placing on the agenda of a future S
a Draft Convention and a Recommendation dealing with compulsory disinfecti
horse hair and the like against anthrax.
Progress of World Labour Law.
One hundred and forty-one "ratifications" (formal signature as a treaty) of D
ventions adopted by the Conference have now been received, and nineteen have L.
authorised but not formally communicated, as against ninety-two "ratifications" a.
sixteen authorised at the end of 1923. Over 100 legislative measures have been ader:
to give effect to its decisions and 83 others have been proposed.
The Eight-Hour Day.
Renewed interest has been taken during the year in the ratification of the Convent::
adopted at the first Session of the Conference held at Washington in 1919 on the eight-l....
day and the forty-eight hour week. Discussions took place at the quarterly meet....
of the Governing Body of the International Labour Office and M. Justin Godart, Fren...
Minister of Labour, speaking at the sixth Session of the Conference, stated that Frame
was ready to ratify the Convention. In September the Ministers of Labour of Gre
Britain, France, Germany, and Belgium met at Berne to discuss mutual problems regardir
the Eight-Hour Convention, the Conference closing with the unanimous feeling that the
common ratification of the Convention was possible.
An Act has been passed by the Legislature of British Columbia, to come into force
on Ist January, which is officially stated to be "the first Canadian Act to give practi
effect, without reservations or conditions "
Chamber of Deputies has voted the following resolution regarding imports from countries
which do not apply the eight-hour day :--
to the Hours Convention. The Austrian
"
third, the import duties provided by the Customs tariff on industrial products exported
The Government is authorised to increase, by an amount not exceeding one
from States which have not ratified the Washington Convention of 1919 and whose
standard in regard to hours of work is considerably below that of the said Convention."
Reforms in the East.
Further progress has been reported from the East during the year in the application
of the principles upon which the International Labour Organisation is founded. Japan
has ratified the Convention regarding the minimum age of employment of children m
in agricultural work save outside the hours fixed for school attendance. State regulation
agriculture, the main provision of which prohibits the employment of children under 14
child workers and the regulation of hours and night work of young personsules Teing
of labour conditions has been begun in China, including the fixing of the minimum age
mothers. A Bill has been introduced in the Indian Legislative Assembly prohibiting
also laid down for factory inspection, free medical care and the protection of working
certificate, and entitling them to receive an allowance during that find
the employment of women werkers six weeks before continegislative


---
Improved Persian Conditions.
Information received this year by the British Foreign Office shows that wide sweeping
reforms have been made in the conditions under which children work in the carpet weaving
factories in the province of Kerman in Persia as a result of a friendly communication
made to the Persian Government by the International Labour Office after hearing the facts
of the unsatisfactory conditions which had hitherto prevailed.

The 1925 Budget.
The Fifth Assembly of the League unanimously adopted 7,087,595 Swiss francs
(about $280,000 at par as the figure of the budget for the International Labour Organisa-
tion in 1925.

Industrial Health.
The Advisory Committee on Industrial Hygiene, composed of exports from a large
number of countries, held its second meeting at Geneva in July and formulated suggestions
regarding the disinfection of hair, horns and hoofs, and measures for the protection of
workers in certain occupations against anthrax; the assimilation of certain industrial
diseases to industrial accidents for the purposes of compensation; the functions of medical
men in factory inspection; and the lines to be followed in the periodical medical examina-
tion of workers in unhealthy occupations.

Insurance Funds in Ceded Territories.
In accordance with the provisions of the Treaty of Versailles, a commission was set
up by the International Labour Office to consider the terms of transfer of social insurance
funds in the districts of Upper Silesia ceded by Germany to Poland and held three meetings.
It consisted of five members-one from each of the parties and three experts appointed
by the Governing Body of the Office from countries having no interest in the transfer.
Among its recommendations it fixed at 26 million gold marks, payable in six annual
instalments, the lump sum which Germany is to transfer to Poland for the various classes
of insurance.

Deck Cargoes.
The Deck Cargoes Sub-Committee of the Joint Maritime Commission of the Inter-
national Labour Office met in London in December and agreed unanimously on a reply
to the British Board of Trade's criticism of the proposed regulations relating to wood
deck-cargoes, drawn up by the International Shipping Conference. They reaffirmed
their view that the proposed new regulations would adequately safeguard ships and their
crews and constituted a distinct advance from the point of view of safety.

Life in Soviet Russia.
The International Labour Office has added greatly to the available information
regarding conditions in Russia by its publication during the year of "Industrial Life in
Soviet Russia, 1917-1923," the information in which is taken entirely from Soviet sources.
Soviet legislation and its effects, as far as they can be judged, are given on wages, social
insurance, collective agreements, the settlement of disputes, labour inspection, trade
unions and the regulation of the labour market. This is supplemented by various inter-
esting statistics.

The Housing Problem.
Another important publication has been "European Housing Problems since the
War," wherein is included information regarding the housing crisis and the efforts made
to remedy it in the various countries of Europe. The International Labour Office has
also published a volume showing the various experiments made in different countries
along the lines of paying special allowances to workers with families.

Facts of World Labour.
These publications and others, dealing with the world causes of unemployment and
the position regarding hours of work in different countries, are in addition to its regular
publications, Industrial and Labour Information (weekly) and the International Labour
Review (monthly), wherein are brought together the latest facts concerning world labour
movements, special attention being paid to such subjects as cost of living movements,
wholesale prices, and emigration and unemployment figures.


---
74
NATIONAL PARLIAMENTS AND THE INTERNAΤΙΟΠΑΙ
LABOUR CONFERENCE.
As a result of the decisions of the International Labour Conference, le
really been done? As is well-known, the Conference meets every year, and
cussions lasting about a month, it adopts on labour and industrial questions inter
agreements known as Draft Conventions and Recommendations. But are tin
ments ever applied in national legislation ?
The answer to that question is contained in a chart published in the Induele
Labour Information, the weekly publication of the International Labour Offre
chart shows that in 141 cases, the Draft Conventions of the Conference have bean:
by States members of the Organisation.
Detailed information is also given in this chart as to the countries in which
are in existence to give effect in national legislation to the provisions of the Cov
THE PRODUCTIVITY OF LABOUR IN SOVIET RUSSIA
The question of the productivity of labour has latterly become of supreme in
for Russian national economy and the Soviet Press is now devoting considerable
the discussion of this subject. If hitherto no remedial measures have been taken
authorities in this connection, and if little attention has been given to this prob
reason may be said to lie in the general economic depression of the Soviet Union.
During the period of Communism (1917-1920), the complete disorganisation of
mic life, the great fall in wages, the state of famine in the industrial centres and the
political outlook, alı contributed to diminish the productivity of labour which,
fell to 29 per cent. of the figure for 1913, and to 25 per cent. of that for 1916 (th
preceding the revolution).
As a result of a recent enquiry published in September, 1924, a Commission app
by the Soviet Supreme Economic Council, came to the conclusion that the prod
of labour in industry as a whole was only about 50 per cent of the average pre-war
The Soviet Press explains this situation by: (a) a low individual output of the worl
(b) the absence of discipline in the industrial undertakings; (c) the bad condition ci
machinery and other equipment of the undertakings.
As the necessary repairs cannot be executed at present by the State nationa
industry, because of financial difficulties, the whole attention of the competent authent
is directed towards an increase of the individual output of the worker.
THE CO-OPERATIVE MOVEMENT IN SOVIET RUSSIA.
A reduction in the number of co-operative organisations; a decrease in the num
of members; a considerable weakening of the finances of the co-operative movem
an abnormal development of the administrative system: such are, in the opinion cf!".
Prokopowitch, ex-President of the Central Committee of the Congress of Russian
operative Unions, Professor of the Russian Universities of Berlin and Prague, expre
in an article in the International Labour Review, the features of the present position of 1
co-operative movement in Soviet Russia.
The history of the Russian co-operative movement under the Soviet régime mar
divided into three periods. During the first of these from the end of 1917 to the t
ginning of 1919-the co-operative system continued to exist as an independent organis
tion. It was, nevertheless, hampered by the general policy of the Government, wh
changed the economic system of the country from top to bottom. During the sec
period the movement was deprived of its independence and became a State instituti
All the forms of co-operation are comprised within the communities of consumers
which are State organs for the food supply of the population. In the third period, beginni..
in the Spring of 1921, with the introduction of the new economic policy, co-opera
autonomy was gradually restored, although its economic revival proceeded but slowi
owing to the fact that the heritage of the previous policy weighed too heavily upon it.
Sovi
At the beginning of 1918, the membership of co-operative organisations in
Russia reached the very high figure of 21,200,000, 10,000,000 of whom belonged to co
sumers' co-operative societies, and 10,500,000 to co-operative credit societies.
Credit co-operation completely disappeared during the years 1919-1921, and its restet
tion is very slow. The number of consumers' societies has diminished by one-third, and
their membership by four-fifths. On the other hand, the number of agricultural asseche
tions is much higher, although their membership is lower, ie., about So members
association; and their total turnover is very small. The only type of co-operation whic
in the movement, owing to the ruin of large-scale industry and the disorganisation of t
markets,


---
75
TRADE UNIONISM IN CHINA.
Before western influence penetrated China, the great social questions which nowadays
distract the industrial countries of Europe and America were unknown. It was only
when large ports began to be opened to foreign trade that the modern economic system
was introduced into China. Then spinning mills, corn mills, steel works, match factories,
and railway workshops began to be built and the aspect of social life changed.
Concurrently with this change, a whole series of complicated problems unknown
before began to arise and to become urgent. Questions such as the cost of living, wage
rates, hours of work and hygienic conditions began to be discussed. Naturally, also, the
idea of the association of the workers and of trade unionism grew up, and strikes began to
take place, at first at long intervals, but later more and more frequent.
The trade unions found a form of organisation already to hand in the old corporations
and clubs. It may be noted that the tendency to associate is a very distinctive trait of
the Chinese character.
The first trade unions appeared on the southern coast. Thence the movement spread
to the interior along the great trunk lines.
China may, from the point of view of trade union organisation as it exists at present,
be divided into three zones-the North, the Yang-tze-kiang Valley, and the Kwang-tung
province.
At Shanghai 47 trade unions were created in 1922, and out of a total of about 120,000
Chinese workers engaged in industry in the district, about 80,00o are members of trade
unions.
But the greatest progress has been made in the South, in the province of Kwang-tung.
There are 200 trade unions at Hong-Kong, and 300 at Canton, and some of them are
very powerful.
At the present moment the trade union movement is tending to overstep the bounds
of districts and to constitute itself as a national organisation for the whole of China.
THE FORTY-EIGHT HOUR WEEK AND INDUSTRIAL EFFICIENCY.
The relation between the 48-hour week and maximum industrial efficiency is examined
in an article in the International Labour Review, by Dr. P. Sargant Florence, of the Depart-
ment of Economics in the University of Cambridge.
In the view of Dr. Florence, the results of a scientific study of the effects of changes
in the hours of work, or of introducing rest pauses into working hours, and of variations
in output during the working day, all tend to one conclusion. This conclusion is that on
the whole the 48-hour week is probably the optimum length of hours, giving for the majority
of industrial operations maximum output with minimum accidents, lost time and overhead
charges, and permitting an efficient distribution of working hours throughout the week
and day.
The inquiries on which this conclusion is based were made by the author in factories
both in the United States and in Great Britain. The author's own inquiries are compared
with others made by the Industrial Fatigue Research Board and other institutions.
FAMILY IN A CELLAR.
Hottentot Life in Lambeth.
"There is as much decency among the Hottentots as there is in some of the houses
in Lambeth," said Mr. Collins, a member of the Board, in protesting, at a meeting of
Lambeth Guardians yesterday, against the delay in the conversion of Prince's Road
Workhouse into flats, proposed some months ago.
The Clerk explained that the consent of the Ministry of Health had not yet been
received.
Mr. Collins declared that the housing conditions in Lambeth were deplorable. He
knew of the case of a man, his wife, and four children, living in a cellar beneath a rag-shop.
Children were not innocent, he said, from the moment they left the cradle; they
possessed an unhealthy knowledge.
It was stated that a committee of the Board would wait on the Ministry of Health
to press on them the urgency of the matter. - Westminster Gazette, 22nd January, 1925.


---
Here is the extracted text:
85
Left by Book Debts or Clearance Con.
Norwich No. 2.
Stafford Con.
Northampton.
II. Simons ..156759
G. Law (dead) TF.. 47311
W. Perkins (dead) .. 46496
Northampton No. 2.
A. Adams (dead) .. 51040
J. Mould (dead) .. 51582
W. Greenough (dead) 75017
Females
L. M. Yuill (dead) ..108323
S. Greenfield (dead)..110013
G. Richards (dead) ..153403
C. James ..87038
Norwich.
S. Cooper ..42232
A. Leggett ..42518
W. Eggett ..74139
J. Copeman T..105597
C. F. Cohen ..156274
S. Copland (dead) ..145998
W. Barnes ..14534
W. Bassett (dead) .. 44871
Nottingham.
II. Blaker (dead) S.. 41508
Sileby.
E. Jordan ..148079
S. Newby ..145478
M. A. Wells ..98208
H. Hull (dead) ..142641
Female
Mrs. Sibson ..23770
Stafford.
F. J. Shotton ..58950
T. Hipwell (dead) ..57255
G. Moseley (dead) TF.. 89935
Females
E. Birch ..155746
N. Deakin ..119514
K. Mellor ..158964
Stone.
L. Hawkins ..122081
Female
A. Mincher ..164848
Wellingborough.
J. G. Hales (dead) ..35595
Females
H. Whitty ..135635
S. Matthews (dead)..150848
Worcester.
H. Wardle ..94153
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st JANUARY, 1925.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included .. .. .. .. .. 80 per cent.
Food only .. .. .. .. .. 78 "
FOOD.
At 1st January the average level of retail prices of food was slightly lower than at
1st December, owing to reductions in the prices of eggs and sugar. There was relatively
little change in the prices of the remaining articles of food included in the statistics, except
fish, which was dearer at 1st January than a month earlier.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of
food included in these statistics fell to about 78 per cent. at 1st January, as compared
with approximately 80 per cent. at 1st December.
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, January, 1925.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of December, 1924,
78,045. Unemployed at end of December, 1924, 4.551; percentage, 5.8. Increase in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 1.4. Increase in percentage as
compared with a year ago, 0.3. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, January, 1925.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES. - Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270; Total,
142,490. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 22nd December, 1924
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 12,099; Females, 4,689; Total, 16,788.
Percentage Unemployed at 22nd December, 1924: Males, 13.1; Females, 9.3; Total,
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 11.8; Great Britain only, 11.7. Compared with 24th
November, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, increase, 1.7; Females,
increase, 2.7; Total, increase, 2.1. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, January, 1925.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely: should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Seat of Government, 34.GUILFORD ST. LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 245,
NAT TEL: MUSEUM 4438
LONDON
TEL ADDRESS: NATUNISHOP
PHONE, LONDON"
UNION
BOOT & SHOE
COPYRIGHT
OPERATIVES
General President
T.F.RICHARDS
General Secretery
E.L.POULTON.J.P.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
23RD FEBRUARY, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE
is about the same as last month, the number of unemployed being almost the
sa ne number as in January. The figures issued by the Ministry of Labour
Gazette are :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment during January remained moderate, on the whole, and there was no
material change compared with the previous month. Short time was worked in most
centres.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 11.0 on 26th January, 1925, as compared with
11.8 on 22nd December, 1924, and 9.5 on 28th January, 1924.
Returns from firms employing nearly 37,000 operatives during the week ended 24th
January, 1925, showed that about 30 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in
that week, to the extent of about 12 hours each, on an average.
Employment continued slack in London. At Leicester short time working was
fairly general, and employment was moderate on the whole; but there was again a slight


---
Here's the extracted text from the image, formatted for readability:

92

improvement on the month. At Northampton employment was fair, and slightly 
than in the previous month; short time working decreased, and was mostly cor
to the smaller factories. A decline in employment was reported at Wellingboro
and short time was largely worked. At Kettering, short time working was less preval
and employment was moderate; unemployment with male operatives increased, bo
skilled women were reported to be unemployed. In the Higham and Rushden
where employment was fair on the whole, most works were reported to be on full time

Employment at Leeds declined the heavy boot industry continued to expone
great depression, and short time working was general; but employment was bri
factories producing light footwear. At Stafford employment was slack, and worse t
in December, with much short time. At Norwich one or two firms were well employe
but in general, as is usual at this time of year, employment was quiet. In the Er
and Kingswood districts employment was poor, and rather worse than in January of
year. At Street it was not so good as in the previous month. Short time was wor
in the slipper trade of the Rossendale Valley, but employment was reported as far
good; it was much better than in January, 1924.

Employment was fair at Aberdeen, and fairly good, and better than in December
at Kilmarnock. Elsewhere in Scotland employment was poor on the whole, and in so...
centres was worse than in the previous month.

The following Table summarises the information received from those employer
who furnished returns for the three periods under review :-

Number of Workpeople
Total Wages Paid to all
Workpeople

Week
ended
24th Jan.,
1925

Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a
Month ago Year ago

Per
cent.
+3.3
+ 2.1
+ 0.8
+ 0.3
+0.5
0.6
+ 1.3
+2.5
-0.5
-0.3

+ 1.5
+0.8
-0.5
+0.8
Per
cent.
+6.4
7.5
+ 0.3
+ 0.6
+2.7
+ 3.5
+ 2.7
+ 9.5
3.4
2.0
+ 6.2
+ 8.4
+ 2.6
+ 1.I
-3.7
+ 0.8
Per
cent.
+ 1.0
+ 3.8
0.8
+ 1.9

-1.8
4.1
-14.9
3.5

-8.8
-6.7
+4.1
+10.2
-1.4
+2.5
0.6
Per
cent.
+ 7.2
+ 2.8
+ 3.1
+3.
+ 3.1
+ 4.9
- 5.5
+5.1
-0.1
3.
+16.0
+ 6.9
2.5
3.4
3.7
3.1
Week
ended
24th Jan.,
1925

f
4,837
23,166
5,438
16,687
18,805
8,666
5,275
8,646
3,752
3,891
9.671
2,177
3.116
114,127
5,419
119.546

ENGLAND AND WALES:-
London
2,106
Leicester
8,560
Northampton
2,313
Northampton Country
6,739
District
Kettering
8,139
Stafford and District
3,414
Norwich and District
2,668
Bristol, Kingswood and
4,340
District
Leeds and District
2,064
Lancashire (mainly
1,909
Rossendale Valley)
Birmingham and District
4,462
Other parts of England and
1,096
Wales
ENGLAND AND WALES
SCOTLAND
1,640
49.450
2,532
GREAT BRITAIN
51.982
The exports of boots and shoes in January, 1925, amounted to 108,388 dozen pairs
or 15,955 dozen pairs more than in December, 1924, and 13,233 dozen pairs more than
in January, 1924.
The following Table shows the number of men and of women registered as applicants
for employment at Employment Exchanges at 5th January, 1925, in the principal centres,

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
93
at which approximately 77 per cent. of the total number of applicants for employment
in the boot and shoe industry were registered:
Department.
Number of Applicants for
Employment at 5th Jan., 1925.
Men.
Women.
Total.
Increase (+) or Decrease (-)
as compared with
1st December, 1924.
Men.
Women.
Total.
Boot and Shoe Manufacture:
Preparing Department
Rough-Stuff Department
Clicking Department
176
438
1,268
55
25
87
231
463
1,355
+
26
+
55
+
444
+35+
+ 6
+37+ 481
61
61
Closing Department
19
1,627
1,646
+
2
+688+690
Making Department
3,380
72
3,452
+1,118
+24+1,142
Finishing Department
1,951
569
2.520
+ 517
+59+576
Slipper Making
970
337
1,307
+ 160
+117+277
Clog Making
37
2
39
+
5
+
1
+
6
Repairing and Hand-Sewn
Work
759
10
769
+
19
+
6
+
25
TOTAL
8 998
2,784
11,782
+ 2,346
+973 +3,319
HEAVY GRADE STATEMENT COMMITTEE.
The Committee which deals with the Heavy Grade Statement met on the
12th inst., in London, under the chairmanship of Mr. T. F. Richards, to review
the position in those districts where Heavy Work is manufactured. After a
very full discussion extending over three hours upon the general situation,
the following resolution was adopted :-
"THAT HAVING REVIEWED THE VARIOUS PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
TO THE GREEN BOOK STATEMENT, IT IS HEREBY AGREED THAT IN THE
OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE, THE TIME IS INOPPORTUNE TO REVISE ANY
PRICES, AND THE MEETING BE ADJOURNED UNTIL JANUARY, 1926."
SHODDY FOOTWEAR.
Our members will be fully aware of the fact that the General President
in his report from month to month has dealt with the question of Shoddy
Boots, the object being to keep alive the subject and bring about such
public opinion as will insist upon the refusal of "shoddy," more especially in
relation to children's footwear, having regard to the bad effect such shoes have
upon the health of the children. In this connection it is interesting to find
that the Leather World for the 5th inst., states as follows :-
"Mr. T. F. Richards again returns to the attack on shoddy shoes
in the January report of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
But will Mr. Richards tell us all how to set about it? As we have
repeatedly pointed out, the avarice of retailers is one of the main causes
of industrial unrest, but until we get a Napoleon with powers to shoot a
few pour encourager les autres, they will still ride in their motor-cars
whilst their patrons use shank's pony!"
B


---
94
Without resorting to the summary method of "shooting," we
if all parties connected with the Trade will deal with those matter
the standpoint of the health of the community and honest trading,
can speedily be brought about such an attitude of mind amongst the
public as will insist upon the abolition of what is known as "s
footwear.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
More Cases Settled.
We are pleased to record the fact that Mr. Evan Barlow, the C
Solicitor, has during the month settled several cases under the above Aca
H. P., Leicester
..
£75 and £8 8s. towards the costs.
G. M., Leicester
..
£100
"
J. S., Kettering
..
£100
£10 105.
£5 5s.
£5 5s.
"
"
"
"
G. E. V., Leicester £350
H. H., Higham & Rushden £350
Although the above cases have been amicably settled we beg to rep
that lump sums are not obtainable by law, but only by agreement, and membas
desiring legal assistance must report immediately to the local officials,
will then communicate with the Central Office. The above-named surs
in addition to weekly payments which were paid, in some cases for a com
able period of time.
HOUSE OF COMMONS REASSEMBLES.
Parliament has reassembled, and judging by the opening proceedings
matters are likely to be lively, as the Labour Party is determined althoug
a big minority-to constantly keep in the forefront the position of the pat
of Great Britain, whether it refers to food, general conditions, housing
unemployment. We trust the members will not feel weary at our cons
repetition regarding these important questions. We know, however,
experience, that in order to bring about reforms we must be constant
reiterating our demands, and evidence is ever accumulating as to the ba
effect upon the general health of the people, and also upon the social relati
of many through the shortage of so many hundreds of thousands of housest
Expressions of sympathy-whilst quite good in their place will not of them
selves bring about improvement. We trust the members will not only watch
the proceedings in Parliament and their own Members' actions and votes
but will do all they can in their districts to so rouse public opinion
determine the present Government to do something to relieve the situation
In this connection we would call especial attention to the
ROYAL COMMISSION
as wil
which is now sitting in connection with Food Prices. If it was not for the
tragic side, it would indeed almost amount to comedy to hear the statement
witnesses have made representing, as they do, the Milling and Meat industries


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
95
because despite the high prices the public have to pay for flour, bread and
meat, it would seem that these great businesses are really making no profit
whatever; in fact, judging from their statements it would appear that the
reason they are in business is because they are philanthropists. No one is
making profit; prices are high; where then is the money going to? There
can only be one conclusion if these great business houses are being run prac-
tically without profit whilst the public have to pay excessive prices for the
necessities of life, i.e., there ought to be a drastic alteration in the methods
by which the food ultimately reaches the public.
Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., has endeavoured by question and cross-question
to the witnesses, to find out where the money goes, and who has the profit,
or who has the difference between the first business transaction and the food
being bought by the public, only to find the answers to such to be merely a
repetition as stated above, that it is done for the "love of the country." The
proceedings of such Commission ought to act as an additional spur to all those
who desire to ease the tremendous burdens which the bulk of the people are
carrying.
LEICESTER LASTING STATEMENT.
The following is a copy of the ARBITRATORS' AWARD in connection with
the Leicester Lasting Statement.
IN THE MATTER OF THE ARBITRATION upon the Claim of the No. 1 Branch
of the Operatives' Union for the Revision of the prices for Seat Sinking (a)
Method, Machine Sewn Work.
WE, THE UNDERSIGNED, ARBITRATORS TO THE BOARD, to whom the Board
referred the above Claim for adjudication, having heard the representatives
of both sides and duly considered the evidence placed before us in relation to
the Claim, DECIDE AND AWARD :-
THAT the Prices for Seat Sinking (a) Method fixed by the Lasting
Statement of 26th August, 1919, for machine sewn work shall be revised
as follows:-
SEAT SINKING.
(a) Pull up seats, clear linings, pull in
corners of stiffeners, and tack in
three places
..
PRICE PER DOZEN PAIRS.
Wom's. Girls' Boys'
(Class "B") 7 to 1 7 to 1 2 to 5
4d. 3d. 4d. 6d.
AND we further decide that the revised prices fixed by this Award shall
come into operation and be paid from and including the working week com-
mencing on the 12th, 13th or 14th February, 1925.
DATED this 4th day of February, 1925.
C. H. ROBERTS
Arbitrators.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
DEATH OF MR. FRED H. SEGON.
We regret to report that MR. F. H. SEGON, President of the Norwich
No. 2 Branch, died on the 14th inst., with lamentable suddenness. For
some years he had suffered indifferent health, and eventually decided
to have an operation. Although the operation appeared to have been
successful, he died a few days later.
Although reserved and reticent in manner, Mr. Segon has spent his
life in the labour movement, helping to secure improved conditions for
the workers. He has acted as full-time President of the Norwich No. 2
Branch nearly five years.
To his Widow and Son we tender our sympathies, and trust that the
work done by Mr. F. H. Segon and the esteem shown will enable them to
bear up under the loss they have sustained.
VOTING
for the various delegates MUST take place at the MARCH meeting night.
A list of the nominations appears on pages 105-109. Voting papers MUST
be counted on the 12th prox., and despatched to reach the Central Office
NOT LATER than first post on Monday the 16th prox., otherwise they cannot
be included in the results.
HISTORY OF THE UNION.
There are still a number of copies of the "Fifty Years' History of the
Union" in stock, and members desirous of securing a copy should place their
orders at once. They can be purchased through the branch officers at 6d.
per copy, and all members desirous of learning about the work of the Union
should not fail to obtain a copy of this most interesting and valuable record
of the work of the Union.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary


---
```text
97
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.

TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President. W. WARNER.
J. WHEELER. W. HINDES.
C. BATES. C. BLEAKLEY.
E. LAW. A. J. DOBBS.
W. R. TOWNLEY. ALEX. SMITH.
L. P. POOLE. J. MANNERS.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS. E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.

"THE NEW CITIZEN."
The General Council of the Trades Union Congress, and the Executive
Committee of the Labour Party, have had under consideration the question
of extending the present weekly Labour News Service into a weekly newspaper
to be known as The New Citizen, believing that the movement as a whole
would benefit by such a paper being circulated.
The proposals for such a newspaper, however, cannot go forward unless
there is a possibility of the same paying its way. The size of the paper will be
about the same as the Labour Leader, and will consist of eight pages of four
columns each.
The Committee desire to launch this paper as soon as possible. It is
asked, therefore, that branches consider the matter at once and send their
orders to
The Secretary,
Joint Press and Publicity Department,
33, Eccleston Square, London, S.W. 1.
The cost will be 30/- per 1,000 copies (carriage paid), and pro rata for
```

---
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT
FELLOW MEMBERS,
THE INDUSTRY. - It is indeed refreshing to find that the President of the ployers' Federation has been speaking out with no uncertain voice as to the Industry, and among other things says in regard to output, that in 1907 the week consisted of 54 hours (this was not so in Co-operatives, they only worked 1901). In 1913, 52½ hours. In 1923, he says, they collected statistics from operatives out of a total number of firms in the industry, between 950 and 1,050 employing approximately 120,000 which means that 420 non-federated firms employ about 40,000 operatives.
In 1907 the output of Boots, Shoes, Slippers, Rubber and Canvas, was pairs, or nearly 98 million pairs, and the number of persons employed 131,301. average number of pairs per annum of 746 pairs each. In 1923 the approximate was 100,000,000 or (one hundred million) pairs, and the total number of employees
The working week had been reduced to 48 hours, with a mean rate of amounting to 9.4 per cent., and yet the output per employee was 833 pairs. One to machinery, and better organisation. The present capacity of the personnel employ advanced in 1923 to about 90 per cent. Materials accounted for from 50 per cent 60 per cent., labour from 18½ per cent. to 30 per cent. of the total costs, and that lai costs were at least 100 per cent. higher in 1923 than in 1913, and in 1919 working o were reduced by 8 per cent. The percentages, he says, of the total cost for other char including manufacturers' charges, travelling expenses, discount and profit, accounted said also that so far as the Home trade was concerned the industry was quite able to hole 18 per cent. to 21 per cent. of the total cost, and showed little change with pre-war competition. He then deals with the Home and Overseas trade, and points out the benes of the Magna Charta of the Industry, viz., our National Agreement, and its stead its own in best and ordinary grades of Men's and Women's Footwear against Overse out the things needed to improve, in his judgment, the industry, the first five points bein effect, and also instances the agreement for better organisation by both sides and poirs. and No. 7 asks for the protection of the public against the unwitting purchase of shoddy requests to the Government; No. 6 asks for the passing of the Industrial Councils P footwear, i.e., footwear in which leather substitutes have been introduced into the com ponent parts. Both the Federation and the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operati are unanimously agreed on the importance of this. Australia, New Zealand, and Swede have footwear regulations Acts which have for their object the checking of importatio of boots and shoes of inferior quality. He then deals with the Bankruptcy Acts, and asks for amendments, and everything considered is for our trade a very important stat
ment.

Concerning the above, my own view is that we can rely upon Mr. Bostock and Miss Tomlinson doing their best to give the industry the most reliable information they can and we thank them for the trouble taken. A few things stand out clearly we hav and only about 85,000 organised. We want that other 35,000. We have the good wishes, 11,000 less people in the industry than we had in 1907. We have 120,000 in our industry, help and advice of the Federation towards eliminating the studied deception practise faithful public, and in the tightening of the Bankruptcy and other laws which, while by some in the industry to play the "Spider and the Fly" on an innocent and often they will always fail to make dishonest men honest, will at least give the exploiter as much trouble as possible.

TRADE BOARD.-We have again spent two days on this work which is certainly not making the genuine headway we expected, owing to the convenient way in which the Department is administering the Act. If they persist in their present attitude, then ne Government Contractor will be troubled by the Administration, nor will any Fair Wage Clause be of any use. To my mind this is due absolutely to the Tory idea of their old plan of crippling the Trade Union as the Ministry have also refused to interfere with the breakaway from the 48-hour week owing to the appointed members on the Governing Board giving their vote against this very measure of reform. It is the intention of some of the Unions affected by this to withdraw from the Board thereby crippling the workers activities.

KETTERING.—The Branch invited both the General Officers to a very pleasant Tea and Concert, some 520 sitting down. Most notable were the young men and young women assembled which augurs well for the two Branches, whose officers are indeed very alert as to the organisation of the Branch and its Sections, although they even have their


---
Here is the extracted text:
00

reported to the Federation because
Agreement allo-
the
ment arrived at a few weeks ago,
in their
they
We think this very generou on
the same.

will appreciate the C.W.S. and asked whether they will supply u
e
We have already written the C.W.S. and hope we shall get no
the
We must press
In this connection we hope to do this if we
delegates to the quarterly meetings of the C.W.S. to ask
with whom they place orders, as do the Government, and w

We have already promised to do this if we
visit one of our outlying districts which
We have, therefore, paid a
a concession owing to its isolated position.
reconsidered. We have, therefore,
We have also held
At the present time we are getting together
a position of viewing the case on its merits.
the operatives, who have by resolution placed their case in our hands. When
we shall then place the matter before
as they think best for all of us.

EARL SHILTON.—There has been several disputes in this district owing to two partners
having separated, and acting on their own behalf have got a little awry with the National
Agreement. Although we were successful in persuading one firm to put themselves in
order, the other firm has been visited on three separate occasions, but the head of the
firm was out on each time. We are still awaiting an appointment, no blame being attached
to the firm. We hope to get them into line.

LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH.-As a member of the Board of Arbitration, we had a
well-known firm before the Committee of Inquiry and found that this firm had been in the
habit of making arrangements with the girls and we have had to put an end to these
arrangements, especially when Foremen and Forewomen who have no love for our Union
or its members, and although their employer belongs to the Federation and may be an
active member of the local Association, and also of the Federation. Their subordinates
create a position they would not approve of. This makes the work of the Union difficult ;
instead of spending all our spare time in looking after non-Unionists and non-Federated,
we are occupied by those who claim friendliness to our organisation.

DESBOROUGH.—We have been called to this place where one of the very best firms
have got out of order to an alarming extent, although a personal visit has again proved
that for some at present unexplained reason some 22 operatives' wages had to be corrected.
This was promised to be done this week and we still have confidence. Employers them.
a claim for back money always
selves ought to see their wages books more often, this being their business. We are only
responsible for our share of the National Agreement, and they are equally responsible.
e certainly must press for full compliance in every case
prevents a repetition.

HEAVY TRADE. --We have held a conference for the adjustment of this trade which
confined largely to Leeds, Kingswood, Bristol. Maybole and Chesham. The latter
o places are not represented by the employers, and Chesham only by the operatives.
long discussion failed to obtain any improvement, the employers refusing any con-
sion unless an equal amount of reduction was forthcoming. This prevented our making
headway, the contest ending in a draw.

WELLINGBOROUGH.—A visit here found that the firm who was granted a respite a
months ago have complied now with the promise then made, which means that we
that such small firms will be able to manage on strict National Agreement lines.

"DAILY HERALD." - We again urge our members to support their own paper, even if
es not meet all their needs. There is at least 100 per cent. more working-class informa-
of a useful kind than can be found in any other daily. The Daily Herald is your own
r, and I hope you will prefer it for its real worth to any other.
Stamped boots are still the most reliable.

Yours fraternally,
Y SOMERSET ROAD, KENTISH Town,
DON, N.W., 5.
General President.

17th February, 1925.


---
```text
100
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
During the past month we have chiefly been engaged in London. For our
been working up to a position to bring the whole of the firms into line with the
Agreement. With this object in view and after personally interviewing a monly
firms, we have met the following firms : Chissick & Kirshenstein's, W. Wachman
1. Lipman, A. Krietman, H. Franks & Sons, Mindle's, Bloom & Phillips, H. & S. Solomon
in conference, in order to consider the adoption of the Holiday Fund. All the
produce a similar class of work, and are chiefly in competition with each other. AL
lengthy conference in which all points of view were considered, it was agreed to
the conference to an early date. We are hoping that as a result of the conference, that
have been able to remove some difficulties and misunderstanding with regard to the ob
of the Union, and good results ought to follow when our further meeting is held.
membership is very small. But we have paid several visits, and we are fairly confide...
Cunnington's, Phillips'. The conditions at these firms are far from satisfactory, and
We have visited the following firms for the purpose of organising : Kempton & Brandon
that some progress has been made, although it is exceedingly slow. We have also
the following firms in order to strengthen our membership : Calwell's, Wachman's, Meltzer
that some progress has been made in our membership. We have made special efforts
organise the women as we are far from satisfied with the wages they receive.
Solomon's, Lipman's, Steinhart's, Hyam's, Flatau's', Lazarus. We are pleased to repo
with regard to non-compliance with the National Agreement. As a result of our inter
As a result of holding meetings of our members at various firms, we received complaints
views with the firms matters have been adjusted, with benefit to our members.
tion in this district. The firm of J. H. Joiner (late Freshwater's) need attention, and or
membership is very weak here. Inquiries were also made at Lea & Sons, and a furthe
A visit to St. Albans to meet the members demonstrated the need for further organi...
meeting will be held in order to arouse interest in the work of the Union.
made with regard to rates of pay and the minimum rate. This matter is to be dealt with
A visit to Colchester in connection with Trade Board conditions, when enquiries were
when some improvement will eventually take place with regard to their conditions.
We attended the House of Commons in order to interview the members with reference
interested in the industry. We found there was a favourable opinion in general with
to the Industrial Councils Bill. We met a good number of the members and employers
regard to the principle of the Bill, while others promised to carefully consider the same
and hope to give it their support. It is now left to the luck of the ballot, when it is hoped
that some prominent member will be able to introduce the Bill.
taking place in the attitude towards the Union. We feel that there is still a great need f
We are very pleased to report that in our judgment there is a decided improvement
work required if the London operative is going to maintain his status. Our continued
visitations to them must eventually make them realise their responsibilities, and though
the conditions cannot possibly be compared to other districts, as far as the general environ
ment is concerned, it is only by gradually recognising the different mentality which the
social conditions in the East End produces, that we can eventually gain the confidence
of the operative, whereby he will evolve that spirit, which will enable the operative to claim
the full demands which he is entitled to.
J. H. BAUM.
LEN. SMITH.
W. R. SMITH.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£
s. d.
To December, 1924 667,912 8 7
January, 1925
2,840 1 10
..
£670,752 10 5
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1924 358,612 15 7
January, 1925
3,954 7 9
..
£362,567 3 4
```

---
```text
101
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH.—Trade is very bad in our district still, and our main
thoughts centre round questions of unemployment. We have been interested
for some time too by the obvious anxiety of Council in maintaining the agree
ment inviolate. We gather that attempts are being made to break in upon
the National Terms, and the Council are fully warranted in protesting against
any weakness amongst the members on such issues. In our own district
we are being introduced to a subtle attempt to undermine existing conditions
in the factories. It has often been pointed out in our reports that a certain
amount of piecework prevails here, and that is the point at which the clouds
are gathering. It was found impracticable with us to put some departments
on piecework, and since its inception it has only operated in the Clicking and
Finishing Rooms. During the long depression the pieceworkers in those
departments have been better off than their fellows in regards to pay; although
of course they had to work jolly hard to be so. For some time back this fact
has worried the management in one of our factories, but instead of taking the
matter up with the Branch in the only competent way, we learn of unfair
pressure being applied to the individuals in order to secure revision of price-
rates. When we think back and recall the unscrupulous eagerness on the part
of employers in 1919 to force the workers up here to go in for piecework, we
are somewhat staggered to know of as determined an attempt to force them
out of it. The only and somewhat obvious reason is to get unlimited output
without paying for it, and to be in the position of badgering the worker in-
cessantly. Without a doubt piecework keeps the whips off, while set wages
allow of constant nagging about amount of work done. Even the rather subtle
excuse that it is being done to save the industry up here is too thin to find
believers, and one wonders why economies should always start at the wrong
end. When you witness a numerous and expensive staff maintained from
month to month and year by year without pecuniary loss, and then find economy
only affect workers who have two and three days' work per week, it makes
for serious trouble. Drones are not worth favour, and it is a pity they get the
honey. Workers keep the hive going and alone deserve preference. Alleged
directive ability is often a mere pretence, and an ounce of real productive skill
is of more commercial value even to-day. When employers learn this elementary
truth they will be in a much better position to compete in the open market.
Don't economise unnecessarily on the bottom dog, but try a little judicious
cutting at the top for a change, and a truer sense of value will be reached.
In good times a little display on ornaments may be excusable, but in testing
times they should be dropped. The skilled producer is the salt of the earth,
and alone can make the harvest worthy of garnering.
[The fact of a firm working either Daywork or Piecework from the point
of view of wages—if our agreements are carried out—is not detrimental to the
workers, it being distinctly understood that Dayworkers must measure the
amount of work they do for the wage they receive by the Piecework Statement.
Any deviation from the same should be reported to the local officers to enable
them to deal with the matter.-E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.]
BRISTOL No. 1.—Sick and Out-of-Work has been again heavy this
month. Trade has improved slightly, but not to the extent of engaging fresh
hands yet. We are sorry to report the death of two of our old members,
Messrs. G. Wilkins and A. Vincent. To their relatives we extend our sympathy.
Mr. G. Wilkins was a very quiet unassuming member, but nevertheless a very
sound trade unionist. Mr. A. Vincent in the old days before the National
C
```

---
101
BRANCH REPORTS.

ARBROATH.---Trade is very bad in our district still, and our main
thoughts centre round questions of unemployment. We have been interested
for some time too by the obvious anxiety of Council in maintaining the agree
ment inviolate. We gather that attempts are being made to break in upon
the National Terms, and the Council are fully warranted in protesting against
any weakness amongst the members on such issues. In our own district
we are being introduced to a subtle attempt to undermine existing conditions
in the factories. It has often been pointed out in our reports that a certain
amount of piecework prevails here, and that is the point at which the clouds
are gathering. It was found impracticable with us to put some departments
on piecework, and since its inception it has only operated in the Clicking and
Finishing Rooms. During the long depression the pieceworkers in those
departments have been better off than their fellows in regards to pay; although
of course they had to work jolly hard to be so. For some time back this fact
has worried the management in one of our factories, but instead of taking the
matter up with the Branch in the only competent way, we learn of unfair
pressure being applied to the individuals in order to secure revision of price-
rates. When we think back and recall the unscrupulous eagerness on the part
of employers in 1919 to force the workers up here to go in for piecework, we
are somewhat staggered to know of as determined an attempt to force them
out of it. The only and somewhat obvious reason is to get unlimited output
without paying for it, and to be in the position of badgering the worker in-
cessantly. Without a doubt piecework keeps the whips off, while set wages
allow of constant nagging about amount of work done. Even the rather subtle
excuse that it is being done to save the industry up here is too thin to find
believers, and one wonders why economies should always start at the wrong
end. When you witness a numerous and expensive staff maintained from
month to month and year by year without pecuniary loss, and then find economy
only affect workers who have two and three days' work per week, it makes
for serious trouble. Drones are not worth favour, and it is a pity they get the
honey. Workers keep the hive going and alone deserve preference. Alleged
directive ability is often a mere pretence, and an ounce of real productive skill
is of more commercial value even to-day. When employers learn this elementary
truth they will be in a much better position to compete in the open market.
Don't economise unnecessarily on the bottom dog, but try a little judicious
cutting at the top for a change, and a truer sense of value will be reached.
In good times a little display on ornaments may be excusable, but in testing
times they should be dropped. The skilled producer is the salt of the earth,
and alone can make the harvest worthy of garnering.

[The fact of a firm working either Daywork or Piecework from the point
of view of wages-if our agreements are carried out is not detrimental to the
workers, it being distinctly understood that Dayworkers must measure the
amount of work they do for the wage they receive by the Piecework Statement.
Any deviation from the same should be reported to the local officers to enable
them to deal with the matter.-E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.]
BRISTOL No. 1.-Sick and Out-of-Work has been again heavy this
month. Trade has improved slightly, but not to the extent of engaging fresh
hands yet. We are sorry to report the death of two of our old members,
Messrs. G. Wilkins and A. Vincent. To their relatives we extend our sympathy.
Mr. G. Wilkins was a very quiet unassuming member, but nevertheless a very
sound trade unionist. Mr. A. Vincent in the old days before the National
C


---
```text
102
Agreement was made, and after, was a very prominent
so before the Agreement, when we were continually, having union
more of our factories. He was for some years. Tre
members at the Branch Meeting have been very much concer
threatened attack of the Tory Party on the Union fund for po.
us from levying ourselves for political purposes. They evidently
our strength lies financially, and are bent on killing it.
bers to see such is not done.
CHESHAM. Trade here has fallen off since our last repor
result all factories are working shorter hours, and one factor i
The future does not look at all hopeful.
CHESTERFIELD. Trade is bad and the members making
are working short time again.
CORK.-Trade continues fair.
DERBY. - Trade in Derby is good, overtime being worked.
had our General President down to attend to a matter at the C.W.S. re
the Needle-sewers who, for a considerable time, had not been able to ١٥
minimum wage. His efforts resulted in a 10 per cent. advance and
improved conditions. He had hoped to address the employees at Che.
but only a few turned up. Afterwards a circular was distributed an es
them with the pleasing result that 14 have since commenced to pay to
Union.
EDINBURGH. - Trade in this district is about the same as last fo
Would other Repairing Branches let us know the opinion of their mem.
on the question of arriving at the present percentages between 70 and
points. Our members feel that the gap of 20 points with the 7 per
taken off is too great, and should like it modified somewhat. Also whe
pieceworkers should have any percentages taken off until they have earr.
he is doing on the Food Commission. He at least is trying to show where
surplus goes. The firm which we organised some time ago we are pleased
state that the members are being loyal to the Union. This is the only
in which their conditions can be made better. From the data collected the
is room for improvement.
GLASGOW.-Trade with us is fair in the factories, but the repairing tra
has been very bad since the holidays and our unemployed list is again in
creasing.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Trade has improved slightly during the
month. At Raunds difficulty had arisen in respect to Crown Agents (Colonies
Hand-sewn Welts, Messrs. Adams Bros. securing an order for which the
intended paying only Is. 2d. per pair for this operation. The Army Board
instructed the firm to pay Is. 6d. per pair. The Annual Meeting of Northants
Joint District Council was held here on Saturday, 31st January, when the
Branch Secretary, Mr. W. Langley, J.P., was elected President for 1925, Mr.
I. Johnson, J.P. (Mayor of Daventry), Vice-President, and Mr. Geo. Chester,
Secretary. The situation at Bozeat has developed. A demand for 5 per cent.
increase in wages to bring them up to standard has been put in by our Council
following a mass meeting addressed by the General President, Branch President.
and Secretary, and Mr. W. A. Wyman, Secretary of Wellingborough Branch,
to which 30 or more of the operatives residing at Olney belong. At date of
posting these returns-6th February-a meeting is being held of General
President, Branch Officials and Manufacturers, and we expect to secure a
satisfactory settlement without any disturbance.
```

---
KILMARNOCK. Trade in Kilmarnock has been
past month, and we hope it will continue. But we are sorry to say
maurs Section is still out of work, and up to the present there is no sign of
improvement.

LEICESTER. There is still no improvement in trade.

LEICESTER WOMEN'S. Trade is fair. Manufacturers here cannot get
labour in their closing rooms, although in many firms our women are not being
fully employed. The Leicester Women's Branch note for the year just passed
there has been some £445 paid to its members as under-employment benefit, in
the main which, with other benefits paid to members, lowers our cash to Central
Office fund to £1,893 for the year in round figures. We are again compiling
our Women's Statement and adding many prices newly made since 1922.
all, this will be the fourth time we have overhauled our Statement since 1919.
No reduction in prices, only reconstruction, and adding of prices made at many
meetings we have held with the Statement Committee composed of manu-
facturers and ourselves. We know that where women are in touch with officials
ONE minimum for all should
and regular costings of all fresh operations, they are not only suffering but
working underprice. We are doing our best to educate the women of this
Branch to demand the same minimum as men.
be our Union's great effort-the only safeguard of the men's already hard won
minima.

LIVERPOOL. The month of January is when the shopkeepers make
the "big push" to clear off their surplus stocks at slaughtering prices, real
and imaginary. Consequently, boot repairers get a lean time at this par-
ticular season of the year. We note with regret that there is a movement on
foot to undermine the Trade Union Movement, not from the capitalist but
from the ranks of the workers. Rule by minority is their slogan, yet at the
same time they ask all minorities to combine and make one strong fighting
force. This would appear rather comical if it was not fraught with such
serious consequences. Moral :- "Beware of the wolf in sheep's clothing."

SOUTH LONDON.-It is the desire of the Executive of the Branch that
members should attend the meetings and try and do their best as shop-
mates to get their fellow shopmates to join up, for it is the everyday case of
the members getting in touch with those that the officials are not able to get
in touch with.

MANSFIELD.-Trade here is very quiet in light work, good in strong
work. We have had Mr. T. F. Richards down several times during the last
month. Pleased to say we have now got 102 new members from the Stiffening
factory, who are working far below the minimum rate of wages.

MAYBOLE.-Trade is in a deplorable state, between 30 and 40 members
signing for Out-of-Work Benefit, and this will be increased by over 100
shortly through the firm of Messrs. John Lees & Co. giving every employee a
week's notice. This firm has only been working three days a week. This will
be another drain on the Union funds, but will go to show the members what
boon the Union is in times of need.

NORTHAMPTON No. 1. -The much expected boom in trade is a long
me coming, things jogging along much as before the great Conservative
overnment got into office. It seems as though there must be some truth in
hat those stupid Social Democrats say that there is no hope for permanent
aprovement in the conditions of the great masses of the people until society
so organised that wealth is produced for use instead of for profit. Both
employment and sickness has been heavier during the past month, but we
ist keep hoping for better times, and when chances occur take advantage of


---
104
the opportunity to ensure them. We are glad to see some reference in
January Report on the efforts of our delegates at the Trade Union Co
to mould the opinions of other trade unionists to the view-point of our membr
as it is very evident there is some wide differences of opinion on Go
important practical questions.
NORWICH. With trade during the month in Norwich well nigh as bad
no fatal cases have yet reached us), but is now moderating somewhat, and with
had a most trying month. Sickness has been heavy during January (happil
as can be, and the triennial visit of the now famous "Flu." our members hay
crisper and more penetrating atmosphere coming we hope for the normal to
through a month of unemployment claims heavier than at any time since 1921.
and uncertain in most firms, fluctuations most rapid in others, we have passed
be reached again. The trade in the city is most difficult to describe; pattis
number of finishers. The demand for light fancy M.S. shoes (because of lower
almost entirely in the Machine Sewn section, with a natural and corresponding
The last few days saw a happier change, many operatives securing work,
grievous (not mortal) wound to the turnshoe trade of
tested their qualities, or in the alternative observed the lack of same, turn-
Norwich, but we feel that when the peoples of the world have sufficiently
such time comes turnshoe makers must adapt themselves where possible to
shoes will once again be restored to their rightful place in the industry. Till
prices) has inflicted a
sectional operations in M.S. lasting.
PLYMOUTH (REPAIRING). After the December deluge the year has
commenced with trade fairly good. We could expect no other, for surely the
weather was good enough to find out the leaky and shoddy ones.
We have
received several enquiries from isolated members concerning D (28) the new
employers read the notice and only caught sight of the 7 per cent. reduction.
rates for work preparatory to Rounding and Channelling. Apparently some
Then, with another effort they could see the small balance of 2½ per cent.
then by a stretch of imagination said "This applies to all Hand-sewn work,"
and "7½ per cent. must be deducted instead of 5 per cent., as previously."
being added to their banking account each week till further notice. It is funny
how we all seem to read just the things we are looking for, so if any more of
our members are troubled in the same way, we would point out that the deduc-
tions set out in the new schedule only apply to work specified in D (28) and
not to Bespoke Hand-sewn work.
SHEPSHED. Our Secretary is now well again after having had an
injured hand, which delayed our Annual Meeting. This was held on 26th
January. Mr. J. W. Smith was again elected President, and Mr. Ernest
Peberdy, Secretary, with a strong Committee. The balance sheet was passed
unanimously, and the Auditors congratulated the Branch on its position.
Thanks to the officers for their work during the past year brought a pleasant
meeting to a close.
STAFFORD.-Trade in this centre is still very slack, the majority of
our members still being on short time.
STREET.-State of trade during the month has not been good and a
considerable number of our members have in consequence been working short
time. We regret to have to report the death of two of our oldest members,
viz., Messrs. S. Summerhayes and E. Lockyer, both of whom have always
remained loyal to the Union. Mr. Summerhayes was an ardent advocate of
trade union principles long before our workers were organised, and was very
largely instrumental in the formation of the Street Branch which now embraces
practically 100 per cent. of the boot and shoe operatives living in the district.
WATERFORD.-Trade still continues good.


---
RUSHDEN PEOPLE IN AUSTRALIA.
Bootmaking in the Antipodes.
Mter three and a half years’ absence from Rushden, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur B
and their little daughter have returned from Australia. Mr. Bowers orst woriv
farming at Glenthompson, in Victoria, but shortly afterwards be and his family wond
to the city of Melbourne, where Mr. Bowers worked in the finishing department of
after allowing for the great addition to the British as a result of the shipping, are s
as decidedly inferior in quality to the Rushden-made boot, but the retail price
boot factory. He says that the class of product turned out of Australian boot fact
correspondingly different. Boots from England, although so very much better
minimum does not remain the maximum-a skilled and fast workman gets 5 a
style, Gnish, &c., cost very little more in Australia than Australian-made boot 1.
factory hours in Melbourne are 44 a week, and the minimum wage is 4 166. But
five-roomed house, with a small front garden and the usual garden at the back is
The cost of living, however, is very high, and rents of houses are exorbitant
at 355. a week! A man's suit made in good quality serge costs from eight to nine guinca
People have no idea at the beginning of the day what variations will take place in a fer
The climate of Melbourne, Mr. Bowers said, is even more changeable than the Engli
in the way of development, but "IF AN ENGLISHMAN HAS GOT A GOOD JOB, HE SHOULD
STAY WHERE HE IS AND NOT EMIGRATE TO AUSTRALIA." Mr. Bowers and his family went
hours. His general opinion of Australia is that it is a country of wonderful possibilities
to Australia over three years ago on account of the very bad state of the boot trade here.
Comparing the two countries with the home industries much improved - he says THER?
or more.
IS NOT A COUNTRY TO BEAT ENGLAND.
WHO PAYS THE "TARIFF" ?
A Kingswood boot manufacturer who is prominently connected with the trade with
(Mr. Blythe) in Dublin in December, that the tariff did not appreciably affect the selling
Ireland, speaking to the writer in reference to a statement made by the Minister of Finance
price of boots, stated that that revealed how utterly incompetent statesmen and politicians
are to deal with an economic question. The whole of the tariff, this manufacturer added.
lines previously sold at 16s., 14S. and 12s. 6d. Instead of paying 16s., they had the 145.
lines made exactly like the 16s. as regards appearance, and in that way also the 12s. 6d.
is being paid by the consumer, and that has been camouflaged by the seller. For instance,
Therefore the consumer is paying the tax
indirectly because he is getting a lower quality article at the same price. - Shoe and Leather
articles have been made like the 14s. ones.
News, 12th February, 1925.
WHAT TARIFFS DO?
21,126 Fines in Irish Smuggling Case.
Fines totalling £1,126, or in default 15 months' imprisonment, were imposed last week
at Swanlinbar (Co. Cavan) District Court on Felix M'Govern, a boot merchant, for Customs
offences. One of the charges related to illegal possession of four boxes of boots-18
women's pairs and 164 men's pairs-when his house was raided by Customs officials in
November last. Superintendent Murphy, Longford, described the discovery of the goods
in an outhouse.
The Superintendent said the boxes seemed to have been scarcely opened, and Mr..
M'Govern produced invoices for the boots for April, 1923. When, however, the boxes
were unpacked, copies of a newspaper dated September, 1924. were discovered.
Mr. Keenan, solicitor for the defence, pleaded guilty, and a fine of £213 3s. was inflicted,
or in default six months' imprisonment. The justice also ordered the boots to be forfeited
as well as froo to release his lorry. There were other charges of smuggling, and the total
fines came to £1,126.
The defendant accepted the alternative, 15 months' imprisonment, without hard
labour.- Shoe and Leather News, 29th January, 1925.


---
111
NORTHAMPTONSHIRE JOINT DISTRICT COUNCIL.
SECRETARY'S REPORT AND BALANCE SHEET, 1924.
Trade Unionism is the star around which revolve the universe of Utopian indu
It flickers or radiates according to the intere st displayed by it member
tralism.
brightness can be the guiding light toward, social and industrial happiness; it dimme
but reflects the fitckering of expiring hope.
Conscious of its warmth, of the true beauty and purpose of the pulsating life within, if
Leings nearer the day when joy will replace despair; when life, full and free, will knoss
not the slavedom of modern industrialism.
'Tis a lone star, hanging pensively in the heavens; we can reach out and embrace it
it only the workers will.
The record of the work of the above Council for the past year clearly indicates the
usefulness and happy influence which the Council is wielding. Since its inauguration
the Council has, under many difficulties, laboured to be of real service to the Union, and
1024 marks a distinct advance in this direction. Not only has the Council done much
in bringing to the fore the real problems and conditions of employment in the industry.
it has also won the approbation of more than one National Official who previously viewed
with suspicion the objects underlying the formation of the Council. This is exceedingly
Let me here repeat, for the benefit of
satisfactory, as obviously the full value of our efforts cannot be appraised so long as
suspicion from any source is directed towards us.
whom it may concern, what has been stated at our meetings on many occasions, the
Council exists, not for the purpose of exercising power rightly placed in the hands of the
National Executive, but for the purpose of drawing together the members of the Branches
within our area of jointly discussing the problems with which we are confronted-of
stimulating the desire for education, and of arousing a political and trade union con-
sciousness sufficiently strong to achieve the objects for which the Union exists.
The direct work of the Council may best be summarised under the following headings:
Meetings.
Four quarterly meetings have been held. These have taken place successively at
Rushden, Northampton, Kettering and Wellingborough. The first constituted the
Annual meeting of the Council, at which Mr. S. J. B. Barnes, who had so successfully
carried on the work of the Council since its formation, retired; his place being taken by
the signatory to this report. Discussion chiefly centred round the Secretary's report,
out of which an attempt was made to establish a quarterly industrial report from each
associated Branch. The principle here involved is admirable in its conception, having
as its basis a further interchange of local difficulties and problems. Before it can be
successfully applied, experience has proved that some form of standardisation will have
to be established. Restricted as has been the success of the motion it has been of con-
siderable advantage. The second and third meetings were devoted to a discussion on
"The problem of youths and their proper absorption by the trade."
The problem was first introduced by Mr. W. Townley, Northampton No. 1, who gave
a comprehensive survey of the internal growth of the industry, and the way in which,
of recent years, machine labour has denied craft and opportunity to a large section of the
operatives. The grave concern with which the problem is viewed, was well illustrated
by the long and reasoned discussion which followed, so much so, that it was decided to
reintroduce the subject at the subsequent meeting of the Council.
At this meeting the subject was sectionalised under the following headings :-
a. Relationship of Boys to Men. Introducer, Mr. W. Langley, Rushden.
b. Reduction of the age for the application of the full minimum wage. Mr. W.
Birt, Northampton.
c. Reduction of working hours. Mr. J. E. Chapman, Kettering.
d. Provision of special operations as stepping-off points, and Pensions at 60.
Mr. L. Poole, Wellingborough.
The application of each section to the problem was well thought out, and provoked
a further prolonged discussion.
It early became apparent that the Council could not lay down, within the confines of
the present organisation of the industry, any hard and fast proposal for the solution of
the problem. It was felt, however, that much could be done-provided the Employers'
Association could be persuaded to discuss the matter with the National Council of the
Union-to alleviate an increasingly serious evil. With this object in view the Secretary
was empowered to draw up a report based on the discussions which had taken place.
This was done, and at the following meeting the report was approved and authorised to be
forwarded to the National Officers and Members of the National Executive Council.
Whether or no the report was discussed by the National Council, or any consideration


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
112
given to the essential proposals contained therein, I cannot
say, we no acknowledgem
of the report of or of any subsequent discussion was received. However, the value
work performed by the Council in this respect cannot be overestimated. The diff
is a very real and serious one, and is likely to increase rather than diminish during
next few years, unless strong and immediate measures are jointly taken.
The fourth in relation to Factory Hygiene." The subject was introduced by Mr.
Poulton, J.P., the General Secretary. Mr. Poulton, as is well known, has given con
able thought and study to factory and workshop conditions. He has also the happy facul
of picking out the essentials, with the result that his lecture on this subject was thora.
enjoyed and appreciated by the members of this Council. Alas for our hopes:
of the ideal factory is yet to be achieved. A new Government, whose belief in the
order of things is irradicable, has come into being and Labour's Factory Bill has
scrapped.
Altogether our meetings have reached a very high level ; the tone has been
the discussions excellent, and the subject matter of immediate and practical importanc
Committee Meetings.
The function of the Executive is to plan, arrange, prepare, and keep out of vie
They have met on four occasions; worked harmoniously and efficiently, and each membe.
has regularly attended the meetings.
Educational.
The policy of the Council of (a) stimulating the formation of study groups in ear
local branch, and (b) of holding Educational Conferences has again been followed. Study
groups have not been so prominent as in former years.
NORTHAMPTON. The Nos. 1 and 2 Branches are in their second year of a Universit:
tain, and the reflex of the class is being happily felt in the discussions at Branch meeting
Tutorial Class on Economic and Political theories. The attendance is being well main-
Allen, and excellent results are being achieved.
RUSHDEN.-The class in Economics is being continued under the tutorship of Mr. A
WELLINGBOROUGH have organised special lectures at Branch meetings on the problems
of Trade Unionism, the lecturers being Mr. W. Townley and Mr. Geo. Chester.
KETTERING. The successful study groups previously held have given place to special
bi-monthly meetings of Shop Presidents, where the general problems of the industry are
discussed, under the leadership of the Secretaries.
The chief trouble in this respect is not that a small number of members cannot be got
together, but that Tutorship has chiefly fallen on the shoulders of local officials. Officials
have, in the past, made it possible and found the time-how, I cannot say to very success-
fully do this work, but it is an obligation which cannot be long continued. The result
has been that during the past year two or three classes have fallen through. Bearing
in mind the need, however, officials have done all they possibly.could to raise the standard
of branch meetings by leading discussions on pressing trade union problems. It seems
fair to presume that real success along this line cannot be achieved until the Union, as a
Union, has definitely allied itself with one or other of the Educational movements, and
determined for itself an Educational policy.
Conferences.
Two Conferences have been held. One at Irthlingborough on 9th February, and the
other at Wellingborough on 11th October. At the former, Mr. W. G. Cove, M.P., lectured on
"Education and Democracy," a fairly full report of which appeared in the Union's Journa
and at the other Mr. W. G. Cove, M.P., and Mr. Geo. Chester, took the place of Dr. Penry
Walker, of Northampton, who was, at the last moment prevented, by a family bereave
ment, from attending and lecturing on "The Health of the School Child." Both Con
ferences were well attended, delegates being present from a large number of associated
organisations. This feature of our work cannot be too highly commended. The Con
ferences set in motion a large cycle of wheels within wheels, and the subsequent discussions
and reports must be of considerable value in the creation of conscious and thoughtful
public opinion.
Special.
The Council adopted at its second meeting a proposal of the Executive, which had
behind it a new aspect of educational activity and influence, namely, that of visiting
works in connection with industries allied and contributory to our own. The British
United Shoe Machinery Company, of Leicester, was suggested as the most attractive
works for initiating the proposal, and, by the goodwill and courtesy of the Manager, Mr.
A. C. Benson, the visit took place on 18th September, 192.4. It is not for me to enlarge
on the success of the visit, except in so far as to say that educationally every delegate
of the to who attended, received impressions and enjoyed experiences which will be per
manently valuable to him. The Officials of the Leicester Nos. 1, 2, and 3 Branches also
attended and assisted in making the visit successful.


---
I cannot refrain from expressing the hope that the proposal will be continued and that
each year similar visits to other industries will be undertaken.
even a slight knowledge of the industries contributory to our own. The vision is broadened,
the mind enlarged, our own problems become small or magnified as we compare them with
others outside our immediate range; we can view our own industry from new standpoint
and more consciously react to the principle of the greatest good for the greatest number.
Political.
No direct political work has been undertaken during the year, largely because of the
importance of the other activities of the Council. Branches, however, have not been idle
and considerable influence has been wielded amongst the members. In view of the con
siderable losses to Labour in the County, referred to later, it is obvious that much pro
paganda must be undertaken, and no doubt the Council will give thought to the matter
at an early meeting.
Finances.
Owing to the necessity for a recent call for affiliation fees, the finances of the Council
are very satisfactory, and will probably prove sufficient to meet the expenses of the ensuing
year, without further contribution from branches. The sum of £23 4s. rod. is being
carried forward for 1925.
Recognition.
At the conclusion of our second meeting, and in conjunction with the Union side of
the County District Board of Arbitration, a presentation was made to Mr. S. J. B. Barnes,
for his services to the Union in the capacity of Secretary to the Union's side of the Board,
and as Secretary to this Council. The presentation, which consisted of an inscribed Gold
Watch and Chain, was made by Mr. T. F. Richards, who, in a few well-chosen words voiced
the unanimous feeling in respect to our late Secretary's services. Mrs. T. F. Richards
also honoured the Council by attending, and, on behalf of the Council, presented a Gold
Wristlet Watch to Mrs. Barnes. We can only repeat the expression of Mrs. Richards
as a permanent record of our appreciation, "That they may both live long and continue
to enjoy the respect of their fellows and that happiness which comes from well-doing."
Thanks.
I should like to place on record our appreciation of the services rendered to the Council
by Mr. E. Law, as President, and to Mr. T. F. Richards for his help and attendance at our
meetings during 1924.
This concludes my report on the direct work of the Council during 1924. May I now,
very briefly, comment on one or two factors of general interest, which have some signifi
cance and indirect connection with the Council.
Membership.
Perusal of the figures relating to membership of the branches represented on the
Council, indicates a remarkable growth of membership during 1924. No less than 1,486,
net increase in membership is reported. The figures must be approached from the stand
point that we were previously strongly organised, and the result therefore indicates that
a very considerable effort has been made to attain maximum membership. It would
serve no useful purpose to individualise in this respect, but it is quite safe to assume that
all branches have very nearly, if not quite, reached this desirable end. Unless, therefore,
trade and employment considerably increase, the present year is not likely to witness a
corresponding increase. It must be some little satisfaction to the National Council,
and a very clear exemplification of the policy of the Union, that the membership relative
to the numbers employed, stands so high. It must also be a source of satisfaction to
ourselves that out of a total Union membership of 78,745, the Northamptonshire Branches
and this Council can claim 31,728, or approximately 40 per cent. of the total number.
Labour Representation.
Out of three seats held by Labour in Northants, only one has been retained. I need
not recount the reasons or the methods our opponents used to achieve this end, but it
does seem desirable to state that very considerable educational and political propaganda
is needed amongst trade unionists in particular. We must create a consciousness and a
conviction which is going to stand the tests of "bogeys" at Election times. However,
despite the unprecedented nature of the attack, it is pleasing to observe that the votes for
Labour candidates in four constituencies in Northants has increased by 2,710 in one year.
But for the " Red Herrings " the increase might have been thousands more.
It is not within my province to anticipate events likely to arise in consequence of the
accession to complete power of a Tory Government. There seems every reason to believe,
however, that ere long the scope of trade unionism will be subject to considerable debate
in the House of Commons. The Council will do well to watch forthcoming legislation,
and prepare itself to do battle in the interests and protection of the present legislation
in regards to Trade Unions.


---
It is interesting to observe that the Tory wail ...

Application of the New National Agreement.
The Council has on more than one occasion expressed its satisfaction with the application of the 1921 Terms of the National Agreement. The application of the matter has come more prominently to the fore the problem to which this Council has devoted more attention during the past year. The reduction of the application of the full agreement to youths from 23 to 22 years of age, exceedingly good in itself, has accentuated the problem. This is illustrated by the work of the ... whose youths engaged on minor operations. This is illustrated by the work of the ... with the terms in this respect. We courteously suggest to the National Official that inquiry should at once be made as to how the new terms are being complied with, and also of the difficulties which Branch Officials are experiencing in respect to the application of the terms.

General.
STATE OF TRADE - Employment during the year has not been generally good, and districts have maintained a uniform mediocre level, others have been good at times, but poorer during other periods. Altogether, however, 1924 seems to have been slightly better than the preceding year. The slump curve seems to be now set in an upward direction, but it is improbable that the inevitable boom will take place at all rapidly.

INDUSTRY. - There are many changes taking place in the industry which it is well to note and analyse. Two illustrations only need be used in this respect. The method of lasting Welted work by the aid of the Consol Lasting machine, is rapidly giving place to lasting by Bed machines. It is claimed for the latter that they are quicker, the operation is simpler and that better results are obtained. Opinions may differ in this respect, but what does seem certain, though maybe only temporary, is the elimination of the Consol machine in connection with Welted work. In the same department, Welted lasting, we are rapidly witnessing the elimination of pure hand work. Machines have been introduced to do this and that operation which were thought to be immune from any mechanical device. Man's ingenuity has, however, evolved a machine, less perfect surely than hand craft, but acceptable to the employer, who is ever and perhaps necessarily ready to mechanise the industry ad extremum.

Conclusions.
Although there are many other problems and matters of interest affecting the Union and the work of this Council, I trust I have said sufficient to quietly, yet truly, justify the oft repeated expression as to the justification of the Council. We have our limitations - no one is more conscious of them than ourselves- but within the compass of our opportunity we have done useful and necessary work. To bring co-ordination and trust, the past so laboriously laid must the future rest. This Council may well feel proud of the stones it has laid in the interests of the Union and of the boot and shoe industry.
31st January, 1925.
On behalf of the Executive Committee,
Yours fraternally,
GEO. CHESTER, Secretary.

NOTE.-It should always be borne in mind that Mr. J. Gribble, J.P., was the first Secretary to the Northamptonshire Joint District Council, and held office for 1915-1916.
T. F. RICHARDS, General President.
BALANCE SHEET FOR 1924.
RECEIPTS.
f s. d. f s. d.
To Balance from 1923 .. .. .. ..
" Affiliation Fees :- .. .. .. .. II 13 4
Chesham Branch .. .. .. .. 0 6 10
Rushden Branch .. .. .. .. 8 6 8
Desborough .. .. .. .. 0 14 6
Kettering No. 1 .. .. .. .. 3 4 0
Kettering No. 2 .. .. .. .. 2 19 6
Wellingborough .. .. .. .. 2 18 4
Daventry .. .. .. .. 0 9 2
Northampton No. 1 .. .. .. .. 6 2 0
Northampton No. 2 .. .. .. .. 7 12 0
Total .. .. .. .. .. .. 32 13 0

£44 6 4


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

*   DAILY HERALD
*   Truth for your Penny

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
A MENACING POSITION.

"The Times," from articles upon "The Dominions and Foreign
Policy," February end, 1925.

War, because it threatens security, trade, and life, is and must always be the primary
concern both of Great Britain and the Dominions alike. Every nation will do almost
anything to avoid war. The unity of the Empire ultimately depends on whether it
six nations are satisfied that British policy is that best calculated to defend their security
and legitimate rights and to solve international problems as they arise, justly and without
war.

The Risk of War.

Under present conditions war, or the risk of war, whenever it appears above the
international horizon, subjects the unity of the Empire to a terrific strain. There is no
principle in Imperial affairs which has become more clearly established than that the
decision as to whether any nation in the Empire should go to war or not rests solely with
its own Parliament. If the Parliaments of the Empire are united in backing a policy
for dealing with a dangerous international situation, well and good. But if they are not,
what is to happen? Directly Great Britain or any Dominion becomes involved in a
conflict with any important Power, then the only way in which the other nations can
escape belligerency is by seceding from the Empire. There is no other way.

Yet war, or the risk of war, is much nearer to all of us than we generally realise. It
may arise, as it did in 1914, because of a condition of international tension between con-
flicting ideals and peoples which has become intolerable. Or it may arise because of the
mishandling of any one of the international problems which are continuously coming up
for settlement. It is well to remember sometimes that the end of our much vaunted modern
civilisation has been, since 1895, the greatest series of wars the world has seen—the Chino-
Japanese War, the Spanish-American War, the Boer War, the Russo-Japanese War,
the Turko-Italian War, the Balkan War, and the World War. And even since the Armistice
there have been some ugly incidents—over the Straits, about Corfu, in Egypt, in the
Ruhr, in the Amercian Senate's handling of the problem of Japanese immigration, in the
collapse of parliamentary government in China and the emergence of a triumphant mili-
tarism. Any of these incidents, badly handled, might have resulted in a local conflict;
and in the modern world any war, anywhere, immediately affects the trade and commerce
of all nations, and is liable, like a prairie fire, to spread far beyond its original zone.
War, indeed, is an ever-present possibility in international affairs. It is a risk
inseparable from national sovereignty. The risk of war can never be abolished so long
as the world is divided into separate sovereign States. Nothing short of the immensely
distant World State comprising all nations will end war. The League of Nations has
improved our procedure for dealing with international disputes. But it has done, and can
do, nothing to abolish war itself, for no League can discharge the functions of a State.
Moreover, fundamentally even the League of Nations itself is a covenant to go to war to
compel obedience to certain canons of international right.

It is essential that we should face these facts, for only so can we escape being beguiled
by the illusions of unthinking enthusiasts, and realise that the only sure preventive of war
is the wisdom, courage, and resolution with which the leading Powers, through the League
of Nations or otherwise, deal with threatening international situations as and when they
arise.

LEICESTER BOOT OPERATIVE AS LABOUR LEADER IN AUSTRALIA.

Mr. J. W. Billson, who was at one time closely identified with the Leicester No. I
Branch of the Union, died in Australia recently. He originally worked at the C.W.S.
Works, Knighton Fields, Leicester, and later had a leather and grindery business.

Thirty-eight years ago he emigrated to Australia, securing employment in a boot
factory at Melbourne, and to him with others, the Australian Boot and Shoe Union owes
its existence.

Later he became president of that Union, and thirty years ago stood for Parliament.
Seven years later he was returned as member for Fitzroy. From that time right up to his
death he retained the seat.

As Deputy-Leader of the Victorian Parliamentary Labour Party, he was recognised
as a leader, because of his power to win respect and confidence of his colleagues.

Mr. Billson leaves a widow and two daughters.


---
"AS SEEN BY OTHERS."

Multum in Parvo. The Jackson & Joseph Strike.
We are pleased to report the conclusion of the dispute between the National Union
of Shoe Operatives and Messrs. Jackson & Joseph, an East London firm of boot man-
ufacturers, which, in the ordinary way, would be printed without special comment.
It is never our practice to seek to inflame the wounds which invariably remain after
industrial hostilities of this nature.
In this instance, however, we propose to depart from our usual rule and offer
our congratulations to the Union on its victory.
In doing this we are in no way actuated by bad feeling toward Messrs. Jackson &
Joseph.
No doubt the firm was honestly convinced its policy was justified. We do not think
it was, and we rejoice accordingly in the failure of its attempt to beat the Union.
There was much more involved in this dispute than a casual observer would note,
and much more in the Union victory than would appear in the unobtrusive paragraph in
which the conclusion of the strike is announced.
The National Union, in fighting the firm, was carrying out an obligation it entered
into with the Manufacturers' Federation, which was to secure National conditions both in
Federated and Non-Federated firms.
Messrs. Jackson & Joseph are not a Federated firm, although at one time they were
members of the London Manufacturers' Association. They did not dispute the fact that
their workers, numbering nearly 400, were perfectly satisfied with their rate of pay, and
they were not conforming to the National Trade Terms, and adduced as justification that
could not obtain a better situation in any London factory, and that they were not in favour
of the Holiday Provision Scheme.
All this may have been perfectly true, and as we have already said, the firm wa
probably honestly convinced it was justified in ignoring the Union and evading the con-
ditions imposed upon the trade by the National Terms; but this admitted, does not alter
the fact that in some respects they were not complying with certain conditions which are
obligatory to all other shoe manufacturing concerns.
In questions of this kind it is not unusual to meet opposition, and frequently from
most unexpected quarters. There is a latent kick in some mentalities for anything which
savours of compulsion. It is the mentality of those who are "agin the law," irrespective
of whether the law is right or wrong.
So far as the boot trade is concerned a vast majority of employers and employees
have agreed to the National Terms. Those who are not working to them, or who are
trying to evade them, are, for the most part, negligible in number, and importance, but
their default cannot be condoned or permitted to continue. Hence the National Union,
after failing by patient negotiation to get Messrs. Jackson & Joseph to recognise the
conditions, had no alternative but to call its men out and picket the factory.
Additional to the pressure of the Union have been influences brought to bear upon the
firm's customers to withhold orders until such time as the National Agreement was recog-
nised.
The fight has been a long one (it began in June last) and has ended as always seemed
inevitable, for the Union could not call off a contest of this sort whilst it had a copper
left in its coffers. A victory for Jackson & Joseph would have been a bad body blow to
collective agreement and good government.
As is usual in disputes of this nature there have been personal encounters and some
ill-feeling has been rife. Now the fight is finished may we express the hope that in burying
the mythical hatchet that the accumulated rancour may also accompany it, never to be
exhumed, and finally, that the result may have such influence upon those who happen
to disagree with the National Terms and try to avoid working to them, as to cause them
to reflect upon the unwisdom of continued resistance. -Shoe and Leather News, 29th
January, 1925.
Trade union balance sheets do not, as a rule, afford very encouraging reading, but
there is food for reflection in the figures presented in the annual financial statement of the
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, to which we refer in our news columns.
They show, for instance, that the union funds now amount to the substantial sum of
£436,928, or over five guineas per head for each of the 78,745 members of the union. This
is a very creditable fact in itself. Such a record is an index of the health of an industry.
and a much happier state of things would be revealed if the funds of every union in the
land were in a similarly robust condition. We say this because the large balance to the
credit of the Boot and Shoe Operatives is obviously due to the circumstance that the
industry has not been distracted, nor the union's finances dissipated, by a national dispute


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
121
for thirty years. An accumulating balance has not tempted the operatives into dis]
Probably, indeed, on the principle that a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush, they
have had a contrary effect. No doubt special circumstances have favoured the boot
and shoe industry, but so long an absence of disagreement on a large scale affords the
weightiest possible testimony to the mutual consideration which must have been exercised
both by employers and employed. It is a fact upon which both are to be congratulated.
Westminster Gazette, 7th February, 1925.
APPRECIATION OF UNION MEMBERS.
Mr. A. G. Randall, J.P., secretary of the Kingswood and District Branch of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, was elected chairman at the recent annual meeting
of the Kingswood Labour Party, and among the vice-chairmen appointed figures the
name of Mr. J. H. Lacey, J.P., another well-known member of the local boot and shoe
trade. Shoe and Leather News, 5th February, 1925.
Mr. W. Langley, of Rushden, and Mr. W. A. Wyman, of Wellingborough, have been
elected Chairman and Treasurer respectively for East Northants Labour Party.

A BOOT TRADE CUSTOM.
Week's Notice Held to Apply to Shoe Stiffeners.
A case of interest to Leicester shoe stiffener manufacturers arose at the City Police
Court to-day, before Councillor J. Mantle Hubbard, and others, when the magistrates
held that the custom of the week's notice on either side, which applies in the boot and
shoe trade, should also, except where specifically stated otherwise, apply to the shoe stiffener
industry.
The question was raised when Walter Thompson, a pressman, 22 Berkley Street,
and William Bousher, a pressman, of 46 Larch Street, were summoned by Messrs. W.
and E. Butterworth, stiffeners manufacturers, of Vauxhall Street, for £2 and £I Ios.
respectively in lieu of notice.
Mr. Headley appeared for the plaintiff company and Mr. Rees Jones for the defendants.
It was stated that the two defendants left on a minute's notice one Tuesday midday,
not having worked the full week. They said that they had agreed, when taken on, to a
minute's notice on either side. No notice had been exhibited in the factory to countermand
this.
For the plaintiffs it was held that the custom which applied to the boot and shoe
trade generally also applied to the stiffening trade. A notice had been put up to the
effect that a week's notice was both given and required.
The Bench found for the plaintiffs, and awarded £1 3s. 4d. in the case of Thompson,
and 17s. 6d. in the case of Bousher.-Leicester Mail, 18th February, 1925.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACTS: REQUIREMENT AS TO CONTRIBUTIONS.
The Minister of Labour, on the 11th February, gave the following reply in the House
of Commons to a Member of Parliament who had asked whether he was enforcing the
requirement laid down in the Unemployment Insurance (No. 2) Act of last year that
applicants for unemployment benefit must have paid at least 30 contributions since the
beginning of the last insurance year but one:—
"Under the Unemployment Insurance (No. 2) Act, 1924, this requirement is to come
fully into force on 1st October next. Up to that date the Minister is given power to waive
the requirement in particular cases. At present the requirement is waived in the case
of applicants who, although they have not paid 30 contributions within the time prescribed,
which is from two to three or even four years, have paid 12 contributions since entry into
insurance, and also for others in whose favour the Local Employment Committee so
recommends. I have not thought it right to make any change in this rule up to now,
but I think the time has now arrived when some preliminary steps can properly be taken
in anticipation of the general application of the statutory requirement which comes into
full force on 1st October. I propose, therefore, that as from Thursday, 19th February,
the requirement shall only be waived if the applicant for benefit can show either that eight
contributions have been paid during the prescribed period or, alternatively, that a total
of 30 contributions have been paid at any time since entry into insurance. In the case
of disabled ex-service men not satisfying either of these conditions, the requirement will
be waived if it appears on the recommendation of the Local Employment Committee
that the failure to pay the requisite number of contributions is due to the man's disability."
The Ministry of Labour Gazette, February, 1925.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
HOUSING!
Slum Death Rate. Norwich's Striking Figures.
Homes that Breed Disease.
" There were about 3,000 houses in the city 1 should like to
Pattun, the medical officer of health, at Norwich, on the 6th inst., and during the past
Mr. W. H. Collm an inspector of the Ministry of Health, into
and a petition by the City Council.
Dr. Cooper Pattun said the population of the area was estimated a
The average death-rate for the whole city for three years
11.0 per 1,000, and for the unhealthy area in the city 15.36. The infan
for the whole city was 71.1 per 1,000 births registered, and for the unhealthy ar
The dwellings were without sinks, internal water supplies, and drain outside gullies.
outside gullies. The houses were damp, many were without through ventilation.
were back to back, and others were deficient of air space and sunlight. Strange
many were of worn-out material, and the sanitary accommodation was outside a
siderable distance. Generally the houses were unhealthy dwellings.
Upon the question of where the people were to go if the houses were closed, the Town
Clerk remarked, "Houses have got to be built before the people are turned out." Wes
minster Gazette, 6th February, 1925.
A building, near Nantyglo, South Wales, 12 ft. long and 10 ft. wide, was occupied by
a miner, his wife and their four children until week ending 14th February, 1925, when the
gale blew one side of it out. Having nowhere to go, the family remained in the hovel th
whole night through, sitting round the fireside.
DEAR SIR,
MANOR HOUSE LABOUR HOSPITAL.
At the Hull Trades Union Congress held in September, 1924, a resolution was passed
to the following effect:
"That this Conference calls upon the Trade Unions affiliated to this Congress
to bring before their respective branches the work that is being done for members
of Trade Unions by the Industrial Orthopædic Society at the Manor House Labour
Hospital, Golders Green. It is a Trade Union Hospital, and has treated 900 in-patients
and 3,600 out-patients during the two years, 1922 and 1923."
Consideration has been given to this resolution by the General Council, and they
decided to ask the affiliated Unions to use every available means for bringing the work
done at the Manor House Labour Hospital to the notice of their members.
The orthopædic treatment afforded at this Hospital is of a kind which victims of
industrial accidents find it extremely difficult to get at the ordinary institutions. The
Hospital possesses the latest and most improved electrical massage appliances, a large fully
competent massage staff, X-ray installation, &c. No charge is made for treatment beyond
their delegates to the Executive Committee. It will be possible to open a Women's
the entrance fee of Is. and a contribution of Id. per week; and the subscribers appoint
Section as soon as sufficient financial support is forthcoming.
Arrangements can be made with the Secretary to the Hospital for a speaker to attend
your branch meetings, or appointments can be made to visit the hospital.
We attach leaflets describing the work of the Hospital, and further particulars
n be had from the Secretary, Manor House Labour Hospital, Golders Green, London,
W. 11.
The General Council cordially invite the attention of affiliated unions for the purpose
of encouraging and supporting the Hospital.
THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS GENERAL COUNCIL,
32 Eccleston Square, London, S.W 1.
6th February, 1925.
Yours sincerely,
FRED BRAMLEY, Secretary.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
123
SOME REFLECTIONS ON BEING IN OFFICE.
By MARGARET G. BONDFIELD.
Nineteen twenty-four the amazing year which saw the Labour Government in,
and out of, office- has provided a hard, but enriching experience for those who were called
to Ministerial positions. I shall always be glad that my experience was gained in the
Ministry of Labour. In no other Department of State is the work so closely allied with
that of the Trade Union Movement. Although largely partaking of the same nature,
the subjects are seen from such a new angle as to permanently widen the vision and under-
line the essential points in those problems which wait for solution.
The work of the Ministry is divided up into four main sections :---
(1) Unemployment Insurance;
(2) Conciliation Department, dealing with trade disputes;
(3) Trade Boards Department ;
(4) The Department which controls and co-ordinates the British section of the
work of the International Labour Office.
Labour Department.
The Ministry of Labour is one of the new Departments of State. In the past it has
been treated far too much like the Cinderella of the Department. The machinery has
been cramped, some of its sections have had to struggle along under the threat of extinction,
because Governments were in power which did not want it to exist, or if it existed did not
want it to function. I am confident it will have to be raised to the position of a first-class
Department, because its work is of vital consequence to the trade and industry of this
country. It is a Department which depends tremendously for its development and its
efficiency upon a progressive and intelligent understanding by its political chiefs of the
important part it plays in the task of good Government.
It is indicative of the rightness of changing ideas and of the growth of social respon-
sibility; its routine administration affects the lives of millions of our fellow-countrymen-
nothing sensational or catastrophic-but in other respects its work is
really revolutionary in the right sense of that much overworked word,
and it deserves the whole-hearted and intelligently critical support of
the Trade Union Movement.
-Extracts from General and Municipal Workers' Journal, January-February, 1925.
History of the Union
A cheap edition of the "Fifty Years'
History of the Union" available
NOW.
SIXPENCE PER COPY.
Orders should be remitted through Branch Secretaries as
early as possible.
This "History" gives an interesting and valuable record
of the Union.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
.........

---
125
CO-PARTNERSHIP BOOT RESULTS.

Kettering Union Boot.
The half-yearly meeting of the Union Co operative Boot and Shoe Productive Society,
Ltd., Kettering, was held on Thursday evening in the Kettering Co operative Hall, Mr. E
Barratt (president) being in the chair, supported by Mr. H. J. Potter (secretary and
manager).
The General Committee's report stated that the net sales for the half-year were £12,299.
The trading results for the half-year, after depreciating land, buildings, plant and machinery,
and making provision for interest on share and loan capital of £270, showed a loss on
trading account of £80.
Mr. Barratt, moving the adoption of the balance-sheet, said that he was sorry to see
a loss, but Mr. Potter and the committee were looking forward to brighter times, which
they hoped were ahead.-Kettering Telegraph, 30th January, 1925.

Higham Ferrers Boot.
Higham Ferrers Co-operative Boot and Shoe Productive Society had sales of £14,782
for the half-year ended December 31st last. After providing for interest on shares, loans
and depreciation to the amount of £312 and depreciating the fixed stock and building
by £122, there was a disposable balance of £71. For the whole of 1924 the sales were
£30,577. The society has £9,292 share capital, £3,093 as loan capital; its stock was
£8,380; the plant stands at £2,000 in the accounts and the land and buildings have been
written down to £700. Among the expenses for the last half-year were £5.977 for wages
and travelling, £858 for new plant, and £212 for repairs and renewals. The purchases of
materials totalled £7,763. After paying 5 per cent. on share and loan capital, the balance
is being added to the interest guarantee fund, which now stands at £1,114.

Crompton Boot.
This Desborough Society has had sales for the last part of 1924 amounting to £20,466,
an increase of nearly £4,000 over those for the corresponding period of 1923. The total
for the year is £42,212.
The surplus for the last half-year is £1,374, of which £298 goes to the shareholders.
Customers get £430 and the workers receive £316 as dividend on wages at Is. in the f.

Equity Boot Society.
The sales for the last half-year were £24,747, an increase of £900 over the same period
of 1923. The similar increase in the first half of the year was £2,000. The total profit
for the year was £2,999, of which the workers received £595 as a dividend on wages at 6d.
in the f. Customers received £850, while £127 was placed to the Provident Fund, and
£42 to the Education Fund.

Midland Boot.
The sales for the year are £28,730, and the surplus is £327. Interest was paid on
shares.

MR. A. V. ALEXANDER, M.P., ON "WHAT CO-OPERATION STANDS FOR."

Mr. A. V. Alexander, M.P. for Hillsborough (Sheffield), speaking on the policy of the
Co-operative Party, said that to hear some of their leaders even co-operation was nothing
more than a great commercial business. "We are that, but we must be something far
greater. We are first and foremost a challenge to, and secondly, a definite substitute for,
the existing system of society." The definite co-operative gospel had to be maintained,
and here he felt they could not lean all their weight on the fiscal purity of the Labour
Party in the matter of upholding free trade. "We as consumers claim the right of free
trade, first and foremost, not merely because there once were Cobdens and Brights, but
because we believe as a great consumers' organisation in the right to maintain free exchange
of the products of labour between the workers of every land. We have there a special
definite point of view as co-operators which has to be maintained." He also alluded to
the dangerous leanings of some people in the Labour Party towards a State monopoly
of the importation of food and other supplies. But more than all that, there was the
campaign against co-operators. He believed that within the next six months, co-operation
would have to face the greatest economic struggle in its history, a struggle that would be
fought not only in the counting-house and shop, but in the Government departments,
and at Westminster, against an attack engineered by the Federation of British Industries.
Lastly there was co-operative policy in international affairs. Here they had means at
their disposal, through the International Co-operative Alliance, to develop the influence
of co-operative principles in international affairs to an enormous extent.---Statement at
Co-operative Conference on the Political side of the Movement, Manchester, 31st January,
1925.


---
```text
127
LITTLE SLAVES IN CHINA.
Pressure Needed to Enforce Them.
Attempt to Get Better Factory Conditions. New Regulations, but
The torible condidions existing in Chirotese factories were described in the " Daily Herald "
Cast Monday by Dame Adelaide Inderson, late principal Wontan Inspector of Factories in
Great Britain.
Mr. E. L. Poulton, General Secretary of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
in the following interview, describes attempts to get reform, but urges the need of public opinion
as a driving force to ensure success.
Mr. Poulton is British Labour representative on the Governing Body of the International
Labour Office.
"In my judgment," said Mr. Poulton, commenting on Dame Anderson's article,
"we may be doing more than improve the conditions of the Chinese workers when we deal
with that matter."
It was an advantage that there existed, in the International Labour Organisation of
the League of Nations, a focus for world opinion on this international question, and a
machine which, in time, could put things right; but if reform was to be assured there must
be an educated public opinion behind the effort.
Proposals for Reform.
Mr. Poulton recalled that at the I.L.O. first conference, held at Washington, in 1919,
special proposals with regard to China were put forward.
It was suggested that there should be a 10-hour day or 60-hour week for adult
workers, and an 8-hour day or 48-hour week for persons under 15; that there should
be a weekly rest-day; and that this legislation should cover all factories employing
over 100 workpeople.
The Chinese Government, however, in 1920 decided to do nothing, and there for the
time the matter rested.
After further pressure from the International Labour Office to supply information
for the annual conference, the Chinese Government in 1923 reported that a special depart-
ment had been set up to deal with labour, and communicated certain provisional factory
regulations.
Mr. Poulton indicated some of these regulations as follows :-
Start Work at Ten.
Employers (it is provided) shall not engage boys under 10 or girls under 12 years of age.
Young persons, i.e., boys under 17 and girls under 18 years of age, shall be employed
only on light work.
The hours of work of young persons shall not exceed eight hours a day, and those of
adults 10 hours a day exclusive of breaks.
Employers shall not employ young persons at night (between 8 p.m. and 4 a.m.).
Adult workers shall be ensured at least two days' rest a month.
The employer shall see that young persons and adults who have not yet completed
their education are provided with facilities for further education in his factories, and shall
bear the cost of such education.
The employer shall reduce or suspend the employment of sick or injured workers,
according to circumstances, and shall bear the expenses of medical treatment for injured
workers, and shall not reduce the wages of persons who fall sick or are injured in the
course of their employment.
A rest period of five weeks and a suitable allowance shall be granted to every woman
worker before and after childbirth.
Not Carried Out.
" These regulation. are important," said Mr. Poulton, "because (among other reasons)
they mean that the Chinese Government has accepted the principle of factory legislation,
and that it is sensible of the weight of public opinion in other countries.
" But regulations are of no use unless they are enforced. I myself raised this point
in the Governing Body of the I.L.O., and again at the conference last June.
" I said that we in England were constantly hearing reports, true or false, which did
not suggest that the provisions had been given any real force. Dame Adelaide Anderson's
report seems fully to confirm this.
"The International Labour Office is doing what it can, not only to collect full informa-
tion from the Chinese Government, but also to tell the public what the position of affairs is.
" But if we want the situation in China to be improved rapidly, we must make it clear
that the I.L.O. has the weight of public opinion behind it."---Daily Herald, 2nd Feb., 1925.
```

---
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
THE PROBLEM OF WORLD UNEMPLOYMENT.
The Reed for Steady Trade Conditions.
The reports made by the International Labour Office of the League of
the study of the world unemployment problem has been carried a step for ward by a
of a Joint Committee of the Economic Crise Sub Committee of the League and
experts nominated by the Office.
The Joint Committee considered that it was proved beyond doubt that ge
prejudicial to stability of employment, and that it would be very desirable to probleme
diminish the intensity of such fluctuations: that, especially in certain phases of the w
fluctuations in trade activity, as manifested in recent polical movements were
movement of the cycle of trade, the principles on which credit facilities were accorded
industry and trade might be an important factor in accentuating or checking the
tion: it was therefore of opinion that the evils caused to employment by exere Ave
attached great importance both to the improvement and extension of the data, availail
fluctuations might to some extent be mitigated if, in arriving at decision
policy, due regard were invariably paid to all data as to relevant economic conditio
including the tendencies of employment and prices. The Joint Committee therefore
and also to their wider diffusion and more general use by financial and other instituti
delegates, which tended to emphasise the close connection between the successive
At the last Session of the International Labour Conference, held in June, 1924,
reports on the problem had been circulated by the International Labour Office to c
of unemployment and fluctuations in price levels, and suggested the need for furth
examination of a number of questions including the predicting of such fluctuations by t
use of "economic barometers." The Conference unanimously agreed that the Off
should continue its investigations in co-operation with the League, the meeting of the
(France); Prof. Ernest Mahaim (Belgium); Dr. Erik Sjostrand (Sweden) and Prof
Joint Committee being the result. The four experts for the Office were: Dr. Max Lazard
economic barometers" and recommended further study in this direction, including the
determining or influencing credit policy.
Ernst Wagemann (Germany).
The Joint Committee emphasised the importance of the systematic publication
question of their comparability as between one State and another.
It will be realised that considerable developments in the policy and practice of credit
regulation have taken place in recent years, particularly in the case of the Federal Reserve
Banks of the United States, these developments having in view, among other things, the
diminution of economic fluctuations and the maintenance of industry at a high long-period
level of activity. The work of the Joint Committee represents a confirmation of the
principles underlying these new developments, and is in the direction of strengthening
the tendency for credit policy to be directed more particularly towards the maintenance
of stability of industry and the labour market.
WORLD STUDY OF WORKERS' INSURANCE.
The Next International Labour Conference.
Preparatory work is well advanced for the Seventh Annual Session of the International
Labour Conference of the League of Nations.
One of the most important items on the agenda is the discussion of a general report
on social insurance which is being prepared by the International Labour Office and which
will contain, not only the existing law and practice throughout the world, but also some
indications of the general social insurance problems which arise at the present day. Such
discussion by representatives of Governments, employers and workers, should, it is felt,
› of the greatest value as an introduction to the work on social insurance to be subse
ently undertaken by the International Labour Organisation. It is possible that the
nference may place particular questions of social insurance on the agenda of a sub-
quent Session or adopt a resolution indicating the lines on which the subject should be
studied by the Office.
The Conference will also discuss the question of world rules for workers' compensation
with the view to the adoption of an international agreement.
A final vote has also to be taken on three Draft Conventions and one Recommendation
which were provisionally adopted by the Sixth Annual Session last June. The subjects
of these are :-
Equality of treatment for national and foreign workers as regards workers'
accident compensation (Draft Convention and Recommendation) ;
Night work in bakeries (Draft Convention) ;
Weekly suspension of work for twenty-four hours in glass-manufacturing processes
where tank furnaces are used (Draft Convention).


---
Here is the extracted text:
120
ALCOHOL AND ACCIDENTS.
Effects on the Workers' Safety.
It would be a conservative estimate to say that the industrial accident risk is about
three times as high among drinkers as among men in general, including ordinary alcohol
States an article by M. T. Vojonmaa in the February issue of the International
Labous Revrea, the monthly publication of the International Labour Office of the League
consumer
of Natio
Keterning to studies that have been made on the relation of alcohol to accidents,
"it is noteworthy that the particular accident risk of drinkers exceeds
M. Voronmaa says:
Moreover the excess of the drinkers' accident risk over the
the general accident risk, especially in the younger age group, z.c., among men between
15 and 34 years of age.
general risk is proportionately higher in the group of severe accidents than in that of
slighter ones. To judge from the figures chronic alcoholism imposes a heavy additional
charge upon industrial accident insurance."
After a detailed study of the information at present available, M. Voionmaa reaches
the following conclusions :-
(1) Chronic alcoholism, which can be diagnosed with a high degree of certainty.
appears to be a very potent cause of industrial accidents. Persons medically certified
as excessive drinkers have been found to be about three times more liable to accidents
and to injure themselves much more seriously than other persons, including ordinary
drinkers.
(2) Acute alcoholism or drunkenness does not at present appear to be an important
direct cause of industrial accidents owing to the reduction of industrial drinking (i.e.,
during working hours). The effect of drunkenness can be determined only in respect of
accidents outside working hours, and in this respect it has been found that drunkenness
is directly and solely responsible for a number of particularly severe accidents and possibly
contributes indirectly to about one-fourth of the accidents to workers in their spare time.
(3) Industrial drinking has been found to increase the accident risk; by merely con
trolling the sale of liquor in the factory or by stopping the supply of free beer, accident
rates have been decreased by 30 to 60 per cent. Managements and official inspectors
have thus been increasingly led to forbid workers to enter the factory when intoxicated,
and to prohibit drinking during working hours.
(4) Convivial drinking (i.e., during leisure hours) seems to be the most usual source
of the harmful effects of alcohol consumption. It is, however, extremely difficult to deter-
mine its precise influence on accident incidence. Taking first the effect of Sunday drinking,
a well-known practice, it can hardly be disentangled from other causes rendering Monday
work less efficient and more hazardous than other. A British experiment comparing
the accident rates on Mondays during the periods of free and restricted sale of alcoholic
liquors does, however, furnish proof in support of the theory that the use of alcohol is one
of the factors in the Monday accident risk. Secondly, the effect of regular evening drinking
has been shown in the particularly high accident rates in the first spell of the night shift,
a result only to be explained by the mental condition of the workers, which is certainly
influenced by the use of alcohol.
THE DREAMER.
For his dream they gave him neglect and scorn,
The man with the seeking eyes:
He talked of the things they could not see,
Of the things they said could never be, -
And they were accounted wise.
Neglected he starved, and dreaming died ;
And, "See what has come of his dreams," they cried.
The dreamer died, but the dream lived on
In the souls of a seeing few.
Then, more and more, men caught the gleam,
And the world grew glad in the brightening beam,
And the dream one day came true.
God gives the dream for the world's uplift,
And the dreamer too is His gracious gift.
-CUTHBERT ELLISON.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.

Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in the Reports, our correspondent
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NATIONAL UNION of BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Sert of Government, 34. GUILFORD ST. LONDON. W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 245,

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.

General President
T.F.RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L.POULTON.J.P.

Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

MONTHLY REPORT.

23RD MARCH, 1925.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE
remains about the same as the previous month. There are still a very con-
siderable number of members on the unemployed fund, as well as many on
short time. The figures recorded in the Gazette issued by the Ministry of
Labour are as follows:-

BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment during February was generally moderate, but slightly better than in
the previous month.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 9.5 on the 23rd February, 1925, as compared
with 11.0 on the 26th January, and 9.1 on the 25th February, 1924.
Returns from firms employing over 38,600 operatives during the week ended 21st
February, 1925, showed that about 27 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in
that week, to the extent of about II hours each, on an average.
Employment in London was moderate, and slightly better than in January. At
Leicester some improvement was shown, and employment on the whole was fair. It
was also fair, and showed an improvement, at Hinckley. At Northampton a large number
of firms was reported to be working less than full time; employment, however, was
generally fair. Depressed conditions again prevailed at Wellingborough, and the majority
of factories were working only three-quarter time; at Finedon and Raunds, on the other
hand, there was a slight improvement. There was also a slight improvement at Kettering
and a fair number of factories were running full time during the month. Employment
was fair at Higham and Rushden, and, as in January, full time was largely worked; and
at Irthlingborough there was even a little overtime.
At Leeds the heavy boot industry continued depressed, but slightly less short time
was worked during the latter part of the month: the light boot and shoe trade continued
good. Employment at Stafford was very slack, and showed a further slight decline,
the majority of operatives losing one or two days a week. At Norwich employment was
fairly good; in the machine-sewn section, in which employment was somewhat better than
in January, little short time was worked; in the turnshoe section, 25 per cent. of the
operatives were reported to be working only half time. At Bristol and Kingswood employ-
ment was still very quiet. At Street it was fair, and slightly improved. In the slipper
trade of the Rossendale Valley there was some improvement, and employment in general
was good.
B


---
NON-COMPLIANCE WITH CONDITIONS.
From time to time complaints are received, and National Officers have
brought to their notice, the fact that conditions nationally and the local
agreements based upon national agreements are not being fully complied
with. This also applies to conditions of employment under the Boot and
Shoe Repairing Trade Board, a report of which appears on page 184. We
would impress upon the members that it is their duty to report any devia-
tion at once to their local officers, rather than allow the matter to drift,
and have to be found out by the officials. It is much easier to deal with
the matter if reported at once, than to allow it to go along and have to be
dealt with after some days or weeks. The obligation upon the members to
do this is fully stated in Rules 156 and 157, and the procedure is equally
clearly laid down on pages 35 and 36 of the rule book. Compliance there-
with will not only assist officials generally, but will tend to help the efficient
working of the machinery set up to deal with any required adjustments
from time to time.
POLITICAL.
The political situation from the standpoint of the workers is very un-
satisfactory. Despite statements that may be made from time to time as to
the necessity for there being a good understanding between all sections of the
country, it is a lamentable fact that the volume of words as against the real
facts, stand out in glaring contrast. Take for instance the attempt that has
been made during the month to alter the whole position in regard to what
has become generally known as the
TRADE UNION LEVY
for political work. It should be made plain to our members that the one
shilling contribution per week for the full member, includes the small amount
for political purposes-3d. per full member per quarter; Id. for females and
half members, or less than 1d. per week per full member. We at once took
the matter up and sent out 194 letters to Members of Parliament where the
shoe industry is carried on, calling their attention to this matter. A copy of
the letter is appended :--
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES,
34 GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C.1.
25th February, 1925.
DEAR SIR,
The Executive Council of the above-named Union view with
apprehension the Amendment Bill of Mr. Macquisten to repeal the Trade
Union Act, 1913.
At their meeting in London this week, they passed a unanimous
resolution expressing the hope that you will be in your place in the House
of Commons next Friday week to vote against the Bill, and thus enable


---
Here is the extracted text:
not only the above Union, but all Union to continue their work in the
political world if they think so to do.
The Council would, therefore, be glad to have your assurance upon
this matter, and I enclose a stamped addressed envelope for your reply.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary
A number of replies were received, and it became evident that with the
interest taken in the matter, and the uncertainty of the position that the
prospect of any such Bill passing into law, became more and more remote.
Ultimately the Prime Minister, the Rt. Hon. Stanley Baldwin, M.P., proposed
the following amendment to the proposal of his own colleague, Mr. F. A.
Macquisten, K.C., M.P., who had charge of the Bill :-
"This House, while approving the principle of political liberty
embodied in the Trade Union (Political Fund) Bill, is of opinion that a
measure of such far-reaching importance should not be introduced as a
Private Member's Bill."
In supporting the resolution, the Prime Minister made an appeal for
amity and goodwill between all sections of the people. We can only hope
he, as Premier, will himself bring forward such proposals as will make for that
betterment of the people which will bring about goodwill. The amendment
named above was carried by 325 voting for, and 153 against. It will be noticed
upon reading the amendment that "it approves of the principle of the Bill."
Thus, there is every necessity for continued interest in this subject so that that
"approval" should not be translated into any Act of Parliament.
question of
WAR
of very grave importance. The Foreign Secretary has made statements
on the subject, although he has been to Geneva to take part in a conference.
The attempts which looked so favourable when made by the Rt. Hon. J. Ramsay
MacDonald, M.P., when Foreign Secretary in the Labour Government, to
advance the cause of Peace, has again been put back. It is quite evident
to us that the Labour Party in the House of Commons need all the support
we can give them to prevent reactionary legislation taking place. The Labour
Party in the House has, during the past month, been very active in bringing
forward-or attempting to repel-actions of the Government in any attempt
to bring in legislation against the interests of the workers. The Housing and
Unemployment questions are still with us. The unemployment returns still
show considerably over 1,000,000 on the live register, and so far as we are able
to see, the pace at which houses are being erected shows that not only is there
no overtaking of the need, but the conditions-judging by the Press-are
worse.


---
Here is the extracted text:
150
not only the above Union, but all Unions to contime their work in
political world if they think so to do.
The Council would, therefore, be glad to have your a auran Wy
this matter, and I enclose a stamped addressed envelope for your Top
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretar
A number of replies were received, and it became evident that wih...
interest taken in the matter, and the uncertainty of the position that i
prospect of any such Bill passing into law, became more and more form
the following amendment to the proposal of his own colleague, Mr. F. A
Ultimately the Prime Minister, the Rt. Hon. Stanley Baldwin, M.P., PROJ
Macquisten, K.C., M.P., who had charge of the Bill :-
"This House, while approving the principle of political lite
embodied in the Trade Union (Political Fund) Bill, is of opinion tha
measure of such far-reaching importance should not be introduced &
Private Member's Bill."
In supporting the resolution, the Prime Minister made an appea..
amity and goodwill between all sections of the people. We can only
he, as Premier, will himself bring forward such proposals as will make for the
betterment of the people which will bring about goodwill. The amendme
named above was carried by 325 voting for, and 153 against. It will be noticed
upon reading the amendment that "it approves of the principle of the Bi
Thus, there is every necessity for continued interest in this subject so that that
"
approval" should not be translated into any Act of Parliament.
The question of
WAR
is also of very grave importance. The Foreign Secretary has made statements
upon the subject, although he has been to Geneva to take part in a conference.
The attempts which looked so favourable when made by the Rt. Hon. J. Ramsay
MacDonald, M.P., when Foreign Secretary in the Labour Government, to
advance the cause of Peace, has again been put back. It is quite evident
to us that the Labour Party in the House of Commons need all the support
we can give them to prevent reactionary legislation taking place. The Labour
Party in the House has, during the past month, been very active in bringing
forward-or attempting to repel-actions of the Government in any attempt
to bring in legislation against the interests of the workers. The Housing and
Unemployment questions are still with us. The unemployment returns still
show considerably over 1,000,000 on the live register, and so far as we are able
to see, the pace at which houses are being erected shows that not only is there
no overtaking of the need, but the conditions---judging by the Press--are
worse.


---
151
Intimately wrapped up with this matter is the Land Question. The
Government talk about
SAFEGUARDING OF INDUSTRIES
and setting up enquiry committees of all kinds, whilst the land question which
is one of vital importance to this country is being neglected. Thus there is
an increased necessity for doing all possible to keep all these questions not only
alive, but in the forefront, and thus stimulate public opinion to such a pitch
as will make it imperative that mere talking should cease, and action ensue in
such way and manner as to relieve the present unsatisfactory situation.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION CASES.
During the month the following cases have been settled in connection
with two members of the Higham and Rushden Branch.
A. W. has received £77 6s. 5d. as compensation and part wages, and
F. K. P. £61.
In this connection we would repeat that lump sums of money are not
obtainable by law, but only by agreement. In addition, before a Solicitor is
engaged to deal with any case the consent of the Central Office must be obtained.
VOTING.
Results for the various delegations will be found on pages 164-171.
POLITICAL AGENT.
Neither of the candidates having secured a clear majority, a second vote
is necessary and must be taken at the April meeting night; votes to be counted
on the 12th prox. and posted to reach the Central Office by the first post on
the 15th prox.
HISTORY OF THE UNION.
There are still a number of copies of the "Fifty Years' History of the
Union" in stock, and members desirous of securing a copy should place their
orders at once. They can be purchased through the branch officers at 6d.
per copy, and all members desirous of learning about the work of the Union
should not fail to obtain a copy of this most interesting and valuable record
of the work of the Union.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
c


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
returns reaching the General Secretary.
If Branches fail to send off the
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tend
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secr
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Br
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Re
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion
make a success.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the memir
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Star
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade U
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Star
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or broc
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretar
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Unics
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
s. d.
£
s
To December, 1924 667,902 8 7
January, 1925
February
To December, 1924 358,625 13 1
2,840 1 10
January, 1925
3,954 79
3,952 4 8
February
5,226 19
2674,694 15 1
£367,806 31

---
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE UNION POLITICAL BILL.-The great Conservative Government has
become alarmed at being persuaded by their Die-Hards to harass the Trade Unions, and
to my mind, this is the first time that the great Conservative Party have funked at the
Trade Unions. As explained in my previous reports, they-and when I say they, mean
the Prime Minister and the majority of his Cabinet-have still recollections of 1905 and
the result. Mr. Baldwin has crucified his party once over Protection, and to do the same
with the Trade Unions of the country is more than he is prepared to be answerable for.
In this connection our Union approached all M.P.'s representing Shoemaking constituencies.
How many have replied is not at the moment at my disposal, suffice it to say that the
Conservative Member for South Leicester replied claiming his respect for Trade Unions,
but expecting more liberty for the individual, or words to that effect, reminding us of the
large number of exemptions-7,500 or thereabouts. As he, in his lack of knowledge
about Trade Unions had come to the conclusion that an exempted person was neither
conscripted, or was he a Conscientious Objector, to use terms this soldierly gentleman
might comprehend, therefore could not decline because no request for payment had been
made to them, and even the appeal of this gentleman's agent to supply forms and give
advice and perhaps create a real live revolution by appealing against the tyranny of the
Trade Unions who for all the Labour work that is done for our members should cost them
each less than one farthing per week, a sum so large that members express their disgust
with those who raise any real protest against so small a payment for a national, or local
service. Of this I am firmly convinced, that all our members irrespective of their political
traditions, fully believe that ninety per cent. of our political work is based on the sincere
desire to eliminate the problem of poverty from our midst, and also solve the Unemployed
problem, which can only be accomplished permanently by pooling the work, the services,
and the results for humanity's sake. Neither the Tranquility advocated at a previous
election or the new problem of Peace of the Prime Minister last week can solve the problem
of either the hungry man or the Unemployed. Let us hope that the Prime Minister will
soon pick another quarrel with the Trade Union movement, of which he is so fond. Rumour
has it that the Government are going to raid the Insurance Funds to provide Mothers
with Pensions. Don't ask the rich to provide them, ask the poor. Let us see, when this
becomes known, the kind of reception it will get if this is attempted. Some of us may
take the Prime Minister's statement that he is an honest man, at its face value.
TRADE BOARD.-This work has occupied two more days, and we do not feel that we
are making much headway since the present Government has come into office. In the
first place employers appear to have had some such advice, as the Legal Department
give to the Committee, which makes one think that the Inspectors, the imputed repre-
sentatives, are not by any means diverse in their views to the statement of the Minister of
Labour himself in hesitating to declare for the forty-eight hour week, ratified by the
Washington Convention, and who have up to the present been very loath to declare right
away for a reform likely to remain for many years to come. The Board would be of little
use to our Union if they complete the reactionary methods they appear to favour. Of one
thing we can, and would be sure of, that would be no responsibility for its work in future.
One would think that any Government would see at once that with 40 Trade Boards that
we have at least 40 trades immune from strikes, which in itself ought to get Mr. Baldwin's
support.
MANSFIELD.-A meeting of the operatives of Messrs. Faire Bros., and the attempt
by the Management to influence the loyalty of the girls of the Union, needed a hurried visit
and as hurried a meeting when the conditions of employment were at once obtained.
The conditions were found to be very unsatisfactory. In big businesses Managers can risk
the reputation of a firm in a few months or weeks-sometimes in a few hours. We have
been forced to move quicker than we expected, but our claim is quite complete, and as
one knows the firm, we expect no antagonism, and it is only a question of time as to
putting the firm in order somehow to meet our requirements. Being only an auxiliary
Branch to the manufacturing, our demands are only in conformity with our treatment
of other similar businesses.
LONDON.-We have during the end of last month held a large meeting at the Shore-
ditch Town Hall, London, on behalf of the Metro., Sew-Round and South London Branches,
and to say the least, the meeting was creditable to our old loyal and true members and
many young ones too. As meetings go it was indeed a good meeting. We hope it will
have some influence on all concerned.
MOUNTSORREL has again been visited, and here we had several members who had
claims upon the firm for a reconsideration of their position respecting the operations upon
which they are engaged, but we find that the state of trade being so very slack at the
firm visited, that we have a promise to take those not yet dealt with in their order when
trade revives.
---

---
EARL SHILTON AND BARWELL. We have held meetings at both places and discussed
the domestic affairs of these Sections which have in them some seventeen hundred members,
and in accord with the advice given by the Organisers, that such sections would be able
to better organise if they became a branch, this has caused the Council of the Union to
review the situation, and to declare as is our experience, that any body of men of a dozen
members to decide without any pressure, but without withholding any of the facts such
or more we think do better as a branch than as a section. In any case it is always for the
as they alone would be held responsible for the organisation, and status in factories. As
at present constituted, they don't seem to be able to keep a record of the large numbers
who are outside the Union because so many live in the surrounding villages. I am asking
the employers, some 47 in number, if they could oblige me with the number of employees
working for them for census purposes. We shall then be able to speak of the actual
position. Two of these meetings have been poorly attended, showing the members don't
feel strong, but some of those present were not aware that all benefits came direct from
the Union, and for this reason we think that more open-air organising meetings must be
held during the coming summer.

LEICESTER No. 2 BRANCH. We have again visited the two firms mentioned in our
last report concerning the Holiday Pay, and we obtained a promise from them in the light
of our attending to some of their competitors to whom it was to our credit to attend with
interest, and we hope that before this report is in print that the claims will have been
fully met.

BOZEAT. We have again met the employers in this district and produced evidence
to make owing to their isolation, there are others who look upon the cost of carriage of
their goods as being an indirect restraint of the amount of trade they would be able to do
from other areas and were able to show that although they may have some allowances
if they were not so handicapped. Our case was such as to get them to make an amended
offer which we shall place before the Council at their next meeting. We held a meeting
of the operatives two days afterwards and they have, as before, left the matter with us
to do as we think best for them.

SILEBY. We held an open-air meeting at this place outside a particular firm to better
organise the shop as a whole. We were listened to with a certain amount of confidence
if expressions are any guide. We also saw the Principals of the firm afterwards, who have
always been friendly, although the only friendliness I know in Trade Union circles is when
an Employer, Manager or Foreman makes it plain that the resolution of 27th January,
1920, should be carried out without any equivocation.

Will all our Officers in every Branch give this point attention and ask every employer
in their district where there are any non-unionists to please oblige us by putting the
otion in their factory as a proof of their friendliness to the Union.
That thirty-two thousand non-members outside our ranks ought to be searched for,
I hope we shall find them; to do so will find our Organisers and myself plenty to do
some time to come.

C.W.S. We are still pursuing the C.W.S. to give us a list of the firms with whom
they place orders, before completing that order, in the same manner as do the Government.
They even now refuse to receive a deputation I asked them to receive. Let us hope this
is not due to a change of personnel, because if we cannot get on with the Committee we
must adopt other methods. They now ask me to supply them with a list of fair houses,
which is a tall order, seeing that there are about eight hundred of them, and the others
we are making fair by degrees. This supposed friendly movement of ours are more difficult
to deal with than, as I said before, the Tory Government. This gives us an insight of the
official mind when it has not troubled to help the Trade Union movement. I am still
of the opinion that for our C.W.S. factories to be linked up with the Employers' Federation
is not to our credit, unless the employers show the same spirit of Trade Union membership
for all their employees.
The Daily Herald is the best little paper on earth; with all its faults you do get your
money's worth, if you are interested in Labour matters.
Beware of Shoddy Boots; warn your neighbours against them, and deal only with
the houses of repute who sell Stamped Goods.
Yours fraternally,

60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, LONDON, N.W. 5.
17th March, 1925.
General President.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**155**
**ATTACK ON UNIONS FAILS.**

With a flourish of trumpets the recent Conservative gathering, embracing delegates from all parts of the country, carried a resolution supporting the attack on the trade unions of this country. They have received most valuable support from the Home Secretary, who has published figures concerning the Union I have had the honour to represent for 33 years.

These figures show that the Union has 7,544 members who are exempted from its political fund, and they have been quoted by the member for the South. We have had to inform him that of this 7,544 only 145 belong to the conscientious objector class. The other 7,399 are not asked or expected to contribute, owing to their not being full financial members. These few objectors belong to six branches only of the 67 branches of the Union.

The Member for the Southern Division of the City had already accepted the Home Secretary's figures as accurate, and intended to convey to the public at large that our Union had 7,544 conscientious objectors.

Let us hope that the crushing reply of Mr. Locker-Lampson, on behalf of the Home Secretary the other day, will have a salutary effect on the detractors. This was to the effect that they had had only 33 cases of complaint in 12 years against all the unions.

The Government, with the above information, and the resolution from their supporters, are leaving the trade union detractors to their fate, because they have not forgotten 1905. Further, eight million organised men and women in the trade unions of this country will not permit their funds to be tampered with or their liberties curtailed. And, although the Tory agent in the City so freely offered his gratuitous services no one appears to have accepted the offer only at its full value, which means that if Tory working men and women had to pay for their Toryism there would be none.

T. F. RICHARDS,
General President, National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
-Leicester Mercury, 5th March, 1925.

**SHOE OPERATIVES AND TRADE UNION ACTS.**

A circular issued by the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives states :-Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., general secretary of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, calls attention to the fact that the figures which recently appeared giving the number of exemptions from the Trade Union Political Act, 1913, are somewhat misleading. In the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives it was stated there were 7,544; as a matter of fact not more than 150 members of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives have asked for exemptions, the difference between the 7,544 and the 150 arises from the fact that 7,394 are in a different category, and pay a different rate of contribution, and, as a consequence, have never been asked to contribute to the political fund.

In the annual return to the registrar, it states :-" Members at end of year exempted from contributing to the political fund," which is an entirely different matter from contracting out.-Leicester Mail, 28th February, 1925.

**APPRECIATION OF UNION MEMBERS.**

Mr. W. R. Smith, of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, has been appointed as a member of the Forestry Commission in the room of Sir John Stirling-Maxwell, Bart., resigned. Mr. Smith, who was Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries in the Labour Government, represented the Wellingborough Division from 1918-22, and was elected for Norwich in the December election, 1923. - Shoe and Leather Record, 6th March, 1925.

**VALUE OF GOOD BOOTS.**

Dr. W. Scatterby, reporting on the medical inspection of Keighley school children, states that "unsound footwear is not infrequently the cause of many colds and bronchial attacks which lessen the average attendance during the winter months."- Shoe and Leather Record, 13th March, 1925.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,

156
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
During the past month I have
At Parker & Barlow's, of Mount-
been organising at Sileby, Mountsorrel and Rothley.
side of Leicestershire. It is difficult to explain how appreciative and receptive people
So far I have not met with anything like the success that I gained at Barwell, the other
there is a general coldness and indifference. In the nature of things the standard in
are of trade union principles in the South of the County compared to the North, where
seemed to be proof against all appeals to play their part in the trade.
but I am pleased to say that on Saturday, the 21st, 16 men had the courage to join in
spite of the sneers of the heads of the firm while I took the contributions. I am hopeful
of getting the remainder of the men and youths - the women also to throw in their lot
The members of the neighbouring shops were pleased to hear of this
good start and it will help me in getting the non-unionists of these shops to link up with
wages and conditions all round operate in like manner.
sorrel, the operatives
with these men.
their fellows.
25th February, 1925.
D. MCCARTHY.
During the past month I have been working mainly for the Sileby Branch at Mount-
sorrel, Rothley and Sileby. Also I have paid several visits to Nuneaton and Burton-on-
Trent. Organising in the Sileby area is about as cheering as working in the East End of
made. This firm has a bad reputation, but as a result of so many joining in face of the
owner's active opposition, small improvements have already been made in wages. The
London. At one firm in Mountsorrel we have made some headway, 23 members being
half dozen Leicester members working here have scarcely done credit to the ownership of
trade union cards. Without risking their jobs they could have quietly given us informa
tion that would be helpful, but because they were getting comparatively good wages,
they seemed satisfied and acted the part of pacifists. Rothley is weak in membership.
although the proprietors of the three shops here are in no way opposed to the Union.
At the firm of Willett's there has been no Shop President for some time, and there has been
a decline in membership as a result. A new Shop President has been elected and we are
looking for the shop to gain its former strength. A few names were given to me from
tion that the piecework prices were to be reduced. Mr. Frank Leader and I had an inter-
other shops to give to the collector. A firm at Mountsorrel gave the machinists an intima
view with the women and they were determined to stand no reductions. While we
interviewed the manager the women declined to start work. We definitely said there
must be no change in prices. It was a real pleasure to me to have the privilege of defending
pirited women. Of course there will be no reductions.
Nuneaton there is a closing shop where thirty-five machinists are employed.
fifteen months ago Mr. W. Warner and I joined thirty members here. We got
oliday Scheme applied and a percentage was given on their yearly earnings which
equal to a week's wages. I have visited the place a few times and got the admission
an a few of the girls that they had not shown much gratitude in leaving the Union
Considering what had been done for them. I interviewed the forewoman and got an assur-
ance from her that she was not opposed to the girls joining the Union. I shall endeavour
to get the whole of the girls back again.
The Warwickshire Boot Co. has been visited several times by Mr. Warner and myself.
Trade is bad here, and though many new members have been made at the shop recently,
conditions are against us seeking improvements which are justly needed. Organising at
the moment, though sadly needed in many places, is not conducive to put one in a merry
mood, but a pessimist never does much.
23rd March, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
D. MCCARTHY.
In submitting this, my first report since resuming work as Organiser, the previous
ones have been joint with my colleagues in connection with our work in London, I am
bound to say I find it a great contrast to the work of the previous year, when I was privileged
to occupy a humble position in the first Labour Government of this country.
change gives the opportunity of realising that much work has to be done outside before
From the Ministry of Agriculture to the East End of London is a wide step, but the
our work is likely to be as effective as we would wish inside the House of Commons. The
position in the East of London is not what it should be, this being in my judgment largely
It must be our endeavour to change this condition, and make the name of the National
due to what has long been a hindrance to our movement, viz., the apathy of the workers.
the larger shoe centres. The growth of the industry in these areas proves conclusively
in this part of the country as

---
that our Union and the conditions it seeks to enforce is no real detriment to prosperity
within the industry of boot and shoe manufacture.

It may be that we are as a Union somewhat to blame for the position in London,
bearing in mind what a centre of activity this was years ago, and the further fact that the
Union has made such headway on behalf of its members, raising the industry from the
awful conditions that followed the general application of machinery, to the conditions that
arise out of our National Terms of Settlement, and which prove conclusively that the
policy adopted by the Union has been right and sound, we ought to take more frequent
opportunities to instruct our members in the work of the organisation, and emphasise the
need for whole-hearted co-operation of all its members in maintaining the conditions
obtained and making them the stepping stone to greater things. I would like to suggest
that in all our large centres, and in those that are relatively backward more particularly,
mass meetings of our members should be held fairly regularly, and always after the
fixing up of a new agreement.

I think those of us on the platform at the meeting referred to were convinced that the
result justified the effort made. True the attendance might and should have been larger,
but the weather was not favourable, and with so much sickness about there is a tendency
not to take risks. I am certain the audience appreciated what was said, and one can only
hope that the result will be stimulating all round. Before leaving this subject of meetings,
I think it would be advantageous to have a series of meetings for propaganda and
educational work.

During the month I have visited Colchester, and shall have to do so again, as the
conditions of some of our members there need attention. I have also been busy in Norwich,
where the sad and unfortunate death of Mr. F. Segon, of the No. 2 Branch, and the health
of the Secretary made it necessary for me to take up the work of compiling a Quantity
Statement for the Press Room of one of our largest factories. This seems to be necessary
if the wages of the operatives in that department are to stand comparison with the other
parts of the factory.

I have further given some amount of time to the Food Commission that has been
appointed to find out whether there is profiteering in food. I expect our members will
need little to convince them that prices are too high for the wages earned, and that having
regard to the state of trade generally in the country the position of a large number of
people is thus rendered difficult indeed. It is doubtful whether the limited powers of
a Royal Commission are adequate for the task given to us, but we must do our best to
make its work fruitful to the mass of our people.
WALTER R. SMITH.

Continuing our work in the London District we have visited the following firms, espe-
cially for the purpose of organising the women at Levine's, Polikoff's, De Larnge, Turner's
and Goodman's. We are not satisfied with the women operatives at these firms, who are
enjoying all the privileges of the Union, and are not prepared to recognise their obligations.
We have also visited the firms of Lipman's, Franklin's, Chissick & Kirshenstein's, Wach-
man's, Mintz's, Meltzer's, Hyam's, Lazarus', H. & S. Solomon's, Solomon's, Morning Lane,
Jackson & Joseph's. The operatives have been met and meetings arranged at a number
of the firms. In one instance we called a joint meeting of three firms which was well
attended. We have endeavoured to concentrate on those firms where our membership
is weak and where they are not conforming to the National Agreement. Our efforts in
organising is now meeting with success, though we are not satisfied that the rate of progress
is as rapid as we desire. At one of these firms frequent attempts had been made in the
making departments to organise the men, but on every occasion we were doomed to
disappointment. By persistent efforts we have now very happily made a beginning,
with the result that within a very short time the men will all be members. At other
firms we are very pleased to report progress, though the difficulties are great, and in one
case clear indications were shown that the firm were trying to prevent the operatives
from coming to the meeting. Despite this pressure our conversations with the men
reveal a great deal of dissatisfaction with the general conditions under which they work,
and at every firm that we visit where the Holiday Fund is not in operation the operatives
are continually urging upon us the need for its adoption. This we are continually pressing
upon the employers, and is one of the questions that we are endeavouring to, negotiate
upon with a number of employers.

We have had a further meeting with these employers, but we were not able to come
to a satisfactory agreement, and the meeting was again adjourned. We are confident
that nothing short of a complete adoption of the National Agreement will bring any
satisfaction to the operatives or the employers. When this class of employer makes up
his mind that the labour charges must be included into his costs of production, and those
charges are in conformity with the National Agreement, then be no longer the willing tool
of that class of unscrupulous buyer who has no honour in business, but who is only con-
cerned with enriching himself, and caring nothing about the effects on the operatives,
or even the conditions under which the goods are produced. It is in this direction that we


---
158
are endeavouring to move. The operative is becoming more conscious of the power of
gradually gain his confidence, then our strength increases, which
is enabling us to more effectually negotiate upon lines which eventually lead to the full
the Union, and as we
adoption of our terms.
These are non-federated firms and are not complying with the National Agreement. The
conditions are very unsatisfactory and our influence on the operatives is not very strong
We have again visited the firms of Kempton & Brandon's, Cunnington's and Phillips'.
The wages of the girls are
because we have not many members working at these firms.
exceedingly poor and from our information, drastic changes are required if these firms are
to be brought into line, but we shall continue our visits with the object of stimulating
interest and gradually trying to increase our membership.
We have had a meeting with the Sew-Round Branch, and it is very regrettable to record
that a number of men engaged on this class of work are enjoying good conditions and
earning good wages, but will not pay their contributions to the Union. As a result of
our meeting with them some progress is now being made, and we are hopeful that the
membership will continue to grow.
We have again visited St. Albans. We met the operatives working at I. H. Joyner's,
at Messrs. Lea & Sons. In the evening we had a fairly good meeting, a good number of
and there is a great need of increasing our membership there. We also met the operatives
took place, and judging by the information we obtained there is room for improvement
women attended. After explaining the terms of the National Agreement a discussion
to prevent a district from falling back, and at the same time to continue our efforts of
tion was obtained that the firm there has recently changed hands and is now under new
consolidating and improving our membership. As a result of a visit to Guildford informa-
management.
We attended the Mass Meeting held at the Shoreditch Town Hall. It was a very
good meeting and we consider that good results should follow. This meeting gave the
members an opportunity of hearing something, both with regard to the present position
of the Union, and the work that had been accomplished in the past, which had enabled
suitable for the occasion, and should stimulate the members to further efforts in assisting
the members to build up our organisation. The speeches delivered were admirably
us to further extend our influence, so that whatever efforts are put forward will have a
permanent benefit, and so establish such conditions which can only come from a powerful
organisation.
ịch, 1925.
J. H. BAUM.
LEN. SMITH.
PLAN TO FIND WHAT WORKERS EARN.
Wages and Hours "Census" by Ministry. Conditions in 1924.
For the first time it is proposed to tabulate the earnings and hours of labour of the
workers of the United Kingdom.
The Ministry of Labour is about to undertake a general inquiry relating to 1924.
The first " census of production" was taken in 1906, but earnings were not then included in
the scope of the inquiry, the report on which was published in eight volumes.
On Tuesday last the issue began of about 400,000 inquiry forms, and these will con-
tinue to be distributed until probably early in May. Among the questions asked are :-
Number of wage-earners (excluding typists, clerks, &c.) employed in each of
four weeks in 1924.
Total wages paid in those four weeks and throughout the year.
Normal full-time hours of labour in the period.
Numbers on short time.
Hours lost.
Aggregate hours worked.
only in compiling general statistics.
The information supplied will be regarded as strictly confidential, and will be used
The Ministry of Labour proposes also to undertake an
apprenticeship in the principal industries.
In the 1906 " census of production," the heads under which information was finally
tabulated were:
inquiry at an early date on
March, 1925.
number of people employed; and net output per person.—The Daily Chronicle, 20th
Gross output; cost of materials; work given out to other firms; net output; average


---
are endeavouring to move. The operative is becoming more conscious of the power of
the Union, and as we gradually gain his confidence, then our strength increases, which
is enabling us to more effectually negotiate upon lines which eventually lead to the full
adoption of our terms.
We have again visited the firms of Kempton & Brandon's, Cunnington's and Phillips'.
These are non-federated firms and are not complying with the National Agreement. The
conditions are very unsatisfactory and our influence on the operatives is not very strong
because we have not many members working at these firms. The wages of the girls are
exceedingly poor and from our information, drastic changes are required if these firms are
to be brought into line, but we shall continue our visits with the object of stimulating
interest and gradually trying to increase our membership.
We have had a meeting with the Sew-Round Branch, and it is very regrettable to record
that a number of men engaged on this class of work are enjoying good conditions and
earning good wages, but will not pay their contributions to the Union. As a result of
our meeting with them some progress is now being made. and we are hopeful that the
membership will continue to grow.
We have again visited St. Albans. We met the operatives working at J. H. Joyner's
and there is a great need of increasing our membership there. We also met the operatives
at Messrs. Lea & Sons. In the evening we had a fairly good meeting, a good number of
took place, and judging by the information we obtained there is room for improvement
to prevent a district from falling back, and at the same time to continue our efforts of
tion was obtained that the firm there has recently changed hands and is now under new
management.
We attended the Mass Meeting held at the Shoreditch Town Hall. It was a very
good meeting and we consider that good results should follow. This meeting gave the
members an opportunity of hearing something, both with regard to the present position
of the Union, and the work that had been accomplished in the past, which had enabled
the members to build up our organisation. The speeches delivered were admirably
suitable for the occasion, and should stimulate the members to further efforts in assisting
us to further extend our influence, so that whatever efforts are put forward will have a
permanent benefit, and so establish such conditions which can only come from a powerful
organisation.
20th March, 1925.
J. H. BAUM.
LEN. SMITH.
PLAN TO FIND WHAT WORKERS EARN.
Wages and Hours "Census" by Ministry. Conditions in 1924.
For the first time it is proposed to tabulate the earnings and hours of labour of the
workers of the United Kingdom.
The Ministry of Labour is about to undertake a general inquiry relating to 1924.
The first "census of production" was taken in 1906, but earnings were not then included in
the scope of the inquiry, the report on which was published in eight volumes.
On Tuesday last the issue began of about 400,000 inquiry forms, and these will con-
tinue to be distributed until probably early in May. Among the questions asked are:-
Number of wage-earners (excluding typists, clerks, &c.) employed in each of
four weeks in 1924.
Total wages paid in those four weeks and throughout the year.
Normal full-time hours of labour in the period.
Numbers on short time.
Hours lost.
Aggregate hours worked.
only in compiling general statistics.
The information supplied will be regarded as strictly confidential, and will be used
The Ministry of Labour proposes also to undertake an inquiry at an early date on
apprenticeship in the principal industries.
In the 1906 " census of production," the heads under which information was finally
March, 1925.
Gross output; cost of materials work given out to other firms; net output; average
number of people employed and net output per person. - The Daily Chronicle, 20th


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

159
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. -We are pledged this month not to refer to bad trade,
and consequently would not venture near temptation. But while that topic
is ruled out we can still exhibit a much greater experience of the bad than of
the good. We thank the General Secretary for his footnote to our report last
month. What a pity members will not show sufficient courage when the system
is altered from piecework to set wages. It is a fatal policy to go on still pro-
ducing work valued at far more than you are paid for in the shape of wages.
If you are working to fair rates under payment by results, then it is equally
fair to work still to those prices when you are paid a fixed wage. We cannot
be surprised of course that workers allow fear to master them at such times.
Apparently all the odds are against them in resisting the pressure of employers,
and there is such an upheaval when you are "sacked" without a chance of a
start at the trade in your own town. But after all Unions exist to remove
the grounds of fear, and loyalty on the part of members could establish an
insuperable bulwark against it. Only when you fail to trust your fellow
members do you allow this corroding fear to weaken your own resistance to
unfair compulsion. Our advice to our members is always to stand firm. On
every condition and conception included in the National Terms there should
be no compromise and no surrender." If an employer orders or condones
a relaxation of or departure from, any jot or tittle of the Agreement, the worker
should show his mettle at once. Never argue such matters. Never even dis-
cuss such points with representatives of a firm. Refer them always to your
Union Official. The official is the one to take up questions of that kind, no
matter in which department the attempt is made. Therefore, fellow members,
in future if foremen, manager or boss, puts before you any proposal altering the
conditions or terms of your job, never take the matter up as though you were a
law unto yourself; never give your personal consent to anything; firmly and
and courteously tell them to take up the matter with the Union Official. Fear
magnifies dangers, and there can be little danger if the feelings are kept in check,
while if the official is brought in at the beginning of every trouble instead of at
the end, as is too often the case, then a great deal of unfortunate friction is
avoided. We are very glad Central Office has issued that circular letter dealing
with the need of attendance of our representatives at all meetings of Local
Employment Committees. Without a doubt claimants for benefit suffer if
workers' representatives are not present, and we could give scores of instances
where the point of view of the workers' representatives has been the means of
keeping claimants in benefit. Our officials or members should also make a
strong effort to be represented on Courts of Referees, because here again justice
is at the discretion of those in session. We hope our Union is taking note of
the fact that at present the Government intends putting into operation on the
Ist of October, 1925, the revised first statutory condition for the receipt of
benefit, which is that each claimant must have an account of 30 contributions.
The "waiver" condition of 8 stamps since July, 1922, will be taken away,
and unless a great change occurs, thousands now drawing benefit will be struck
off. This is a serious matter, and our Union should get the Trades Union Con-
gress and Labour Party to prepare an effective protest while there is time.
Our attitude should be a demand for unemployment to be dealt with on emer-
gency lines until the number unemployed reaches a figure which can be treated
properly on definite Insurance principles. That point has not been reached
yet, and we should object to the Poor Law being used as handmaiden to the
work of the State.
CHESHAM.--Trade here shows little sign of improvement yet.
CHESTERFIELD.---Trade bad for men making new work. Repairing
is slightly better.
D


---
CORK.--Trade good.
DERBY. Trade in Derby continues to be good, but we still have a
number of shoe operatives out of work. We are sorry to report a heavy sick
list.
DESBOROUGH - Trade with us is fair, but there are signs of a falling off.
A small fire occurred at the firm of Messrs. J. Cheaney & Sons, but am pleased
to say that after being out just over a week the whole of the employees have now
resumed work. At the same firm a number of the employees were working
Our General President paid a visit and,
was well attended. Matters were fully gone into, and as the employers have
after interviewing the employer, also held a meeting of the operatives, which
promised to pay the full rate of wages we hope it will end to the satisfaction
under the minimum rate of wages.
of all concerned.
EDINBURGH.-Trade in repairing section has improved at time of
writing report. In this district there is a good deal of discontent, as our mem-
bers consider that in Finishing Department the work to be done while our men
are on day rates far exceeds the money received according to prices already
fixed for hand-finishing and allowing for use of machinery. We, in the mean-
time, are trying to gather information on this point. Also the benchmen,
where the rounding plant is installed, consider that the amount deducted does
not allow them to make wages compare with the time when they did the
rounding and channelling themselves. Of course, there is not a factory where
the machine has a full complement of work, and employers want to have their
pound of flesh. We passed a resolution on the Political Levy Bill. Some of
the Labour Members should bring in a Bill to have all political parties state
where their fighting funds come from. There would be some revelations.
HIGHAM & RUSHDEN.--No general improvement has taken place
during the month, except a slight improvement at Irthlingborough. At
Finedon the old-established firm of Messrs. Knights, employing about 40
workpeople, also Messrs. Abraham Groome & Sons, Rushden, employing
70 to 80 workpeople, have ceased business. In the Raunds Section (Army
and Admiralty work) trade is now in full swing, there being extensive con-
tracts let by the Government Departments. The Army Board has met and
that prices for sewing in welts by hand should remain at Is. 6d. per
he question of cutting 3-piece split blucher was also raised by em-
who refused to accept the price in Green Book (of Chesham, Leeds and
Jod). This was adjourned for future meeting. The question of new
.or hand sewing welts of common grade Crown Agents' work at Is. 2d. per
was introduced by Messrs. Adams Bros. No agreement being arrived
at it was decided that the matter be settled by Umpire, to be appointed by
the Ministry of Labour. The question of Bozeat and National Terms: several
meetings between manufacturers, the Branch Officials and General President,
have been held, and an offer from the employers will be discussed by the Council.
KILMARNOCK.--Trade in Kilmarnock has improved during the past
month, but we are sorry to say that there is no sign of improvement in our
section at Kilmaurs. We are sorry to say that the head partner of Kelly & Co.
died during the month.
KINGSWOOD & DISTRICT.--Trade in this centre is very quiet, general
short time being worked. At the County Council Elections, March 7th, our
colleague, Mr. Sam Iles, was defeated by a local timber merchant, who is
chairman of the Conservative Association. Sam Iles will have the sympathy
of many people who appreciated his good work during the past three years as
a member of the Gloucestershire County Council.
LEICESTER. We are pleased to report a slight improvement in trade.


---
LEICESTER WOMEN'S.—This Branch is kept busy on disputes and
pricing of fancy shoes, the statement book of prices being again revised and
Manufacturers are finding it difficult to get competent
We appeal to Officers of our Union to remember
put in order.
all members are equal whether men or women, and want treating with the
same measure of respect. A member of ours who has worked a heeling
machine for eight and half years, and been a member of our Branch longer,
was fetched out of work by the officer of another branch and told she
must leave off. Interviewing the firm and getting the girl a week's notice
without any consultation with our Branch or its officers. This we resented
by calling a meeting of the women, when a resolution was carried that if the
girl left they all would come out. This woman was getting a man's wage
and, in our opinion, should not have been interfered with. For the present
the matter is left as it was, the girl being still at work. Our Branch wishes
again to repeat that one minimum for men and women is our Union's only
safeguard. Our Branch has been pleased to send £5 to the fund for the
late Mr. Segon's widow, which is our custom in such cases.
In our last report we omitted a word in the paragraph commencing
line 11 on page 103. The paragraph should read :-" We know that where
women are NOT in touch with officials, and regular costings of all fresh
operations, they are not only suffering, but working under-price."
LIVERPOOL.—There has not been much improvement in trade during the
past month, but we hope it will soon brighten up. We note by the press
reports that the Prime Minister, by his adroit speech in Parliament, was able
to kill the monster represented by the Trade Union Levy Bill, which had its
inception in the legal mind. It is surprising how solicitous these people are
for the welfare of Trade Unionists (by the way) who are well able to look after
their own interests through their organisations, and prefer to be left alone
to paddle their own canoe.
MAYBOLE.—Trade is very slack, about one-third of our members signing
*for Out-of-Work Benefit, and no prospect of getting restarted.
NORWICH.—Sick claims in Norwich continue heavy, the last week in
the month seeing as many new claims as recoveries, leaving the position un-
altered so far as number of sick are concerned. Trade is going with an easy
swing on machine-sewn work, but the turnshoe section is continuing to plough
a lonely furrow. Claims are diminishing as the period for benefit expires,
leaving all too many of our men without either work or pay, although it is
pleasing to note that more men were in employment at the close of the month.
We report with sorrow and regret the death of the President of the No. 2 Branch,
and offer the deep sympathy of our members to the widow and family.
NORWICH No. 2.—During the month our Branch sustained a serious
loss by the death of our late President, Mr. F. H. Segon. He had been in
indifferent health for a considerable time. He underwent an operation on
Monday, February 9th, and to all appearances had recovered from that, but
the following Saturday afternoon, while Mrs. Segon and one of her sons was
visiting him, he died with tragic suddenness. During the six years he has
been full-time President he has carried out his duties, more especially in fixing
up prices for the many and varied patterns that have come into existence since
the war, in such a manner as to gain not only the confidence of our members
but most of the manufacturers and managers as well. The interment took
place at the Norwich Cemetery on Thursday afternoon, February 19th. The
No. 1 Branch was represented by Mr. W. Hindes and Mr. F. C. Jex, and our
Branch by Mr. G. Amond and Mr. A. H. Folkard, both Branches sending
globe wreaths. Two or three of the clicking rooms also sent floral wreaths.
A good number of members attended, also Mr. Crow, Manager of the clicking


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
163
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
APPROVED SOCIETY, 281.

TEN RULES FOR HEALTH.
1. BREATHE THROUGH THE NOSE AND BREATHE DEEPLY.
2. KEEP THE BODY CLEAN SO THAT THE GLANDS MAY
ACT FREELY.
3. KEEP THE TEETH CLEAN AND SOUND, AND EAT
SLOWLY.
4. DRINK PLENTY OF WATER.
5. LET THE SUNLIGHT INTO YOUR ROOMS.
6. KEEP OPEN WINDOWS DAY AND NIGHT.
7. AVOID TIGHT OR HEAVY CLOTHING : KEEP THE
FEET WARM.
8. EAT PLAIN WHOLESOME FOOD.
9. KEEP CHEERFUL : CONCENTRATE THE MIND ON
HEALTH NOT DISEASE.
10. WHEN IN DOUBT ABOUT YOUR HEALTH CONSULT
YOUR DOCTOR. DON'T WORRY.

These are Golden Rules for the preservation of Health, but it frequently
happens that, even after taking the greatest care, people are unfortunate,
and contract illness, or disease. Should this experience be yours, then be
sure you are a member of the BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES
UNION APPROVED SOCIETY and thus able to have your financial
requirements attended to with the utmost despatch, sympathy and efficiency.
MEMBERS OF THE UNION CAN JOIN THE APPROVED
SOCIETY EITHER AS NEW MEMBERS OR BY TRANSFER,
on application to their Branch Secretary.

BENEFITS RECEIVED BY MEMBERS - £380,000
INVESTED FUNDS AND RESERVE VALUES - £318,000
On behalf of the Council,

E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
R. D. MAYES, Insurance Manager.
February, 1925.


---
173
Compensation for Refund Regulations, 1924.
THE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (COMPENSATION FOR REFUND) REGULATIONS, 1924,
DATED 10TH SEPTEMBER, 1924, MADE BY THE MINISTER OF LABOUR UNDER THE
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (NO. 2) ACT, 1924 (14 & 15 GEO. 5. C. 30).
The Minister of Labour, by virtue of the powers conferred on him by Section 9 of the
Unemployment Insurance (No. 2) Act, 1924, and of all other powers enabling him in that
behalf, hereby makes the following regulations:
1. Application for a payment under section nine of the Unemployment Insurance
(No. 2) Act, 1924 (hereinafter referred to as the said section nine) shall be made in the
appropriate form prescribed in the First Schedule hereto or in such other form as the
Minister may in any particular case accept.
2.-(1) In making the calculation referred to in paragraph (c) of subsection (3) of
the said section nine regard shall be had to the following matters, that is to say :-
(a) the minimum number of insurance years which in the case of any insured
contributor must have elapsed before a repayment under section twenty-five of the
Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act),
could have been claimed in respect of him;
(b) the fact that an insured contributor may not live to attain the age at which
a repayment under section twenty-five of the principal Act could have been claimed
in respect of him;
(c) the fact that contributions in respect of the number of weeks required by
section twenty-five of the principal Act might never have been paid by an insured
contributor;
(d) the fact that contributions may cease for a period comprising five insurance
years to be paid in respect of an insured contributor;
(e) the fact that payment is to be made to an insured contributor as at the
seventh day of July, 1924, instead of at the date at which he would have been entitled
to receive a repayment under section twenty-five of the principal Act.
(2) For the purposes of this regulation-
(a) the minimum number of insurance years referred to in paragraph (1) (a)
thereof shall in the case of any insured contributor be taken to be either the number
ascertained by dividing by fifty the number of contributions necessary in his case
to complete the number required by section twenty-five of the principal Act or the
number of insurance years which must elapse before he could attain the age of sixty,
whichever is the greater (any fraction of an insurance year being reckoned as an
insurance year); and
(b) the rate of compound interest to be taken into account for the purposes of
paragraph (1) (e) thereof shall be five per cent. per annum.
3.-(1) Whereas the figures shown in the column of the table contained in the second
schedule hereto (hereinafter referred to as "index figures") have been calculated in
accordance with the provisions of the said section nine and of the last foregoing regulation
so as to show in respect of each £I of the credit balance of an insured contributor the
present worth as on the seventh day of July, 1924, of the amount of the excess value of
the contributions paid by him as increased (in the case of an insured contributor who has
not attained the age of sixty years) by the compound interest mentioned in subsection
(1) of the said section: now therefore, as respects any insured contributor the present
worth of the amount of the excess value of his contributions as increased by any compound
interest as aforesaid, if any, shall be calculated by multiplying his credit balance by the
index figure appropriate in his case.
(2) For the purposes of this regulation-
(a) the expression "credit balance" means the sum by which the total amount
of the contributions of which account is to be taken paid by an insured contributor
exceeds the aggregate of the sums received by him by way of benefit; and
(b) the index figure appropriate in the case of any insured contributor shall be
the index figure shown in the column of the said table representing the number of
insurance years in the period during which contributions of which account is to be
taken have been paid in respect of him upon the line representing the minimum
number of insurance years which must have elapsed before a repayment under section
twenty-five of the principal Act could have been claimed in respect of him.
4. These regulations may be cited as the Unemployment Insurance (Compensation
for Refund) Regulations, 1924.
Signed by order of the Minister of Labour this nineteenth day of September, 1924.
II. J. WILSON,
Secretary of the Ministry of Labour.


---
174
Regulations, 1924,
Repayment and Return of Contributions (Amendment) (No. 2)
THE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (REPAYMENT AND RETURN OF CONTRIBUTIONS) (AMEN
MENT) (No. 2) REGULATIONS, 1924, DATED 9TH OCTOBER, 1924, MADE BY THE
MINISTER OF LABOUR UNDER THE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT. 1920 (10&11
GEO. 5. C. 30), AND THE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (NO. 2) Act, 1924 (14 & 15
GEO. 5, C. 30).
Whereas the Minister of Labour by virtue of the powers conferred on him by Sectio
28 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, and of all other powers enabling him in that
behalf, has made the Unemployment Insurance (Repayment and Return of Contribution
Section 16 of the Unemployment Insurance (No. 2) Act, 1924, and the Second Schedule
And whereas the Minister of Labour by virtue of the powers conferred on him by
Regulations, 1920 (hereinafter referred to as the "Principal Regulations"):
Now, therefore, the Minister of Labour by virtue of the powers conferred on him b
the said Acts hereby makes the following regulations for amending the Principal Reg
lations :-
1. At the end of Regulation 4 of the Principal Regulations there shall be inserted
employed person the contributions erroneously paid by the employer on behalf of
"Provided also that the Minister may repay to the employer instead of to the
the words following :-
the employed person and not recovered from him."
nd Return of Contributions) (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations, 1924, and shall hava
2. These Regulations may be cited as the Unemployment Insurance (Repaymer-
effect as from the first day of August, 1924.
Signed by order of the Minister of Labour this ninth day of October, 1924.
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, March, 1925.
H. J. WILSON,
Secretary of the Ministry of Labour.
REPORT AND BALANCE SHEET OF LEICESTER CO-OPERATIVE PRINTING
SOCIETY LIMITED.
For the Half-Year ended 31st January, 1925.
In submitting the 64th Half-Yearly Report and Balance Sheet, the Sales for the
half-year amount to £27,218 155. 7d., an increase of £2,931 25. IId. compared with the
corresponding period of last year. The total Sales for the year amount to £55,215 65. 2d.,
an increase of £6,323 155. Iod. compared with the previous year. After providing for
Interest, on Share and Loan Capital to the amount of £1,037 45. 4d., and depreciating
Fixed Stock, Buildings, &c., £1,314 2s. 3d., there is a balance profit of £1,010 185. 3d..
which, with the balance of £261 175. 4d. brought forward from last half-year, gives a total
of £1,272 158. 7d. for disposal. This should be apportioned as shown in the Disposal of
Profit Account.
Eighty-eight new members have been added during the half-year, 50 of these being
Co-operative Societies, 6 have withdrawn, the present number of Shareholders being 605.
The Committee consider that the result of the half-year's work as shown by the above
figures is exceedingly good, especially in view of the still prevailing depression in trade.
The increase in trade compared with the corresponding period of last year is very gratifying.
and following the success of last half-year is a good indication of the Society's progressive
development, which we hope to maintain. The Balance Sheet generally also shows the
for Depreciation, Reserves, Investments and Bank Balance. The Branches are making
strong financial position to which the Society has attained, and in particular by the items
good progress, particularly London, where a very good connection for high-class colour
work is being established, and a substantial increase in trade is shown.
The detailed figures for the half-year's trade are as follows :-
Leicester Printing Works
Box Department
London Branch
Kettering Branch
£ s. d.
17,307 15 8
5,690 19 7
3,099 16 6
1,120 3 10
year and no expense is being spared to maintain the efficiency of all departments.
Further improvements and additions to the Plant have been made during the half-


---
180
SCOTTISH ADVISORY COUNCIL (LABOUR PARTY).
DELEGATE'S REPORT.
held in Central Halls, Bath Street, Glasgow, on Saturday, 28th February. Mr. Wm.
The Tenth Annual Meeting of the Scottish Advisory Council (Labour Party) was
Executive), Geo. D. Hardie, M.P., Jas. Maxton, M.P., Wm. Elger (Secretary, S.T.U.C.)
Shaw, J.P., occupied the chair, and was supported by Messrs. C. T. Cramp (National
In opening the Conference Mr. Shaw delivered a very excellent address which was
highly appreciated by the delegates assembled. The fraternal delegates thereafter spoke
and expressed pleasure at being present, and conveyed to Conference the good wishes
of those they represented, and trusted the deliberations would be fruitful of much good.
and D. Dunlop (Co-operative Party).
The Executive Report, which was then gone into, was a wonderful record, not onl;
of something attempted, but of something accomplished and well done, and reflected
which were satisfactory, the report was unanimously adopted. It was agreed that a
the greatest possible credit on the Council as a whole. After one or two explanations.
representative of the unemployed movement be heard re the Government putting into
operation the six-point charter. Mr. Lindon, the deputy, after addressing Conference
for fifteen minutes, was formally thanked.
The Agenda was then proceeded with, and consisted of ten resolutions, with as many
six resolutions were disposed of hurriedly, and the last four were carried en bloc. In fact
one feels disappointed with these one-day conferences, more especially when held on a
amendments, and the time at our disposal about two hours, with the result that the first
Saturday.
(1)
in
many offices, and the consequent prevalence of lung disease, defective vision, and other
to do its utmost to
facilities for the consideration of the Bill presented last year by H. G. Romeril. Agreed
(2) MILITARISM IN SCHOOLS.-Conference demands the complete demilitarisation of
the teachings and atmosphere in public schools supported by public moneys. Further,
we demand that all glorification of war as an institution for betterment of humanity shall
be removed from public school books, and in its stead human brotherhood and the inter-
dependence of nations be stressed, and books revised accordingly.-Agreed.
(3) EDUCATION AUTHORITY ELECTIONS on the principle of single member constitu-
encies. Lost.
(4) PUNISHMENT IN SCHOOLS: its total abolition. Carried.
(5) PRIMARY EDUCATION: Raising the age of compulsory education to 16 with main-
tenance allowance.-Agreed.
(6) SCOTTISH LABOUR DAILY PAPER. That this Conference convenes a meeting of
affiliated organisations urging the Directors of the Daily Herald to start a Northern Edition,
to be printed in Glasgow, and failing that, this Conference take steps to start a Labour
Daily for Scotland. Agreed.
The last four resolutions, viz., 7, 8, 9 and 10, were taken together and agreed to :-
(7) SMALL DEBT COURT AND ARREARS OF RENT. Although Sheriffs are empowered
by statute to order that defenders may pay the sums found due by instalments, they
nevertheless always refuse to give instalment decrees, in cases by landlords against their
tenants, with the result that the latter have fallen into arrears and their furniture sold by
warrant, and thereafter ejected from their homes. The Conference accordingly urges
the Government to see that the power conferred on Sheriffs are duly exercised.
(8) INCREASE OF RENT AND MORTGAGE INTEREST RESTRICTION ACT, 1920. That this
Conference calls upon Government to withdraw the powers to increase rent, and to pass
legislation providing that no increase be made on rents prevailing in 1914.
(9) BUILDING MATERIAL PRICES.-That we demand Government to give effect to
the provisions of the Bill prepared by Mr. Wheatley for controlling the Price of Building
(10) STANDARD OF HOUSE BUILDING. -That this Conference, recognising that the
upon the Government to determine a standard that will be less costly.
presente jerry" methods of House Construction will result in high costs of upkeep, calls
C. BLEAKLEY.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
181
CHEAP EDUCATION.
Penny Wise and Pound Foolish.
More money on warships more money on the Army but less money on children
and then preparation for life.
Such seems to be the Government's deliberate policy. It has no compunction in
adding nearly five millions to the unproductive expenditure on the Navy, but it cuts
down productive expenditure on education by a million and a quarter. Lord Eustace
Percy, President of the Board of Education, has been at pains to let us know that this
cut is made of his own free will. It is not forced upon him by "a ferocious and niggardly
Chancellor of the Exchequer." Mr. Fisher and Mr. Trevelyan, to give them both their
due, know that they were not spending as much as was needed for the welfare of the schools
and the children. But Lord Eustace Percy is positively proud of it. The cut is his own.
A State which neglects to educate its children is neglecting the future of the whole
body of its citizens-it is failing to equip them for the work of life, to make them sound
competitors in the world's industrial race, to make them happy.
Every year we condemn thousands of children to uselessness, thriftlessness, unemploy-
ment, and-at the worst crime. We refuse to spend money on continuation schools,
and prefer to spend it in doles. We prefer to create charges on the State for habitual
paupers rather than to invest the same money in creating useful citizens.
We have got the wrong idea of education. Wise expenditure on it is productive
and remunerative. Niggardliness in it is like letting the plant of a factory run to rack
and ruin. If we go on as we are doing now we shall see our army of unemployables grow,
and our race-relatively to the rest of the civilised world-deteriorate.-The Daily Chronicle,
21st March, 1025.
EDUCATION CUT BY GOVERNMENT.
Reduced Estimates for Money to be Spent on Education.
The Estimates for education and Government help to science and art for 1925-6,
issued yesterday, show a decrease of £808,684.
The figures are:
1924-5 £49,842,178
1925-0 49,033,494
The main decreases are:
Elementary education £1,255,074
Higher education 270,790
Higher education of ex-officers and men 60,000
Naval Increase of £3,300,000 for same period.
"WORLD WORKERS' EDUCATION."
The International Federation of Trade Unions, 31 Tesselschadestraat, Amsterdam,
has issued a book entitled "World Workers' Education." In the section on the W.E.A.,
in the "Report on Workers' Education in the various countries," which forms part of the
book, mention is made of the Union's connection with this body. Single copies of the
book may be obtained from Students' Bookshops, or from the Labour Joint Publications
Department.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270; Total,
142,490. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 23rd February, 1925
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 10,324; Females, 3,167; Total, 13,491.
Percentage Unemployed at 23rd February, 1925: Males, 11.2; Females, 6.3; Total,
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 9.5; Great Britain only, 9.3. Compared with 26th
January, 1925 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, decrease, 1.4; Females,
decrease, 1.8; Total, decrease, 1.5. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, March, 1925.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
182
ORGANISING LONDON OPERATIVES.
Mr. T. F. Richards and Mr. E. L. Poulton at Shoreditch Town Hall.
A largely attended meeting of London shoe operatives was held at the Shoreditch
Town Hall on Tuesday evening. Mr. T. F. Richards, General President of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, occupied the chair, and was supported by Mr. E. L.
Poulton, J.P. (General Secretary), Messrs. W. R. Smith, J. H. Baum, and Len. Smith
(National Organisers), A. Mason (President, London Metro. Branch), J. Woodward, W.
Brown (President, Sew-Round Makers' Branch), W. Mulligan, and members of the London
committee.
Mr. Richards said that the meeting had been called to see whether it was possible to
put a little more vim into the London membership. The position in the metropolis was
not the same as that in the provinces. In most provincial shoe trade centres the operatives
lived and worked close together, and it was not difficult to approach them ; in fact, all the
men talked boots and shoes. The London operatives in most instances lived a long way
from the factories, and after their work was done they did not get together. This created
a problem for the Union organisers which it should not be impossible to get over.
Foresight.
The position in London was unsatisfactory because some shops were well organised
and others were not. It was the duty of the Union to prevent unfair competition caused
by certain manufacturers making their own terms as regards hours and wages. The men
who accepted a lower standard of pay were not only doing badly for themselves, but were
injuring others who would be affected by the poor conditions thus established. They were
fortunate in having one big Union in the trade, which was formed, largely owing to the
foresight of their predecessors, out of six distinct departments and was in a position to
negotiate with the employers as representing the majority of the workers. The member-
ship, however, was only 78,000, and statistics showed that about 120,000 workers were
employed in the trade.
He hoped the members present had studied the National Agreement. In connection
with it he pointed out that there were not, so far as he was aware, more than two industries
in which a scheme was in force for the payment of wages during holidays, and the boot
manufacturing industry was one of them. If the members would weigh up that one
tions and left them with a profit on the year of 4s. He asked them to take that matter
into consideration and point it out to all non-members.
A Farthing a Week!
Mr. E. L. Poulton spoke briefly on the political aspect of trade unionism, and pointed
out that the Union levy for political purposes amounted to 3d. per quarter, or 1d. per
week. Members who had been urged to stop paying the levy were in many cases not certain
of the amount they were contributing, but on discovering the facts had no objections to
make. Continuing, Mr. Poulton dealt with the conditions under which female operatives
were working in London, and said that his colleagues were sorry to find that the minimum
was paid in so few instances. It should be remembered that their minimum was not the
maximum; in fact, 85 per cent. of the members throughout the country, were earning
more than the minimum. Yet in London, where expenses were higher, wages were lower.
He urged the members to talk to women workers and explain to them the benefits offered
by the Union.
Their organisation could claim to be in the first flight among trade unions, but the
officials were not satisfied with the general situation. When they saw a chance to do some
thing to benefit the workers they were ready to spend money, as they had done recently
in London. One dispute had lasted seven or eight months, but they had kept it going in
spite of the expense, and eventually reached a satisfactory settlement. At the same
time it must have cost the employers a pretty sum.
Mr. Len. Smith said London operatives might be able to show other centres something
about craftsmanship in certain classes of goods, but when it came to organisation the
provinces could give London about 360 yards start in a mile. Organisation was ineffective
when one shop was all right and the next all wrong, and that was the position in London.
A certain group of manufacturers were being tackled because they were doing a great
injury to the industry as a whole. In one shop they found girls, nineteen years of age,
working for IIS. to 13s. per week, which was not half the minimum, and these operatives
were surprised when they were asked to join the Union. It was astounding to find in
factory after factory in the year 1925 that even the men did not know that there was a
Union. (A Voice: "They don't want to.") Mr. Smith agreed that the ignorance might,
in many cases, be assumed, but he appealed to the members to see that nobody in their
shops was unaware of the work the Union was doing.


---
Here is the extracted text:
183
Even in well-
organised firms where they had a 10o per cent, membership of men it was possible to find
no female operatives in the Union
operative and never inquiring whether he or she was in the Union was wrong, and he hoped
that more activity would be shown in this respect, especially among the younger members.
The idea of one member working beside another
month
long before the next meeting.
The older members of the Union could recall
was last held in that hall. He hoped it would not be so
He regretted that the history of the Union was not well known in London, for the benefits
many changes from the days of hand labour to the use of machinery, which at first caused
won would then be better appreciated.
large numbers to be thrown out of work. At one time the Union's exchequer was seriously
depleted, but they had struggled on, and had gradually become one of the best trade unions
in the country. Their greatest success had not been so much the improvement in wages
as the betterment of conditions in the factories.
Before the meeting concluded Mr. Richards called upon Mr. Mason and Mr. W. Brown
to speak. Referring to outdoor workers, Mr. Brown said he would like the public to know
the conditions under which sewrounds were still being made. He knew of one case where
three consumptive operatives were working in one room in which four children were occupy-
Ing two beds. In another case he had seen uppers made from satin remnants hanging on
workers provided with indoor workshops. The Shoe and Leather Record, 27th February,
the wall with vermin crawling over them. These conditions had got to be altered and the
1025.
SAVING THE LIVES OF THE CHILDREN.
How Infant Mortality has been Reduced at Northampton.
Opening of Dychurch Lane Welfare Centre.
Striking figures concerning the reduction in the death rate among Northampton
children were given at the opening, on Wednesday, of the Maternity and Infant Welfare
Centre which the Town Council has recently established in Dychurch Lane.
Councillor J. Gribble, J.P., chairman of the Maternity Infant Welfare Committee
of the Town Council, handed the key of the premises-gaily decorated with red, white,
and blue ribbon-to the Mayoress (Mrs. H. W. Dover), who unlocked the door and gave
admission to the building.
Inside, Councillor Gribble took the chair.
The Mayoress, in declaring the centre open, said it would be a very great acquisition
to the town, not only to the mothers, but to the workers of the Infant Welfare Association,
who were doing such a splendid work.
Councillor Gribble emphasised the town's good fortune in having such an able Medical
Officer as Dr. Shaw in charge of the work.
There had been a great improvement in the vital statistics in relation to their work.
For the five years ending 1900, the number of deaths of infants in Northampton under
one year was 162.5 per 1,000. To-day it stood at 52.1 per 1,000. It was a magnificent
work, and the figures had been materially reduced since the welfare work had started.
What was more, however, Northampton was 22.9 per 1,000 lower than the average
for the country, which was further justification of the money spent on the work.
After Twenty Years.
Mrs. Green, the hon. secretary of the Voluntary Association, gave a brief report of
the year's work, and expressed pleasure that the hopes of twenty years had at last been
realised by the opening of that, their first, centre.
In was in 1902 that Infant Welfare work was first started in Northampton.
-Northampton Echo, 14th March, 1925.
[The receipts from various sources amount to a considerable sum, which reduces the
amount due from the local rates to less than Id. rate per f.-E.L.P., G.S.]
THRIFTY BOOT WORKERS.
Workers in the bootmaking industry have helped to place Northampton as one of
the first seven towns in the country in regard to the aggregate invested in National Savings
Certificates. which is over £20,000,000. The principal Northampton Building Society is
also flourishing, its funds amounting to two millions. Daily Herald, 3rd March, 1925.


---
Here is the extracted text:
184
REPAIRING TRADE BOARD.

Report on Inspections.
The statistical department of the Ministry of Labour has issued its report on inspection
and enforcement of Trade Board orders during the year ended 31st December, 1924.
The number of firms on the lists of the Boot Repairing Trade Board on 1st January,
1925, was 29,106. Of this number 501 were inspected for the first time during 1924,
and 81 firms, where irregularities had previously been discovered, were reinspected, a
total of 582 inspections during the year.
Of the firms inspected, 32 employed no workers, 309 not more than 2 workers, 207,
from 2 to 5 workers, 22 employed from 6 to 10 workers, nine employed 11 to 20 workers
in three cases 21 to 100 workers were employed, and in one case over 100 workers. Tr
total number of employees concerned was 1,343, of whom 894 were employed by firr
inspected on routine, and 449 employed by firms inspected as a result of complaint
During the year 305 complaints were received, and 268 complaints (including 38
outstanding from 1923) were investigated. Arrangements had been made for the investi
gation of the 70 complaints outstanding at the end of 1924.
The number of firms inspected were: - A (routine inspection), 397, and B (inspection
on complaint), 185. The number of firms on whose premises current notices were not
posted were A, 109, B, 49. It was found that time records were not kept in A, 233, and
B, 116 cases, while they were inadequate in A, 14 cases, and B, one case. In A, 96, and
B, 55, cases no records of wages were kept, and in A, 27, and B, 5 cases, the wages records
were inadequate.
Under routine inspection 38 firms were found to be underpaying workers, the totた。
amount claimed in arrears by the 42 workers concerned being £189 8s. 5d., of which amount
£136 195. was paid to 39 workers. The underpayments discovered as the outcome c
inspections undertaken on complaint were, naturally, more serious, 70 firms being involved
and 107 workers, the arrears claimed totalling £899 12s. 8d. Of this amount 4649 IOS. 2d.
was paid to 97 workers.
Of the total arrears outstanding £219 IS. gd., due from 9 firms, was claimed only
who are paying by instalments. A further
recently. The remainder is due from 10 firms
sum of £167 13s. 4d., which was outstanding at the date of the last report, was recovered
from 14 firms for 19 workers in respect of arrears accruing prior to 1924.
The workers employed by the firms inspected included 462 adult male time workers
and 42 adult female time workers. Of these 12 males (A) and 39 males (B) and I woman
(B) were found to be underpaid. The male learners and juveniles employed numbered
266, and female learners 19. Of these 23 males (A) and 35 males (B) were found to be under-
paid. No case of underpayment in respect of female juveniles or learners was discovered.
The pieceworkers concerned in the inspections numbered 553 male and one female. Of
these 7 males (A) and 32 males (B) were found to be receiving less than Trade
rates.
It is interesting to note that of the 149 workers underpaid 77 were in receipt of over
90 per cent., 52 were in receipt of between 75 per cent. and 90 per cent., and 20 were in
receipt of between 50 per cent. and 75 per cent. of the appropriate Trade Board rates.
In the Scottish division the number of firms inspected was (A) 83, (B) 20; North-
astern, (A) 34 (B) 17; North-Western, (A) 94 (B) 28; Midland, (A) 57 (B) 27; South-
eastern, (A) 113 (B) 24; London & South-Eastern, (A) 16 (B) 69. The duration of
spections was as follows:-Occupying one day or less, 492; two days, 74; three days,
15; and one inspection occupied four days.
During the year legal proceedings were taken as follows :-
Criminal: (1) At Lambeth Police Court for underpayment of two workers, failure
to post notices, and failure to keep wages records. The penalty imposed was £4, £2, and
12 respectively. The magistrate, in the exercise of his discretion, refused to make an order
for payment of arrears, but a sum of £23 15s. 2d. was subsequently recovered by the
Department.
(2) At North Shields Police Court for underpayment of four workers. The penalty
imposed was £20, costs of 5 guineas were awarded, and arrears of £27 2s. ordered to
be paid.
(3) At South-Western (Metropolitan) Police Court, for underpayment of one worker,
failure to post notice, and a subsequent failure properly to post notice. The penalty
imposed on each count was £5, £1, and ₤1 respectively, with costs of 2 guineas, and arrears
amounting to £19 ordered to be paid.-The Shoe and Leather Record, 13th March, 1925.


---
```text
185
TRADE BOARD ACT PROSECUTION.
Shoe Repairers Heavily Fined.
Proceedings of considerable importance to the boot and shoe trade were heard at
length in the Marckbone Police Court on the 12th March, before Mr. Hay Halkett. The
proceedings were taken by the Ministry of Labour under the Trade Boards Act, 1909,
against Mrs. Uutel Latatuti, boot and shoe repairer, of 03 Chippenham Road, Paddington,
and her husband, Nathan Laratuti. The former was accused of having failed to pay
wages at not less than the minimum rate fixed by the Trade Board to five workers; while
the latter was summoned tor knowingly causing a false record to be made in respect to
the wage of Angustus Froest Baxter, one of the workers.
The case had been
Mr. Hay Halkett said he should convict on all the summonses.
conducted by Counsel with great care, but he was sorry to say he had come to the con-
viction that the defendants had deliberately defied the Trade Board regulations and the
In view of the compensation to be paid to the workmen he would be as lenient
as he could but Mrs. Taratuti would have to pay a fine of 40s, on each of the five sum-
monses, and, in addition, five guineas costs on the first summons and the following sums
as wages arrears - £12 14s. 5d. to Baxter, 15s. 7d. to Morgan, £13 9s. to Rose, 2s. 8d. to
Pens and £8. 3d. to Prothero, making a total of £42 10s. 11d. Mr. Nathan Taratuti
he fined ere, or 51 days imprisonment, saying he was absolutely satisfied that although
he did not actually write the false record he knew all about it. - The Shoe Trades Journal,
20th March, 1925.

INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS
WORKERS' COMPENSATION.
International Labour Conference and World Agreement.
Important suggestions regarding the lines which world rules for workers' compensa-
tion should follow are contained in a report, just issued by the International Labour
Office of the League of Nations, in preparation for the Seventh Annual Session of the
International Labour Conference which will open at Geneva on 19th May, 1925.
Following its usual custom with regard to items placed on the agenda of the annual
Conference, the Office sent a series of questions regarding the possibilities and scope of an
international agreement on the subject of workmen's compensation to the 57 States which
are members of the International Labour Organisation, and has already received 26 replies
including many from the more important countries. The Australian and Canadian
replies include individual answers from the various States and Provinces. The report
embodies these replies and the conclusions to be adduced from them.
"The Governing Body of the International Labour Office took the view that the
question of workmen's compensation for accidents might be dealt with by Draft Con-
vention (by which States undertake a treaty obligation strictly to observe certain regula-
tions). Nearly all the Governments are agreed on this point," states the report.
The
British Government, however, considers that the great differences which exist between
systems in force in the various countries would make it difficult to adopt a satisfactory
Convention, and that the Conference would therefore be better advised to content itself
with a Recommendation (which is to be taken as a guide in passing national legislation
or issuing administrative orders). In spite of the differences of practical application,
there are certain fundamental principles and questions of general scope; and it may be
said, with the reservation that the British Government does not take this view, that the
Governments are agreed on these points and that they can readily be dealt with in a
Draft Convention."
The report contains proposals for two Draft Conventions and two Recommendations
for the consideration of the Conference. The first Draft Convention on workmen's com-
pensation for accidents includes provisions for applying accident compensation to every
worker except the "home worker"; additional compensation if the injured person needs
the constant help of another person; the inclusion of medical aid in compensation; the
furnishing and renewal of artificial limbs. The second deals with workers' compensation
for occupational diseases and contains a minimum list of diseases to be included. The
first Recommendation deals with the minimum scale of compensation and the second
with jurisdiction in disputes on workmen's compensation.
```

---
187
ASFORDBY'S AWFUL HOVELS.
Home Sweet Home Thing of the Past. Homes for Heroes.
Life in a Lorry.
Mr and Mrs. John Thornton are bringing up a family and seven children in a con-
demned cottage in Pump Lane. Six of the children are under 12 years of age. The
cottage consists of three rooms, one large ground floor room and two bedrooms.
Diabolical Damp.
The latter are rendered almost untenable by the dilapidated state of the roof.
The damp has stripped all the paper from the walls and the plaster of the roof no
longer adheres to the lathcs. It sags and cracks in an alarming manner and may at any
moment collapse bodily into the room. The owner of the cottage says that he dare not
touch it in case it should fall in.
When It Rains.
When I examined the room this morning the ceiling was waterlogged. The mattress
of the bed was soaked with water, and Mrs. Thornton explained that during the night the
rain had poured through while her daughter Olive, aged five, was in bed.
Dare Not Make a Fire.
For six weeks the house was without a fire. Débris had choked the only chimney,
and no one had dared to clear it in case worse collapse followed.
Under these conditions it is small wonder that Mr. Thornton contracted pneumonia
last November, from which he has only just recovered.
He served in the 8th Leicesters and in the R.A.M.C. from 1914-1919. He pays 3s.
a week rent for this shack.
Mr. Stephen Robert Sutton, also an ex-service man, serving in the R.E.'s from 1915-
1919, and his wife, have lived for the last four months in a converted lorry.
They have two chairs and a stove, and sleep on two seats. For this accommodation
he pays 5s. a week.
One room is the lot of Mr. Charles Tuck, his wife, four young children, and their
grandmother, aged 75. It is a converted outhouse, in the yard of the Crown Inn. But
they are regarded as lucky, for although they possess only one room it is large and airy.-
Leicester Mercury, 4th March, 1925.
GOLDEN HOUSES.
An Example of Profiteering in Sub-Letting.
Allegations that owners in the suburbs of London are exploiting the present house
shortage by making profits out of sub-letting are persistent, and a preliminary investigation
revealed that both owners and tenants have complaints to make.
A big and gloomy house in the Brixton Hill district is typical of others. The various
apartments have been let off without conversion and this is the division:-
Basement: Two rooms and small kitchen. Rent £1 12s. per week.
Ground Floor: Two rooms and small kitchen. Rent £2 5s. per week.
First Floor: Two rooms, kitchen, and bath. Rent £2 12s. 6d. per week.
Top Floor: Two small rooms and kitchen. Rent £2 12s. 6d. per week.
Same Floor: Room partitioned off and let at 15s. per week, tenants to share the
kitchen.
The rent and rates of this house amounted to about £2 per week, but some time ago
it was bought by the owner for £300, and now it brings in an income of £7 5s. 6d. per week.
The furniture in the rooms is shabby. - Daily Mail, 10th March, 1925.
BIG INCREASE IN C.W.S. SALES.
Half-Yearly Report.
The Co-operative Wholesale Society's total sales for the half-year ended December
27th last were £37,946,733, an increase of £3,441,872, or 97 per cent. on the corresponding
period of previous year. For the year the sales were £72,888,064, an increase of £6,131,636,
or 94 per cent. on the previous year.
The total supplies from the various productive works for the half-year were £12,918,188,
an increase of £2,234,880, or 20% per cent. For the year the supplies were £24,252,481,
an increase of £3,241,382, or 15% per cent., on the previous year. Co-operative News,
14th March, 1925.
---

---
189
They concluded their reply by observing that while they would be still willing to continue
the correspondence, they thought it far more useful to have an exchange of views and
opinions-even though this exchange of views and opinions should have no binding
character-in order to prepare the way for the subsequent adoption of measures likely to
bring about the end they had in view.
This communication from the All-Russian Trade Union Council was acknowledged
on the 5th December, 1924, the I.F.T.U. intimating that the matter was one which would
have to be again discussed by the General Council at their meeting on the 5th February,
1925, and following days. In their communication the I.F.T.U. made the following
observations:-
"We gather from your letter of the 26th July, and also from this last letter that
you do not appear willing to affiliate with the I.F.T.U. on the basis of its Rules and
Resolutions. Instead of doing so, you propose the convening of a joint general
congress, a World Labour Congress, to which would be invited not only the organisa-
tions affiliated with the I.F.T.U. and the R.I.L.U., but all other organisations outside
these Internationals which recognise the principle of class war."
A final communication was sent by the All-Russian Trade Union Council to the
I.F.T.U. on the 29th January. This reads as follows :-
THE SECRETARY,
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS,
TESSELSCHADESTRAAT, AMSTERDAM.
DEAR COMRADES,
29th January, 1925.
Your letter of date of 5th of December was examined by the Presidium of the
U.S.S.R. Central Council of Trade Unions at its Session held on January the 29th,
1925. The latter cannot hide its surprise with regard to the letter in question, which
in our opinion, could only have been the result of either a misunderstanding or ten-
dentious interpretation of our perfectly clear letter.
Paragraph 2 of your letter is so worded as to make it appear that we were pro-
posing as a first step towards the realisation of unity, the convening of an International
Congress of all trade union organisations, whereas, we, considering for our part that
this measure is the most correct, most just and most expedient step towards the
realisation of unity in the International Labour Movement, had all the time been
urging on you as the first practical step for the attaining of unity among the trade
unions, a joint conference of representatives of the International Federation of Trade
Unions and the U.S.S.R. Central Council of Trade Unions.
This, and this only, is our practical proposal to you at the present moment. We
consider that such conference of representatives of the I.F.T.U. and the U.S.S.R.
C.C.T.U., made up of an agreed upon number of representatives of both parties (say,
six comrades from each side) must make it its task to work out ways and means on
the basis of which full unanimity could be arrived at which would secure the creation
of a united international organisation of trade unions to be joined by all trade unions
at present affiliated to the I.F.T.U. and the R.I.L.U.
Neither the one side nor the other must be bound to this initial step by anything
other than a sincere desire towards the establishment of the Movement's unity which
must be done first of all. Any preliminary conditions whatsoever would only hamper
the cause of International Unification.
It seems to us that if a common base could be found at this joint conference, all
the other matters would present no difficulties.
It therefore appears to us that the initial step must take the form of just such a
convening of a conference as already spoken of by us and laid before your Council
for consideration.
The idea of an international unification of the trade unions is making ever greater
headway in many countries among the workers irrespective of their political camp.
This makes us feel sure that at last we will be successful in moving the cause of Inter-
national Unity forward to a practical conclusion.
President of the U.S.S.R. Central Council of Trade Unions,
(Signed) M. TOMSKY.
Secretary to the U.S.S.R. C.C.T.U.,
(Signed) A. DOGADOV.
This was the position when the General Council of the I.F.T.U. met in Amsterdam
on the 5th February, 1925.
(To be continued.)


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
NATIOINAL UNION of BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
N
NAT TEL: MUSEUM 4438
LONDON
TEL ADDRESS: NATUMISHOP
PHONE, LONDON"
Seat of Government, 34, GUILFORD ST. LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 245,
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
HOF BOOT & SHOE
NATIONAL UNICA
UMION
Copyright
8
General President
T.F.RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L.POULTON.J.P.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
MONTHLY REPORT.
27TH APRIL, 1925.
TRADE.
Although there has been no spurt in trade, at the same time from the
evidence we have, it would appear to be quite up to the normal compared
with the past year or two.
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment in March showed little general change, an improvement in some districts
being counterbalanced by a decline in others.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 9.2 on the 23rd March, 1925, as compared with
9.5 both on the 23rd February, 1925, and on the 24th March, 1924.
Returns from firms employing about 38,250 operatives during the week ended 21st
March, 1925, showed that over 31 per cent. of these operatives were on short time in that
week, to the extent of over 10 hours each, on an average.
Employment in London was moderate, and showed little change. At Leicester
and at Northampton employment was again fair on the whole, though there was a good
deal of short-time working at both centres. At Hinckley there was a decline, and many
firms were working short time. At Wellingborough employment was very quiet; prac-
tically all the firms were on short time. Employment was poor at Higham and Rushden,
and worse than in February; at Irthlingborough, on the other hand, employment was
fairly good. There was little change at Kettering, where about three-quarter time was
worked on the average.
At Leeds employment showed a further slight improvement; it remained bad in the
heavy boot section but good in the light shoe section. Less short time was worked at
Stafford, and there was an improvement both on the previous month and on March, 1924;
employment was, however, still described as slack. At Norwich employment was again
good in the machine-sewn section; in the turnshoe section it was relatively quiet. At
Bristol and Kingswood there was an improvement in the light boot trade but a decline
in the heavy trade; nearly all the firms were working irregular short time; at Street
employment remained fair. Employment at Bacup was good, but in the slipper trade
in the Rossendale Valley a large amount of short time was worked.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

209
SICKNESS.
We regret to have to state there has been for many weeks past an increased
number of members declaring on the sick fund, and at the time of going to
press there does not appear to be any appreciable decrease in the same. On
the contrary, the number is rather on the increase, rather than the decrease.
We hope that with the prospect of better weather and more sunshine, that we
shall be able to report sickness has fallen to what may be considered to be
the normal number of members on the fund.
DISPUTES BETWEEN UNIONS.
As the members are doubtless aware, there are from time to time, disputes
arising between Unions, not only upon demarcation of work, but also upon
the appropriate Union to which a worker should belong. This matter is
usually one of the items dealt with at the Trades Union Congress, and resolu-
tions regretting misunderstandings and calling for agreement have been
passed at the various Congresses. It will be remembered that in our January
issue, we reported an agreement between ourselves and the N.U.D.A.W.
regarding the question of members joining either one or the other Union, and
agreeing to consult with one another before so doing.
The General Council of the Trades Union Congress is constantly having to
deal with this particular question, and have issued the following circular in
connection therewith :-
The General Council have had under consideration from time to time
during the current Congress year, reports from the Disputes Committee
in relation to complaints as to the alleged poaching of members, and
matters which have given rise to friction between certain of the affiliated
Unions.
The General Council are of the opinion that much of the cause for
the complaint would be obviated if affiliated Unions would conform to
the principles laid down in the Report of the Disputes Committee which
were submitted to the Hull Trades Union Congress, 1924. These principles
were as follows :-
(1) The application for membership form of the Unions should contain
an inquiry to be answered by the candidate as to whether he is or
has been a member of any other Union, and, if so, what his financial
relationship to that Union is.
(2) As a general principle, no member of any Trade Union should be
accepted into membership in another without inquiry from the
Union concerned.
(3) No member should be allowed to escape his financial obligations
by leaving one Union while in arrears and by joining another.
(4) Under no circumstances should a Union accept members from
any other Union which is engaged in a trades' dispute. It should


---
Here is the extracted text:
210
be a general understanding that both national and local officials
of Trades Unions should refrain from speaking or acting adversely
to the interests of any other Union during any period in which
the members of the latter Union are participating in a trades'
dispute. Much trouble could be avoided if Unions about to
participate in a trades' dispute would take care to inform other
Unions whose members would be likely to be affected thereby.
Paragraph 87 of the General Council's Report wherein these observa-
tions were set out, was approved by the Hull Congress, but the General
Council feel that the matter has not been brought so prominently to the
notice of the affiliated Unions as is desirable. The General Council are
convinced that the application of these principles by affiliated Unions
would be in accordance with the best interests of the Trade Union Move-
ment, and I am to request that your Union will take all appropriate steps
to bring the principles set out above, prominently to the notice of your
members.
The General Council also desire me to ask you to be good enough
to supply this Office with a copy of your present Application for Membership
Form in order that the Council may consider as to whether it is possible
to compile a model application form which could later be submitted for
the approval and adoption of the affiliated Unions.
The Council feel that they can confidently expect the co-operation
of your Union on this matter.
Yors sincerely,
FRED BRAMLEY,
Secretary.
We have complied with the request as to the membership forms, and print
the document in full so that it may be brought prominently before the members
that they will do what is possible, not only in our own industry but in others,
to help forward the movement for a general understanding, and thereby
increase the smoothness of the working of the trade union machine, upon which
so much will depend, especially within the next year or two.
PARLIAMENTARY AGENT.
It will be seen by reference to page 225 that Mr. J. H. BAUM has been
elected Parliamentary Agent in place of Mr. D. McCarthy, resigned.
POLITICAL.
At the time of going to press Parliament is not in Session. The result of
the labours of Parliament for the past few months has not, we venture to say,
brought about any considerable improvement in the position of the workers
or in relation to its influence of the nation amongst the continental nations.
In fact the Rt. Hon. Austen Chamberlain (Foreign Secretary) speaking in the


---
Here is the extracted text:
211
House of Commons recently, when talking of the Geneva Protocol and the
suggested Pact, said:
"Fear, haunting, restless, brooding fear, haunts the councils of
every nation and the homes of every continental people; fear that warps
the judgment and affects the policy, which leads to irritating acts, to fresh
provocation; which renews day by day the offences of the war, the
bitterness of the war, the rancours of the war. If this continues, sooner
or later, Europe will march to a new Armageddon. The statesmen
of this country have some responsibility. Our policy, not wholly through
our own fault, has been wavering and inconsistent. Our influence-nobody
can move, as I have done, among the statesmen of Europe and of more
than Europe and not feel it - has lost something by our hesitations and our
inconsistencies."
This shows, that even from the standpoint of the Government itself the un-
certain position in which they find themselves.
In relation to
UNEMPLOYMENT
whilst a great deal of talk has been indulged in, and expressions of sympathy
extended, they have not been put into any practical shape, and the figures
show there has not been any appreciable fall in the number on the live register
of the Employment Exchanges for the past few years :-
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
1,509,029
1,828,223
1,343,725
1,123,742
1,237,700
The need for
HOUSES
is as great as ever. In fact, in our judgment it is greater, because many
thousands of houses wherein people are now living should be condemned as
unfit for human habitation. Despite, however, the unsatisfactory conditions of
life as it is applied to millions of our countrymen and women, the statement
made by the Home Secretary that he might introduce a new Factory Bill,
called forth from one of our great daily papers, which boasts of the largest
circulation in the world, the following statements :---
"It seems sheer madness to introduce such a Bill at such a time as this,
when our industries are literally fighting for life. If this Bill
should be accepted by Ministers and become law, the British market will be
flooded with foreign goods produced under conditions which would not be
permitted here, and more good workmen will be added to the total of unem-
ployed. In short, the measure might be described as philanthropy
run mad."


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
212
This has been followed up daily by other attempts to work up opposition to
any Factory Bill which will improve the condition of the workers who have to
earn their livelihood in the factories of this country.
We have upon many occasions in the past twelve months called the
attention of members to these important subject, and stated we should continue
to do so, because it is only by constant reiteration that not only keeps the
matter alive, but by such reminders shows the necessity of sending to all publi-
bodies men and women who not only express sympathy with the workers.
but will do all possible to assist them to a higher standard of living. In this
connection we are pleased to record the fact that in the recent elections for
public authorities a very considerable number of our members have been
returned thereto, and we are quite sure they will do their part to use the existing
laws as far as possible to alleviate the present unjust conditions, and to bring
some respite to the anxieties of many men and women who find life one continual
worry and anxiety in regard to the finding of the wherewithal to live.
HISTORY OF THE UNION.
There are still a number of copies of the "Fifty Years' History of the
Union" in stock, and members desirous of securing a copy should place their
orders at once. They can be purchased through the branch officers at 6d.
per copy, and all members desirous of learning about the work of the Union
should not fail to obtain a copy of this most interesting and valuable record
of the work of the Union.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore push the Trade Union


---
Here is the extracted text:
213
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only " Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
7 E. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
HOW OPPOSITION TO REFORM IS BEING WORKED UP.
Do They Want to Ruin Us?
The new Bill will multiply the huge army of men and women now out of work, because
it quite arbitrarily increases the amount of air space which must be provided for each
worker from 250 to 400 cubic feet. It will be entirely out of the question for every industry
simultaneously to expand its accommodation. There is neither the building labour nor
the plant, and there is not the money in this country to do it. This new restriction will
therefore mean that in numerous establishments 37 per cent. of the workers in actual employ-
meni will have to be discharged. Of all the crimes which have been committed in the name
of philanthropy this will be one of the cruellest.
When the British electors by a veritable landslide of votes last year turned out Mr.
MacDonald and put the present Government into power they wanted to be rid of Socialism
and its incessant meddling and waste. What they are getting from the present Government,
where they are getting anything at all, is a blend of sloppy Socialism and half-baked senti-
mentalism which threatens to be deadly to industry. A wise Government, realising that the
difficulties which confront our manufacturers are not to be conjured away with words,
would months ago have set to work to review and revise existing Acts which have a harassing
and crippling effect on trade. Instead of passing a new Factories Act it would now be
examining the working of those already in existence.
The above statement is taken from the leading article of the Daily Mail, of 18th April,
1925. Such statement refers to the proposed new Factory Bill. The Council of the
Union, through its Monthly Address, has repeatedly pointed out how necessary it is for
our machinery to be kept in good order to be able to repel the attacks that might come at
any time from those who desire to hold back necessary reforms in our industrial system.
To be forewarned ought to result in counter propaganda, and thereby nullify the reactionary
forces that exist in the country.-E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.]
SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE-Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 21st
March, 1925, 50,016; Increase on a month ago, 0.2 per cent.; Increase on a year ago,
1.4 per cent. Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 21st March, 1925,
116,469; Increase on a month ago, 1.1 per cent.; Increase on a year ago, 3.2 per cent.
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, April, 1925.


---
214
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
May Day. By the time this Report is in your hands we shall have passed another
May Day, or Labour Day, which many years ago we decided should be made at least a
National Holiday. I am of the opinion that we ought to, as a Union, set an example in
this respect by recognising whatever day the first of May falls upon, to be to all employers
and ourselves a general Labour Day of the year. In this respect I hope to approach my
colleagues on the matter, both the Council of the Union and Branch Executives, and trust
we may set an example to employers and their people that this is not a passing phase but
is a serious factor in the industrial lives of our members.
NORTHANTS DISTRICT COUNCIL. - It was my pleasure on Saturday last to be requested
by the Northants District Council to address them on the subject of the legalising of
Agreements, and whether the proposition was likely to be beneficial to our Union in
particular, and to the movement as a whole. The members present showed great interest
in this particular question, as they do in all subjects, and appreciated the fact that there
was a time when we went through a very great strain to maintain our position when faced
with a general strike outside the National Agreement in 1895. The full list of the big
disputes in which we have been engaged, is as follows :-
Period of Dispute.
1911-13
1913
1913
1913-1914
1913-14
1918-1919
1923
St. Cuthbert's (Edinburgh)
Nantwich
C.W.S.
Melbourne..
Preston
Eyam and Stoney Middleton
Chesham
Jackson & Joseph (London).. To end of March, 1925
Cost.
£ s. d.
2,184 0 0
281 0 0
7,864 5 4
1,230 0 0
4,506 9 6
8,555 19 0
12,172 5 0
1,488 17 0
and the settlement of which has been in four cases totally unsatisfactory, i.e., at Nantwich,
Preston, Melbourne, Eyam and Stoney Middleton. Generally speaking we have no desire
to even renew similar conflicts, as we feel (perhaps it is conceit on my part to say it) that
the other side has been willing for a satisfactory settlement as well as ourselves in all these
disputes, to have taken place. In the four cases above-mentioned, it was merely the
right of man to belong to a trade union that was at stake, and in these cases the liberty
of the subject was bound to be defended by us, although the members affected had perhaps
in some instances been members of ours for not more than four to five weeks. With
these facts in front of us, and then again realising that according to the most reasonable
estimate that can be given of the number of people working at the industry being round
about 120,000-and seeing that in our own Union we have 80,000 members only, the old
body approximately 2,000, the Rossendale Slipper Union round about 6,000, one feels
inclined to ask why that other 32,000 of a floating population is not with us and when we
look at the above-mentioned four places, where we have few members, and then consider
the efforts of our organisers during the last two years in the East End of London, we think
that if the Government of the day, whoever they may be, and whatever party they may
belong can be of any assistance to an industry, our Union Executive is willing that the
resolution carried at the 1922 National Conference, moved by Mr. H. J. Bostock and
seconded by myself, "That the Government should be urged to give National Agreements
voluntarily entered into, and approved by the Joint Industrial Council, the same validity
as wages under the Trade Board Acts." I want all our members to know, and I tried to
make it clear at the Conferences the need that "National Agreements voluntarily entered
into" which would mean that those agreements being subject to confirmation or amend-
ment every two or three years would only be enforceable during their lifetime, and at the
will and pleasure of both sides. To my mind this should eliminate the fear in the minds
of those anti-compulsory arbitrationists, who like ourselves, do not wish to lay the founda-
tion stone for compulsory arbitration, but at the same time do not look upon voluntary
arbitration as compulsory arbitration. We enter the arbitration room with the intention
of endeavouring to arrive at a settlement without resorting to or throwing the responsi-
bility upon the presiding chairman or umpire to do for us what we ought to do for ourselves,
and when there is a large body gathered together of from 15 to 30 persons on each side,
as we invariably find in our National Conference with the Employers, it has been our
success up to the present to find that among them there is always an air of reasonableness
in an assembly of that kind, with the result that we are pleased to record the fact that for
Trade Union Congress was that by doing work of this description for the non-unionists,
point of view put forth at the
always been the case. I am always doubtful of the loyalty of the compulsory trade
unionist. Our work has been invaluable for all Governments, the reason why we are asking


---
on this occasion to have legal powers behind our agreements is because in some isolated
districts already referred to, conditions prevail which are a disgrace to the industry, and if
neither employer or employee are permitted to do wrong their conduct and action cannot
affect the welfare of good employers and good trade unionists. It is more for the defence
of our good members that we would press our views in this direction rather than with the
idea of having the pence from a type of individual whom we could not describe as being
loyal to the movement. We should have sufficient work to do to keep them in order
with the assistance of Government officials, no matter how distasteful they may be. Seeing
that some of the important industries in this kingdom have made arbitration, i.e., the
Miners and the Agricultural Labourers, to get Government assistance--the Miners having
had this assistance in various ways, mainly in their Checkweighmen and their recent
attempts to get a minimum wage fixed-it should encourage us to believe that if it is
necessary to have like activity to assist the Miners, it can be helpful for Boot and Shoe
Operatives to ask for similar consideration.
LONDON. We are meeting some sixteen members of the East End of London, to see
whether we can persuade them to adopt in its entirety our National Agreement. In this
respect we are anxious that these firms shall bring themselves up to the status of our
ordinary or average firms. We are well aware of the inducement that is offered them to
make cheaper lines, so much so, that there are instances when some of them are driven
harder than is justly reasonable, and as a consequence, they are compelled, owing to
economic conditions, to be fretful as to whether they can meet the demands of the industry.
We are hoping to be able to persuade the Joint Industrial Council at its next meeting
to give us more support than in the past, in endeavouring to organise the operatives in
various firms throughout the kingdom, and also to endeavour to arrange a conference with
the big buyers, multiple shopkeepers, and factors, with the intention of trying to purify
the industry from the "shoddy" goods that are sometimes placed upon the market.
If we can get the assistance of the organisations above-named, we shall then certainly be
able to record an improvement in the boot and shoe industry.
LEICESTER. We have been compelled to hand in notices to two auxiliary factories
in this city, owing to their non-compliance, after some sixteen weeks' notice, with the
Holiday Payment Scheme generally respected in our trade. We have the authority of
the employees, who believe that they should have not less than the conditions of employ-
ment that prevail in the boot and shoe manufacturing firms, and we would welcome the
formation among the auxiliary branches of the industry of an organisation similar to the
one which prevails with the Heel Building firms of Leicester, where we present our biennial
demands or requests, as we do with the boot and shoe manufacturers. We hope in future
to so organise these gentlemen if they will permit us so to do that they will have an
Association of their own, and we can meet them and treat them with that respect which
is due to them and their businesses. It is unfortunate that we should have to ultimately
give notice to any firm, as we prefer the arbitration method for settlement of disputes.
MANSFIELD. I have had to visit this town owing to the fact that the rates of pay
agreed upon in the Statement were not being carried out. The explanation given was to
the effect that as the class of shoe in discussion was made on the tennis shoe principle,
the firm doubted the wisdom as to whether the Statement called for a price which we claim
ought to have been paid. In fact we are informed that as it is our desire to insist upon
that rate of payment to control the department in future, the firm will withdraw the shoe
and cease to make it, as the quality and price paid for such an article would not justify
their paying men's price for a shoe that is used mainly on tennis courts.
BOZEAT AND RUSHDEN. - We have been considering the position at Bozeat, where, by
an agreement made prior to the war, they were permitted to work at Is. below the minimum
rate. After the war, owing to nine months' total unemployment in this village, the opera-
tives agreed with the employers that a 5 per cent. deduction would not be too much to be
made. We expressed our view that this was a mistake and thought the old agreement
ought to be carried out. The Council have had the matter under their consideration for
some time, and it has been my duty to meet these gentlemen on several occasions, with
the result that a vote has been taken, but we are sorry to have to notice a change has come
over the situation owing to the fact that the largest firm in the district had given the whole
of their employees one week's notice. I made enquiries, and ascertained from the firm
of Messrs. John Drage & Sons that they are meeting their creditors on 22nd April. This
is now common property. My investigation produced the information that this action
was not taken as a consequence of the request of the Union, therefore, we have again
avoided being held responsible for the closing down of a firm owing to the action which
we have taken. The employer himself said "No, it is an entire rearrangement of the
partnership and the business, and the Union is not to blame in the slightest."
MANSFIELD. A further visit to Mansfield was paid regarding patterns and prices
and to see the operatives engaged in both these departments. The matters affecting the
welfare of these branches will, I hope, at least create an interest sufficient to them, whenever
we visit this district again and call for a meeting, for all members affected to turn up.
I am afraid to think that men in mining districts seem to be so well satisfied with our


---
216
ditions under which their operatives are engaged are more generous than they might be.
that may exist, and this only gives encouragement to employers to think that the con-
conditions that they are very timid in coming to meetings to correct any little anomalies
the greatest amount of possible respect.
BARWELL AND EARL SHILTON. Further meetings of the operatives have been held
Yet to get the members to a meeting seems to
be beyond our powers. I have already informed the few members with whom I came into
it would not be saying too much if I were to say that their officers are looked upon with
in these districts. Here again the meetings are very, very sparsely attended, although
especially in the dinner hour. As the old Eastern adage says: "If the Mountain won't
contact that it is my intention at least in the coming summer to hold open-air meetings.
under the auspices of the Trades Union Congress, and here we were sorry to learn that the
TRADE BOARDS. We have also attended an Advisory Committee of the Trade Boards
Ministry of Labour is taking further evidence regarding the formation of a Trade Board
employers had made an attempt to increase the hours from 48 to 52½ weekly. The trade
unionists connected with that Board had to report that they could not agree to such a
for the Grocery Trade, who already have had one in existence for several years, and whose
strained relations between our Board and the Ministry of Labour, as intimated in my
course, and could not commit the employees as a whole to any longer period of hours
than 48 weekly. It was my duty to report that at the present moment there are some very
previous report, and I hoped the matter would be settled up to the satisfaction of both sides
at an early date. At the time of writing our deputation of appointed members has not
yet reported, but will do so on Friday next (24th inst.). In the meantime I was enabled
to say that the request of the Ministry of Labour to ask us to modify our terms of Appren.
employer not carry out the arrangement entered into, had already been arranged, and we
ticeship in which the legal officers of the crown would be able to take action should an
come to Mahomet, then Mahomet must go to the Mountain."
have met to a very large extent the wishes of the Ministry.
C. W.S. - I have been enabled to get two or three friends in various parts of the country
to put the following questions to the various Chairmen :-
movement when they have eight factories who can supply all the solid leather and
1. - Can you please tell me why the C.W.S. buy boots and shoes outside the
canvas and woven material goods required ?
2. Why does the Committee responsible for boots and shoes have no fair wages
contract with their contractors, or firms to whom they give orders, as does the past
and present Governments ?
3-And why does the Committee responsible for placing such orders refuse to
notify the movement, through the Co-operative News, that they are about to place
such and such an order for goods with name and address of firm, fourteen days before
that order is definitely placed, as do the Government in the Labour Gazette, thus
enabling trade unions to object to unfair firms ?
In one instance, at Loughborough, the Chairman, whilst giving very modified replies to
questions one and two, asked the delegates whether they would, if they were employers,
advertise the name of any firm they were going to place an order with, and my informant
tells me there was quite a loud "No." Question 2 still remains, in my humble judgment,
part and parcel of the conduct of any Government Department, and we have had no trouble
in getting it carried out. My complaint is that the C.W.S. Directors place orders with
firms who are not fair houses, and although there was some outburst at Manchester, at
one of the Quarterly Divisional Meetings, the Chairman said to the delegates that if that
is ever done, it is done innocently. My desire is that before the C.W.S. places an order
they should be no more stiff necked than a Government Department, who don't ask us
who they shall place orders with, but publish the names of the firms with whom they are
going to place orders. If I might be bold enough, I suggest the Co-operative Movement
would be looked upon more
I have done all that I can; now I shall take up the position with the Executive of the
published before the orders were given, and at least we ought to demand that that be done.
creditably by the members of our Union, if these names were
Union and ask them to act, seeing that such a reasonable request that I have made has not
met with that success which a co-operator, who takes an active part, can expect from the
fest of the Co-operative Movement. One has to remember facts and it is useless people
talking of their law of trade union, trade unionists, or trade unionism, after the recent
attempts that were made to defeat the trade union resolution in the Co-operative Move-
ment.
it looks very well, but it was a case in which a man had been absent from his work for
and someone else was doing the operation that he had hitherto been accustomed to perform.
some eight weeks, and when he returned he found the department had been rearranged,
MOUNTSORREL has again been visited regarding a suspension, which on the face of
him work, and did not wish to give him a notice. I therefore visited the firm at the request
He asked for either work or his notice. The firm told him the reason they could not give
of the Secretary of the Branch, and explained the situation, after which the man was
ent for at once, and thereby the trouble ended.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
217
I wish we could get all our employers, their managers, and foremen, to realise what
our National Agreements mean. I am afraid there are many who don't consult our
National Agreement, and who appear to think that some men can go on living without an
income; that is a thing which is not likely to prevail for a long time to come. In the
meantime we have to watch the interests of our members and see that they should have the
legitimate right of being looked upon as part of the establishment wherever their Insurance
Book is, and they should have their fair share of whatever work is going. Beyond that
we were prepared to help from the suspension point of view, or we are prepared to help
if the member is discharged, especially if the firm cannot give him remunerative employ-
ment.
Daily Herald. The Daily Herald is still for sale, and still the greatest factor in working-
class and labour movements, and I hope its circulation will go up by leaps and bounds.
If our members would encourage the Trade Union Stamped Footwear in their homes,
Trade Unionism would in our trade be stronger.
Yours fraternally,
General President.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, LONDON, N.W.5.
21st April, 1925.
MAY DAY. Since writing the above report I am very pleased to state that the Council
have agreed to my suggestion to close the Central Offices on May Day of each year (Indus-
trial and Insurance Departments), commencing on Friday next, the 1st of May.
Down to the time of going to press the following Branches have also agreed to close
their offices :-
Daventry.
Glasgow.
Leeds.
28th April, 1925.
Leicester Women's.
London Metro.
Northampton No. 1.
Stafford.
Street.
Stone.
T. F. RICHARDS.
GOAT SKINS AND GLACE KIDS.
British Tanners Improving their Processes.
[From a Correspondent.]
To the ordinary man in the street goat skins are seldom heard of, but as a matter of
fact they are a most important commodity in the world's commerce. It is estimated
that the total number available annually throughout the world is about one hundred
million, of an approximate value of twenty-five to thirty million pounds sterling.
America imports the largest quantity, and during the year 1920 the total value of
her imports of goat skins was over seventeen millions sterling, while Great Britain was
responsible during the same period for about only three million. France, Germany and
other countries absorbed the remainder.
The greater proportion of these skins are manufactured into glacé kid for the uppers
of boots and shoes, and are produced in all shades. But the bulk is used for blacks only,
and the process of manufacture has reached such perfection that it is sometimes difficult
to distinguish it from patent leather when made up into boots.
British tanners of goat skins have vastly improved their processes during recent years,
and their productions are considered superior to those of any other country.
Goat skins are used for numerous other purposes; for the production of morocco for
upholstery, fancy bags, purses, pocket books, cigar cases, &c.
India is the chief source of supply of raw and tanned goat skins, producing a total
annually of about 25,000,000. Arabia produces about 7,000,000; South Africa, 5,000,000;
North Africa, 3,000,000; West Africa, 8,000,000; East Africa, 3,000,000; China,
6,000,000; South America, 10,000,000; Europe, 5,000,000; Russia, 5,000,000.
These figures are approximate, as statistics are not available. There are many other
sources of origin which are too numerous to mention in this short description of the generally
despised goat.-Shoe and Leather Record, 17th April, 1925.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

**218**

**BRANCH REPORTS.**

ARBROATH.—All our members have been drawing Unemployment Benefit for a few weeks back, although as we write comes word that one factory in Carnoustie is again to go on full time. It relieves the situation greatly to have even one factory making good time, and we are forced to the conclusion that sensible methods of dealing with the difficulties of markets can accomplish much at the present time. We wrote in a former report of the folly of competing against the Midlands on wrong lines, and here we have proof of our view that a good trade can be built up on distinctly Scottish productions. Our Carnoustie factory has had full time during three of the last four years, and it has been possible because of attention to detail not only in production, but in distribution as well. Great care has been exercised in dealing intelligently with customers, and a valuable discretion in quoting has been the means of securing many orders. Taking the road with samples may often be a disheartening experience, but so far as the trade in Scotland is concerned, it pays far better for the firm to do this rather than depend on factors of any kind. The factor after all is human, and yields to self-interest, while he has no authority to meet a strong competition with an equally bold counter-stroke. In the above instance it is this kind of policy that has scored, and it is the opposite policy which has proved barren elsewhere. Orders never come through the post, unless there is persistent and clever efforts being made to capture the wayward fancy of the buyer, and this can best be done by each firm keeping in close personal touch with potential customers so as to respond to every need as it arises. It looks alright to select a factor with wide connections, and then rely on his efforts to put you in touch with "good houses," but it is too often the case that you get double-crossed with such an arrangement. There is or get, fair and square dealings, and it is not surprising to find trickery practised simply because it pays. We are very glad the British Trade Union Congress has taken up the question of administration of Unemployment Insurance, and although we haven’t seen the result of the inquiries they have made up and down the country, we can guess their eyes should be opened to serious abuses. It is time that the full force of organised labour was directed towards an improvement in the administration of this important legislation. As we have often pointed out the claimant loses benefit often through ignorance of Rota Committees or Courts of Referees. In our area for instance the Court of Referees invariably reject "domestic circumstances" as a ground of appeal, and lately have also formed the opinion that "medical certificates" are to be likewise ignored. This limits the grounds of appeal in such a way that very few appeals are allowed. We had a case under Section 9 (1923) Act where the Court unanimously, after a close inquiry, agreed to a "good faith" decision, and yet the C.I.O. sent the case to the Umpire, who decided there was not a reason for "good faith." A Court on the spot, after interviewing the claimant, could accept the "good faith," but an Umpire in London, who never saw the claimant or heard any evidence, could decide there was none. But present administration is full of anomalies, and unless a determined opposition comes from the British Trade Union Congress, all the supposed rights of contributors will be stultified by the very machinery which was supposed to safeguard those rights.

BELFAST.—Trade continues to remain very bad. We very much regret to record the death of Shopmate P. Rice, who had been ailing for a considerable period, from Pulmonary Tuberculosis. To his sorrowing wife and family we tender our deepest sympathy.


---
Here is the extracted text:
210
BRISTOL AND KINGSWOOD No. 2. Trade is bad, and sickness
claims very heavy. The latter should become lighter with the present welcome
improvement in the weather. The Umpire's decision confirming the Court of
Referees recommendation that three days is the normal Christmas holiday in
this district, bas been received with satisfaction. This decision affects some
hundreds, and had the result been different, it would have inflicted a distinct
hardship on those engaged in our industry. It is a further proof, if that were
needed, of the valuable work our Union does for those engaged in the industry.
It should stimulate members to greater interest in the work of the Union,
and encourage those who are not members to no longer hesitate, but to join up
and de their part in making the Union stronger than ever.
CHESHAM-Trade here still remains very slack and long rests from
work during Easter were general.
CHESTERFIELD.-Trade is bad with members making New Work.
Fourteen days holiday was given at Dronfield & Co's. Some of our members
there have received a week's notice to finish at the Easter holiday break-up.
DERBY. All the firms in Derby are on full time, although we have a
good number of shoe operatives out of work, several of whom have been mem-
bers of the Union some time back, but have ceased paying when they got in a
shop where it was not compulsory. We hope it will be a lesson to them when
they commence work to pay into the Union so that they can obtain the benefits
which it provides. We are also sorry to have a heavy sick list.
DUNDEE.-Boot manufacturing in this area is in such a shrinking and
decadent condition as to suggest a state of temporary collapse, if not finality.
Let us hope it is but temporary. To write in a pessimistic vein is not to our
liking. Nevertheless, it must be admitted our trade is passing through a very
disquieting period, which is causing considerable anxiety to all identified with it.
Indeed, we seem not to have reached the bottom yet of the stagnant industrial
pool. Spring has come, bringing no glad tidings of a trade revival, which
stifles the happy anticipations of a good season's trade. Therefore, the hope
that this year would excel in prosperity that of its predecessor, has entirely
evaporated. As the moving hand of time writes, many changes are brought
about. Those of us who are old enough to remember the advent of the Blake
machine, can well remember the progress Dundee was making in shoe produc-
tion. At that time tanning and currying was carried out on an extensive
scale. The tide, taken at the flood, flowed on progressively for years. Then
came the ebb, the progressive industrial channels are well-nigh dried up, and
where many hundreds were employed, it has dwindled down to a mere fraction.
'Tis all very sad, but perhaps, some day, it may again rise, Phœnix-like.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.-Trade during the month has fallen off
considerably at time of sending in this report. The whole of the male opera-
tives at the largest firm in Bozeat are under notice. At Finedon trade is very
bad; Irthlingborough and Higham Ferrers fair. We have had to take police
court proceedings against one employer for discharging eight pieceworkers in
Heel-making Factory at Ringstead. The Thrapston Bench awarded average
weekly wage for previous month as week's wages in lieu of notice.
KILMARNOCK.-Trade in Kilmarnock is improving, but there is still
no signs of work in our section at Kilmaurs. We are sorry to say that our
late Secretary, Mr. A. Flanagan, has met with an accident at Shieldhall, and
is at present lying in the Western Infirmary, having had a piece of skin grafted
from his hip to his arm.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.--Trade in this centre still gets more
scarce, and the serious position reported from the coalfields will add still


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

220

further difficulties to the manufacture of heavy boots. The increasing output
of lighter goods in Kingswood and District is a hopeful promise of more regular
employment for our operatives. This change in the character of the work
because of the introduction of machinery. In the recent Urban Council
election three Labour members were again returned, viz., Messrs. S. Iles.
means more machinery, and in this transition stage men are being discharged
S. Church and A. G. Randall, all members of the Union.
LEICESTER. - Trade is still about the same.
LIVERPOOL. - Trade is not too brisk yet, although quite up to th..
average for this time of the year. After the Easter holidays we shall be looking
forward to a glorious summer with a boom in trade. when the " winter of our
operative Movement in the North-West Area, but we are pleased to read in th
discontent" will disappear like magic. There has been trouble in the C
are to be adjusted by rational and constitutional methods instead of the
Press that wiser counsels have prevailed, and questions of hours and wage
barbarous methods of strikes and lockouts, which seldom result in any material
in the nation's finances it will involve, whether we shall get back to the penny
benefit. We are looking forward to the Budget wondering what changes
postage of bygone days. We must not expect too much from the presen
Government, but "wait and see" what turns up with the tide.
MAYBOLE. - Trade is very slack yet and very little sign of improvement
NORWICH. - Sickness in Norwich continues higher than normal, and
the the month are rapidly
present time. It seems that there is to be no settled trade this year, ever
tendency disclosing erratic and uncertain business. As against the industrial
depression we state with satisfaction the rise in political stock. The four
boot and shoe operatives fighting in the Guardians' Election secured victory
making up a total of twenty-one seats, nine of which represent gains.
NORWICH No. 2. - Trade during the month has declined, most of the
factories working short time, while some are reducing their staff. On top of
that one firm has gone into liquidation, throwing a good many members out
Trade falling off so early gives a very poor prospect for the future. Councillor
Gordon H. Amond has been elected full-time President of the Branch, in place
of the late Mr. F. H. Segon. It is hoped he may have health and strength t
carry out the difficult duties appertaining to the office, rendered more so when
trade is bad. We bespeak for him the loyal support of every member. The
appeal on behalf of the widow of our late President amounted to over £180.
In the next Report a full list of the branches subscribing will appear. In the
meantime we wish to thank, on behalf of Mrs. Segon and family, all who in any
way contributed towards such a result.
NOTTINGHAM. - Trade has been very bad lately both in New Work and
Repairs, many of our members working only about half time. We have also
had a heavy two months' sickness.
PLYMOUTH. We received from the three Plymouth Members replie
to our letter concerning the Political Levy Bill, as follows:-Sir Arthur Shirley
Benn "noted the views of the Plymouth Branch with regard to the Trade
Union Political Levy Bill," and we hope the members of the Plymouth Branch
residing in the Drake Ward, which sends Sir Arthur to Parliament, has noted
how he voted on this occasion. Lady Astor thanked us for our letter, but
"was unable to be in her place when this matter came up, but took immediate
steps to pair against the Bill in case it went to a Division." Major Lister
the Bill." So we seem to have got home a two to one chance. but how simple
was in entire agreement with our remarks and voted against
it would be to star three winners every day for five years.
Hore-Belisha


---
```text
221
STREET. The state of trade in Street is unusually slack, and instead
of getting our accustomed improvement at this time of the year we are seeing
a considerable falling off in orders. In consequence of this the factories
closed for ten days at Easter. We sincerely hope, however, that the brighter
weather will bring in orders for a good summer trade. Sickness is exceptionally
heavy and only once before have we had so many of our members laid up at
one time.
WATERFORD. -Trade still continues good.
GREAT YARMOUTH. -Water Boot trade in Great Yarmouth still very
slow.

BOOKS TO READ.

Labour Year Book.

Every worker should get a copy of the Labour Year Book for 1925; it is the
most comprehensive, reliable and up-to-date reference book for trade union officials and
branch secretaries, and all others who wish to keep themselves fully informed regarding
national and international affairs. Copies can be secured for 3s. 6d. post free, from Labour
Publications Department, 33 Eccleston Square, London, S.W.1.
Life of Sir Charles Dilke.

Conspicuous among those of high social standing who have given the working-class
movement the benefit of their splendid talents and unstinted service is Sir Charles Dilke.
Many who knew him will read with absorbed interest the two large volumes of his biog-
raphy written by Miss Gertrude Tuckwell and Mr. Stephen Gwynn; for trade unionists,
however, the price of those volumes is prohibitive. A cheap abridged edition has therefore
been issued by Miss Tuckwell at 5s. per copy, with foreword by Mr. Arthur Greenwood,
M.P. Dilke's greatest effort was perhaps in connection with the agitation to protect the
sweated worker, and in the passing of the Trades Disputes Act. Miss Tuckwell's book,
written out of the ample knowledge acquired as his secretary for trade union work for
many years, tells the story in great detail, but also conveys a vivid and consistent picture
of his personality. Copies of the book will be supplied from the Joint Publications Depart-
ment, 33 Eccleston Square, London, S.W.1.
LEICESTER COUNTY BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.

A meeting of the County Arbitration Board was held at the City Hall, Leicester,
on Wednesday last.
Mr. G. A. Denman presided. The Manufacturers' Side were represented by Messrs.
W. Harvey, T. J. Bellamy, J. H. Bott, W. H. Keywood, J. W. Hunt and F. Wain: and
the Operatives' Side by Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards, Messrs. D. Astley, T. F. Richards, W.
Warner, J. H. Osborne, A. Needham, W. Woodward, M. A. Parker, G. Smith, F. Leader
and F. W. Burchnall; H. A. Flavill, Secretary.
The piecework statement prepared by the Joint Committee for the Press Department
was received and confirmed, and it was decided that it should come into operation from
the commencement of the first working week after Easter.
A question which has arisen concerning the application of the Nurseries' and Children's
Statement prices for Lasting to 7-8 work was referred by the Board to the Statement
Committee for settlement.
In pursuance with a requisition which had been lodged it was decided to convene
a meeting of the Finishing Statement Committee to fix the price to be paid for cleaning
heels with aluminium plate insertions.
The name of Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards was added to the Enquiry Committee for the
South Leicestershire District when questions affecting female operatives were under
consideration.
```

---
222
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
During the month I have been organising at Sileby, Mountsorrel, Burton-on-
Trent and Nuneaton. We were making some headway in membership in the Sileby
area until trade fell off. This district has been a great trouble and expense to the Union
for many years. I spoke at a factory here to-day 24th April where there has been
many a scene in the past between the management and the Leicester No. 1 Branch Officials.
There are only six or seven members at this shop now after these years of work. When
Mr. T. F. Richards was Branch President at Leicester, he once told an employer who wanted
certain operations done in the finishing of work without paying any extras, that he wanted
charity (something for nothing) from his men. The man was indignant at the saying
position, "They were expecting the Holiday Scheme, the Minimum Wage and the 48 hours
But it was true, and when I told the men at Sileby to-day that they were in the same
week kept intact by the men of Leicester, Northampton, Stafford, &c." A youth who
was passing by said: "It's quite right. They have no right to these benefits any more
close to) without paying."
After several efforts I was rewarded at a closing shop at Nuneaton, when 35 machinists
out of 36 employed, joined the Union last week. One of them willingly agreed to take
old man work. These people promised to consider joining and said that as the Shop
President of the machinists mentioned above lived near them they would pay her if the
on the collecting. There is a heel-building shop close to where twelve females and one
joined. It is four years ago since I joined all the young people engaged at the two small
heel-building shops at Nuneaton, but when the able chap who collected contributions
left they all fell away. Youngsters keep coming and going to these miserable places
heel-building factory at Burton-on-Trent is on a big scale compared to the two at Nuneaton,
according to circumstances, and it is difficult to make anything substantial of them. The
and when the workers there become established they may see the need and the wisdom
of joining our Union, but for the time being the young men and women here excuse them
know whether they will follow up the work
or not. I billed a meeting for the General President, Mr. Richards, on 21st April. The
conception of trade unionism, and with this class of people it should be possible when
attendance was small, but the few young men and women who attended had an intelligent
they have gained experience, to make a good trade union shop.

24th April, 1925.
D. MCCARTHY.
During the past month the work in the East End of London has been continued.
Like most districts (which fortunately now are strictly limited) where the operatives are
not fully organised, and therefore to some extent outside our influence, the progress made
is not so rapid as we would wish. But that we are making headway is I think certain,
and we must hope that the gains already made may act as an inspiration and encourage-
ment towards a stronger trade union attitude being adopted.
It is generally understood that isolation of workers, as in such industries as agriculture,
is a factor in preventing organisation becoming really effective, but there is certainly no
isolation here, unless it is that the individual gets lost in the mass of population around
him, and therefore the general result is the same; anyway, a lack of confidence in each
other is to be found which could not be beaten were the operatives miles apart. It is our
task to remove this, and endeavour to get that recognition of identity of interest that has
been of such value to us in other centres.
There is undoubtedly reasons to be given that are not easy to overcome. The cosmo-
politan nature of the population in the East End is one of them, creating as it does occa-
sionally, race suspicion, which the difference of language has a tendency to develop.
Another reason is that the modern methods of boot and shoe manufacture does not develop
as in other centres, and the higher costs incurred in this manner are in a way compensated
for in other directions.
It is not, however, that wages are low all round in London; one comes across cases of
earnings that will compare with any in the country, while in other cases they are low.
It is the absence of correct balance between departments that is the trouble, and as gener-
ally happens in such circumstances it is the weakest that suffer, and in this case I think
it is the women who are the victims.
There is only one way out, the problems of London at bottom are no different to any
other centre, and organisation among the operatives must be the first step. The work
has proceeded along this line together with interviews with firms for adjustment in con-
ditions. Success has followed with the Holiday Scheme, a number of firms agreeing to
same following a meeting with some of them at which the General President was present.
This we hope will be the beginning of the end so far as this matter is concerned.


---
Meetings have been held of the operatives at Jackson & Joseph's, following the settle-
ment of the dispute. The firm raise no objection to the operatives joining, and one is
pleased to say a good number have done so. If the matter is handled with discretion
locally, further success will, I am sure, follow.

The Statement for Pressmen that had engaged attention at Norwich has not, I regret,
been forwarded during the month. This is due to the unfortunate illness of the employer
concerned, and one hopes that a speedy recovery will enable him shortly to go further
into the question by negotiation, with beneficial results to our members.

The visit to Colchester last month has been followed up, but with a result that can
hardly be termed satisfactory. For reasons which perhaps the Co-operative Society are
not entirely to blame, the wages of the benchmen in the repairing department were, and
are, exceedingly low, and justified an appeal for consideration. A request was made for
a to per cent. increase on Trade Board rates, a condition that is by no means unusual
in other districts in the Co-operative Movement, and by which they seek to justify their
claim to being if not ideal employers, at least to rank among the best.

Though the request in this instance, as I have said, had every justification, I have
been informed that the matter had been fully considered by the main Committee who have
declined to concede the modest increase asked for. One cannot help thinking that this
cold communication is not to the credit of a movement that held out such high ideals in
working-class life.

WALTER R. SMITH.
Several meetings of the Food Commission have been held during the month and before
long a report will be issued.
25th April, 1925.

During the past month we have been engaged in London, and the following firms
have been visited H. & S. Solomon's, N. Bloom's, Kreitman & Son's, Lazarus's, Meltzer's,
Jackson & Joseph's, Lipman's, Franklin's, Chissick's & Kirchenstein's, Wachman's,
Casper's, Mintz's, Melrose's, I Webber's, Muller & Joseph's, Kay's, Phillips', Franks',
J. Branch's, McAfee's, Bloom & Phillips', M. Solomon's. At all these firms we have made
attempts both by meetings, and personally canvassing the operatives, in order to increase
our membership. We are still endeavouring to negotiate with a number of firms who are
not fully complying with the Agreement. The employers have been met, and there is
every prospect that before another month has elapsed a good number will adopt the
Scheme. It is fairly evident that the operative has changed his point of view, and every
time we meet them continued representations are made to keep up the pressure. This
is very largely accounted for, by the constant and persistent efforts that have been made
in this area during the past two years, and demonstrates the need of keeping in touch
with those firms who have not adopted the National Agreement. The recent decision of
the London Federation in expelling a number of firms for not complying to that Agreement,
is conclusive evidence that united pressure is being brought to bear in order to deal with
a position which cannot be regarded as satisfactory. In interviewing a number of these
firms, a great deal of hesitancy exists in their minds, of boldly facing the position. We
have endeavoured to get them to include into their costs of production the full terms of
the National Agreement, but they all seem afraid of one another, and frequently quote
another firm and say that it is impossible for one to pay unless his competitor pays. All
these firms produce a similar class of work, and the conditions of the operatives are about
the same in every firm.

It is utterly impossible to make any comparison with other districts, so far as the
methods of production are concerned. The only thing that seems to matter is, what
price the shoes can be produced at, and somehow or other the employer thinks that what-
ever price the buyer offers, he is bound to accept the order, which inevitably means that
it is impossible for him to pay the National agreed terms. Though some classes of the
goods produced are of a "shoddy" character, there is a gradual improvement taking
place in the quality of the goods produced, which makes it absolutely essential that special
attention should be paid to this class of firm. Judging by the information that we have
been able to obtain, of the actual price paid for the class of shoes produced at these firms,
and the price paid by the consumer, the impudence of the buyers is astounding. It would
be amusing if it did not have such serious consequences upon the industry, for one to hear
these buyers loudly boast of their initiative and enterprise, which they claim to have
put into their business, which has enabled them to be such successful business men. A
great deal of imagination is required for anyone to discern what initiative is used, for a
buyer to deliberately and wilfully ask an employer to produce shoes, for the purpose of
exploiting the consumer, well knowing that where such goods are produced it means that
the operative is forced to accept lower standards of wages than those which are accepted
as a basis in our National Agreement. We have made progress in our membership in this
class of firm, but unfortunately we have not the whole of the operatives members, with a
distinct weakness with reference to the women; which is very largely the outcome of bad


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
224
weak, which seriously reduces his want of confidence, and the failure to co-operate with
social conditions that exist in the East End. The spirit of the operative is lamentably
his fellows, prevents that successful carrying out of the principles of Trade Unionism.
firm is carrying out the terms of the National Agreement, and no obstacle is being put in
the way of the operatives joining the Union. We are pleased to report as a result of
meeting the operatives, that a beginning has been made, and a good number of them are
We have had two meetings of the operatives working at Jackson & Joseph's. This
firm should become a well-organised firm. It would be much more encouraging to us if
joining the Union, and there appears to be every prospect that over a period of time this
distinct evidence that two firms deliberately intimidate their employees when we have
other firms in this district would cease their opposition to us, because we have found
made attempts to organise them.
The conditions here are not so satisfactory as one desires. Since our last visit some slight
improvement has taken place in our membership, but further efforts are required if the
We have again visited St. Albans, and met the employees working at J. Joyner's.
good meeting, and on this occasion we were able to obtain the information which we
conditions are to be placed on a more satisfactory basis. In the evening we had a very
required. As a result of this meeting Mr. Mason is again meeting the clickers in order to
arrange a new basis of prices for the operatives working at Lea & Sons. At this meeting
are members, and receive the proper scales. Our visits to St. Albans clearly indicates the
it was very encouraging to find a number of women present. A good number of them
need of keeping in touch with outlying districts, and these visits have helped to arouse
that dormant spirit, which unfortunately seems to inflict a district, unless the members
are called together, and interested in the work of the Union.
26th April, 1925.
J. H. BAUM.
LEN. SMITH.
UNION MEMBERS RETURNED TO PUBLIC BODIES, MARCH-APRIL, 1925.
U.D.C. and Boards of Guardians.
The following successes have been registered at the Central Office down to the time
of going to press.
Arbroath Mr. J. P. Reid. Mr. D. Littlejohn.
Bristol No. 2 Mr. S. G. Church.
Chesham Mr. H. Dean.
Daventry Mr. I. H. Johnson, J.P.
Desborough Mr. S. J. B. Barnes, J.P., elected chairman of Urban District
Council.
Mr. W. Whymant.
Higham & Rushden.. Mr. W. Bazeley, J.P. Mr. J. Spencer. Mr. T. Rose.
C. Bates. G. W. Coles. F. Green.
T. P. Roberts. F. Hewlett. C. E. Drage.
B. Drage. F. J. Bass. E. Batchelor.
Heckmondwike Mr. A. Stott, J.P.
Kettering Mr. C. Mayes. Mr. Geo. Chester. Mr. H. J. Potter.
F. Hunt. W. Dyson.
Mr. G. Chester has been elected Vice-Chairman of the
Kettering U.D.C.
Kingswood Mr. S. Iles.
Leicester Mr. Geo. Brooks. Mr. A. G. Randall, J.P.
Leicester No. 2 Mr. A. Martin. Mr. J. Greaves. Mr. G. Knight.
Midsomer Norton Mr. F. Gould, J.P. Mr. F. Jackson.
Northampton No. 2 Mr. E. Law.
Norwich Mr. F. C. Neal. Mr. A. Mann. Mr. H. Watson.
C. Cubitt.
Street Mr. C. H. Sanger. Mr. J. H. Hooper, J.P.


---
226
WOMEN'S TRADE UNION CONFERENCE.
DELEGATES' REPORTS.
I have to report that on Friday, the 20th March, 1925, I attended a Conference at
the Boot and Shoe Trade Hall. Leicester, on the Organisation of Women Workers, called
under the auspices of the Trades Union Congress General Council. The Conference was
presided over by Miss Julia Varley, supported on the platform by Miss M. Quaile, Mr.
L. Poulton, Mr. Conley, Mr. Ben Turner, Mr. Ogden, and Mr. F. Bramley, Secretary
to the Council.
There were 39 delegates representing 26 Unions, three of the delegates being men.
Four resolutions were submitted to the Women's Conference, all proposed from the
platform; three by men, and Miss Quaile the first, the three men being members of the
Women's Group of the National Council of the Trade Union Congress.
Early in the Conference it could be felt there was an atmosphere of impatience at the
"cut and dried" procedure adopted, some delegates protesting at being treated like
school children.
In answer to inquiries from the floor of the Conference as to what we were called for
or whether amendments could be submitted to the resolution, the Chairman informed
Miss Margaret Bondfield that she could not add any addendum or amendment, but all
we were there for was to make suggestions that could be taken back by the Women's
Group to the General Council for consideration.
The addendum Miss Bondfield wished to add to Resolution 1, put forward as a sugges
tion, was that Trades Councils should form Women's Groups, and that there should be a
chief woman officer on similar lines to the Labour Party.
Miss House also suggested, as she could not move an amendment nor add to the
resolutions, that five women be elected to work in conjunction with the two women on
the Council.
The women delegates began to realise that their time was being wasted, and moved
that the resolutions - after the first one-be not discussed, the Chairman objecting to this
course. It was then proposed, and carried, that resolutions 2, 3, and 4, be taken as a
composite resolution.
The proposers of the Congress resolutions - of which the Women's Conference was the
outcome, protested that the Conference as called was not what was intended by their
resolution, there being no freedom to move in any way from the "cut and dried" pro-
gramme submitted.
The ultimate outcome of the gathering will be watched for by all delegates who
attended.
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS,
Leicester Women's Branch.
An important Conference of Women Workers held under the auspices of the Trade
Union Congress General Council, was held at the Trade Hall, Leicester, on Friday, 20th
March, 1925. It was the first occasion upon which such a Conference had been held in
this country. The object of the Conference was to consider the Organising of Women
Workers. Miss Varley presided, and was supported by Miss Quaile, Mr. Ben Turner, J.P.,
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., Mr. J. W. Ogden, Mr. A. Cinlay, Councillor Smith (Leicester), and
Mr. Fred Bramley, Secretary, Trade Union Congress General Council.
Councillor Smith, Vice-President of the Leicester Trades Council, extended an official
welcome to the delegates. He said it was important that they should go the whole hog in
the organisation of Women Workers. He thought Leicester warehouses and shops com-
pared favourably with other cities in this country. From his own personal observation
he could say that some were an absolute disgrace to the industrial movement. Some
of their telephone girls laboured at times under disgraceful conditions.
Miss Varley, the Chairman, said they felt that Leicester was rather better organised
than perhaps a large number of towns were. She was not going to throw too many
bouquets to Leicester on that point for there was room for a larger organisation than at
the present time. At the present time it was estimated that there were four million
women engaged in domestic service. It was one of the worst professions to organise on
account of the isolation of the workers. Between 700,000 and 800,000 women were mem
bers of trade unions. The employers, she added, were able to get at the men by using the
women who were not organised. Women were sufficiently organised, however, to alter
the course of industry.
Mr. Fred Bramley (Secretary, Trade Union Congress General Council), said the menace
of cheap labour had not been sufficiently recognised by the unions, and women could exert


---
a wonderful influence on the industrial world if they organised themselves. They ought
not to have close upon 2,000,000 women outside the Trade Union movement. They had
to get rid of their narrow sectional view.
Miss Quaile moved that this Conference, in view of the fact that a considerable number
of women employed in industrial and other occupations are not organised in Trade Unions,
calls upon Trade Union Officials, Executive Councils and Members, to make special efforts
to secure the adherence of Women Workers to Trade Union organisations.
Miss Margaret Bondfield referred to the uneasiness with regard to the instability of
women membership. They must increase the educational opportunities for the new
members. They needed a complete elementary Trade Union education for young girls
who had no experience of the struggles in the past, of the present senior trade unionists.
She was greatly in favour of the formation of mixed trade unions. She urged the need of
area conferences for all kinds of women organisations. A great help would be a woman
congress week. As a sort of coping stone they needed a woman official to act as secretary
pointed out. Ald. Jabez Chaplin, of Leicester, said that women do not understand trade
unions. Scores of meetings had been held in Leicester for women, and none had turned
up. No city in England had given women more opportunities and they had not been taken.
It was not the fault of the men who did not know how to help the woman. The latter left
the union as soon as they had found work. Other members supported the resolution,
which was passed unanimously.
Mr. Conley moved that trade union members be called upon to do all in their power
to influence their wives and daughters to become members of the trade unions.
Varied opinions were given regarding the responsibility of men in connection with
the support of women's organisations. It was said that out of 800 delegates to the Trades
Union Congress only about 30 were women. There should be a separate conference
annually of at least 500 women delegates. Three resolutions were moved and discussed
together, calling on trade unionists to use their influence to increase union membership
amongst the members of their families, calling on the need for the organised trade union
movement to give help to unions engaged in organising women workers, and requesting
the General Council to procure the further discussion and adoption of the resolutions.
Mr. Saunders said that only by organised entertainments in connection with the
meetings would the young girls between 16 and 25 be brought to trade union meetings.
Mr. Ben Turner said there were too many trade union men who had not the trade union
conscience. It was a great misfortune.
Mr. Andrews said his trade union (Postal Workers) had, for a cost of about £400 filmed
their members at work and had shown the film throughout the country. There was not
a union which could not show on the screen a forcible story.
The Shop Assistants' delegate said that a girl had been working for four years in a
shop and had never been a trade unionist, although her father was a trade union secretary.
Delegates said that men who would strike if they had to work with a "blackleg" allowed
their daughters to go to work without joining a union. The idea among men that women
did not need trade unions was the root of the trouble.
The Conference closed urging trade union officials and members to do all in their
power to increase trade union membership among women.
31st March, 1925.
N. DUNNETT,
Northampton No. 2.
I attended the Conference of Organisations of Women Workers, held at the Trade
Hall, St. James Street, Leicester, on 20th March, 1925.
Miss Varley presided, and I was surprised at the very few representatives of women
workers attending a Conference called by such an important body as the Trades Union
Congress.
Following the President's address and Secretary's report, four resolutions were put
to the Conference, no amendments being allowed. The resolutions were moved by Miss
Quaile, Mr. Conley, Mr. Ben Turner and Mr. E. L. Poulton, respectively, calling upon all
Trade Unions, Trade Union Officials, Executive Councils and members to use their influence
and make special efforts to secure all women workers of this country into the Trade Unions.
At the present only one third of the women workers were organised.
and debate the resolutions were ultimately carried.
The business was of a more lively character in the afternoon, and after good discussion
V. HOWARD,
Norwich Branch.


---
SCOTTISH TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
DELEGATE'S REPORT.
The Twenty-eighth Annual Meeting of the Scottish Trades Union Congress was te
at St. Mary's Hall, Dumfries, on 15th April and following days. There were prez
classes of organised workers in Scotland with an affiliated strength of 327,805.
highly satisfactory. The work of the Congress still increases and it should be noted t
199 delegates, 191 representing trade unions, and eight trades councils, representing
the Agenda is larger than ever, there being in all 62 resolutions to be dealt with. T
The financial side, judging from a scrutiny of the Treasurer's statement, com,
President, Mr. W. Leonard (Glasgow), who is Chairman of the General Council, occ
the chair, and was supported by the other Members of the Executive.
Maxwelton Trades and Labour Council and Local Labour Party. He felt proud, hea
The delegates were welcomed by Mr. Peter Smith, J.P., on behalf of the Dumfries
the Labour movement was little known. They had put up a candidate at the last elect
of the progress made locally since the Congress met there twelve years ago. At that tim
and had polled over 6,000 votes, and were confident Labour would shortly come into
Mr. Campbell, local Co-operative Society, also extended words of welcome and
and the able manner in which the many problems have been handled and dealt with du
document worthy of the Movement, demonstrating as it did minutely the valuable w
The report of the General Council was presented and adopted, and representer:
The Presidential Address was a fine effort.
own.
the year, and reflects the greatest credit on them.
Committee, and after considerable discussion rejected same by 115 votes to 36. T
The Congress then considered the question of affiliation of the Unemployed Worke
and Edinburgh respectively, and who warned Congress if they continued to neglect
Congress agreed, however, to receive a deputation of two who had travelled from Glas
unemployed and deny the right of affiliation, it might react disastrously on them later
Provost Arnott, Maxwelton, both extending, on behalf of their respective districts, a
In the evening Congress received a Civic Welcome, Provost McGeorge, Dumfries, a
hearty welcome.
There were three General Council motions, all of which were carried, viz.:
ORGANISATION." That this Congress having considered the report of the Gener
Council on the extent and structure of the Trades Union Movement in Scotland, rem
to the incoming General Council the preparation of a plan for developing and co-ordinar
the organising activities of the Unions, with a view to increasing the strength of the Mors
ment."
CONTROL OF CREDIT.-" Demands that the Government set up a Royal Commissi
to inquire fully into the Banking System."
"Political objects and activities of the Trade Unions are essential for the progress:
policy of the working-class movement, and opposes any amendment to existing law which
would restrict the powers of the Trade Union Movement in respect to the control and
management of political funds."
There were many outstanding and far-reaching resolutions before Congress and
many hardy annuals that have been flogged threadbare, and still no indication of the
being accomplished. Our own resolution, "The desirability of giving to National Agre
ments the same validity as awards under the Trade Boards Act, 1909 and 1918,"s
turned down, and very little sympathy given to it, and is looked at with suspicion s
something likely to undermine the movement.
Congress had fraternal good wishes conveyed to them by Comrades Dennis Collec
Scotland, and listening to the very reasoned and collected manner the debates were con
and Morris, of the Irish Dail. They expressed delight at having the pleasure of visiting
ducted. At the close of their speeches each was presented with a beautiful volume of the
National Bard, Robbie Burns, presented to them by Bob Smillie.
The next place of meeting (1926) will be at Inverness.
C. BLEAKLEY.
[Owing to the illness of the second delegate-Mr. J. P. Reid, of Arbroath-it was
impossible for him to attend Congress with Mr. C. Bleakley.-E.L.P., G.S.]


---
Here is the extracted text:
229
INADEQUATE HOUSING IN SCOTLAND AND SOME OF ITS CONSEQUENCES.
There are 1,000,037 houses in Scotland. Of that number 548,000 are one and two-
room houses. That is to say that 52 per cent. of the houses in Scotland to-day are either
of a one or two-room type, and 48 per cent. of the population live under those conditions.
The result, as the Parliamentary Under-Secretary has very well pointed out, is that we
have the highest death rate in the British Isles : of infantile mortality of the general
death-rate, and everything in that direction. The highest sickness rate of any part of
the British Isles obtains in that great country of Scotland. We do not escape the expendi-
ture.
We have got to spend the money in sanatoria, in hospitals, and in the economic
loss occasioned by men who are lying sick, so that we gain no advantage whatever in that
direction. You have reduced the standard of the houses. Let me give an illustration
of what is taking place, as I have done before on the few occasions on which I have addressed
the House, by using my own city. It is not by any means the worst, though it is the
largest. In other parts of Lanarkshire, Linlithgowshire, and Stirlingshire you get these
conditions: here they are actually worse than what they are in Glasgow.
Quite recently the Medical Officer of Health for Glasgow published a report dealing
with this very subject. In that report he condemns root-and-branch the building of any
more two-room houses. He points out that there are 40,000 houses in Glasgow slightly
under, but I give it in round figures-in which there are living more than three persons
This represents
to a room. The standard anywhere is two per room in Scotland. It is not apparently
considered injurious that there should be more than three in each room. that are
inimical to their health. - Extract from speech of MR. J. STEWART, in House of Commons,
April 6th, 1925.
TO CURB HOUSE PROFITEERS.
Re-Sale of Subsidised Dwellings. A Five-Years' Ban.
In the House of Commons on Thursday, 2nd April, 1925, Mr. Trevelyan Thomson
(L., West Middlesbrough) asked the Minister of Health if he was aware that considerable
profiteering was taking place in the re-sale of subsidy houses, and would he make it a
condition of the grant of any subsidy that no house should be sold within five years of
receipt of subsidy at a higher price than that on which the subsidy was granted.
Mr. Neville Chamberlain said he was not aware that considerable profiteering was
taking place in the re-sale of subsidy houses. It was open to any local authority to make
a condition on the lines suggested by Mr. Trevelyan Thomson.
Mr. Trevelyan Thomson: Will the right hon. gentleman make a recommendation
to the various authorities and circularise them on this point, so that they can protect the
public against profiteering?
Mr. Neville Chamberlain: I do not think it is necessary to issue a circular. I should
not hesitate to give advice to any particular local authority if I thought it necessary to
introduce a provision of this kind.
8ft. 6in. "BOX AS HOME."
7 Overcrowded in Black Hole. Blind Twins,
The parents and their five children (ranging in age from 13 months to five years)
lived in one room 8ft. 6in. square. All slept in one bed. A piece of sacking over the
window kept it in perpetual darkness.
These facts were related by an inspector of the N.S.P.C.C. yesterday at Enfield Police
Court, when William John Goy, of Jasper Road, Enfield Highway, and his wife, Lottie
Goy, were charged with neglecting their children.
Remarking that it was one of the worst cases that had come before them, the Bench
sentenced the man to six month's hard labour and his wife to one month's imprisonment.
The inspector said that when he removed the sacking he found the three elder children
huddled together, while the 13-months-old twins were crying piteously.
Regarding the twins, the assistant medical officer of the North Middlesex Hospital
stated that they were in such a terrible state of neglect that one had lost the sight of one
eye, and the other, if it lived, would be totally blind.
The father told the Bench that he had made several applications for a Council house,
but being out of work, had been unsuccessful. -Daily Herald, 31st March, 1925.
---

---
230
[PRESS COMMUNIQUÉ.]
MEETING OF THE BOOT AND SHOE REPAIRING TRADE
BOARD (GREAT BRITAIN).
S.S.C. (Appointed Members).
held at the Office of Trade Boards, on Thursday and Friday, 26th and 27th March, 1925
The 23rd Meeting of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board (Great Britain)
Mr. W. Addington Willis, the Chairman, presiding. The following members of the Boar
Messrs. W. Addington Willis, C.B.E., Professor G. W. Daniels and Mr. W. G. Campbe
Messrs. J. Allan, L. Bachop, J. Bell, W. T. R. Beckett, H. L. Burrows, H. Cra
G. Hart, J. Hoyle, E. Kershaw, A. McGhee, T. Malone, H. J. Moffat, W
Noble, F. Park, J. Pollitt, J. Thomas and H. Treadwell (Representative
Messrs. G. Bleakley, P. Brennan, C. Brown, L. W. Dickson, A. J. Dobbs, J. G.
A. J. Gwyther, D. Keeble, W. McGill, W. Milne, W. Orchard, J. T. Osborn
W. Renwick, T. F. Richards and F. Swain (Representatives of Workers).
Employers).
And Mr. F. Popplewell, the Secretary, with Mr. H. R. Hodges.
Milne to be a Representative of Workers in the place of Mr. W. J. Webb who had resigned
The Board received intimation that the Minister of Labour had appointed Mr.
and had appointed Mr. J. G. Gosbell to be a Representative of Workers to fill an
standing vacancy.
NOTICE OF PROPOSAL D. (27) - MODIFICATION OF THE TRADE BOARD'S APPRENTICES
SCHEME.
At their previous meeting, as has already been reported, the Trade Board decide
male apprentices in accordance with the Proposals contained in the Notice D. (2
subject to certain modifications, to vary Minimum Rates of Wages and conditions
Notification of the variations made by the Trade Board was sent to the Minister of Late
immediately after the last meeting of the Trade Board with the request that the Minister
would confirm the variations and make them effective.
At the present meeting the Board considered a letter which had been received fr
the Minister of Labour requesting the Board to reconsider certain of the provisions decided
on and suggesting some amendment in the form of the new provisions.
After careful consideration of the Minister's letter and consultation with an Officer
of the Department certain of the provisions relating to apprentices were redrafted an
these provisions will be again submitted to the Minister of Labour for confirmation.
Due notice of such new rates and provisions with regard to apprentices as may be
confirmed by the Minister of Labour and made effective will be sent to all employers in
the trade.
OVERTIME RATES.
For some time the Board has considered the question of varying the provisions o
their Notices with regard to Overtime Rates, with a view to allowing employers and
workers some elasticity in arranging the number of hours of work on any particular da
and especially with a view to allowing nine hours to be worked on a Monday before Over-
time Rates become payable instead of eight hours as at present.
Provisions to carry into effect this object of the Trade Board had been drafted by the
Administrative Committee and were adopted by the Trade Board, who decided to insert a
Proposal to make the changes agreed upon in the next statutory Notice of Proposal issued.
Before the new arrangement becomes operative the Proposals of the Trade Board, after
publication, will require to be considered by the District Trade Committees and the Boar
will consider any objections which may be lodged against the proposed change.
VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN THE SERVICES.
It was reported that a deputation from the Administrative Committee of the Trade
Board had been received by the "Navy Personnel" Committee of the Admiralty, and
had discussed with them the position of men in the services who had received vocation
training in Boot and Shoe Repairing. The "Navy Personnel " Committee propose to
place before the Admiralty the views of the Trade Board, and it is understood that the
Admiralty will thereafter communicate with the Trade Board.
Arrangements have also been made for the visit of a deputation on the same subject
to the War Office.


---
Here is the extracted text:
231
GENERAL MINIMUM PIECE RATES FOR REPAIRING.
The Trade Board have finally adopted a table recommended by the Administrative
Committee consolidating the tables set out in paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the Notice D. (26),
and have also adopted a large number of recommendations made by the Administrative
Committee with a view to removing anomalies in the existing lists of piece rates.
Notice of Proposal to make the above-mentioned changes in the existing lists of piece
rates will be given by the Trade Board on the occasion of the next issue of a statutory
Notice of Proposal to Fix and Vary Minimum Rates of Wages. All employers in the
trade will thereafter have an opportunity of considering the Proposals in detail and the
Proposals will come before the District Trade Committees.
WORK PREPARATORY TO ROUNDING AND CHANNELLING MACHINES-LONG SOLES UNDER
HEEL.
The Trade Board approved of a recommendation from the Administrative Committee
that General Minimum Piece Rates be fixed for soles under heel where such work is pre-
paratory to rounding and channelling machines. Piece rates for this work have been
agreed upon and Notice of Proposal to fix such piece rates will be given on the occasion
of the next issue of a statutory Notice of Proposal by the Trade Board.
PIECE RATES FOR MACHINE FINISHING.
The question of fixing piece rates for machine finishing is still under consideration by
the Trade Board.
ADMINISTRATION.
The Board had a long discussion with regard to the administration of the existing
Trade Board Orders and they are in consultation with the Ministry of Labour on the
subject. Further consideration of the matter is postponed pending the result of this
consultation.
WORKERS' LOYALTY.
BY ROBERT WILLIAMS (General Manager of the "Daily Herald ").
There are upwards of four and a half million men and women organised in the Trade
Union Movement of Great Britain.
At the last General Election, five and a half million men and women voted steadfastly
for the Labour Party and its candidates.
In the Co-operative Movement there ar organised five million members of various
retail societies.
As Trade Unionists, we have organised ourselves into our respective societies because
we have no confidence in our particular employers and in the employing classes in general.
If an employer or his manager were to ask for leave to attend a Trade Union branch in
order to justify low wages or bad conditions, this would be instantly and properly refused.
When the various Liberal and Conservative candidates made their specious claims
for the suffrage of the workers, they failed to secure it for the simple reason that five and
a half million voters have lost confidence in them and their parties.
Millions make their purchases from the Co-operative Stores because they believe in
organising their spending power upon a co-operative basis. They refuse to be exploited
by the great multiple firms, and prefer instead that any profits made in the co-operative
undertakings shall be disposable as dividends to members.
One wonders, therefore, why Labour voters, Trade Unionists and Co-operators, con-
tinue to have their minds warped and their better judgment over-ridden by the millionaire
Press. It has, of course, taken many years to bring our Trade Union Movement up to
its present strength; it has taken an equal length of time to establish our Co-operative
Movement upon the sound financial basis it stands on to-day.
Labour's one daily-The Daily Herald-has fought nobly and strenuously for some
twelve or thirteen years, and in the face of overwhelming and sometimes almost insuper-
able odds, we have raised our circulation to about one-tenth of the number of those who
voted Labour at the last General Election.
Workers by hand and brain, therefore, should give the Daily Herald that measure
of support which they recently gave to the Labour Party. Do not allow carping critics
to make unfair comparisons of the Daily Herald with the ordinary Capitalist newspaper.
The Daily Herald sets out to give the news from the workers' point of view.
BUY THE "HERALD" YOURSELF


---
MR. C. BATES.

Rushden Urban Council. Council chairmen are sometimes ornamental, as well as useful
On Wednesday Mr. Charles Bates concluded his year of office as chairman of the
to public speechmaking, and in consequence there has been little outward evidence of the
earnestness with which he has striven to serve the interests of the town. Though he has
but the prospect of appearing in the limelight has not led Mr. Bates to overcome his aversion
been seen at few public functions, Mr. Bates has been seen at almost every official meeting
have had so fine a record. Mr. Bates has been willing to work, ready to spare time, and
at which it was his duty to be present. In this all-important matter few past chairmen
eager to see the town make progress. As a chairman he has been quite impartial-even a
of the true citizen who when put to the test is revealed as having the capacity to put the
community before self. He deserves the town's heartiest "Thank you." - Rushder
Argus, 17th April, 1925.

MR. DAN ASTLEY, J.P.
New Chairman of Hinckley Rural Council.

At the first meeting of the newly-constituted Rural District Council at Hinckley
to-day, Mr. Daniel Astley, of Earl Shilton, was unanimously appointed chairman for
the ensuing year.

Mr. Astley, who is the Earl Shilton official of the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives, was the retiring chairman of the Hinckley Board of Guardians. His appoint-
ment is a popular one.

Mr. Hands congratulated Mr. Astley on the honour conferred upon him, and said he
was convinced that if he carried out the duties as satisfactorily as he had presided over the
meetings of the Board of Guardians, the Council would not regret their choice.
-Leicester Mail, 27th April, 1925.

THE UNITED FRONT.
By Clifford Allen.

There is at present no end to vague demands for unity amongst the workers, but
few tell us what shall be done with that unity, and they are blind to the fact that a con-
structive objective is the only means whereby that unity itself can be secured.

Political Labour constantly asserts that we need a united industrial and political
policy. What avails such a belief if it fails to tell us how to arise or even to maintain the
present wage standard? Meantime industrial Labour is spurred on by small groups of
sincere enthusiasts. I know of nothing more dangerous than the way in which a few men,
whose incomes are secure, and who know little of the risks and privations of a prolonged
and unsuccessful strike, often incite Trade Unionists to desperate encounters without a
well-considered object. We should give vigorous support to every effort by the General
Council of the Trades Union Congress to secure united mass action by a Trade Union
Movement, skilfully led by a central authority. But even if we possessed-as we must-
this highly-equipped Trade Union machine, we must have a common object for which
to fight.- The New Leader, 17th April, 1925.

LABOUR PARTY CERTIFICATE.

In response to the repeated demands that have reached the National Executive of
the Labour Party, they have decided to issue a Membership Certificate.

This Certificate is available in two sizes, namely, 251" x 181" and 151" x 10f", printed
on Japon paper. The cost of the larger size is 6d. per copy, post free, and of the smaller
size 3d. per copy, post free.
It is hoped that special efforts will be made to secure the purchase of a copy by every
member of the Labour Party-whether as a Trade Unionist, a Socialist, or an Individual

Orders should be sent with cash to the Secretary, Joint Press and Publicity Department,
33 Eccleston Square, London, S.W.1.


---
YEAR'S SURPLUS OF £3,658,884.
Mr. Snowden's Good Budgeting.
Some Contrasts.
Congratulations to the Ex-Chancellor.
Mr. Snowden received many congratulations from financial experts last night on his
remarkably accurate estimate of this year's surplus, writes our Lobby Correspondent.
He anticipated a surplus of £4,024,000; the actual amount is £3,658,884.
Mr. Snowden is the first Chancellor since the era of Big Budgets whose estimate of
the balance of revenue over expenditure has been within less than £400,000 of the actual
amount
deficit of £100,000,000!
Some of the Conservative critics of the first Labour Budget prophesied last year a
The result has not only proved them bad prophets, but demonstrated beyond cavil
that a Labour Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his first year of office, was better able to
fiance the financial resources of the country than any of his predecessors.
The actual figures for the year, compared with 1924, are given in the final returns
issued last night as under :-
1925.
£
799,435,595
795,776,711
Receipts
Expenditure
Surplus
3,658,884
1924.
£
837,169,284
788,840,211
48,329,073
An examination of the detailed accounts shows that the Customs revenue for 1925
showed a decrease of no less than £20,614,000.
Excise revenue showed a decrease of £12,842,000, and under the heading Miscellaneous
Special Receipts, a decrease of £9,838,285 is recorded.
Income Tax Up.
The largest increase over the preceding year was revenue from property and income
tax, the respective figures being £273,836,000 and £269,331,000, showing an increase of
£4,505,000. There was an increase from postal service revenue of £2,010,000, and from
super-tax of £2,040,000.
Motor vehicle duties (£1,473,000 increase); estate duties (£1,650,000), stamps
(£1,280,000), excess profits (£700,000), and telephone service (£610,000), also yielded
more than in 1924.
The total floating debt outstanding on 31st March, 1925, was £742,195,000, compared
with £774,475,500 on 31st March, 1924, showing a decrease of £32,280,500.—Daily Herald,
1st April, 1925.
SURPRISES IN MR. CHURCHILL'S BUDGET SPEECH
Pensions for Widows and Old Age Pensions at 65; Workers to
Contribute 4d. a Week. McKenna Duties again on July 1st.
Reduced super-tax and income-tax, the reimposition of the McKenna Duties as from
1st July, increases in Death Duties, new duties on imported hops, silk, and beer, return
to the gold standard, and a contributory scheme of Widows' Pensions to start next January
-these were the chief features of Mr. Churchill's Budget in the Commons yesterday.
Mr. Snowden, the ex-Chancellor, expressed the Labour Party's opposition to the
reduction of the standard rate of income-tax, the concession to super-tax payers, and to
the proposed Protective duties on Imperial produce. As to the reimposition of the
McKenna Duties, he declared that at the first opportunity these would be repealed by the
Labour Party.
BUDGET AT A GLANCE.
New Taxes, Remissions, and Contributory Pensions.
Outstanding points in the Budget were :-
GOLD standard to be restored, but not gold coinage.
INCOME-TAX reduced from 4s. 6d. to 4s.
DEATH DUTIES increased to yield additional £10,000,000.
SILK.—New duty of 4s. per lb.
Hops.—Duty of £4 a cwt. for four years.
BEER.—Small duty on imported beer.
MCKENNA DUTIES. -Reimposed on 1st July.
IMPERIAL PREFERENCE. - Increased for tobacco, dried fruits, wine, and sugar.
New scheme of contributory widows' pensions and old age pensions at 65. Con-
tributions to start at 4d. per man and 2d. per woman, and rise by 1d. per man and 1/2d. per
woman in 10-yearly periods to 7d. per man and 31d. a woman in 1956. Employers to
contribute at similar rates.
Benefits to include pensions for widows at 10s. a week, with extra for children till
youngest son reaches age of 141. Daily Herald, 29th April, 1925.


---
Here is the extracted text:
234
EXTRACTS FROM MR. J. R. MACDONALD'S WEEKLY
REVIEWS IN "THE DAILY HERALD,"
"One thing is certain the wages paid to the workers are not responsible for the
handicaps from which British industry suffers. Despite all the vigorous attacks which
have been made upon organised Labour, that seems to be established as a result of the
discussions which are taking place."

Impossible Burden.
"What," asked our representative, "is really at the bottom of the present disaster,
state of industry?"
"There are many reasons," answered Mr. MacDonald, "but two are worth special
consideration.
"First, it is quite clear that a large number of concerns are heavily over-capitalised.
Managers are asked to perform the impossible task of returning dividends upon capital
which has never been used in production and which only represents an increase in the
price of shares.
"For instance, during the so-called cotton boom the capital of 238 firms was increased
from £10 millions to £33 millions, and profits had thus to be paid on three times as much
capital as before. How can industry flourish if it has to carry such an impossible burden?
"Secondly, it is becoming increasingly evident that British capitalists have not been
so alert in the organisation and management of their businesses as some of their com-
petitors. This is a very serious aspect.
Fact to be Noted.
"Do take note of this fact," he continued, "that since the adoption of the Dawes
Report there has been a DECREASE IN THE HOURS OF MANY GERMAN WORKING PEOPLE.
According to official figures the general average of those working more than 48 hours a
week in seven great industrial groups fell from 54.7 in May, 1924, to 45.4 in November
of the same year.

Why Bother?
"And now the House of Lords?" I asked.
"Why bother? Liberals apparently want to tinker with the Constitution again.
I can understand Lord Selbourne and his friends wanting to strengthen the House of
Lords, but why Liberals should be anxious to do so I cannot understand. I hope Labour
is not going to waste a breath on these things.
"What with Referendums, Proportional Representation, Elected Cabinets, House of
Lords, and all the other 'cure-alls, one would think there were no economic problems.
The 'solution' of these is not delayed a week, and would not be hastened a day, if all
the proposed changes in constitutional machinery were made to-morrow." Saturday,
28th March, 1925.

GERMANY AS THE DANGER SPOT OF EUROPE.
"What is your Easter message to Labour?" asked our representative when he saw
Mr. MacDonald on the eve of a strenuous week-end speaking campaign.
"To be of good heart," he replied. "We are rising. This has been a wonderful
week of electoral victories all along the line. Never in the history of the Movement have
we had such indisputable proof-concentrated as it has been in the space of a few weeks-
not only of our numerical strength, but of our fine fighting spirit, If the late Government
did nothing else, it has certainly given Labour a magnificent political position, has taught
it how to fight, and has established it firmly throughout the length and breadth of the
land. That was something worth doing.
"The task of destructive criticism is accomplished; that of Socialist construction
must be carried forward. All skilled hands to that job.
Danger Spot of Europe.
"One thing," said Mr. MacDonald, after a pause, "I am much interested in at present
is the contact or lack of contact-between our trade unions and the German trade unions.
Germany is the industrial danger spot of Europe. I get weary beyond words of the parrot
phrases about the Dawes Report. It has no more to do with the present unsatisfactory
condition of German Labour than my shoe. I wish people would take the trouble first
of all to get facts and then consider them.


---
235
We ought in every way to encourage the German trade unions to fight for higher
wages, shorter hours, and better conditions. If we fail in this, and the German worker
is abandoned to a direct conflict with his own capitalists, he will find it quite impossible
to keep his end up.
A mere policy of the prohibition of the import of sweated goods into this country
is of little use, as it leaves the foreign market open to them. German conditions must be
levellerd up.
This is the problem which the trade union and political Labour Movement has to
face and in doing so it is wasting time and strength to talk about a separation between
the two wings. They must work out together the solution of these difficulties and give
the necessary support.
Take Counsel With Germany.
"Why should not," he asked, "the united movement send a deputation to Germany
to take counsel with the trade unions there not only to find out facts, but to come to
agreements about policy?
Vigorous action on the part of combined Labour on this side, working directly
with Germany's combined Labour Movement, and through the machinery of the Amsterdam
dissipate some of the grave
workshops are now confronted.
Now is the time for the trade union and Socialist policy of mutual aid and self-
defence to be worked out and put into operation." Saturday, 11th April, 1925.
MR. MACDONALD REPLIES TO HIS CRITICS.
WHAT LABOUR HAD TO FACE.
"Pressed by Maze of Interests and Prejudices."
A direct and trenchant reply to his critics was made by Mr. Ramsay MacDonald
at the I.L.P. Conference at Gloucester yesterday.
"It is important," he said, "for our critics to remember that there is a big difference
between carrying on a Government and passing resolutions at an I.L.P. Conference.
"The conception you have here," added Mr. MacDonald, "is of a Labour Govern-
ment composed of a body of men and women who have a steady, clear path along which
they can tread if they like, and, if they do not move, theirs is the responsibility for neglect
of duty.
"This is an absurd conception altogether. What is the position in which we find
ourselves in the House of Commons ?
"We are surrounded right and left by a seething, surging crowd, and what we have
to do is to keep ourselves together.
"We have got to keep our minds centred on Socialism, and we have to take steps
sometimes on one side and sometimes on the other side-sometimes even we have to make
a slight retreat in order that in a tremendously complex and pressing maze of interests
and prejudice we may make some progress.
"That is the problem of the Labour Opposition, and what the Labour Government
had to face.
Drama in Commons.
"Until you get that position into your minds and that is the dramatic situation
in the House of Commons-you will never be able to help us by your criticism or do us
justice by your praise.
"My answer to the criticisms that have been levelled against me and my colleagues
at this conference is in the language of the slave who was captured and was told by his
judge that he had got a good master to go to, that he would get good employment and
have a fine time.
"The slave's answer was, 'Very well, you take it yourself." (Hear, hear.)
"My observation to you and to many of my critics is: 'I wish yours was the job.'
"It is not enough to express sound ideals. You have got to help us to provide a
sound method of applying those principles. A Bill introduced in the House of Commons
on the lines of the resolution passed at this Conference (i.e., that calling on the Government
to appoint a National Commission to determine a living wage for all workers) would not
live for half an hour.


---
238
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
CONDITION OF THE WORKING CLASSES.
MR. WINDSOR: I beg to move,
"That, in the opinion of this House, the destitute and impoverished condition of
the Working Classes, which is inherent in the present economic and industrial system,
both legislative action and industrial agreements that case immediate hardships, this
constitutes a grave menace to social stability and industrial peace, and, whilst welcoming
gressive advances towards the social ownership and democratic control of staple industries
House declares that no permanent solution of the problem is possible apart from pre
and the banking system."
A few weeks ago the Prime Minister made a very eloquent plea for peace. He wa
attempting to defend the Party of which he is leader and to proclaim the difficulties
speech, possibly one of the best made in this House for many years. The plea of the
which he and his colleagues were immediately faced, but although he made a striki
Prime Minister was "Give us peace in our time, O Lord."
while there are economic differences such as exist at the moment. There cannot be peace
We, on these benches, are under no delusions. There can be no peace in our ti
in our time while we have aggregations of capital on the one hand and pauperism, starvatio-
and unemployment on the other.
MR. DUNNICO: I beg to second the Motion.
From time to time this House is called upon to discuss a great many subjects of mor
or less importance, but I venture to suggest that none is more important than the one
raised by this Motion.
My hon. Friend, who moved this motion, made reference to the Prime Minister and
that that speech
the speech which he made some weeks ago. I want to say, if a back bencher may say this
was worthy of the first statesman in this country. Quite frankly I
regret that in many quarters it has not been received in the spirit in which it was made.
I want to say for myself, quite frankly, that I hold out the olive branch, but I do say tha
you cannot have peace on an ill-clad, ill-fed, ill-educated and ill-housed democracy. I
represent a constituency in Durham which has, perhaps, produced as much wealth as any
other area in this country.
As regards that constituency, the area of Consett, where wealth has been produce:
in abundance, the figures given at the Sankey Commission were appalling. In the district
of Anfield Plain and Leadgate, 43.6 per cent. of the people were living in overcrowded
conditions. The infantile mortality rate was appalling-one in every six or seven childre
born in my constituency died before reaching the age of seven. At the last Generai
Election I went to canvass in one area, and in one of the houses that I visited, a house c
five rooms, I found nine Parliamentary voters, besides women under 30 and children.
showing the appalling conditions. For five generations the people in my constituency
have toiled to produce wealth which has helped to make this country prosperous, and
yet to-day they are living under conditions that are a disgrace to Christendom, unworthy
of a Christian civilisation. Thousands of these men are coming home after a hard week's
work with £2 2s., £2 3s. and £2 4s. to maintain and keep their families; and these men
and these women are among the best people that God ever created. They are good
fathers, good mothers, good husbands, good wives. Six or seven years ago many of these
men fought in the War, and they produced nothing; but when they produced nothing
they had good suits of clothes, good boots, good food. To-day, they are producing and
working, and living on a starvation ration. We want peace. I hate strife; I hate con-
flict between people who ought to co-operate; but you cannot get peace on those terms.
Improve our conditions, and we will join hands with you to make the lot of our people
better than it is.
Upon a vote being taken the result was as follows :-
For the Resolution
Against the Resolution
Vol. 182, No. 53.
::
124
281
-Extract from Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons, Tuesday, 7th April, 1925
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
80,459. Unemployed at end of March, 1925, 2,940; percentage, 3.7.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of March, 1925
compared with a year ago, 1.0.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, April, 1925.
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.6. Decrease in percentage as
Decrease in


---
239
RUSSIA AND INTERNATIONAL UNITY.
Report to Affiliated Societies Trades Union Congress.
Meeting of General Council of International Federation of Trade Unions,
held at Amsterdam, 5th to 7th February, 1925. Discussions and corre-
spondence submitted.
(Continued from page 189 in the March Report.)
BRITISH GENERAL COUNCIL AND RUSSIA.
It is necessary to report what had also taken place between the British General Council
and the All-Russian Trade Union Congress.
The Russian delegates who attended the Hull Congress had extended an invitation
to the British General Council to attend their annual meeting which was to be held later
in Moscow. The General Council accepted the invitation, at the same time instructing
their delegates to take advantage of their visit by making an enquiry, for the benefit of
the organised workers in Great Britain, into the social, political, and economic conditions
of the people in Russia.
The result of their enquiries has been published separately, but during the time the
British delegates were in Moscow the Russian Trade Unionists requested the British
delegates to meet them in order to have informal conversations. At these gatherings,
suggestions were made by the Russian Trade Unionists with respect to International
unity, the nature of which will be indicated by the following reply, which the British
Delegation instructed the Secretary to send to the All-Russian Trade Union Council:
M. TOMSKY,
President, All-Russian Trade Union Congress.
DEAR COMRADE TOMSKY,
17th November, 1924.
In reply to your letter, dated 16th November, which you handed to me, I have
to inform you that the British Delegation met this morning and directed me to reply
to you as follows :-
I. The British Delegation desire to place on record their appreciation of
the action taken by the Presidium of the Russian Trades Congress for the purpose
of promoting international unity in trade union organisation and action, and
welcome the opportunity for consultation.
2. In recognition of our representative capacity, and being responsible to
the Trades Union Congress General Council as representing the All-British Trade
Union Movement, we will convey the proposals submitted to us for the con-
sideration and decision of our Council.
3. We declare our intention to move quickly with regard to the project,
and trust that the joint action of the Russian and British trade union organisa-
tions will stimulate the progress towards international trade union unity.
We are prepared to take the responsibility of agreement with the Russian Trade
Union Movement, such agreement to make provision for the promotion of the
following:-
1. To request the Amsterdam International to agree to a free and un-
conditional immediate conference with representatives of the Russian Trade
Union Movement.
2. To secure for the Presidium of the Russian Movement and the General
Council of the British Trades Union Congress full power to act jointly for the
purpose of promoting international unity.
With fraternal greetings and goodwill to yourself and your colleagues, on behalf
of the British Delegation.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) FRED BRAMLEY.
Upon their return to England, the British delegates duly reported to the General
Council the result of this special meeting with the representatives of the All-Russian


---
240
Trade Union Congress, and their action was approved. Accordingly, the following letter
was sent to the International Federation of Trade Unions at Amsterdam:
THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS GENERAL COUNCIL.
DEAR MR. OUDEGEEST,
as speedily as possible.
LONDON, S.W.1.
31st January, 1925
The Trades Union Congress General Council at their last meeting considered the
correspondence which has been passing between the I.F.T.U. and the All-Russian
the Council are deeply impressed with the importance of a conference between the
Central Council of Trade Unions at Moscow, and have instructed us to inform you that
representatives of the L.F.T.U. and the All-Russian Council at Moscow being held
The General Council are also convinced that there should be no waste of time i
purpose, from our point of view of such a conference, is to settle differences, and for
attempting to settle differences prior to such a conference taking place, as the mar
informal discussion purposes, at which both sides would be free to express their
representative opinion without being tied to any formulæ or constitution, it being
this reason we strongly press for the convening of an unconditional conference for
understood, of course, that the findings of such a conference should be considered
preliminary to a mandatory conference to follow after reports of the preliminary
discussions had been given to the bodies responsible for the final conclusions.
The Council further directed their representatives to raise this question at the
Executive Council meeting next week and trust you will, therefore, make provision
for it on the agenda.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) A. B. SWALES, Chairman
FRED BRAMLEY, Secretary
MEETING OF THE I.F.T.U. GENERAL COUNCIL, AMSTERDAM.
Federation of Trade Unions met in Amsterdam, the major portion of the time being taken
From the 5th to the 7th February, 1925, the General Council of the International
up by a consideration of the relations between the I.F.T.U. and the All-Russian Trade
Union Council.
The following were present at the meeting:- Messrs. A. A. Purcell, President; the
three Vice-Presidents, L. Jouhaux, C. Mertens and Th. Leipart; the three Secretaries,
J. W. Brown, J. Oudegeest and Johann Sassenbach; the following representatives of the
various countries and groups of countries:- Messrs. Fred Bramley (Great Britain), Grass-
mann (Germany), D'Aragona (Italy), Caballero (Spain), Tayerle (Czecho-Slovakia)
Buisson (France), Dürr (Switzerland), Stenhuis (Holland), Zulawsky (Poland), Jaszai
(Hungary), Madsen (Denmark), and the three representatives of the International Trade
Secretariats, A. J. Cook (International Miners' Federation), E. Fimmen (Internationa
Transport Workers' Federation), and G. J. A. Smit (International Federation of Com-
mercial, Clerical and Technical Employees).
Before the debate opened, Mr. Purcell referred to the correspondence which had been
received by the I.F.T.U. from various affiliated national centres, containing statements
which he said misrepresented him, so far as they gave the impression that he was acting
in the capacity of President of the I.F.T.U. To infer in the slightest degree that he ever
spoke when in Russia as President of the I.F.T.U. was contrary to truth and to facts.
As regards the question of a World Congress he stated he was opposed to such a congress
as a preliminary step to unity. He also pointed out that each side was complaining
bitterly that the other side misrepresented it, and this fact alone could be used as an
argument for having a meeting to endeavour to come to some understanding.
In the debates reference was made to the tactics of the Communists in various countries,
to the unwarranted attacks upon the character and honesty of certain Trade Union Officials,
and, further, special reference was made to the suggestion the Russian Trade Unionists
had made of a World Labour Conference, overlooking the fact that this suggestion was
only made tentatively and as a point for discussion when the two parties met together.
The fact seemed to be quite ignored that the International Federation as it now exists,
is not even a European Federation, let alone a Universal Federation of Workers, and that
therefore the possibility of obtaining the accession of millions of new members should
induce a less rigorous and exclusive attitude on the part of the I.F.T.U.
It was proposed by the first speaker on the subject that the Secretariat should be
structed to communicate with the Russian Trade Unions to the effect that it was con-
sidered that the question was finished and that all correspondence must end. Another
speaker asserted that unity in the Labour Movement was the least of the cares of the
Russians, and that what they aimed at was to transform the Unions into instruments
to carry out the policy of the Russians. Another representative declared that to agree
to the proposal emanating from Great Britain would be to sign the death warrant of the
I.F.T.U.


---
241
The British point of view was put by Mr. Bramley, who moved that the proposal
contained in the letter quoted above, asking for an unconditional conference, should be
adopted by the meeting.
Mr. Bramley, in supporting the request of the British General Council, first of all
pointed out that the question of a World Conference had never been before the General
Council of the British Trades Union Congress, and he could not commit the British Section
to the proposal. Passing then to an analysis of the correspondence which had passed
between Moscow and Amsterdam. Mr. Bramley contended it showed that too much effort
had been made to emphasise points of disagreement and too little effort to discover points
of agreement. Further, it was foolish to attempt to settle such differences as existed by
means of correspondence, which was an obsolete method of discussing such important
and complicated questions. "We knew at Vienna," he said, "that before any inclusion
of Moscow Trade Union conference discussion would be necessary to prepare the way.
We never
conceived the possibility of settling the differences by means of correspondence, and we
never assumed for one moment that the conditions of affiliation would be the conditions
laid down as a preliminary to a Conference discussion."
Emphasis was also laid on the loss to the International Federation itself by the ex-
clusion of so important a country as Russia, the effects of whose industrial and economic
developments upon other nations were likely to be many and extensive.
That the British had spoken with the Russians in Moscow on the question of Inter-
national unity, was he claimed, no breach of the constitution of the I.F.T.U. " The
policy we are pursuing," he asserted, "is the purest international policy we can think of.
We are as much concerned regarding the welfare of the workers in all other countries in
this matter as we are concerned regarding the welfare of our own people whom we represent.
We believe that the inclusion of Russia would enlarge the influence of our International
Trade Union movement. We believe that the inclusion of Russia into our international
movement would strengthen the economic and political position of the working-class
throughout the world. We believe that the inclusion of Russia into the international
movement would also assist towards the establishment of world peace. We believe it
necessary for the Trade Union movement to be in the closest possible alliance with the
Russian Trade Union Section, especially for the complications we shall be called upon
to deal with probably in a short time arising out of the position in the East."
Continuing, Mr. Bramley declared that the policy of the Executive Committee of the
I.F.T.U. was a policy to which the British were entirely opposed. The policy seemed to
be this: "We have differences with Moscow, therefore no conference. If we were in agree-
ment with Moscow, then we would have a conference." That seemed to him to be turning
the process of logic upside down, and they could not understand it.
Mr. Bramley concluded his speech thus: "I appeal to you to set aside prejudice,
to try to develop before you settle this question a spirit of toleration with the weaknesses,
with the methods, with the tactics of those to whom you are opposed. In Great Britain
we take the view that the development of an all-inclusive International is desirable.
Unity of purpose is a very important question. A united Trade Union movement will
make a wonderful difference regarding our relationships between one country and another,
and for those reasons I submit the proposal of the British section in direct and uncom-
promising opposition to the resolution suggested this morning."
After other representatives had spoken, a resolution was moved by Mr. Stenhuis,
of Holland, and Mr. Smit (Secretariats) which declared that the I.F.T.U. should convene
a conference when the All-Russian Council of Trade Unions intimated its desire to be
admitted to the I.F.T.U.
A member of the I.F.T.U. General Council suggested that a Committee of Enquiry
should be sent by the I.F.T.U. to Russia, whilst a further suggestion was made that, as
there were so many differences of opinion, a small Committee should be appointed to
endeavour to arrive at a compromise.
VOTING ON RESOLUTIONS.
The Resolution moved by Mr. Bramley was then put to the vote. It reads as follows:
"The British Section propose the convening of an unconditional conference for
informal discussion purposes, at which both sides would be free to express their
representative opinion without being tied to any formulæ or constitution, it being
understood, of course, that the findings of such a conference should be considered
as a preliminary to a mandatory conference to follow after reports of the preliminary
discussions had been given to the bodies responsible for the final conclusions."
The result of the voting was :
6 for the resolution,
13 against,
I abstention.


---
243
NOTHING ATTEMPTED-NOTHING DONE.
First Instalment of Tory Rule Ended. Mr. Baldwin's Barren Record.
With the first round of the Parliamentary battle at an end, it is possible to look back
over the past four months and make a few comparisons.
Two facts emerge from such a review: firstly, that the Tories have made no attempt
to fulfil their election promises, and, secondly, that the accomplishments standing to their
credit are infinitesimal when compared with those of the Labour Government during the
corresponding period of 1924.
Last year, in the period preceding the Easter recess, Labour had only 47 Parliamentary
days, as compared with the 57 Parliamentary days which Mr. Baldwin's Government has
enjoyed this year.
Self-Confessed Failure.
In his manifesto at the last election he proclaimed that the "Unionist Party would be
unfaithful to its principles and to its duty if it did not treat the task of grappling with
the unemployment of our people and with the serious condition of industry as a primary
obligation."
The figures show, by his own criterion, that the Tory Party has been unfaithful to its
principles, for whereas the number of unemployed when Labour went out of office was
1.247.000. it had risen by 84,000 to 1,331,205 when the official statistics were compiled
for the March issue of the Labour Gazette.
Hope Deferred.
Another of Mr. Baldwin's election pronouncements was that "the problem of the
cost of foodstuffs is one which demands careful investigation by a Royal Commission."
Careful "whitewashing" would have been a much better expression to use, in the light
of what has transpired at the Commission, but even the whitewash has not yet been pro-
duced, despite the oft-repeated promises of the President of the Board of Trade. Time
after time the report was promised, and as regularly its publication has been deferred.
The penultimate promise was for Easter, but a question asked two days before the adjourn-
ment revealed that another three weeks will still have to pass. In the meantime the cost
of living is still 79 per cent. above pre-war level.
Disregard of pledges, too, has been the keynote of the Government's policy in regard
is essential," said the
to national expenditure. "The most rigid economy
Prime Minister in his manifesto. And yet he has produced Military, Naval, and Air Force
Estimates which show an increase of more than £6 million over those of the Labour Govern-
ment last year. Moreover, the ₤11 million saving which Labour effected by abandoning
the Singapore Naval Base has been despised, and the taxpayer is to be burdened with
that unnecessary sum.
One of the most appealing of Mr. Baldwin's promises was that in which he foreshadowed
increased old age pensions, and pensions for widows and fatherless children. These have
not materialised, and after being questioned four times in four successive weeks the Premier
has had to confess that his scheme is not ready.
Farmers Forgotten.
Similarly, nothing has been done to redeem the pledge that "the great basic industry
of agriculture should be not merely preserved, but restored to a more prosperous condition."
Neither farmers nor farm workers have yet received anything for which they can thank
the Government.
A few things, of course, the Government has done, but these are mostly in the nature
of class legislation. The Bill to extend the Rent Acts is frankly a landlord's measure.
Not only does it provide that control can come to an end in two years' time, but it declines
to sanction any reduction in the 40 per cent. excess rent which may now be charged, nor
does it bring back under control the thousands of houses that have escaped from the
meshes of the Act by becoming vacant for a period.
In international affairs Mr. Chamberlain has thrown over the Geneva Protocol, which
paved the way for universal peace by arbitration, disarmament and security, and proposes
in its stead to enter into the same type of restricted alliance that led to the great war in
1914, despite the Tory professions of faith in the League of Nations which were embodied
in Mr. Baldwin's manifesto at the last election.
Viewed on the performances of its first session, the Government has failed lamentably
to fulfil its promises. And unfortunately there is no reason for supposing that as it gets
older it will improve.
C. E. L.
-Labour Press Service, 16th April, 1925.


---
Here is the extracted text:
244
SINISTER ATTACK ON WORKERS.
Meaning of Campaign against International Labour Office.
The 8-Hour Day. Mr. Poulton's Acid Test for Premier.
“The Conservative victory in the British General Election has undoubtedly produced
a reactionary atmosphere in employers’ circles, and this is having its effects in international
quarters," said Mr. E. L. Poulton, General Secretary of the National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives, yesterday.
Mr. Poulton had just returned from attending the meeting at Geneva of the governing
body of the International Labour Office, on which body he is the British workers' repre-
sentative.
He stated that at that meeting it was made clear that a powerful section is determined
to take advantage of the existing situation to hamper and weaken the activities of the
Office.
“They do not attack the Office openly," he said, "but by insidious newspaper
campaign they are seeking to create the impression that the Office is useless to the workers
of Great Britain.
“At the same time attempts are made to curtail the work of the Office, and to reduce
it to the position of a mere registering machine.”
Child Labour in the East.
The ostensible reason for this endeavour was that if the Office did more than this
it was going outside its powers.
“This,” said Mr. Poulton, “is an entirely false interpretation of the functions of the
Office as set out in the Peace Treaty.
“It is one of the duties of the Office to collect and distribute information with regard
to conditions of labour throughout the world. To do this, it must get into touch with all
kinds of bodies.
“For instance, in regard to the conditions of labour in the East, especially child
labour, it is necessary to use the information collected by the Y.M.C.A. and other 'pro-
pagandist' bodies, and to correspond with them.
“As a matter of fact, the Governing Body itself, at its meeting last week, passed a
resolution welcoming the report on child labour, and expressed the hope that the Shanghai
municipal authorities would secure the enforcement of adequate limitations on the employ-
ment of child labour. It also expressed the desire that similar action would be taken in
other concessions and settlements, in which factories exist.
“The real reason, I believe, for the hostile attitude towards the International Labour
Office is that the critics look upon the Office as the institution which keeps alive the possi-
bility of an international eight-hour day.
“They hope that, if they can hamper and weaken the Office, they may be able to
prevent an Eight-hour Day Act passing.
“They know very well that the chief reason why Germany, France and Belgium and
other States have not ratified the Convention is that Great Britain has not done so, and
that British employers intend that, so far as they are concerned, it shall not be ratified.
“If they can, as they hope, prevent the Office from carrying out efficiently the duties
imposed upon it by the Peace Treaty, they believe that the demand for ratification will
gradually die out, and they may then be free to institute a longer working day or week.
Workers Warned.
“I utter this warning, not only to the British workers, but also to our Continental
comrades.
“If the International Labour Office is turned into a mere lifeless concern for registering
Government decisions, then good-bye to any speedy improvement in the lot of the workers.”
The workers’ organisations, therefore, should use every effort to ensure that the Office
and its work on behalf of labour all over the world was maintained, and that the employers’
campaign against it was fought to the utmost.
Mr. Poulton proceeded to ask what had Mr. Baldwin to say with regard to the attitude
of the employers ?
He had preached peace, and appealed to the workers and employers to discuss their
problems amicably together.
Was he prepared to make good his words and to work for industrial peace and progress
through existing machinery of which the Office was an important example ?
If he was sincere, then the Eight-hour Convention and the Whi e Lead decisions should
be at once dealt with by Parliament.—The Daily Herald, 8th April, 1925.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
245
INDUSTRIAL COURTS ACT, 1919, AND CONCILIATION ACT, 1896.
Recent Proceedings.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE: GENERAL. The two sides of the Joint Standing Committee
in connection with the Government Boot and Shoe Contractors. Difference. As to the
price to be paid for sewing the welts in hand-sewn boots when done in connection with
appointed under Section 2 (2) (6) of the Industrial Courts Act, 1919.
work under Government Contracts. Arbitrator. Mr. W. Addington Willis, C.B.E.,
Award. The prices
to be paid for sewing in welts by hand in execution of work under Government Contracts
shall be:-
For Kip Bluchers, Army and Navy type, unlined, and whether with or without side
linings, Is. 3 d. per pair.
Extras to the above :-
On all chrome leathers, Id. per pair.
For boots with a lining (linen or leather) and puff, 2d. per pair.
For boots with a cap, Id. per pair. Issued 28th March, 1925.
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, April, 1925.
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st APRIL, 1925.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included .. .. .. 75 per cent.
Food only .. .. .. .. 70 "
FOOD.
The average level of retail prices of food was appreciably lower at 1st April than a
month earlier. This was mainly due to seasonal reductions in the prices of eggs and of
milk, but fish, potatoes and tea were also cheaper, on the average, at the later date, and
the price of bread was reduced (by d. or Id. per 4 lbs.) in about a quarter of the places
from which returns were received. On the other hand, there were small increases in the
average prices of British mutton and of bacon.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of
food included in these statistics was about 70 per cent. at 1st April, as compared with
about 76 per cent. at 28th February.
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, April, 1925.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light,
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925
January 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78 77 80
February 15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88 77 79 79
March 15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 86 76 78 79
April 15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 82 74 73 75
May 20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 81 70 71
June 25 45 75-80 100 105 150 119 80 69 69
July 25 45-50 80 100-105 105-110 152 119 84 69 70
August 25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 71 71
September 25 50 80-85 110 115 161 120 79 73 72
October 30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 110 78 75 76
November 30-35 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 80 75 80
December 35 65 85 120 125 169 99 80 77 81
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922) Agreement, and present date.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
```text
246
AGED WOMAN BURNED TO DEATH.
Smoke issuing from the letter-box of 57 Beaconsfield Terrace, Northampton, yesterday
morning caused Mr. W. Pitts, Secretary of the local branch of the National Union of Boot
and Shoe Operatives, who lives next door, to force an entry at the back. He found the
house full of smoke, and upstairs in a back bedroom the body of Miss Elizabeth Austin,
88, who lived alone, She had apparently been dead some hours, and appearances suggested
that she had risen during the night and lighted a taper, which had ignited the bedclothes.
Morning Advertiser, 30th March, 1925.

I.L.P. BUSINESS.
Sale of Boot Factory that is no longer Paying.
As the business is no longer a financial success, the National Administrative Council
of the Independent Labour Party has decided to discontinue its boot business at North-
ampton.
This business was founded seventeen years ago to furnish funds for the local and
National I.L.P.
Until 1919 the undertaking was a distinct financial success, and several thousands
of pounds were sent to the national movement.
After 1919 the company suffered from the slump common to the shoe manufacturers
of the country, and during the last five years it has only just kept its head above water.
One of the officials told the Daily Sketch that the position was largely due to a mistaken
policy, but he was of opinion that matters would have improved had the council held on.
When the Northampton committee had the business in their own hands, he continued,
it was under the complete supervision of men who had spent their whole lives in the indus-
try, but the National Committee had not sought local assistance outside that of the manager.
-Daily Sketch, 28th March, 1925.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270; Total,
142,490. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 23rd March, 1925
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 10,085; Females, 2,991; Total, 13,076.
Percentage Unemployed at 23rd March, 1925: Males, 10.9; Females, 5.9; Total
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 9.2; Great Britain only, 9.0. Compared with 23rd
February, 1925 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, decrease, 0.3; Females,
decrease, 0.4; Total, decrease, 0.3. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, April, 1925.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
To December, 1924  667,902  8  7
January, 1925      2,840   1 10
February          3,952  4 8
March               4,124 16 0
£678,819 11 1
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
To December, 1924 358,625 13 7
January, 1925  3,954 7 9
February          5,226 1 9
March         3,682 10 3
£371,488 13 4
```

---
247
INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL AND ORGANISATION.
The ninth meeting of the Joint Industrial Council for the Boot and Shoc Industry was
held on Tuesday, the 28th inst., at 7 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.r. Mr. T. F. Richards
Mr. 1. F. Richards was re-elected chairman for the ensuing year, and Mr. H. J. Bostock.
J.P.. Vice-Chairman, with Miss Ruth Tomlinson and Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., as Joint
Secretaries to the Council. Apologies for absence were received from Messrs. Tomlinson,
presiding.
of the Operatives' Side. There were present Messrs. H. J. Bostock, E. Lewis, A. Wilkes,
D. Henderson, J. H. Marlow, Owen Parker, J.P., J. B. Clarke, W. W. Cann, C. Clarke and
Miss Tomlinson, as representing the Manufacturers, and Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards, Messrs.
T. F. Richards, E. L. Poulton, J.P., L. Smith, D. McCarthy, J. H. Baum, W. R. Smith,
J. Wheeler, C. Bates, E. Law, W. R. Townley, L. P. Poole, W. Warner, W. Hindes, J.P.,
1. Dobbs, Alex. Smith, and J. Manners, for the Operatives. Mr. J. Monahan was
liaison officer from Ministry of Labour.
After a general discussion regarding the Joint Industrial Councils' Bill, Organisation
of Operatives and Manufacturers, it was unanimously resolved that a sub-committee of
three representatives from each side be appointed.
SOUTH AFRICAN TARIFFS.--This question was introduced by Mr. H. J. Bostock, J.P.,
and the following resolution was unanimously agreed to :-
"That this Joint Industrial Council is greatly concerned at the reports in the
Press regarding South African Tariffs, and trusts the principle of the most favoured
nation clause will be retained."
COST TO THE STATE OF PUBLIC ASSISTANCE.
و
The Chancellor of the Exchequer gave the following statistics, in answer to a question
in the House of Commons on the 26th March, as to the cost entailed on the State by the
existence of health and unemployment funds, by old age pensions, and by unemployment
grants :-
"The cost, partly estimated, which will fall on the State for the year ending
the 31st March, including cost of administration, is as follows:
Health Insurance Scheme
Unemployment Insurance Scheme
Old Age Pensions
Unemployment Grants
£
8,045,700
13,202,000
25,810,000
6,761,100
£53,818,800
In addition, loans totalling £1,417,000 were made to local and poor law authorities
in connection with unemployment relief. The total of the outstanding loans made
by the State to the Unemployment Insurance Fund stood at £10,350,000 on the Ist
April, 1924, and, it is estimated, will have been reduced to approximately £8,000,000
on the 31st March."
The Chancellor also stated that the State had not accumulated any reserves from
either of the two insurance funds during the last twelve months. - The Ministry of Labour
Gazette, April, 1925.
"One ship drives east and one drives west
By the very same wind that blows:
'Tis the set of the sails, and not the gales,
That tells which way she goes.
Like the waves of the sea are the gales that blow
As we journey together through life:
'Tis the set of the soul that determines the goal
And not the storm or the strife."
I gave a beggar from my little store
Of well-earned gold. He spent the shining ore;
He came again, and yet again, still cold
And hungry as before.
I gave a thought, and through that thought of mine,
He found himself a man, supreme, divine,
Bold, clothed, and crowned with blessings manifold,
And now he begs no more.


---
248
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
ACCIDENT COMPENSATION.
Equal Treatment for Alien Workers.
An international agreement placing the alien worker on the same footing as the national
worker in the matter of accident compensation will be voted upon at the Seventh Annual
Session of the International Labour Conference, which opens at Geneva, on 19th May.
A provisional Draft Convention was adopted on this question at the Sixth Session
in its desire to make its work still more effective. In preparation for the final vote at the
opening, any amendments they considered necessary to facilitate ratification of the pi
coming meeting, Governments were asked to send, not later than four months before it
posed Draft Convention, and a report has now been issued by the International Lat
Office containing the amendments received.
Great Britain suggests an amendment which is merely a question of improving the
drafting and bringing the English text into closer correspondence with the French text.
The German Government thinks that it should be definitely settled that the Con
vention in no way applies to anything which happened before it was adopted and proposes
an amendment to that effect.
Norway is of opinion that residence in a country should be an essential condition of
receipt of accident compensation by a foreign worker, and that other cases should be left
to reciprocity agreements among individual States. India agrees to the principle tha
there shall be no qualification as to residence, but does not wish to bind herself to a genera
conclusion of agreements with other countries regarding the special arrangements to be
made for non-residing workers.
A certain number of Governments have informed the International Labour Office
that they have no amendments to propose and will be glad to consider those suggested
by other States.
The Conference will also finally vote on a proposed Recommendation on the settle-
ment of disputed points in connection with the payment of compensation for accidents
to workers not residing in the particular State.
SAFETY IN THE FACTORY.
Industrial Safety Survey is the name of a new publication which is being issued
once every two months by the International Labour Office of the League of Nations.
The first number, which is now ready, contains, besides many articles, reproductions of
"safety first" posters from the United States, Japan, Great Britain, China, Belgium,
Chile, and the Netherlands.
"to serve as a medium for the
The aims of the new publication are given in a foreword which, after recalling the
attitude of "almost fatalistic pessimism" which used to prevail regarding accidents in
the factory-" industrial accidents being regarded as a more or less inevitable incident
in the process of production "-states that its desire is
direct exchange of ideas and experiences both between the different countries and between
employers, workers, and factory inspectors. It will publish articles on technical develop-
ments in the sphere of accident prevention, articles discussing accidents of special interest
and the lessons to be learned from them, and statistical studies on the progress of accident
prevention in the different countries or in separate industries or processes.
"At the same time it is not proposed to limit its contents to articles such as these,
which presuppose certain definite results; it is also intended to record the efforts and
activities in the field of accident prevention which are going on from day to day." The
Industrial Safety Survey will therefore report on new regulations in the various countries,
subject. The Survey will also contain regular reports from the industrial safety organisa
factory inspectors' reports and the like, and will review fully books dealing with the
tions in a large number of countries.
COMPULSORY WORK FOR THE STATE.
Results in Bulgaria.
Interesting information regarding the results of the application of a system of com
pulsory labour in Bulgaria are contained in Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly
publication of the International Labour Office of the League of Nations.
Since its creation in 1921, the Bulgarian Compulsory Labour Department has under-
gone certain modifications; among others, compulsory labour for women and young girls
---

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

252
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
CHILD LABOUR IN THE UNITED STATES.
After five hours’ discussion, the Republican Party of the United States Parliam
has decided to take no action on the Child Labour Amendment (enabling, not compell
the various Federal States to pass legislation restricting Child Labour). By this de
the Republican Party has definitely ranged itself on the side of the organised manuf
turers, although it had earlier declared in favour of ratification of the Amendment.
The storm centre of the Child Labour agitation is North Carolina, one of the
important textile manufacturing districts of the U.S.A. It was in North Carolina.
the suits originated which led to legal decisions denouncing two federal child labour
as contrary to the American Constitution. But the textile manufacturers were not ca
to bear the odium of figuring in the public eyes as the champions of child labour. So
literature against the Amendment which flooded the country was sent out by the Par
States Rights League; and it is only recent investigations of the United Textile Wor
Union which have brought to light the fact that the League is the creation of the edit
a textile bulletin, and that its chairman is a millowner!
37 States permit children to engage in gainful occupations without a common s
The present position in the United States with regard to child labour is the follow
education; 18 States do not make physical fitness for work a condition for employ
children under 14 from working in factories or shops; and two do not regulate in ar
14 allow children under 16 to work from 9 to 11 hours a day; nine have no law prohiti
the daily hours of the labour of children.
HOW TRADE UNIONISM IS COMBATED IN THE
UNITED STATES.
“Yellow-dog” contracts, in which the employee must sign a contract that he
left it, are becoming increasingly popular among American employers. Its dan
not join a trade union while he is in the employ of the company, or even when he
are intensified when there is close local amalgamation among employers and this a
is steadily strengthening in the States. Thus, in Toledo, all the electrical contractu
have combined to enforce “yellow-dog” contracts. The classical instance is, howe
have a 100 per cent. organisation: merchants, banks, newspapers are all members
They have a central office, which keeps a card index of every male and female employe
with their wage rate and “the kind of worker they are.” As soon as an employer t
on a new hand, his record is sent to the central office. These wage earners are not
mitted to leave one employer and secure employment in another undertaking in the s
city without the written consent of the first employer. A bill is at present before th
State Legislature to abolish “yellow-dog” contracts, which is being strongly suppor
by the State Federation of Labour. From the International Trade Union Move
Thursday, 23rd April, 1925.
THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS GENERAL COUNCIL.
Army Supplementary Reserve, Transportation Branch.
DEAR SIR,
I am directed to refer to our circular letter No. 12, dated 6th February, 1925.2
that letter it was pointed out that the General Council had had under consideration corre
pondence from the Railway, Transport and other Unions with regard to the War Ome
Order for the formation of a Transportation Branch of the Army Supplementary Reserv
It was explained that the Railway Companies had entered into an arrangement with t
Engineers, and that the Railway and Transport Unions had emphasised to their members
for the
that those who
liable to be called out in aid of the civil power in time of trade dispute.
formation of the Army Supplementary Reserve.
now taken place, and as a consequence, the Council have to recommend that members of
The General Council undertook to make an investigation into the facts. This has
all affiliated Unions should be advised most strongly not to enrol in the scheme for the
that the liability for the men to be called to the assistance of the Civil Power would not be
The Council regard the undertaking and pledges given by the Secretary of lin
In these circumstances you should advise your members not to have anything to i
enforced, as totally inadequate.
with the Army Supplementary Reserve.
3rd April, 1925.
2
Yours sincerely,
FRED BRAMLEY, Secretary


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution s taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely: should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

ATIONAL UNION OF BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Seat of Government, 34.GUILFORD ST LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 245.
NAT TEL: MUSEUM 4438
LONDON
TEL ADDRESS NATUMISHOP
PHONE, LONDON"
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
HOF BOOT & SHOE
UNION
NATIONAL UNION
PA
NO
Copyright
LABOUR
ATIVES
General President
T.F.RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L.POULTON.J.P.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
MONTHLY REPORT.
25TH MAY, 1925.
TRADE
for the month is about the same as the previous month, the figures in the
Ministry of Labour Gazette being as follows:-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment showed a decline in most districts compared with the previous month.
Much short time was worked throughout the industry, and in most districts the factories
were closed for extended holidays at Easter.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 10.2 on the 27th April, 1925, as compared with
9.2 on the 23rd March, 1925, and 10.2 on the 28th April, 1924.
Returns from firms employing over 37,500 operatives in the week ended 25th April,
1925, showed that about 31 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that week,
to the extent of about 1 hours each, on an average.
Employment remained generally moderate in London. It was quiet, and not so good
as in March, at Leicester; a good deal of short time was worked, and the Easter holiday
was extended by most firms. At Northampton there was much short time, and most
firms closed for periods varying from five to ten days at Easter; but employment, taken
as a whole, remained fair. It was poor, and worse than in the previous month, at Hinckley,
and the great majority of workpeople were reported to be on short time. Employment
varied from poor to fair in the Higham and Rushden district; it was generally not quite
so good as in March. At Wellingborough employment showed a decline, and was very
slack; short time was worked in practically all the factories. A decline was also reported
at Kettering, where employment was generally slack; not more than three-quarter time
was worked on the average.
At Leeds employment again declined and was bad in the heavy boot section, and most
factories closed for ten days at Easter. Factories in Leeds producing light footwear
continued busy. At Stafford most of the factories were reported to be working full time
but employment in general was still slack. There was a decline at Norwich, largely in the
turnshoe section of the trade, and employment was only fair on the average; much short
time was worked. In the Bristol and Kingswood district employment was again slack,
and slightly worse than in March; extended holidays at Easter were general, and, when
the factories reopened, irregular short-time working was common.
in short-time working at Street, and employment on the whole declined; the factories
There was an increase
B


---
273
HOLIDAY (PROVISION) SCHEME AND OUTWORKERS.
Decision of the National Joint Standing Committee.
A Meeting of the National Joint Standing Committee was held on Tuesday,
28th ult.. to consider a case remitted to the Standing Committee dealing with
the Statement for Louis XV. Heel Work (London Wholesale Trade), as
follows:--
In January, 1925, the Standing Committee for the Statement for Louis
XV. Heel Work (London Wholesale Trade) considered a claim, which had
been made by the operatives concerned, in the following terms:--
"That the Holiday (Provision) Scheme under paragraph 9 of the
National Conference (September, 1924) Agreement, shall apply to out-
workers employed under the Statement for Louis XV. Heel Work (London
Wholesale Trade)."
The contention of the employers concerned was that the Holiday (Pro-
vision) Scheme is only applicable to indoor workers.
The question in issue involves the interpretation of paragraph 9 of the
National Agreement, September, 1924, and of the Holiday (Provision) Scheme
therein referred to, and the Board of Arbitration, being unable to reach agree-
ment, referred the whole matter to the National Joint Standing Committee
under paragraph 23 of the said National Agreement.
The said Joint Standing Committee met on 28th April, 1925, and heard
the representatives of the operatives and employers concerned.
The decision of the Committee is that, upon the proper interpretation of
paragraph 9 of the said National Agreement, the Holiday (Provision) Scheme
therein mentioned is applicable to operatives who are outworkers as well as
to those who are indoor workers.
It is not within the province of the National Joint Standing Committee to
give directions as to the manner in which employers should apply the Holiday
(Provision) Scheme to their particular operatives who are outworkers, but the
Committee would point out that the contribution of Is. 2d. provided in the
Scheme was originally based upon a weekly wage of 56s., which is equivalent
to one farthing in the Is. paid, and that this method of contribution, which
has already been adopted by some firms in respect of their outworkers, seems
to be a proper compliance with the requirements of the Scheme; subject
always to the proviso that there is no obligation upon either employer or
operative to contribute beyond the sum of Is. 2d. per week.
Neither is it within the powers of the National Joint Standing Committee
to determine the date from which their decision shall operate, but the Committee
suggest that in this case a convenient and equitable date would be on the
expiration of the forthcoming Whitsuntide holidays.
Dated this 30th day of April, 1925.
W. ADDINGTON WILLIS,
Chairman.


---
Here is the extracted text:
274
STREET.
A difference having arisen between Messrs. C. & J. Clark Ltd., of Street,
Somerset, and the Union, the Minister of Labour appointed Mr. W. Addington
Willis, C.B.E., under the Industrial Courts Act, 1919, as Arbitrator, to deter.
mine it. The Union was represented by the General President, Mrs. M. J.
Bell-Richards, and the local officials, the case being heard on the 23rd April,
1925.
The terms of reference were :-
"To fix payment for machining round openings or slots of upper.
(Closing Department)."
The Award of Mr. W. Addington Willis is set out hereunder :-
Upon the matter being investigated it became evident that the
difference was mainly due to a bona-fide misunderstanding as to what work
was intended to be included in the expression "openings."
With the consent of the parties I DETERMINE and AWARD as follows:-
PIECE RATES FOR MACHINING OPENINGS.
Per gross pairs of openings,
Child's. Ladies'.
s. d. s. d.
Opening as in New York Twin Bar .. 2 9 3 0
1 opening stitched separately .. 2 9 2 9
2 openings stitched together .. 2 6 2 6
3 or more openings stitched together .. 2 3 2 3
The above scale is not to apply to stitching collars or ornamental
stitching on vamp or quarter similar to :-
Inset One Bar. Bo-Peep Court.
Creole Court. Albany Bar variant J.K.
The two insertions in the front of the Creole Court Shoe Front are to
be paid at the rate of 234d. per 24 openings.
Dated this 8th day of May, 1925. (Signed) W. ADDINGTON WILLIS.
JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL.
The ninth meeting of the Joint Industrial Council for the Boot and Shoe
Industry was held on Tuesday, the 28th inst., at 7 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C. 1, Mr. T. F. Richards presiding.
Mr. T. F. Richards was elected President for the ensuing year, and Mr.
H. J. Bostock, J.P., Vice-President, with Miss Ruth Tomlinson and Mr. E. L.
Poulton, J.P., as Joint Secretaries.


---
Here is the extracted text:
SUDDEN DEATH OF OUR COLLEAGUE, MR. C. BLEAKLEY.
It is indeed with sorrow and very extreme regret we have to record
the passing away of our colleague, Mr. BLEAKLEY, in a very sudden
manner. Mr. Bleakley was in his usual health, when on the 17th
inst. he had a sudden attack of heart failure, resulting in his death within
one hour of the attack. This is indeed a blow to us, the more so on
account of its suddenness. Our colleague died "in harness," he being
engaged, right up to his passing away, in work on behalf of and for the
Union. Mr. Bleakley for many years gave of his best to the workers.
whether for our members or the wider sphere of the workers generally.
His death will leave a gap in the ranks of those who day in and day out
spend themselves in the movement for the benefit of mankind.
Mr. C. Bleakley was for 14 years a member of the Council, and we
always found him a staunch upholder of the workers' cause and deter-
mined to do all possible to help forward the work of the Union. We
tender to Mrs. Bleakley and the family our sincere and heartfelt sympathy
in this tragic loss which has befallen them. We know the pain and sorrow
must be increased by the suddenness of the loss. We trust that such
sorrow and pain may to some extent be lessened by the fact of the high
regard with which Mr. Bleakley was held by those who knew him for
his sterling value and worth.
POLITICAL.
Parliament is now in session ; one of the first things to be introduced
after reassembling was the Budget for the year 1925-6. All sorts of rumours
were about as to what the Budget would contain, and the relief it would give.
We venture to say from the standpoint of the workers, who form the over-
whelming majority of the inhabitants of the country, that it is a very consider-
able disappointment. Here and there may be found remissions of taxation,
but there is no radical change whereby real relief is given on the one hand,
and there is an absence of that feeling of securing of income for the workers
on the other. Those who pay
SUPER-TAX,
which obviously only refers to those who have most of the material wealth, will
have reductions ranging from 9d. in the £ on incomes £2,000 to £2,500; to 6d.
on incomes £10,000 to £15,000, but no change above that total; whilst on the
other hand, although named in the Budget that an Insurance and Old Age


---
Pension Scheme is to be introduced, the workers will be called upon to pay
then quota weekly. Numbers of publications have unhesitatingly called this
the "Rich Man's Budget."
The Labour Party in the House are doing what is possible day by day to
not the reactionary clauses of the Budget, and to make it if at all possible
tredoveptable to them, which means also to the great majority of the people
of this country. Their task is a very formidable one, because of the big majority
by which the present Government is backed up. It certainly seems to us a
powiat war of insuring that

"PEACE IN OUR TIME,"
which the Prime Minister pleaded for in a recent speech in the House of Com-
mons
For "peace to obtain in our time," which the Premier asked for,
clearly implies justice and equity being predominant, and such plans adopted
as will ensure help and assistance to those least able to help themselves. Take
for instance the vast army of unemployed in this country, and add to that
army the number of dependants upon them for their daily bread. We venture
say that these people will wonder where their relief comes in, and ask what
the Budget is to them in their task of striving day by day to find employment.
in this connection we would make special reference to the attitude of the
Government in regard to the
48-HOURS WEEK.
A Bill was brought in for its Second Reading on the 1st inst. by the Labour
Party upon the lines agreed at the Washington Convention in 1919, at any rate
so far as Great Britain is concerned. Everything was done by the Labour
Party to put the points before the House, and to call attention to the obliga-
tions entered into by this country; all were of no avail, because when the
vote was taken for the second reading there was a majority of 95 against.
We hope the members will not only take note of these things, but that
they will have the effect of acting as a spur and inspiration to continually
keep our point of view before the public, so that sooner, much sooner than
some anticipate, there may be a Government in power who will really deal
in a drastic manner with the conditions of the people of these islands.
WHY COSTS ARE HIGH.
We would also draw the serious attention of the members to the significant
statements recently appearing in the Press, that one of our great armament
firms have discovered a shell whereby the thickest armour on a Man-o'-War
can be penetrated. Thus it is not an unfair assumption that ere long we shall
have another campaign that many of our ships are obsolete, and we must have
new ones designed to resist this new propellant. Thus will the game of securing
implements of aggressive warfare and implements for defensive warfare go on.
This, added to the fact that the amount of money proposed to be spent on the
three Forces-Army, Navy and Air is considerably higher than last year, and


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

278
the interest on the National Debt is £305,000,000 annually – largely as a result
of past wars – it will be seen why industry is handicapped. When these heavy
burdens have to be carried with other burdens, it is not to be wondered at that
from time to time one hears the cry that "costs are too high." We agree
costs are too heavy, and once the Labour Party gets into power many of the
causes will be removed and capital set free to be used in such directions as will
increase the real purchasing power of the pound.

FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.

COUNCIL MEMBER FOR No. 9 DISTRICT.
Owing to the death of Mr. C. BLEAKLEY there is now a vacancy for Council
Member for No. 9 District. Nominations to fill the vacancy must be taken at
the June meeting night, and sent to reach the Central Office not later than the
15th prox.

HISTORY OF THE UNION.
There are still a number of copies of the "Fifty Years' History of the
Union " in stock, and members desirous of securing a copy should place their
orders at once. They can be purchased through the branch officers at 6d.
per copy, and all members desirous of learning about the work of the Union
should not fail to obtain a copy of this most interesting and valuable record
of the work of the Union.

THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same.
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.

TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that “Stamped
Returns


---
Here is the extracted text:
279
Footwear "should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only
Fitwear "
Union Stamped
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with ender. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
wash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
Yours fraternally,
We remain,
7. WHEELER.
T. E RICHARDS, Gon. President.
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
CRATES.
E. LAW
A. J. DOBBS.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
ALEX. SMITH.
1. P. POOLE.
J. MANNERS.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
What the "Shoe and Leather News" of 30th April, 1925, says upon
Banks. Extract from an Article:
"WHAT'S WRONG WITH TRADE?"
We are afraid that it is not too much to say that the banking interests of Britain are
using their now tremendous power for their own profit regardless of immediate trade
considerations.
It is a false policy and hard to understand even from the point of view of the bankers
themselves.
The power of the banks has become immense, and assumes something like a peril
to the whole commercial fabric.
They appear to have the Government-or, at any rate, the Exchequer, in their
pockets, and regardless of all intentions and efforts to nurse commerce back into health,
vitalise enterprise, and solve or allay unemployment, the banking interests are now
throttling trade.
Is there no way in which their selfish ramifications can be successfully thwarted ?
We imagine the Government-aware as they must be of the circumstances-have
this question seriously under consideration.
With more elastic credits and renewed confidence trade will, we believe, quickly again
get into its stride!
Commercial fate is at the moment in the laps of the gods (the banks and the
Exchequer). We hope they will be kind.
CO-OPERATIVE STAFFS IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES.
A statement appearing in the Swiss co-operative journal, Genossenschaftliches Volks-
Platt, gives the following figures as to the number of persons employed in co-operative
establishments:
England, Scotland, and Ireland, 181,042; Russia, 114,888; Germany, 40,859;
France, 46,469; Hungary, 20,683;
Belgium, 7.45 Unitedartes, 3,000; Denmark, 2,076; Finland, 1,515; Canada, 874;
Yugoslavia, 486; Bulgaria, 484; Poland, 405 Ukraine, 320; Latvia, 260; Esthonia,
210; Norway, 206; Roumania
altogether, 452,479. Co-operative News, 16th
Czecho-slovakia, 12,056; Switzerland, 8,456;
May, 1925.
82
C


---
280
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS
JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL. We have held, after a very lengthy lapse, another
meeting of the Joint Industrial Council, and the meeting again unanimously resolved to
press the Government for facilities to be given for the passing into law the power to permit
Employers' Federations and Trade Unions where both desire it— to have their Nationa
Voluntary Agreements (covering a reasonable portion of the Industry) pressed on a
alike in any one industry, including the auxiliary part of our industry where wages are
governing the trade. When it is remembered that a few years ago all these operations
were done inside the factory by many firms, who now buy them from the firms who speciali
in several instances (of which we are fully aware), far below the National Agreements
Congress, and as there are, as yet, several unions and opponents of this question, we hop
in some cases, in low wages, we expect to again get this resolution before the Trade Union
consider the matter, and the effect this would have has been very fully brought to m
to get a decision in our favour. Short of that the Ministry of Labour will not seriously
It was also agreed to redraft the resolution which calls
upon both bodies to be well organised and to get the employers to exhibit the same in the
Employers and Buyers to formulate a method to protect the trade from cheap labo
and Shoddy Footwear. These three points were referred to a sub-committee of both
various factories and departments, and the desirability for a conference with Federater
tariff in preference to the "most favoured nation" clause hitherto enjoyed by this countr
sides, to be appointed. A resolution was carried complaining of the South African
mind during the past month.
areas where plenty of cheap "green"
feel we are asking too much when we demand the whole of the National Terms at a tri
LEICESTER. We have two firms whose output is entirely auxiliary work, and the
when low-priced and cheap labour is being used by their competitors, who have chosen
labour is obtainable, and where trade unionism
at a discount. Even then hundreds of tons of stiffenings and counters are being sent here
from Canada and America. I have already written our good friend and American Countr
Mr. C. L. Baine, to give me, if he can, the conditions under which these goods are mad
The time is fast coming when we must deal only with fair houses, and utilise all our citizer.
ship to protect mankind from shoddy articles, shoddy wages and shoddy intellectua
Why need we make up or use articles not produced under proper conditions? A fair
wage contract clause for all goods made or used is a tall order, but why should we use
"sweated" counters? Why should our members make them up? WHY? One of
these firms is at present paying very poor wages; not three per cent. getting the correct
wages. We could easily put this firm in the pillory, but we must try all legitimate means
first. We have had to face the fact that already 10 per cent. of the employees have been
ischarged, because the firm say "bad trade." Our view is that the firm cannot continue
take orders at the old prices, hence the falling off of the amount of work.
Another firm at MARKET HARBOROUGH, after a week's organising, has seen fit to address
ne operatives and point out the "disadvantages" to them if they joined the Union.
As the employer is an old member of ours, I have written him asking if it is fair to tamper
with the liberty of the subject in preventing them from enjoying the benefits and advan-
tages he enjoyed when a member of ours, and also pointing out that no investment they
made, or could make, would give them as a good return as the joining of our Union. This
is the first time for a long period that we have had what may be described as open oppost-
tion, and as the labour is local, so much so, that if operatives are late, even when they have
come several miles, I am informed they are sent back for the day, and several small griev-
ances are in evidence.
BURTON-ON-TRENT. Here again is another auxiliary firm of heel builders, where the
labour is entirely local, and we are informed that some earnings are fair, but we have not
been able to make any impression at present, as it is highly desirable (with such places as
Eyam, Preston and Melbourne) to have some protection for the operatives in other centres.
MOUNTSORREL has again been visited, and at last, at one firm where we could not get
President. This will, I hope, enable the girls to join us who failed at the last moment
any consideration, we have a fairly good number of members, and have appointed a Shops
previously.
SILEBY. Our Secretary has again gone to a Convalescent Home in Northamptonshire.
and we hope to strengthen the Branch for him whilst away. We had a meeting outside
one of the factories and appointed a Shops President. Such a proceeding augurs well for
the future, because hitherto we had no such help at these firms.
STREET has demanded our attention and an Arbitration Meeting under the chairman-
ship of Mr. Addington Willis, respecting an extra for slots and insertions, has been held.
Mrs. Bell-Richards having had the matter in hand, put the case for the operatives, and
my duty was to put the National position. It was ultimately settled when a group of


---
members for organising purposes.
281
shoes, not seen before, were put upon the table, and the explanation made between slot
collars and insertions. During our stay we took advantage of holding a meeting of the
MANSFIELD has yet failed to meet our needs. The members seem rather disinterested
don't get all the conditions of these firms until some stranger arrives, and then only when
and all these weaknesses of members make it most difficult for officers and others. We
he is about to leave or has actually left, and has not helped us to put the firm in order.
LONDON EAST-END EMPLOVERS were met at a Whitechapel restaurant and several
promised to pay the Holiday Pay if we can persuade certain others who are their direct
competitors. Each firm puts up another firm he particularly wants to pay, and so it is
would be soon over; but we cannot depend upon the material here, and is another reason
a game of see-saw.
Had all the operatives been loyal members of our Union the trouble
why we want legal powers.
METROPOLITAN BRANCH meeting was like other branches, known best by those absent.
rather than those present, but of one thing, you always find at a London meeting plenty
of something said by the old members. who are not by any means either mobile or pro-
gressive. The Branch will have to act differently, and there will have to be some means
of demarcation in the difference between their present clicking stateinent and the cheap
shops. To begin with a "fourths" in London is twopence-halfpenny per dozen more
than Leicester best this in itself calls for treatment.
TRADE BOARD. Further meetings of the Board have been attended and found the
hamper them, and as we have more outside at stake than the Trade Board can give, we shall
Ministry still wavering on the lines of weakening to those employers who feel the Boards
not be hampered or hindered by what this body may do. If we find it necessary to advise
the Council to withdraw our delegates we shall not hesitate.
SUPERANNUATION. A sub-committee was appointed and they have considered this
Guestion and have a report to make. The Council can only consider the matter in the
Light of submitting a scheme to the Branches or the next Conference of the Union, to be
held next year. Something better than the present custom of grants ought to be made.
Buy the Daily Herald and show any of our shopmates that if any man wants to
improve his mind he cannot do better than buy the Herald, although the "Red Letter"
puzzle is still unsolved.
If our members would encourage Trade Union Stamped Footwear in their homes
Trade Unionism would in our trade be stronger.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
Yours fraternally,
KENTISH TOWN, LONDON, N.W.5.
19th May, 1925.
4.Mihards
General President.
LEAGUE OF NATIONS UNION.
Forms of Application for Corporate Membership may be obtained from 15 Grosvenor
Crescent, London, S.W. I. Individuals of branches are admitted as Corporate Members
of the League of Nations Union at an annual subscription of £1.
The objects of the Union are :-
1. To secure the whole-hearted acceptance by the British people of the League of
Nations as the guardian of international right, the organ of international co-operation,
the final arbiter in international differences, and the supreme instrument for removing
injustices which may threaten the peace of the world.
2. To foster mutual understanding, goodwill, and habits of co-operation and fair
dealing between the peoples of different countries.
3. To advocate the full development of the League of Nations so as to bring about
such a world organisation as will guarantee the freedom of nations, act as trustee and
guardian of backward races and undeveloped territories, maintain international order,
and finally liberate mankind from the curse of war.


---
```text
282
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. Our trade still remains bad, and there seems little chance
of its recovering any this year. All over our little township things are bad, and
the lack of purchasing power has its reflex in this fashion. The Employment
Exchange figures at the end of the month show 1,030 claimants drawing benefit
for total unemployment, with 199 working short time. The number affected
altogether must be very large, and such a shrinkage of the power to buy has a
very bad effect on the market. That, of course, is not the only factor which is
keeping our factories in a stagnant condition. People still require footwear,
and it is a curious revelation after inquiry to find local people buying outside
makes instead of patronising factories nearer home. Not that people will
ever allow their choice to be interfered with to any great extent, but it would
seem only a matter of drawing their attention to the matter, to get a fairly
and in spite of general sympathy with the poor shoe-working fraternity, the
large measure of support for a local industry. This does not work out, however,
public in this quarter make little or no attempt to help the trade by concen-
trating their demand on local products. Of course manufacturers would need
to play the game in return, and give full value in return, even if that varies
not fixed too high. Many of the sample lines seen up here are cheap enough,
but have a style and finish equal to the best, so when manufacturers attempt
to imitate they should aim at what compares equally and not waste time and
money on a copy of a style vitiated by a wrong choice of materials for the
purpose. Coarse-grained inferior leathers never lose their appearance or
cheapness, and however well made will repel a customer, whereas the same
customer may, as like as not, be tempted by something just as cheap but which
has been chosen with this elementary understanding of psychology uppermost.
We are always hoping for this kind of insight and acumen on the part of local
employers, to come to the rescue of our members, and so provide them periods of
employment. Last month we wrote of some methods of getting orders, and we
sometimes wonder how it would do for a manufacturer to produce several
thousands of a cheap line with an attractive appearance, and then let them be
disposed of by means of "bargain sales" in populous country districts. Every
now and again shops are opened by strangers who have large consignments
of cheap boots and shoes to sell, and it is an object lesson to see the stocks
dwindle. We have seen this happen even when the stocks were of the trashiest
description, and we could imagine an honest, all-leather line meeting with
similar success. As an auxiliary form of trading we recommend this to our
manufacturers, and even although little profit was realised, it might keep the
machinery running fuller time, and keep men from rusting in idleness. It may
not seem so dignified a business as the present production for the ordinary
market, but what it lost in dignity it might compensate for in sales. At present
all those skilled workers are walking the streets for two-thirds of a working week,
and any effort would be justified which absorbed their labour power to the full,
even in the way of producing and hawking alternately.
BELFAST.—Trade is in a very bad state at present, without the least
sign of improvement.
CHESHAM.—Trade here is still very slack, and at present very little
sign of improvement.
CHESTERFIELD.—Some of our members unemployed, and some of our
shopmates are only making 21 hours per week.
CORK.—Trade continues to remain good.
DERBY.—Trade in Derby continues fair, but we still have many shoe
operatives out of work, and we continue to have a very heavy sick list.
```

---
DESBOROUGH.Trade with us is very bad, most of our members being
on very short time. On Saturday, 18th April, the Northants District Council
held their quarterly meeting at Desborough, when the General President.
Mr. T. F. Richards, gave an address on "Should National Agreements be
Legalised?" Mr. Richards gave a very good and thoughtful address, advancing
many arguments in his usual able manner. A good discussion followed, with a
majority of the delegates in favour of legislation.

We regret to report the death of Mr. R. M. Sanders, the first secretary
of the Desborough Branch. It was largely due to his untiring efforts
that a branch of the Union was formed here in 1893. Mr. Sanders was a
man of great ability, and served the town well in many ways. His wife
pre-deceased him by only two days, and both were buried at the same
time, on Thursday, 14th May. We extend our sincere sympathy to the
family who have so suddenly been doubly bereaved.

EDINBURGH. - Trade in the Repairing Section has been farly good
during the past month. New workers, however, are still doing short time.
We have now concluded negotiations with the Yuot Manufacturing Co. They
have agreed to put our Minimum Rate of Wages into operation on an agreed
date. This may seem very little progress, but when it is considered that until
recently the firm did not allow their operatives the right to join up into the
Union, some progress has at least been made, again showing how needful it
is for all workers to be organised. Another successful meeting of the Scottish
Advisory Committee has been held. If for no other purpose than the exchange
of views which take place this Committee is justified. Now about organising.
There is certainly in some of the Scottish districts a good field whereby our
organisers could work. Of course, we notice by the Monthly Report that our
organisers are nearly all employed in the London area, which, we believe,
needs them, but some might be spared for other districts which also need
wakening up. We had one of the best May Day Demonstrations held on
3rd May under the auspices of the Local Committee. It takes some time to
get the worker to understand that May Day is his day; but when once it has
dawned there is no going back. One is pleased to see how the younger members
of the movement are adhering to this annual festival. Congratulations to our
colleague, Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., on his report of the Food Commission.
GLASGOW. Trade with us is fair, but some of the factories are having
a very lean time, scarcely working alternative weeks. Although the month
has been very wet the shoe trade shows little activity. Our sick expenditure
is a little high for the month.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.-Trade during the month has fallen off
considerably. At Bozeat Messrs. Drage & Sons have discharged the whole of
their staff, about 170, most of them residing in Bozeat, but a large number at
Olney (in the Wellingborough Branch); also in surrounding villages. Hopes
are entertained that the firm will be able to come to a satisfactory arrangement
with their creditors, whereby the firm may recommence early in May and
re-engage at least two-thirds of their old employees. At Finedon trade remains
very slack, a large number still being unemployed, with no immediate hope of
work. Higham Ferrers and Irthlingborough are about normal. In Rushden
a slight increase in the unemployed lists. Wollaston trade is very poor. We
are informed at the local Labour Exchange that two to three hundred are
drawing Government Unemployment Pay owing to (1) working part time,
and (2) standing off. Raunds is fairly well off, except for the usual unemploy-
ment common to this section: in other words, it is usual for certain unemploy-
ment between Easter and Whitsuntide in respect to Government work, but
it is much better than last year. We wonder why these Departments do not


---
```text
284
take over some factories in this area where the men have a life-long training
in Army, Navy and Crown Colony work, and keep the men regularly employed
all the year round, particularly because they know very nearly what are the
annual requirements of these Departments. It would regularise employment
there and not only make the livelihood of the employees more secure, but
make, we believe, of greater efficiency.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. - Trade very quiet, unemployment
general, sickness prevalent.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S. - We have to report that unemployment is
increasing, also several members on suspension. The case of the woman in
the Heel Building Department, which is in accordance with the National
Agreement, came before the Local Arbitration Board, who have referred it
to the National Standing Joint Committee for interpretation and decision.
This Branch have decided to send its Secretary, Miss Muir, to Geneva with the
League of Nations Union party. We are surprised that our branches, and
General Council, have not taken advantage of this cheap organised trip to give
to its members first-hand information, on the constitution and value for
(otherwise) of the Labour Office of the League of Nations. We regret to hear of
Mr. C. Bleakley's sudden death, and send our condolences to his family, and
all the fellow members in Scotland.
LIVERPOOL. - The boot repairing trade is steadily improving. Those of
our members who are fortunate enough to get annual holidays with pay are
taking them in relays, as we are not like manufacturing districts in the matter
of closing down; repairing shops are always open except on statutory holidays.
Since writing up our last report we have had the Budget presented to us with
the usual rhetoric eloquence, and whilst we admit there are some good points
in the scheme which will ultimately benefit the workers, yet at the same time
we have to confess to an antipathy against swallowing the Protectionist medi-
cine that is given with it, notwithstanding the thick sugar coating of the remedy.
MAYBOLE. - Trade is very slack but sickness light. It is generally
rumoured that there is better times in store in the course of a few weeks. We
hope this is true as the people in this district have had a very bad time. We
look forward to a spell of good work, when we hope to try and organise the
Branch to what it should be.
NORWICH NO. 2. - Mrs. Segon (widow of our late President, F. H. Segon)
and family have asked me to thank (through the medium of our Report) all
those Branches who contributed towards the appeal issued on her behalf,
also for the kind expressions of sympathy from those branches who were not
in a position to send any financial help. The following is the complete list
and amount sent:-
The Council
Arbroath
£ s. d.
50 0 0
£ s. d.
5 0 0
London Metro.
Bromsgrove
I I 0
Leeds No. I
1 0 0
Bristol No. 2
0 10 0
Maybole
0 10 0
Chesham
2 5 0
Northampton No. I
2 0 0
Derby
I 0 0
Northampton No. 2
2 2 0
Desborough
0 10 0
Norwich No. I
10 0 0
Edinburgh
I I 0
Norwich No. 2
27 0 0
Higham and Rushden
I 0 0
Stafford
I I 0
Kettering No. 1
2 2 0
Street
I 0 0
Kettering No. 2
2 2 0
Wellingborough
I 0 0
Kilmarnock
2 2 0
Worcester
1 0 0
Kingswood
I 0 0
Wolverhampton
0 10 0
Kendal
I 1 0
Collected by Norwich No. I
32 4 10
Leicester Women's
0 10 0
Norwich No. 2
46 16 3
"
Leicester No. I
5 0 0
Leicester No. 2
5 0 0
TOTAL
..£210 8 7
```

---
285

NORWICH. No improvement in trade during month.
PLYMOUTH. We regret to report sickness and unemployment unusually
heavy while short time still continues. This leads us to view the new Pensions
Bill of the Government from a different angle to many of our fellow workers
throughout the country, for while we feel that insurance against old age,
sickness and unemployment are most admirable schemes for those with a living
wage and fixed or secured incomes, we must say that the future cannot be
faced without a good deal of anxiety and perturbation by our members, whose
wages from week to week are an unknown and unreliable quantity. Many of
our members are asking this simple, yet difficult question:
How shall I live"?
Fivepence health insurance, sevenpence unemployment, now another fourpence
halfpenny for old age insurance; total one shilling and sixpence halfpenny.
This must be paid how short the time worked or how small the wage earned;
then the landlord must be paid, the grocer, the tailor, the butcher, and a host
where does the strong arm of the law come in to enforce a living wage for the
of others, or the strong arm of the law is brought in to enforce payment; but
worker on short time unable to swim against the tide? Are all the powers
that be going to be brought in, to draw money from a working-man's pocket
that has never been placed therein? No wonder the workers are scratching
their heads and swearing in unknown tongues. Is it not time we were assured
of a living for the present? Will someone get an amendment into this new
Pensions Bill, exempting from payment any worker not receiving a living wage?
Certainly this is not impossible, seeing that for many years it has been found
practicable to exempt persons from paying income tax with an income of £250
per annum.
STREET. There is no improvement in the state of trade and very
irregular time is being worked in consequence. We are pleased to be able to
say that a dispute which had arisen over closing prices is now satisfactorily
settled. It was submitted to Arbitration with Mr. Addington Willis as Umpire.
An agreement, however, was finally arrived at by the employers consenting
to give the price which we originally asked for the particular shoe in dispute.
We had the assistance of our General President and Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards,
and we are grateful to them for the help given. A meeting of members, which
was addressed by Mr. and Mrs. Richards, was not so well attended as we would
have liked, but it was none the less a most useful meeting, and the information
given, together with a strong appeal for loyalty among members, is bound to
bring a closer adherence to Union policy.
WATERFORD.-Trade continues fair.
WELLINGBOROUGH.-Trade seems to have taken wings, unemploy-
ment in the town and district covered by the branch being simply awful.
GREAT YARMOUTH.-Trade in Great Yarmouth is very slow.

RESTRICTING FOOD SUPPLIES TO RAISE PRICES.-CA CANNY.

The Agricultural Correspondent of the Times (11/5/25) says:-
"IT WILL PAY TO SACRIFICE PART OF THE OUTPUT IN ORDER THAT THE MARKETS
ONE
WILL NOT BE SO DEPRESSED BY OVER-SUPPLY AS TO LOWER PRICES UNDULY.
HEARS VIEWS OF THIS DESCRIPTION UTTERED RESPECTING SUCH PRODUCTS AS POTATOES,
FRUIT, GREEN VEGETABLES, MILK AND OTHER PERISHABLE ARTICLES.
THE FARMER IS ONLY ACTING IN CONFORMITY WITH OTHER CLASSES OF PRODUCERS
AND TRADERS."

A bright system, isn't it, in which foodstuffs are deliberately destroyed in order to
maintain scarcity prices. In the midst of plenty the people perish. - Forward, 16th
May, 1925.


---
286
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.

After the Council meeting last month we had a meeting with the Federated
employers, and I have hopes that as a result of this that the resolution of January, 1920,
will be made stronger and more definite from the employers' side in regard to putting
notices in every department of their factories on the importance of operatives joining
The work of organising in Leicestershire has been carried on during the month
Mr. W. R. Smith and myself. At Syston we held three meetings and followed these
Short time hampered our efforts here. At Rothley
we had the same difficulty, but one good meeting was held, with the result that several
the National Union.
by visiting shops in the evening.
names were given to the Shop President of Willett's.

At the firm of Pick's, Whetstone, we met the employees on leaving for dinner and
warned them for a meeting later. They responded in good numbers, and Mr. Smith had
the opportunity of making a good case for joining the Union. A few members were made
here, and the Shop President had more promises.

At Cosby we had a good meeting at the firm of Tomlinson & Barsby. At S. Starmer's
we spoke to every man employed, and found they were nearly all non-members. If the
most successful meeting held in this snug little place was held close to A. Starmer's and
men act on the promises given to us there will be a change here after the holidays. The
Cooper & Co.; nearly all employed at the two firms returned from dinner in good time
and Mr. Smith had a fine opportunity given which he used to advantage.

There is a good feeling towards the Union at Cosby on the employers' side, and the
agreements are observed. The local Secretary is active and attentive in his work for the
Section, so there is no excuse for any man or woman here to be outside the Union. I
believe the same to be true of Whetstone and Rothley. Syston is different. There are
two firms here where conditions are not satisfactory. The very short time being worked
at the two shops in mind told against us in effectively insisting on the operatives demanding
all they are entitled to.

With the rest of my colleagues on the Council, I express my sincere regret at the
sudden unexpected death of Mr. C. Bleakley. For twenty-five years I was acquainted
with Mr. Bleakley. He was an ardent trade unionist and a true friend.

D. MCCARTHY.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
The first week of the past month was spent in the London area, where further efforts
were made to strengthen our position. Following upon the agreement reached with some
employers in regard to the Holiday Scheme, a number of other firms were visited with the
view of extending the understanding so far as this part of the Terms of Settlement are
concerned. It can truthfully be said that it is not lack of pressure from the Union that
is the cause of any failure to establish these conditions, but where obstinacy on the part
of employers is linked up with indifference of the operatives, the task is not an easy one.
It is up to us to find out some other method of compelling observance. I am persuaded
this can be done, and I trust a rude awakening may be the lot of those manufacturers who
fail in their obligation to the industry.

A meeting of the operatives at Wachman's was held to see how far it was possible to
to use our organised strength to the advantage of our members there. But there appears
to be great difficulty in obtaining that real trade union spirit among many of the operatives.
At all these meetings much of our time is taken up by attempts to stiffen up the workpeople
to an attitude of manliness and self-respect regarding factory conditions. We keep on
in this work in the hope that some day our efforts will bear fruit.

From London I proceeded to the Leicester district for work in the county area.
The Leicester branches had taken steps to make the efforts of Mr. McCarthy and myself
as successful as possible. The No. 1 Branch being more affected in these places, had
arranged for us to get to work without delay, and a number of meetings have been held
at Syston, Rothley, Whetstone and Cosby.

The state of trade has not made our work easy, as on one or two occasions the standing
off of the operatives prevented the meetings being held, and at others fewer were present
than otherwise would have been the case. But on the whole the work has been productive
of good, and I am persuaded that increased membership will follow.

The position in these areas is very interesting. There is so far as we can judge not any
great evasion of our conditions, nor is there any opposition to the operatives becoming
members of the Union, as one found in some instances direct encouragement rather than
otherwise to the operatives becoming members of our organisation.

There has been a readiness on the part of the workpeople to come back earlier, whereby
a reasonable chance is available for a meeting. On one occasion we had a full 15 minutes


---
287
talk, which gave an opportunity to state our case with greater fullness than is usual at
dinner-hour meetings. There is a little stubbornness on the part of some which it is our
task to break down, and by return visits to these particular places we hope to succeed in
time.
Our claim on these operatives is a strong one. It is obvious that in these small places
had our Union not exercised its influence, the conditions would have been far below what
they are to-day. The whole standard of comfort has been raised, a new outlook on life
has been made possible, and the original idea of some of the firms that went into the
country from the town to escape our conditions has been frustrated. The notion that
these firms now compete unfairly with the larger centres is somewhat dispersed by the
state of trade at many of them.
In conjunction with the Executive Council 1 attended a meeting of the Joint Industrial
Council. The various items on the agenda were dealt with, and the one that in my judg-
ment is of the utmost importance to ourselves, and indeed also to the employers, was dealt
with on lines that one hopes, if pressed on firm and wise lines, should be productive of
observance of our National Agreements. It is an obligation that should be accepted
much good. It is obviously the duty of both sides to use all their powers to secure the
fully and completely, and if the best minds are brought to bear upon the matter, I am
convinced a way will be found that will strengthen our position as an industry, and our
methods of procedure will be further justified.
Another attempt has been made with the Pressroom Statement at Norwich, the
employer concerned having recovered from his recent illness, and we hope that the next
few weeks may see something fixed that will be of help and advantage to our members
in that area.
I trust I may be pardoned a reference to my report as a member of the Royal Commis-
sion on Food Prices. I greatly appreciate the decision of the Executive Council to print
same in the Monthly Report. It has meant a somewhat strenuous effort, and one can
only hope that it may open up a line of thought which will be productive of good in the
not too distant future. I am fully persuaded that in this question, like many others, we
have reached a stage when drastic steps are essential for our national purpose. Conditions
are changing daily; almost at any time this country may find itself dependent for 50 per
cent. of its fresh meat supplies upon a foreign monopoly. If that monopoly uses its power
to enrich its shareholders, what would be the result here?
Again, in all the large food-producing countries, the producer is organising to protect
himself; this specially applies to the Dominions. This can only be met by an organisation
of consumers, not on lines of antagonism, but on lines of co-operation, and how can the
consumers organise here unless it is through the State, not on bureaucratic lines, but on
sound business principles, in the interests of the whole people. I hope this question will
be well thought out. I should be pleased to help in any way to further explain the
policy I have submitted in my report.
WALTER R. SMITH.
23rd May, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
During the past month we have been engaged in the London District. We made
a special attempt to hold a conference with a number of employers, who have recently
been expelled from the London Federation; unfortunately there was not so good a response
as we anticipated. The General President presided over the conference, and explained
the National Agreement, with special reference to the adoption of the Holiday Fund.
After a lengthy discussion the firms represented agreed to give the matter their considera-
tion, and a definite promise was made that those present would agree to adopt the Holiday
Fund. As a result, the following firms agreed to adopt the fund from 4th May, 1925:
Wachman's, Chissick & Kirschenstein's, Krietman's, Mindle's, and Mintz's. There are
still a number of firms who refuse to adopt the Scheme, and appear to adopt an hostile
attitude. In this respect the two most prominent firms that are causing us a great deal of
trouble are H. & S. Solomon's, and Lipman's, and who are no doubt using their influence,
that is determining the action of others. Very serious intimidation is taking place in the
firm of H. & S. Solomon, with reference to the men and women joining the Union, which
very seriously intensifies our position. But despite the attitude of the firm, we make
frequent visits to the operatives, who under these circumstances are very indifferent to
the Union, which has mainly been brought about as a result of the interference and threats
of the firm if men joined the Union.
We have had a dispute with the firm of N. Bloom. One of the men had been dis-
missed, and instructions were issued to the men not to resume work until the firm had been
seen. The whole of our members responded to our appeal, and after a lengthy interview
with the firm an agreement was arrived at, whereby the man would be reinstated. As
a result the men resumed work, and things are running quite satisfactory again. We have
made very special efforts to organise the women in a number of firms, where the whole of
D


---
Here is the extracted text:

288
their general attitude is one that needs some understanding. Here you have firms where
the men are members. The position of women in London is far from satisfactory, and
the women are enjoying the conditions obtained for them by the Union, but fail to respond
by recognising their obligations. Though our efforts have been very persistent, we have
not made that progress which we desire. With regard to the women working at non-
federated firms, the wages are deplorable, but some excuse is forthcoming in their case
for not becoming members, because in these firms a good number of the men are not
members, and as they quite readily state, how can you expect us to join when the men
are not members? The position of the women in these firms is indeed a tragedy, and is
intensely pathetic to us in meeting them, and hearing of the conditions under which they
work, and reveals one of the sad features of our commercial system.
Levine's, Wachman's, Polikoff's, Lipman's, Kempton & Brandon's, Cunnington's, M
We have met the operatives working at the following firms Jackson & Joseph's,
Solomon's, Phillips', McAffee's, I. Webber's, Lazarus', Hyam's, Melrose's, Meltzer's.
meet them at the factory gates. Trade at many of these firms is exceedingly busy at the
In some cases we have had evening meetings, but chiefly we find it to our advantage to
the local branch in negotiating with several firms in adjusting prices according to changing
time, and we are making some progress, but not so rapid as we desire. We have assisted
conditions. In some cases the operatives have been met, and full information obtained
that has enabled us to claim advantages for our members in conformity to our Agreement.
between them, which often upsets our calculations, and infrequently we find that some
In our frequent meetings with the operatives, a serious want of confidence exists
and when they have discovered it then complain to the Union. We continually appeal
to them for a closer co-operation in the respective departments, believing that until we
get that fuller understanding our efforts will be in vain. When we have been able to get
employers adopt the attitude of acting with the men very often to their disadvantage,
experience great difficulty with regard to getting the men to attend the meetings, and it is
effect so long as they continue to persevere with their organisation. In some firms we
the confidence of the men, good results have followed, and will no doubt have a permanent
only by personal contact that we can get in touch with them, which is our general policy
to build up a position until a favourable opportunity occurs to deal with any firm.
We are not satisfied with either the conditions here or our membership, but our visits are
We have again visited St. Albans, where we met the operatives working at J. Joyner's.
on recent meetings with the operatives at Lea & Son's, we had an interview with the firm.
having some effect, though a great need exists for an improved membership. Following
It appears that owing to new designs in the Clicking department, a difficulty had arisen
with references to prices. The firm quite readily agreed there was a need for some readjust-
ment, and expressed surprise that no complaint had been received from the men. After
considering the whole position it was agreed on certain basic figures, and with regard to the
fancy work, that the firm negotiate with a committee representative of the men. As a
result of this interview, it was very apparent that the men should show a little more spirit,
as the firm indicated their desire to meet the men on any occasion, in order to adjust
prices to meet changing circumstances.

J. H. BAUM.
LEN. SMITH.

VALUE OF CO-PARTNERSHIP.

Co-partnership as an influence in smoothing some of the ripples on the industrial
surface was considered, yesterday, at Pinoli's Restaurant, where one of the monthly
lunches of the Labour Co-partnership Association was held.
Commander P. Harrington Edwards, who presided, made appropriate reference to
the death of Viscount Leverhulme, whose memory was honoured in silence. He proceeded
to express the view that if you scratched a profiteer you would discover that the Bolshevik
did less harm. The majority of employers in this country sought, he said, the welfare
of their workers. It might be snobbish to say so, but he had a cousin, who was the grand-
son of a Duke, and another cousin who was drawing the dole. That, he thought, indicated
questharacter of
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P. (secretary of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives
and a member of the council of the International Labour Office) said the office aimed at
giving Britain further opportunities for making headway, not at the expense of other people,
but with other peoples working alongside in a common effort for the salvation of mankind.
from the point of view of the peoples of the world instead of the nations of the world.
spot in the early industrial stages of Britain. The International Labour Office worked
The study of history should enable nations to avoid the mistakes which formed a black
Miss Hilda Dutch thought that the Prime Minister's parties to Labour representatives
would prove helpful to settlement in industry. - Daily Telegraph, 14th May, 1925.


---
289
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
HOURS OF INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT BILL (OTHERWISE
THE 48 HOURS WEEK BILL).
MR. BUCHANAN, on 1st May, 1925, on behalf of the Labour Party, moved "that the
Bill be now read a second time."
Mr. Buchanan recited the many reasons why such a Bill should become law and
pointed out amongst other arguments the following:-
"It is somewhat appropriate that I, being the Member for Gorbals, should move
this Bill, because it was my predecessor, Mr. George N. Barnes, who was largely the designer
and the pioneer of this particular Measure. It was he who was selected by the Coalition
Government of 1918-22 as their delegate to the Washington Conference, and it is important
that the House should remember that not only did he go there prepared himself to support
and vote for the 48 Hours Bill, but that, in a speech which he made in this House in 1921,
he laid it down, further, that not only did he do that as the supporter of the Bill himself,
but that he was instructed by the then Government to vote for this convention. After
the War, there was a great feeling in this country, as, indeed in most countries, that, seeing
that the War had come on, seeing that there had been a fellowship of the trenches and of
employer and employed, there ought to be in every country some universal recognition
of the working-class effort during the period of that War. Therefore, we had, immediately
after the War, all kinds of schemes, Whitley Councils and others, designed to improve to
some extent the conditions of the people. One of the outcomes was the Washington
Conference itself, and at that Conference one of the pledges and promises made to the
people by the Coalition Government at that time to the men who had been in the Army,
to the men who were returning to industrial occupations in particular-was that the
convention regarding a 48 hour week would be carried into effect.
MR. KIRKWOOD seconded. He pointed out amongst other points the deplorable
state of the Engineering Industry, and reminded the House of the statement of Mr. Lloyd
George during the War :-
"If you give us your ability as an engineer to finish the War, never will the conditions
that prevailed before the War exist after the War, because we are going to make this a
land fit for heroes to live in."
A number of other speakers followed both for and against the Bill.
SIR A. STEEL-MAITLAND (Minister for Labour), on behalf of the Government, opposed
the Bill, basing his main arguments upon difficulties of enforcement and other countries
interpreting Conventions differently from ourselves, and therefore, they, the Govern-
ment, could not agree to support the proposal.
MR. T. SHAW (ex-Minister for Labour), strongly supported the Bill, and stated among
many points in favour of the Bill the following :-
We were told at the outset of the discussion that this was a political Bill; that it was
introduced for political purposes. The Bill is a reprint of the Bill which I introduced
when I was sitting on the Benches opposite, and it is now introduced by the same party
that introduced it from the Benches opposite, and is the Washington Convention as
arranged by Government draughtsmen. The Washington Convention was promised to
us by a Government which was not a Labour Government, and which had in its Cabinet a
number of Members belonging to the party to which the hon. Member belongs. We
were told we ought to use our influence with other workers on the Continent before coming
here and asking for this Measure. I have said without hesitation, and with knowledge
of what I am saying, that the relative position of the Continental worker as compared with
ours now, is infinitely better from our point of view and from theirs than it was in 1913-14,
that the difference in extra hours worked on the Continent is infinitely less now than it
was before the War broke out.
It is a question of honour. When we talk about an Englishman's word being his bond,
what do we mean? Is this declaration in the Treaty of Peace an Englishman's word or
is it not? I use the word "English" because it is often used on the Continent when the
term ought to be "British." When the Conference took place at Washington, the Govern-
ment representatives actually accepted this Convention.
Nobody expected in Washington, certainly not the Labour representatives, that
there would be any question about this word being kept, that there would ever be a question
of men's words being regarded merely as scraps of paper. Then there were the employers'
representatives. They consented to the Convention, and when they came home the
employers raised no objection to their having done so. Now the employers turn round,
and, apparently, they want to break their word to the workers and to scrap the Con-
vention.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

290

If you want peace in industry, if you want peace in the country, can you have peace
with a body of people who do not believe your word? I regret to say that there are
hundreds of thousands of workers who will not accept the word of the Government or the
word of the employer, and a thing like this is calculated to add fuel to that flame.
Despite all the efforts of the Labour Members and their pointing out what was pro
mised and done at Washington, the vote resulted as follows:
For second reading
Against second reading
::
::
128
223

[Thus, once more, a Government has turned down one of the important measures
which in a time of great industrial tension they led the workers to believe they would
carry out. It is no wonder that some of the people lose heart and faith, and say str
things against politicians. Nevertheless, we must keep alive the interest in this and other
vital measures, resting assured if we steadily refuse to be turned aside from our airs
we shall achieve those objects we set out to attain. E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
HOURS OF LABOUR (FOREIGN STATISTICS).
MR. BENNETT asked the Minister of Labour the hours of labour worked in the twelv
most important industries of the United States, France, Germany and Italy ?
MR. BETTERTON: The following statement embodies such information as is availab
with regard to working hours in the principal industries in the countries referred to
1.—UNITED STATES.

Average full-time hours per week in certain principal industries on 15th May, 1924.†
BUILDING.
Bricklayers
Carpenters
Painters
Plasterers
Plumbers
Structural Ironworkers
Labourers
44.0
44.0
42.8
43.7
44.0
44.0
44.6
METAL AND ENGINEERING.
Boilermakers
Fitters
Ironmoulders
Patternmakers
Foundries
Machine Shops
46.4
46.8
47.2
45.7
42.4
50.8
TEXTILE.
Cotton Goods Manufacturer
CLOTHING.
Men's Garments
Boots and Shoes (factories)
TRANSPORT.
Motormen, teamsters and drivers
Dock Workers
PAPER AND PULP
PRINTING.
Book and Job
Newspaper
LUMBER, SAWMILLING, &C.
FOOD PREPARATION.
Bakers
Slaughtering and Meat Packing
53.0
44.1
49.0
57.1
48.3
51.3
44.4
45.4
58.1
47.6
48.7

* The particulars for foundries and machine shops, lumber and saw milling, paper
and pulp, and slaughtering and meat packing relate to the year 1923; those for cotton
goods manufacture and boots and shoes to the early months of 1924; those for men's
garment making to June-August, 1924.


---
293
services and freights. In my view the purchase by public authorities of essential food-
stuffs is likely to increase as the hardships of insecure food supplies and the benefits of
State action become more generally appreciated. This is an additional reason for urging
the establishment of an international economic commission
provide machinery for co-operative action on the part of the organisations that may be
set out by different nations for the purchase of foodstuffs. I think it essential that the
creation of interstate machinery should keep pace with the development of State activity.
Recommendations.
1. - The Government should take over responsibility for the supplies and prices of
the Food of the people of this country.
There should be regular publication of the stocks of meat in cold storage.
The import of wheat and flour should be centralised in the hands of a Statutory
Import Board acting on behalf of the whole community.
4-The import of meat should be similarly centralised.
The recommendations of the Bridgman and Macrosty Committees in regard to
the public acquisition of freezing works in South America by this country be carried out.
trades concerned, normally holding appointment for a term of years and presided over
6 - The Meat and Wheat Import Boards should be constituted of experts in the
by the Minister in charge of the appropriate department of State, who should be responsible
to Parliament for the general policy of the Boards.
7.-The Milling Industry should be formed into a Statutory Corporation in which
the present Millowners would hold Debentures, the Government holding the majority
of the ordinary shares.
8-Local authorities should have power to open Municipal Bread and Meat shops,
and to require the licensing of retailers within their areas.
9.-A Food Council should be established strongly representative of working-class
consumers, to examine and report upon prices and profits in the food trades, and to assist,
in co-operation with the Board of Trade, in the application to those trades of any general
legislation regarding industrial combines.
10.-The British Government should take the initiative in seeking to secure the
establishment of a standing international economic commission under the League of
Nations, whose duty it would be to examine the operations of international combines,
handling or transporting food supplies and to suggest measures for their control.
On the 9th inst., the Daily Herald, in dealing with the matter, said:
"much dis-
In Government circles, it is reported, very little is expected to result from the report
of the Food Prices Commission. At this, it is added, the Government is
appointed." But that we take to be merely the decent hypocrisy which convention
demands.
For the plain fact is that the Commission was set up in order to avoid doing anything,
and in order to provide seemly excuses for doing nothing. That is, indeed, the normal
function of Royal Commissions.
And had it not been for Mr. Walter Smith, this Commission would have fulfilled to
perfection the purpose of its creators, for the majority recommendations are at once feeble
and futile. If what these contain were all that could be suggested, any Government
would be justified in deciding that it was not worth while to do anything.
Fortunately, Mr. W. R. Smith (late Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agri-
culture) was on the Commission. And, like the minority on the Poor Law Commission
16 years ago, he has produced a report which is not evasive, but constructive, offering
definite proposals for dealing with the evils revealed by the examination. It is Mr. Smith's
report which holds the field, which alone deserves serious consideration, and which the
Government must not be allowed to ignore without showing adequate and convincing
reason.
UNION MEMBERS RETURNED TO PUBLIC BODIES, MARCH-APRIL, 1925.
HIGHAM & RUSHDEN
..
WELLINGBOROUGH
U.D.C. and Board of Guardians.
Mr. Arthur C. Allen, of Irthlingborough, elected Chairman of
Urban District Council.
Mr. W. Langley, J.P.
Mr. A. Groom.
Mr. W. A. Wyman.
---

---
of Ruskin College.
294
RUSKIN COLLEGE, OXFORD.
A Scholarship for Women.
Women actively engaged in Trade Union, Co-operative, Labour Party or similar
work are invited to make application for a Scholarship offered by the Governing Council
on 5th October next and ending on roth July, 1926, and will be of the value of £135 1300
College fees, inclusive of board, lodging and tuition, and £35 for the student's persona
This Scholarship will be tenable at Ruskin College for the College year beginning
The Scholarship will be awarded as a result of an examination to be taken locally
expenses).
on Friday, 31st July, 1925.
Forms of application and further particulars may be obtained from F. Smith, Secre
Candidates should be between the ages of 20 and 35.
tary, Ruskin College, Oxford, not later than 1st July.
Three hours are allowed for this paper. Candidates are required to answer three
and three only, of the questions in Section A, and to write one only of the essays in Section 3.
Write only on one side of the paper, and leave a margin on the left-hand side.
Do not copy out the questions you are answering on to your paper. Put the
of the questions only.
No name, but only the number of the candidate, must be marked on any of the c
nation papers.
I.
2.
Budget ?
SECTION A.
"Woman's place is in the home." Discuss this opinion.
If you were Mr. Snowden, what would be the leading points in your next years
3. How do you account for the changes that have taken place in prices since 1914
4. How do you account for the popularity of the novels of Ethel M. Dell ?
5. What arguments would you use if you were trying to persuade a non-Unionist
to join your Trade Union?
6. How far can the building of warships be justified on the ground that it provides
employment?
7. Why are, women's wages generally lower than the wages of men ?
8. What improvements, if any, can you suggest in The Daily Herald?
SECTION B.
Write an essay on any one of the following
a. Imperialism.
b. Your favourite author.
C.
The value of the study of history.
d. The Youth Movement, its responsibilities and future development.
MR. MACDONALD ON NEED FOR GOODWILL AMONGST THE WORKERS.
Mr. Ramsay MacDonald, speaking at Cymmer, said the significance of the May-Day
miner alone, not the engineer alone, not the Britisher alone, but Frenchman, German,
festivals was that the Labour Movement was filled with the spirit of spring. Not the
Czecho-Slovakian, Russian-all must be banded together in one constructive purpose
they were to win the workers' battle completely.
"Sooner or later," said Mr. MacDonald,
64
Russia. The trade unions here have got to get into relations with trade unions there.
The one thing I warn you about is that you must see to it that in getting into friendly
we have got to get into relations with
relations with Russian trade unions you do not cut yourselves off from French and German
trade unionists.
unity.
with it. Any steps cutting us off from Amsterdam are steps towards international dis
Any combination must be one that takes the Amsterdam Trade Union Movement
a great united front in the world, so that Labour can march forward internationally towards
With that guarded against, the Trade Union Movement is absolutely right in creating
its own emancipation."-Daily Herald, 4th May, 1925.


---
```text
296
BOOT AND SHOE REPAIRING TRADE BOARD
(GREAT BRITAIN).
NOTE ON THE PRINCIPAL CHANGES EMBODIED IN THE TRADE BOARD'S NOTICE D.
RELATING TO MALE INDENTURED APPRENTICES.
The Trade Board's Notice D. (29) which supersedes the Notice D. (25) contains a
number of important alterations which should be carefully noted. The principal altera.
tions are indicated below.
The following must not be regarded as a complete or authoritative summary of the
Trade Board's Notice. The Notice itself must be consulted in regard to the obligat.
imposed by the Trade Boards Acts.
The references below are to the numbered paragraphs of the Notice D. (29).
Apprentices Indentured on or after 11th May, 1925.
1. The special rates for Male Indentured Apprentices indentured on or after
May, 1925, apply only to Apprentices who :-
(a) are registered by the Trade Board (paragraph 5 (c)).
(b) are under 21 years of age (paragraphs 1 and 4).
(c) commence their apprenticeship under 18 years of age (paragraph 1,
in the case of apprentices who are provided by the employer with boa
lodging and certain other specified necessaries, on or before the worker'
17th birthday (paragraph 3 (b)).
(d) are apprenticed for a period terminating not earlier than the worker's 21st
birthday (paragraphs 1 and 3 (b)).
(e) are apprenticed to either :-
(i) Boot and Shoe Repairing in all its branches, including reweitin
hand-sewn repairs, benching, finishing by hand or machine
and patching; or
(ii) Hand-sewn making, or Hand-sewn making and Repairing; cr
(iii) Repairing and Rivet and Combination making; or
(iv) Closing of Uppers for Bespoke Work (paragraphs 1 and 3).
(f) are employed under an Indenture which contains certain conditions which
the Trade Board consider necessary for securing the effective instruction
of the apprentice in the trade (paragraph 5 (a)).
(g) are employed under conditions where the proportion of apprentices to Journe-
men is limited in the manner specified by the Trade Board (paragraphs
5 (d) and 6).
(h) in whose case the covenants specified in the indenture for securing the effective
instruction of the apprentice in the trade, including the conditions with
regard to the proportion of apprentices to Journeymen specified by the
Trade Board are complied with (paragraphs 5 (c) and 6).
2. The special rates for Male Indentured Apprentices indentured on or after 11th
May, 1925 (other than those provided with board and lodging), vary with each variation
of 10 points in the Cost-of-Living Figure from 70 down to 30 (paragraph 1). The special
rates for apprentices provided with board and lodging are not subject to variation with
changes in the Cost-of-Living Figure (paragraph 3).
3. The special rates for Male Indentured Apprentices indentured on or after the
11th May, 1925, cease to apply in all cases on the worker's 21st birthday and the minimum
rates payable thereafter are the minimum rates for workers other than apprentices (para-
graph 4).
Apprentices Indentured prior to 11th May, 1925.
4. Male Indentured Apprentices indentured prior to 11th May, 1925, provided they
are registered with the Trade Board prior to 11th June, 1925, are not affected by the new
rates and conditions but will continue to be subject to the minimum rates and conditions
set out in the previous Trade Board's Notice D. (25) and now reprinted in Part B. of Notice
D. (29) (paragraphs 9 to 13) subject in future to the condition that the covenants specified
in the indenture for securing the effective instruction of the apprentice in the trade are in
fact complied with (paragraphs 13 (b) and 14).
```

---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

297

5-Male Indentured Apprentices indentured prior to 11th May, 1925, who are not
registered with the Trade Board before the 11th June, 1925, will be subject to the conditions
for apprentices indentured on or after 11th May, 1925 (paragraphs 1 to 8). The special
rates for apprentices set out in paragraph 1 of the Notice D. (20) will only apply if such
conditions are complied with. Otherwise the minimum rates payable will be those for workers
other than apprentices.

Dates on which Apprentices become entitled to increases in Minimum
Rates of Wages.

6.—Apprentices who are provided by the employer with board, lodging and certain
other specified necessaries are entitled to an increase in minimum rates of wages on the
completion of each year of apprenticeship (paragraphs 3 and 11).
All other apprentices become entitled to an increase in minimum rates of wages on
their successive birthdays (paragraphs 1 and 9).

OFFICE OF TRADE BOARDS,
1 Whitehall Gardens,
London, S.W.1.

May, 1925.

Complaints of known infringements of the Trade Board's Notices may be sent to the
Secretary of the Trade Board at the above address.

LEGAL QUERIES ANSWERED.

"Scotland." If your son accepted a lump sum in full compensation, and an agree-
ment has been recorded, he has no further claim.
J. M. (Grangemouth). If you are capable of doing some kind of work the £1 a week
compensation you are getting is the most you can claim.
J. T. (Hackney). You are not entitled to sickness benefit and unemployment benefit
at the same time.
G. T. (Huddersfield). -As you did not apply for the old age pension when you were
70, because you made a mistake in your age, it will not be paid from that time, but only
from the time it was granted.
"Constant Reader" (Glasgow). -You cannot claim a refund of national health
contributions now that you are 70, and no longer insurable, but you will still be entitled
to medical benefit.
S. S. (Macclesfield). Unemployment benefit, or benefit from a sick club, would be
reckoned as unearned income for old age pension purposes.
-Daily Herald, 30th April, 1925.

BENEFITS.

Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out:-

SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1924 667,902 8 7
January, 1925 2,840 1 10
February 3,952 4 8
March 4,124 16 0
April 4,054 10 6
£682,874 1 7

OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1924 358,625 13 7
January, 1925 3,954 7 9
February 5,226 1 9
March 3,682 10 3
April 3,031 5 0

£374,519 18 4


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
298
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st MAY, 1925.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included .. .. .. 73 per cent.
Food only .. .. .. 67 "

FOOD.
During April there was a further downward movement in the average level of reta
prices of food. This was mainly due to a further seasonal decline in the prices of batter
articles included in the statistics showed on the average little change in price.
and milk, and to sinall reductions in the average prices of flour and bread.
The remai
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of Jug
1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of f
included in these statistics was about 67 per cent. at 1st May, as compared with ab
70 per cent. at 1st April.
- The Ministry of Labour Gazette, May, 1925.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES. - Estimated number of insured persons
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270; Ict
Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 27th April, 12:
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 11,068; Females, 3,400; Total, 14
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 10.2; Great Britain only, 10.0. Compared with 23
Percentage Unemployed at 27th April, 1925: Males, 12.03 Females, 6.8; Tota
March, 1925 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, increase, I.I; Females
increase, 0.9; Total, increase, 1.0. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, May, 1925.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
ADMIRALTY (CONTRACT AND PURCHASE DEPARTMENT). -BOOTS, WATER: Wait
Lawrence Ltd., Raunds.
LEATHER FOR BOOTS, SHOES AND LEGGINGS: W. Walker & Sons Ltd., Bolten
Western Tanning Co., Bristol; J. & A. Hillman Ltd., Dudley; J. S. Deed & Sons Li
London, W.C.; R. Coggins & Sons Ltd., Wellingborough; John Siderfin & Co., Mineheal
Harold Nickols Ltd., Joppa, Leeds.
WAR OFFICE. - CANVAS SHOES: Adams Bros. Ltd., Raunds; R. Coggins & Sens
Ltd., Raunds; Mansfield Shoe Co., Mansfield.
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, May, 1925.

WHO SERVES HIS COUNTRY BEST?
Who serves his country best ?
Not he who, for a brief and stormy space,
Leads forth her armies to the fierce affray,
Where men are killed by thousands in a day.
He serves his country best
Who joins the tide that lifts her nobly on;
Who lives pure life, and doeth righteous deed,
And walks straight paths, however others stray,
And leaves his sons, as uttermost bequest,
A stainless record which all men may read:
This is the better way.
No drop but serves the slowly lifting tide,
No dew but has an errand to some flower,
No smallest star but sheds some helpful ray,
And man by man, each giving to the rest,
Makes the firm bulwark of the country's power;
There is no better way.


---
```text
299
EIGHT-HOUR DAY IN BRITAIN.
Government Statement at Geneva. Workers' Protest.
The principle of the 48-hour week was generally recognised in Britain, but movements
for the five-day week and such agreements as those of the railwaymen made ratification
of the Washington eight-hour day Convention difficult.
This was the statement of Mr. Betterton, British Government Representative, at the
International Labour Office Conference at Geneva yesterday.
The Government, he said, was in full accord with the principles of Part 13 of the
Peace Treaty. It intended to explore every means of preventing retrogression in the
hours movement in the chief industrial countries.
He reported, as indications of the British Government's good intentions, the fact
that all the Conventions and recommendations adopted by previous conferences had been
submitted to Parliament.
Workers' Disappointment.
Mr. Betterton's statement drew from Mr. E. L. Poulton, British Workers' Repre-
sentative, an expression of disappointment. He appealed to the Governments and
employers to allay this disappointment, and referred to rumours that there was to be
another Berne conference of Ministers of Labour of the important industrial countries of
Europe to study the question of difficulties of ratification.
He maintained that Mr. Betterton's objections were met by the articles of the Con-
vention itself.—Daily Herald, 26th May, 1925.
"THE LEGAL MINIMUM."
Mr. J. Hallsworth, of the N.U.D.A.W., has published a book under this heading.
In this book, the writer traces the history and explains the chief features and results of
the several methods by which minimum wages are fixed and enforced by legal authority
in Great Britain, and also deals with the question of legal regulation in relationship to
Trade-Unionism.
It is felt that the book will be of considerable assistance, not only to all Trade Union
officials-national, district, and local-but also to rank-and-file members, in the considera-
tion of wages questions and their settlement.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light.
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925
January
10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78 77 80
February
15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88 77 79 79
March
15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 86 76 78 79
April
15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 82 74 73 75
May
20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 81 70 71 73
June
25 45 75-80 100 105 150 119 80 69 69
July
25 45-50 80 100-105 105-110 152 119 84 69 70
August
25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 71 71
September
25 50 80-85 110 115 161 120 79 73 72
October
30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 110 78 75 76
November
30-35 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 80 75 80
December
35 65 85 120 125 169 99 80 77 81
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement. 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement. December (1922) Agreement, and present date.
```

---
300
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
"LABOUR ATTACHÉS" AT GENEVA.
How States Keep in Touch with the I.L.O.
The growth of a system of accredited representatives in Geneva to maintain permanent
contact with the International Labour Office of the League of Nations is shown in the
annual report of the Director of the Office, M. Albert Thomas, to the Seventh Session of
the International Labour Conference which opened at Geneva on Tuesday, 19th May.
The Japanese Government was the first to adopt this plan by appointing a hig
Government official as its representative and also head of a mission of a number of officia
which was responsible for keeping in permanent touch with the Office. Japan has bee
followed by Poland and Sweden in appointing such special representatives. The Brazilia-
Government recently set up an organisation in Geneva which practically amounts to
embassy to the League of Nations, and contains a special department for liaison with th
International Labour Office. Finland, Hungary, the Irish Free State and Canada
permanent representatives in Geneva who are accredited both to the International Lato
to maintain liaison with the International Labour Office and the League of Nations
Greece, Italy and Venezuela have instructed their diplomatic or consular representatives
Office and the League of Nations. Albania, Bulgaria, Chile, China, Czecho-Slovakia
with the International Labour Office only.
"It is desired to lay special emphasis on the services which these permanent repre-
sentatives have rendered both to the Office and to their countries," states the reer
"The Office frequently applies to them for information or documents which are urge.
required. The Director also invites them to attend periodical meetings at which questions
of common interest are discussed."

WORLD LABOUR PARLIAMENT.
Delegates Appointed.
A large number of Governments have notified the International Labour Office of the
League of Nations of the delegates who will represent them at the Seventh Annual Session
Each State is entitled to send four delegates, two representing the Government and
each the employers and workers of the country.
Among the first lists to be received were such widely separated countries as Cuba,
Denmark, Esthonia, Great Britain, India, Japan, South Africa and Switzerland, all o
which have appointed their full complement of delegates.
It is interesting to note that a number of the delegates appointed have had pas
experience of the Conference, such experience adding greatly to the smooth running
and speed of work of a new Session; among the British delegates, for example, are Mr
H. B. Betterton, M.P., Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Labour (Government
Mr. James Lithgow (Employers), and Mr. E. L. Poulton (Workers), all of whom have
attended the Conference before.
Among other familiar names of those who have been present at the Conference are
Dr. Aguero y Bethancourt (Cuban Government), Sir A. C. Chatterjee and Sir L. J. Kersha
(Indian Government), Mr. N. M. Joshi (Indian Worker), Mr. H. Pfistor (Swiss Government
Mr. C. Schurch (Swiss Worker), Sir Joseph Cook (Australian Government), Mr. P. M.
Draper (Canadian Worker), and Mr. A. Mannio (Finnish Government).

YOUNG WORKERS IN JAPAN.
Demand Larger than Supply.
Though unemployment among adult workers in Japan has assumed serious proper
tions, there is reported to be a considerable unsatisfied demand for young workers, states
Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly publication of the International Labour
Office of the League of Nations.
It is stated that, in spite of great efforts made by public employment offices for young
workers in Tokyo and Osaka, the demand in the course of a year is several times larger
than the supply.
Employers, it is explained, generally ask for workers between the ages of 14 and 19
who have just completed their course in the primary school. The number of children due
to leave the primary schools this spring is about 1,600,000, of whom 700,000 are girls.
Of this total, it is estimated by the Bureau of Social Affairs, about 1,440,000, or go per cent.,
will not continue their education in the secondary schools, but will seek employment.
The remainder, however, will not be available for employment, and, though the number
of these is relatively small, it is steadily increasing; hence, the shrinkage in the supply of
young workers.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image, formatted for readability:

**302**

**THE GREAT STRUGGLE IN DENMARK.**

As already announced in the I.F.T.U. Press Reports, the Danish Trade Union Congress held at Copenhagen from the 5th to the 8th May adopted, after lengthy discussion, a resolution in which the following proposals were made to the employers: (1) Cessation of the lockout for those trades in which the employers' and workers' organisations had settled their differences and concluded new agreements; (2) The inauguration of negotiations in all trades where complete agreement has not yet been reached on all the points at issue; (3) Direct negotiations between the two parties in the metal industry, and workers in other industries. The resolution also calls for a system of direct negotiations between the various employers' and workers' organisations in any one trade, such negotiations to take place before the expiry of the wage agreement. In future, it must only be possible to refer unsettled points to the national organisations or the Conciliation Institute after direct negotiations between the organisations concerned have failed.

The employers declared their willingness to negotiate on these points, but refused to lift any part of the lockout; the employers' association having passed a resolution that agreement must have been reached for all trades before the lockout can be terminated. The workers, however, maintained their declaration that they were willing to reopen negotiations, which were therefore reopened for all trades, many points hitherto unsettled being now agreed upon. But on 16th May the negotiations between the Union of General Workers and the employers were finally broken off, as it was found impossible to agree upon the wage question. For the present, therefore, there are no prospects of settlement. Moreover, the struggle will be greatly intensified, for the transport workers' strike which was notified by the Union of General Workers, has come into effect.

This strike, which will affect all members of the Employers' Association who are engaged in shipping, will paralyse the whole of the ship transport industry, including the export of agricultural products, which is so important for Denmark. The transport workers' strike may thus have very far-reaching effects, and greatly extend the conflict. The Union of Seamen and Stokers are already contemplating the proclamation of a sympathetic strike, and the transport workers' unions in Norway and Sweden have taken steps to prevent all work on Danish ships in Norwegian and Swedish ports. The transport workers' strike has diminished the chances of a speedy settlement of the great fight, and everything considered, it is to be feared that a long and weary struggle is before the Danish workers.

**MEMBERSHIP OF THE SCOTTISH TRADE UNIONS.**

As stated at the recent Trades Union Congress the Scottish trade unions now have a membership of 536,432, the total number of workers being estimated at about 1,655,000, and 36 of the larger unions contain about four-fifths of the total membership, while 81 unions have less than 100 members.

**FROM THE WOMEN WORKERS' MOVEMENT.**

GREAT BRITAIN.—The British Labour Women's Conference will be held at Birmingham on the 27th and 28th May. Among the questions which will be discussed are social politics, the school, emigration, and the anti-war campaign.

UNITED STATES.—The International Ladies’ Garment-Workers’ Union has been waging a lively campaign for new members; as a result, they have recruited over 1,000 members in the industrial district of Chicago.

**TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.**

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.—Membership of Unions reporting at end of April, 1925, 79,637. Unemployed at end of April, 1925, 3,461; percentage, 4.3. Increase in percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.6. Decrease in percentage as compared with a year ago, 1.0.—The Ministry of Labour Gazette, May, 1925.

**SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.**

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.—Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 27th April, 1925, 51,201; Increase on a month ago, 0.1 per cent.; Increase on a year ago, 1.3 per cent. Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 27th April, 1925, £116,787; Decrease on a month ago, 2.4 per cent.; Decrease on a year ago, 0.5 per cent. —The Ministry of Labour Gazette, May, 1925.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
303
JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL.
Minutes of the Ninth Meeting of the Joint Industrial Council held on Tuesday, 28th
April, 1925, at 2.30 p.m., at 7 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, Mr. T. F. Richards
presiding.
Mr. T. F. Richards was supported by-
Mr. H. J. Bostock, J.P. Mr. D. Henderson
Mr. J. B. Clark Mr. E. Lewis
Mr. W. W. Cann Mr. J. H. Marlow
Mr. C. W. Clarke Mr. A. Wilkes
Representing the Federation of Boot and Shoe Manufacturers.
and
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P. Mr. J. Manners
Mr. C. Bates, J.P. Mr. D. McCarthy
Mr. J. H. Baum Mr. L. P. Poole
Mr. A. J. Dobbs Mrs. Bell-Richards
Mr. W. Hindes, J.P. Mr. L. Smith
Mr. E. Law
Mr. J. Monahan Mr. W. Warner
Representing the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
Liason Officer, Ministry of Labour.
MINUTES. The Minutes of the previous meeting having been circulated were endorsed,
and the Chairman signed the same as a correct record of the business transacted.
APOLOGIES.-Apologies for absence were read from Messrs. B. J. Hanly, W. H.
Tomlinson, F. T. Riley and G. Winterbottom, of the Employers' side, and Messrs. J.
Buckle, J.P., and C. Bleakley, of the Operatives' side.
ELECTION OF OFFICERS.-On the motion of Mr. Owen Parker, Mr. T. F. Richards
was unanimously re-elected Chairman for the ensuing year; Mr. H. J. Bostock, J.P.,
Vice-Chairman ; Miss Ruth Tomlinson and Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., Joint Secretaries.
Before proceeding with the business of the day the Chairman desired to acknowledge
on behalf of the Union Executive, the moral support and financial assistance given by the
Federation in connection with the recent London dispute, and expressed the hope that
co-operation between the two organisations would be still closer in the future.
INDUSTRIAL COUNCILS BILL.-The discussion was opened by the Chairman, and replied
to on behalf of the manufacturers by Mr. H. J. Bostock, J.P., and after a general exchange
of views regarding the Industrial Councils Bill and the importance of organisation of both
sides, it was unanimously resolved that-
"This Joint Industrial Council reaffirms its request for the passing of the Indus-
trial Councils Bill as being essential for the proper observance of the National Con-
ference Agreements made between the Federation and the Union, and for the
preservation of Industrial peace and the efficient working of the Whitley Council.
It is further of opinion that in order to make voluntary action more effective, pending
the passing of this Bill, both sides of the Boot and Shoe Industry should consult as
to what other means can be taken to secure conformity to the various agreements."
A sub-committee of three representatives from each side was appointed. Each side
undertook to submit names of representatives in due course.
It was further agreed that the resolution submitted by Mr. T. F. Richards regarding
the importance of organisation in industry, which was recommended by resolution of
the Joint Industrial Council, January, 1920, and for which Mr. Richards asked greater
prominence in factories; and the question of the desirability or otherwise of holding a
Joint Conference with representatives of distributors and other buyers, should also be
referred to the above-named sub-committee.
SOUTH AFRICAN TARIFFS.-This question was introduced by Mr. H. J. Bostock, J.P.,
who stated that recent information in the Press would seem to indicate that the South
African Government in their new tariff proposals do not intend to give Great Britain the
advantage of "most favoured nation" treatment. The following resolution was unani-
mously agreed :-
"That this Joint Industrial Council for the Boot and Shoe Manufacturing Industry
is gravely concerned at the reports in the Press regarding South African tariffs, and
attaches the greatest importance to the maintenance of the 'most favoured nation'
clause."
SHODDY FOOTWEAR. It was agreed that the Chairman should circulate a memorandum
upon the subject for consideration by the sub-committee firstly, and secondly, for report
to the next meeting of the Council
RESIGNATIONS. Upon the suggestion of Mr. Owen Parker, it was unanimously
resolved that the resignations that had caused three vacancies both on the Employers'
and Operatives' side, should be filled. Each side undertook to submit nominations at
the next meeting of the Council.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

317
Left by Book Debts or Clearance - Con.
Norwich.
T. Marshall (dead) s.. 41780
Female
E. Tillett (dead) ..148501

Norwich No. 2.
Female
E. Keymer ..100083
Plymouth.
J. Symons ..87835
Stafford.
J. Dix
A. Baker
E. Badger
I. Coulson
C. Stephens
C. Austin
..149739
..143501
..125186
..110074
..163342
..125189
H. Stanway ..166000
C. A. Elev TF..163348
R. Hodson (dead) ..50071
Females
G. Shelton ..80353
E. Griffiths ..151830
F. E. Parker ..154998
D. Horsnail ..86354
E. Clewlow ..166016
F. M. Petitt ..138522
G. Davies ..160017
A. Hodson ..146801
A. Godwin ..160477
E. Machin ..87859
E. Lear
Stone.
Female
E. Richardson ..167279
Street.
J. Elliott (dead) T..110566
Wellingborough.
W. Edwards (dead) ..122137
Female
W. Underwood
Wolverhampton.
H. Moulding, jun. ..140204
T. Round ..61514
T. Robinson ..161530
A. Evans (dead) ..61229
Females
D. Hart ..114889
J. Wilkinson ..77177
L. Eccleston ..129919
L. Taylor ..108510
B. Willetts ..108511
L. Smith ..108518
L. Ball ..134714

STRIKE IN SHANGHAI.
Chinese Workers and Japanese Employers.
The Japanese Press during February reported a strike of Chinese workers employed
in Japanese silk mills in Shanghai. The strike which involved, according to some reports,
as many as 30,000 workers and lasted nearly three weeks, began in the Nagai-Men spinning
factory on the 10th February, when 6,000 Chinese stopped work. The dispute soon
spread throughout the factory, in which 13,000 Chinese men and women are employed.
A declaration to the following effect was issued by the strikers.
Though we work more than 12 hours a day, our wages are extremely low. We demand
the following conditions :-
1. Henceforth, no beating of workers shall be tolerated.
2. Our wages shall be raised by 10 per cent.
3. The workers who have been discharged shall be reinstated, and the workers
who have been detained shall be released.
4. Wages shall henceforth be paid fortnightly.
5. Wages shall be paid for the period of the strike.
6. Henceforth, no worker shall be discharged without proper cause.
On the 12th February about half the strikers in this factory returned to work; but
the strike quickly spread to other factories, where is assumed the character of a riot rather
than orderly strike. A number of men, armed with revolvers, rifles and other weapons,
attacked some work premises and smashed the machinery.
Within a week, eight out of 11 silk works owned by Japanese were involved; in
terms of spindles, only 86,000 out of 913,000 remained unaffected. In view of the grave
outlook the Spinners' Federation of Japan held a meeting in Osaka on 18th February,
and, in the name of 16 spinning companies, adopted a resolution calling on the Govern-
ment to open negotiations with the Chinese Government with regard to the dispute. A
telegram from Shanghai dated 27th February, reported that the strike came to an end
on the previous day, and that all the workers had returned to work. According to the
Jijn, of the 27th February, a compromise was reached on the following terms :-
1. The workers will be treated kindly, as heretofore. If any case of maltreatment
is found, the workers may appeal to the factory owner and redress will be
given forthwith.
2. Workers who are content with their present conditions will be invited to remain
in their present employment.
3. The detained workers will be released.
4. Grants for the encouragement of workers' savings will be given to workers
who have been employed for more than five years. In the case of workers
with a specially good record, the grants may be given even if they have not
been employed for that period.
5. Wages will henceforth be paid fortnightly. -Industrial and Labour Information..
27th April, 1925.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS

Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

ATIONAL UNION OF BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES

Sext of Government, 34. GUILFORD ST LONDON. W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 245.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.

General President
T.F. RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L. POULTON.J.P.

Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

MONTHLY REPORT.

22ND JUNE, 1925.

FELLOW MEMBERS,

TRADE.

There is no improvement in trade compared with last month. As a
matter of fact there is an increase in the amount of Union benefit of over 15 per
cent. as compared with the previous month, although it is lower than the
corresponding month of 1924. The figures given by the Ministry of Labour
Gazette are as follows :-

BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.

Employment remained depressed, and there was no marked general change as com-
pared with April, slight improvements in some districts being counter-balanced by declines
in others. There was a slight improvement in the last week of the month, some firms being
busy getting out orders; but, speaking generally, the increased activity that usually
occurs before the Whitsuntide holiday, was almost entirely absent, and much short time
was still being worked throughout the industry.

The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment
books lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 10.1 on the 25th May, 1925, as compared
with 10.2 on the 27th April, 1925, and with 8.3 on the 26th May, 1924.

Returns from firms employing 37,000 operatives in the week ended 23rd May, 1925,
showed that 37½ per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that week, to the extent
of about 11½ hours each, on an average.

Employment continued moderate in London. It was quiet at Leicester and North-
ampton, with much short time being worked; a decline was reported at Leicester. Employ-
ment remained only moderate, on the whole, in the Higham and Rushden area; while
at Hinckley it was quiet, and worse than in April. Practically all the operatives were on
short time at Wellingborough, and employment was generally slack and worse than in
the previous month. At Kettering also it continued slack, and very few firms were on
full time.

Much short time was worked during the month at Leeds. Employment improved at
Stafford, and was fair; although there was still some unemployment, full time was worked
at most factories. Employment continued fair, on the whole, at Norwich, and showed
a slight improvement; but many operatives were working less than full hours. General
slackness again prevailed in the Bristol and Kingswood area, with most factories working
short hours.


---
THE FORTY-EIGHT HOURS WEEK.
Considerable attention is still being given to the question of the forty-eight
hours week and the possibility or otherwise of it becoming law. At the Seventh
Session of the League of Nations International Labour Office the question was
discussed at length, and we regret to report that the attitude of the Government,
through its representatives, is one of disappointment. Many members of
the League have already ratified the Convention of 1919, but will not put it
into operation until the British Government has done so. We trust that our
members will do what is possible to keep this matter before their local repre-
sentatives, and thus create such an opinion as to show the Government that
the Convention must be ratified, and that at an early date.
The Seventh Session of the I.L.O. also passed conventions in favour of
the abolition of Night Baking, Equality of Treatment of Workmen and
Foreigners' Accidents, and Compensation for accidents and industrial
diseases.
It is, however, very regrettable to have to record the fact that the attitude
of the British Government, instead of leading in industrial matters, as we
contend they should do, they either remain neutral or are reactionary. This
has very considerable effect upon other nations, and undoubtedly reduces
the influence of Great Britain upon other nations' representatives.
This is additional evidence of the necessity to as far as possible, and as
early as possible, change the representation of the country so as to ensure the
Labour Party not only being in office, but in real power, and thus give an
incentive to progress and peace amongst and between the nations of the
earth.
We wish to congratulate the General Secretary upon his re-election as the
British Workers' Representative upon the Governing Body of the International
Labour Office. Mr. Poulton was elected at the top of the poll, and was also
one of the acting chairmen of the Conference, which is indeed an honour for
the Union.
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR No. 9 DISTRICT.
The list of names of members nominated to fill the vacancy created by the
lamented death of Mr. C. Bleakley, will be found on page 357. Voting must
take place at the monthly meeting nights, and the votes counted on the 13th
prox., and posted to reach the Central Office by the FIRST POST on the
15th July, otherwise they will be disqualified.
POLITICAL MATTERS.
Since writing our last Address, the Labour Party has made a further
attempt to ascertain the attitude of the Government on Unemployment.
Reference was made to the fact that "163,000 more persons are unemployed
than twelve months ago." Mr. J. R. Clynes, speaking to the resolution, called
attention to the fact that in the King's Speech reference was made that the
B


---
Here is the extracted text:
326
when an attempt should be made to find a solution or frankly declare that
Government would deal with the subject, and the stage has now been reached
there is nothing which the Government can do. The reply on behalf of the
Government was indeed vague, and they only expressed the hope that within
have again reached something like what they were before, when we shall share
the not too distant future, when the consuming powers of our customers
in the prosperity which will come to them as to us." It is therefore evident
that the Government have no real policy to meet the grave subject of unem-
ployment. Here, again, we trust that our members will remember these facts,
and when they have an opportunity to record their vote-be it early or late
majority of Labour Members in the
we trust they will so use it as to secure a
next House of Commons.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION.
pleased to report that W. J.B., of Bristol, who met with an acciden
in October, 1921, has recently secured a lump sum of £200, the costs being
We are
paid by the Insurance Company.
We beg to repeat, however, that lump sums are not obtainable by law,
but only by agreement, and members desiring legal assistance must repor:
immediately to the local officials, who will then communicate with the Central
Office.
NEW IRISH BRANCH.
We are pleased to report that as a result of negotiations with the Central
Office and with the assistance of Mr. G. White, of Belfast, a Branch has been
formed at Dundalk, 29 members joining at the first meeting. The officers
have been appointed, and we trust that not only will the branch in Dundalk
tand loyally by the Union, but that they will be enabled to enjoy the full
Ivantages of their fellow members throughout the United Kingdom.
JUBILEE HISTORY OF THE UNION.
Members who desire to secure a copy of this most interesting and valuable
record of the work of the Union for its first fifty years should place their order
immediately with the Branch Secretary, as the stock is constantly being reduced,
and we do not intend to have a reprint. They are only 6d. per copy, and
should be ordered at once.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for


---
```text
327
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same.
Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only " Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
THANKS FROM MRS. C. BLEAKLEY.
Mrs. C. Bleakley, 1 Drum Terrace, Edinburgh, asks through the Council
to kindly thank on her behalf, all members and officials for their kind letters
of sympathy and floral tributes. Mrs. Bleakley is unable to thank all indi-
vidually, and asks members and others to accept this intimation as an apprecia-
tion in her loss.-E.L.P., G.S.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
ADMIRALTY (CONTRACT AND PURCHASE DEPARTMENT).-SHOES, BLACK LEATHER:
G. M. Tebbutt & Son Ltd., Northampton.
WAR OFFICE. BOOTS, ANKLE: J. Horrell & Sons, Raunds; S. Walker, Raunds;
W. Lawrence, Raunds; C. E. Nicholls, Raunds. SHOES, CANVAS: Stead & Simpson,
Leicester.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1925.
```

---
328
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
COMPETITION. The state of trade appears to be making some of our manufac
turers very dissatisfied with what they describe as foreign competition, although many of
them have been critics of their confrères in other towns, and not a few have hinted at the
way that some of their nearest neighbours conduct their business ; to all this I hope we
shall always lend a willing ear, because it is just as much to the Union's advantage as well
as to the operative, to note that scientific management does not culminate in lower wages.
We have already responded to the appeals made to investigate conditions ; we are satisfied
that the workers' slogan, "equality of opportunity," is fast becoming an international
demand amongst the organised workers. The unorganised have no conception, but j
hour day, which to this day has not been legalised in this country-(although we have tod
follow the organised, " picking up the crumbs." The attempt to interfere with the ei
a Labour Government in power for some of the time)-it is passing strange that
other countries should be ahead of us in this respect, the eight-hour day becoming la.
Russia, Finland 1917, Norway, Germany, Italy, Poland, Luxembourg, Austria, Cze
or adopted by agreement: - Panama 1914, Uruguay 1915, Ecuador 1916, Mexico, Portuge
Slovakia 1918, Jugo-Slavia, France, Denmark, Switzerland, Spain, Sweden, Washi
Bulgaria, Greece, Roumania and India 1919. Tory England, Ireland and Holland
appear amongst the above list of enlightened countries, and up to the present all atter
have been defeated. Will our members remind their employers that the above stateme
that nineteen countries had adopted an eight-hour day before the Washington Convention
and of these the most important countries from which we get shoes, viz.: France, Ger.
hour day, and in most other matters we find generally that conditions are not half so bad
many, Austria, Switzerland, Czecho-Slovakia, and Sweden, had all adopted the eight
as our employers try to make us believe. If they would throw in their lot with those
us who believe in dealing with and buying only from those whose conditions of employmen
could honestly
exact
what you may be doing yourself. In this connection we have been very busy putting
to have gone wrong, and it is
members of the Employers' Federation to complain of home or foreign competition whils
they place orders and encourage these people who studiously avoid paying the rates c
wages governing the trade. It makes one think and wonder whether these pretenders are
really acting privately as they would have the public believe.
they would be setting an
MARKET HARBOROUGH has occupied more than a week of my time during the past
month, chatting with the operatives daily during that time, and eventually calling a
meeting and taking a number of names of operatives who were willing to join the Union.
For conscience sake we called another meeting nearer the factory, but in the meantime the
employer had asked all the operatives (more than one hundred) to stay behind for fifty
minutes. This gentleman, an old shopmate of mine, worked with me at Messrs. Cooper &
Sons, Redcross Street, Leicester, and was a loyal member of ours for years, and I am
informed is a good living man-so tampered with the minds of these operatives that none
beyond a handful dared to come to the meeting. I therefore sent him the following letter,
and append his reply thereto:-
MR. G. LOOMS,
[COPY.]
Bath Street, Market Harborough.
DEAR MR. LOOMS,
15th May, 1925.
I ain very sorry indeed to find that after several days I have been attending
outside your factory for the main purpose of persuading your employees to join the
Union. This, I think you will agree with me, is a very perfect legitimate and legal
paid, said a thing which could be construed as of a detrimental character to yourself
thing to do. I should regret, if I have at any time, during the many visits I have
member of our Union, in doing your best in this short span of life for yourself without
the least injury to others, and I have endeavoured, I hope, to carry out this principle,
or the firm. I have one object in view, which you had when a young man, and 3
of my colleagues who visited you some time ago, and I thought, therefore, I could
keeping with your own impression, viz.: that you did not get on very well with one
and I thought by taking on this organising of your factory myself, it would be in
said (I don't know all the circumstances under which the statement was made), but
assuredly depend upon your sympathy, if not your spirit; in fact some of the men have
they had got it at one of the meetings this week that you were rather favourable to
the Trade Union. I think you have rather dispelled that idea.
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
320

We are bound in our humble way, to attend outside the factory of any firm of
boot and shoe manufacturers, or who are doing auxiliary work, work which under
ordinary circumstances would be done by boot and shoe manufacturers, to endeavour
to get them to adopt our National Conditions, of which I enclose a copy. I think
you will admit that your conditions are below the conditions enclosed, and as these
are minimum conditions, we think at least that, speaking as man to man between our
selves, and as an old shopmate, I was not aware that you wished to have an
advantage over your fellows in any respect. I believe you subscribe to a form of
faith in which that is its fundamental principle. I should be very pleased to receive
from you the slightest intimation that you had no intention of preventing or interfering
with the liberty of the subject, that you don't wish to say whether your operatives
shall go to Church or to Chapel, join the Salvation Army or the Boys' Brigade, and I
would like to respectfully suggest that you permit them to spend their wages in those
directions which are likely to give them the best results economically, socially, and
politically.

It would be a pleasure to still find that you are still in heart and spirit the same
man as an employer, as you were when a wage-earner.
Hoping that this appeal will have the desired effect in allowing and encouraging
everyone to keep up the standard of life and living to the highest possible point,
is the wish of

Yours sincerely,

T. F. RICHARDS,
General President.

CONTRACTORS TO H.M. GOVERNMENT.

MANUFACTURERS OF
SOLES, HEELS,
COUNTERS, LEATHER
AND FIBRE.

G. LOOMS,
CROSS STREET WORKS,
MARKET HARBOROUGH.
9th June, 1925.

MR. T. F. RICHARDS,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
London, W.C. 1.

DEAR SIR,
We desire to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 15th ult., which we
regret has not been replied to earlier owing to the writer being away from business.
We have carefully taken note of the contents, but do not see there is anything
calls for a reply from us. The relations with our workpeople are pleasant, they have
perfect freedom, and you may rest assured that their welfare has always been our
constant aim. In fact, we think they know, the conditions of work and wages here
are better than generally prevailing in this industry.
Therefore, further correspondence on this subject would not serve any useful
purpose.

Yours sincerely,
For G. LOOMS.
W. LOOMS.
This cannot go on. What.right has any man to interfere with the liberty of the
subject; this cannot be tolerated, and I am asking my colleagues to allow our Mr. L.
Smith and Mr. J. H. Baum to give the firm special attention. It is only fair to say that
this firm, being an auxiliary firm, is kept going by the Boot Manufacturers' Federated
members, and is not associated with any organisation. This is not all; we note that
this firm say they are Government Contractors. If they were, we could make them pay
in accord with the Fair Wages Contract Clause of the House of Commons, and to make
sure, I am approaching the Director of Army Contracts for information. We believe
this firm has already been removed from the Government list, but we will make sure.
I hope they are on the list, they will then be compelled to pay at once.

MANSFIELD. We have still another firm in the same auxiliary branch of the trade at
Mansfield, where we are trying to get the heads of the firm at Leicester to adopt the trade
conditions. The "heads" say they have no antipathy or opposition to us, but the local
people at Mansfield have had the girls in the office and lectured them on the "folly" of
belonging to a Trade Union and the dire consequences that would, or will follow. These
people who set up this business ought to have informed their principals what were the
conditions of the trade, and not have taken advantage of unorganised labour to make a
success of a business on non-union lines. Further, one would have thought that sooner


---
or later these gentlemen ought to have known that they could not be exempt from a set
of conditions wholly imposed by themselves on others. In this they must have been out
of date completely, but we still hope that they will conform to the conditions without
any friction.

LEICESTER. - We have been pressing three firms in this City who are Stiffening Makers,
for compliance with the Holiday Scheme, and although they are not eligible for membership
in the Manufacturers' Association, we expect them to conform to the conditions covering
the trade. Several of these firms who do this kind of work are already paying, but the
three firms of Mr. J. Peake, Messrs. Gardner & Pratt, and Messrs. Burrows Bros. cannot
agree, because of their competitors (and as the two firms at Mansfield and Market Har
borough are in a much larger way of business, one can easily sympathise), but we have
obtained, through the kindly offices of Mr. W. A. North, J.P., who has acted as mediator
between us (and at the employers' request, we were bound to accept the offer), and we have
at last obtained a definite date when these firms will commence to pay. Meantime there
will be no relaxation of our efforts to bring into line all firms engaged in the industry.

LONDON SEW-ROUND BRANCH held a general special meeting of members for the
purpose of getting the members' views on the question of pressing the employers to make
provision for them to work on premises provided by the employer in preference to home
employment. The usual arguments were advanced in favour, but yet a few were found
to vote against this humane and commonsense plan, and as we have already assisted
them before the National Joint Standing Committee to grant them the benefit of the
Holiday Scheme (Mr. W. Addington Willis decided that all workers were involved, and
that one farthing in the shilling up to 56s. per year was in keeping with the letter and spirit
of the National Agreement and awarded accordingly; they claimed that this next step
working indoors will eradicate evils which have always attended home employment.
They asked me to preside on behalf of the Union, which I did, and we wish them success
in their efforts. The Metropolitan Branch is also involved, the President and Secretary
at the Board of Arbitration. The next move will be to table this motion.

The MANUFACTURERS' FEDERATION has had to be appealed to because either the hot
weather or bad trade appears to be affecting the kindly way in which some employers have
treated us recently. They now suggest that all things are all right, if we will let their
people alone. My answer is: No news is bad news; if we hear often all is generally
good, but when bad or wrong, we must ask all to toe the line irrespective of the size or
reputation of the firm. Wrong is no man's right.

PRODUCTIVE FACTORIES.-We have been appealed to respecting one of these firms
whose generosity in making advances and giving advantages, has reduced the volume
of work, and they find that our old adage of a good statement and no work is not beneficial
to a business, and when a whole factory is involved someone has to take the lead and
point a way out. We are always willing to advise in these matters, and if necessary
address those involved. We are well aware that when the Co-operative Wholesale Society
appealed for loyalty from the Distributive Societies, and the fact that trade has been very
good with them this year up to the present, unless they cut off the private firms who supply
the movement which they have not done, we knew that the fall in trade would find the
productive. In fact some societies won't allow their Managers to place orders outside
the C.W.S.; some don't allow them to place them outside the Movement. I agree with
this latter attitude, and have tried and shall still try, although I don't appear to get much
help from the operatives themselves, that the C.W.S. as such ought to give no orders for
shoes to any private firm. Let them utilise more or both of the "white elephant" factories
they have at Wellingborough and Norwich; neither building is half occupied, and yet
the C.W.S. are buying goods from two factories where we have only a minority of members.
nd the Directors refuse to do as the Government always do, i.e., publish the name of the
ospective contractors. This they have refused.

RAUNDS, ARMY CONTRACTS. In order that there may be no overlapping or different
ices paid in the various districts, I visited Raunds for this purpose, and found that the
Red Book was still the guide for Army Canvas. I was shown the stuff now being made
there, which is in appearance, whilst new, something entirely different. The canvas
bodies are about as thick as leather and thin leather blank cap and golosh cover them with
a leather through runner and a crepe sole and heel.

IRTHLINGBOROUGH, NENE VALLEY TANNING CO. - The Secretary of the Northants
Advisory Council (Mr. G. Chester) had arranged for the Council to visit the above works
and proved to us most interesting. Our party numbered 40 and a very instructive and
thanks to the Chairman of Directors, Dr. Robb, Mr. Hawthorne, of Finedon, and others
enjoyable afternoon was spent. We saw the process of making upper leather from the small
South African hides to the finished article of Box Calf; the consecutive processes of Chrome
Tanning are as follows: - Soaking, unhairing, neck, splitting, fleshing, deliming, machine
dyeing, setting out, drying, sawdusting, staking, tacking on, seasoning, glazing, boarding,
scudding, hand scudding, tanning in drums, neutralising, sammying, splitting, shaving
plating, trimming, measuring. The rates paid men are 60s. per week, and about 30


---
```text
33'
are members. After the visit, which occupied about two hours, the Directors were kind
enough to provide us with a very nice substantial tea, of which we heartily partook and
warmly thanked the Directors for their kindness which was twofold. This visit has made
me think and feel again that the Leather Workers ought to be one unified body, but we
ought to get the Amalgamated and the Slipper Union of Rossendale to join up with us
first.
HOME SECRETARY. With the General Council we waited on the Home Secretary
to hear his replies to several resolutions, including Compulsory Workshops put forth by
the Factories and the Shoe Makers, and he said these places were on the wane and he did
not feel that he ought to be hurried, in fact he was entirely unsympathetic. On the ques
tion of bringing buildings under the Factory Inspectors, there is a move in that direction,
if and when he gets his amended Factory Bill through. He agrees that more Factory
Inspectors must be appointed. Like all his friends, they are perfectly satisfied with this
beautiful world; those who voted for them are getting their desserts, and have helped to
set back the clock of progress.
Fellow members, support the Daily Herald, your own paper, and encourage your
friends to do the same, and expose Shoddy Shoes wherever found.
Yours fraternally,
W. F. Richard
General President.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, LONDON, N.W. 5.
15th June, 1925.
REPORT OF DELEGATES TO BRUSSELS.
As fraternal delegates to the Biennial Conference of the Belgian Leather and Skin
Workers' Union, which has some ten thousand shoe operatives, who by the way are about
75 per cent. of the whole of the shoe workers in Belgium, we beg to report that the Con-
ference was held on Saturday, Sunday and Monday of the Whitsuntide holidays. The
delegates, some eighty in number, assembled at the Maison du Peuple, or in English the
House of the People. We had a pleasant, but rough, passage from Dover to Calais, and
were struck by the policy of small holdings which are so prevalent in France and Belgium.
We boarded our train at Calais and went through St. Omer, Armentiers, Lille to Blandain,
the Belgian frontier. Here we were for the second time in the hands of the Customs.
Later we passed through Fingeens, Tournai, Barry Moude, to Loos, Englies, Halle Hall,
to Brussels, where Comrade Hellinck and Comrade Wartel met us. The first named is
the general secretary of the Union, and the latter our interpreter, who could speak a little
English, and was a tailor by trade employed at the Maison du Peuple, and a member of
the Management Committee of that place, who are trade unionists and co-operators and
socialists all rolled into one. The building is used for trade union meetings, and for the
sale of some articles, a restaurant where food and drink can be obtained, and where the
people from the provinces are sure of getting a meal at a reasonable cost. To us the cost
of living appeared to be quite 25 per cent. cheaper than in this country. Clothes and
some other articles cost much more, including furniture. Most of the labourers on the
land, those in the streets and gardens, wore sabots (or woodon shoes) with everlasting
wear, and only wear for a dash a pair of slippers or something easy for the feet. This
only applies to the very poor, and, as stated above, those who work on the land, which is
very moist in some parts, more so in France than Belgium. Women are in the majority
as field workers; oxen are used extensively by milkmen, rag and bone dealers and those
who pretend to push a hand cart have a dog underneath in harness who never appears
to be told where he has got to pull as his neck is in the collar as soon as the cart moves.
The Congress was attended by their three presidents-Charles Jorden, Jean Diericks
and Egene Deprex. Delegates were Citoyens Richards and Warner, and Madam Richards,
a visitor from Angleterre (England), Drett (France), Lex (Germany), Shinty (Luxembourg).
Interpreters were Wartel (for English), Shinty (for German), Vanhove (from French into
Flemish), and Luppens (Flemish into French). All understood French or Flemish who
belong to the Union, and they had to have every speech translated into French and Flemish.
The General Secretary was Alex Hellinck; the Secretaries were Leon Petry and Georges
Terrin. The basis of their organisation and benefits are similar in character to our own;
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
are apprentices and are paid on a
332
of the information we obtained was from an old shopmate, Adolphe Vallenion, who is a
contribution scales and benefits are various. Day labour is the order of the day, and much
laster. He was wounded in 1916, sent to England and found work at the C.W.S. Works.
Rushden, after declared unfit for future service. The girls' minimum is about two-third
of that for men; all work is held together and they complete the work right through.
There was one machinist at the Congress, Madame Valeria la Traneg. The rise or fall in
graduated scale, and increases take place every siz
the cost of living alters the wages and to-day's mean would be 400 points. All juveniles
months, and in most of the big centres the rates are as with us, settled by the local com-
delegates presented Mrs. Bell-Richards and Madame la Traneg with bouquets. A banquet
After the Chairman's short address and the fraternal delegates had spoken, the
provided their own harmony and some beautiful singing was heard and there was only one
was arranged for the whole of the delegates, and a very pleasant evening was spent. The
drawback is the language, but a six months' careful study of one hour per day would wor
short speech of about ten minutes at the commencement from the Chairman. The great
vention as substitutes for our arbitration boards.
wonders, but expression and intonation have to be acquired afterwards.
Comrade Moena took up the fourth contribution question as to its being used 30.
2,479; neutral 868; majority 3,504. Contributions are 2.50, and as a franc is only worth
for strikes, and was it to be compulsory or voluntary. The voting was for 5,903 agains
and get sick, strike, accouchement, death, out-of-work pay. The latter means 5 frame
24d. or 97 to the £ at the time we were there, this means they pay about 6½d. per wee
from the Union and 3 from the State, or 8 francs per day, which in English money is 1s.
per day or 10s. per week. The girls get 5 francs all told, or about Is. 0½d. per da:-
6s. 6d. per week.
We tried to get permission to go round a shoe factory, but one had a fire during the
week prior to the holidays and the other the employer was not of the kind to help us
says Comrade Hellinck. The nearest was about 100 miles away and permission was not
sure, so we abandoned the idea during this visit. Of one thing learned, is that Belgium
no competitor of this country, and there is no outrage of the 48-hour week; they do not
or Belgique or Eke as they call it, and especially Brussels (in their spelling Bruxelles
believe that their Government nor the employers will ever be strong enough to abolish
the 48-hour week. The only regret is that, like ourselves, we both permit overtime.
This is, I hope, our next demand for it to be abolished.
We cannot close without thanking all the comrades in Brussels and Belgium who added
to our comfort and permitted us to spend a pleasant outing at Waterloo and other districts.
Statuory, music, painting and very fine and beautiful buildings were much in evidence.
When the same effort is put forth by the powers that be to utilise their wealth for the
benefit of making a sturdy and intellectual people, we shall be nearing the millenium.
12th June, 1925.
T. F. RICHARDS,
W. WARNER,
Delegates.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
s. d.
To December, 1924 667,902 8 7
£
s. d.
January, 1925
To December, 1924 358,625 13 7
..
February
2,840 1 10
January, 1925
3,954 7 9
..
March
3,952 4 8
February
5,226 1 9
..
April
4,124 16 0
March
..
..
May
4,054 10 6
April
..
..
4,023 13 8
May
..
2686,897 15 3
3,031 5 0
3,510 14 9
£378,030 13 1
3,682 10 3


---
```text
333
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
Many of the factories in the parts of Leicestershire where I have been during
the month have been on short time. It is bad for operatives who suffer in their earnings
because of bad trade, but it makes the work of an organiser unpleasant as well. Even
at shops that are weak in trade union organisation and where the National Agreements
are not observed, short time is the rule.
There are two factories at Derby, Maden & Ireland's and Lynch's, where we have
only a few members. Mr. W. R. Smith and I visited these shops. We had a fine meeting
at the first factory. The heads of departments seemed a bit alarmed over the operatives
staying out so long, and giving Mr. Smith a cheer at the close of his speech. The meeting
at Lynch's was good, but all did not turn up as at Maden & Ireland's. The conditions
at this shop are bad according to reports, and yet some were having half days off for want
of trade. The non-unionists working for less than trade union rates have no guarantee
of regular work any more than trade unionists have where the Agreements are observed,
and the anti-trade union employer has no real assurance year by year of increasing his
trade and banking account by employing non-union labour and paying below a fair standard.
Poor pay ultimately means poor work.
We have had several good meetings at Sileby, making special appeal to the females
to recognise how the Union has improved their conditions in recent years. At Messrs.
Newbold & Burton's, where about one hundred operatives are employed, nearly all returned
from dinner in time to give Mr. Smith and myself a good opportunity to state our case
for the Union. So at Willett's, and other shops in a fair way gave us a hearing. It was
only at one shop where the whole of the workers except one did a good sprint to get away
from us. I have a better opinion of these people probably than they would give me credit
for. I believe that they must have felt within themselves that they are an unworthy
set, and that they could not stand and find reasons for their position as non-unionists.
D. MCCARTHY.
23rd June, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since writing our report we have met the repairers working at Upsom's, and we
are very pleased to report that the whole of the repairers are now members of the Union.
We also met the operatives working at Pocock's. We are hopeful that further visitations
will eventually induce them to again rejoin. All the girls are receiving the recognised
scales, but up to the present we have no members amongst them, though they quite
readily admit that it was mainly due to the Union that they receive the present wages.
Met the girls working at the Carlton Shoe Company. This is a well-organised firm so far
as the men are concerned, but we have only a few women members. We canvassed the
whole of them with membership cards, and while a good number of them appeared to be
interested, there was a great deal of indifference. A number of youths working at Freeman,
Hardy & Willis's were not members. After meeting them on two occasions, all of them
promised to become members. Met the women working at De Larnge's, where all the
men are members, but we have only three women members. We are hopeful that as a
result of our visit here, some improvement will take place in our membership. We have
again visited the firm of Polikoff's. In the evening we met the clickers, who appear to
be the best organised, for the purpose of dealing with prices paid for the work cut. After
Mr. Mason had dealt with the grievance, we took the opportunity of pointing out to them
the position of the girls working at the firm, with the result that we are likely to get more
active support in this direction. Met the girls working at Turner's, another firm where
the men are all members. In conversation with them we discovered some time ago some
of them were members, but lapsed. Constant visits are required at this firm if an improve-
ment is to take place in our membership. We have again met the girls working at Good-
man's. This continued visitation should have some effect, but there appears to be a great
deal of hesitancy amongst them, and we have not been able to discover the reason why.
It is a good firm, and the chief objection may be due to the fact that when a fire took place
adequate damages were not forthcoming in the opinion of the girls to meet their losses.
On three occasions we have met the girls working at Britten & Bannister's. We
canvassed the whole of them with literature and membership cards, and when they entered
the factory simply gave the Shop President the cards with nothing on. We again met the
girls after this incident, but some of them seemed totally indifferent. The girls who are
members have approached the firm with reference to the attitude of the girls toward the
Union, but without any success, stating that they could not interfere. Met the girls
working at Lehany's. At all these firms that we have visited in connection with the organi-
sation of women, we estimate that upwards of 400 women are engaged, with a membership
of about 50, while the men are practically all organised, and if we are going to make any
C
```

---
satisfactory progress, the men working at these firms will have to render more effective
service than they are doing at the present time.
Another visit to Pocock's has revealed to us the possibility of again putting the firm
on a more satisfactory basis. All those who have lapsed have promised to again consider
We have met the operatives working at Jos. Branch's. A number of youths here
the matter.
were not members, but they promised to join. The girls were also canvassed, but found
no one here a member.
We have visited the firm of Petch & Sons. We have no girl members here, and in
Tuesday evening next week.
conversation with some of them we discovered that nearly the whole of them remained in
the factory for dinner. We distributed literature and have promised to meet them all or
Lazarus's, Branch's, Knights', Harrison's, Cooper's, Levine's, H. & S. Solomon's, Franklin's
During the week ending 13th June, 1925, we met the operatives working at Meltzer's,
Hyam's, J. Branch's, Pocock's. We attempted a meeting with the lasters and finishers
working at Franklin's, but unfortunately there was only a small attendance. This is not
progress in organising this firm in these two departments. We are not satisfied that our
the first time that we have had to record a failure, though we have made very decided
firm. There appears to be a large number of young girls and boys working at this firm
conditions are observed, but we have no definite evidence whereby we can approach the
and with regard to the organisation of the women it is exceedingly poor. We are endeavor-
ing to arrange another meeting of the operatives. We attended a meeting of the operatives
at John Branch's. This is not a very large firm, and from our investigations the co-
ditions are not satisfactory. We joined a few youths up and the local officials are see
the firm with reference to the complaints of the men.
have promised to again consider the question of rejoining. The organisation at this firm
accepting any obligation. With regard to H. & S. Solomon's, the position has not improved
the operatives are still as dull and uninterested. This firm appears to have full control
over them, and as they are working overtime, plenty of work seems to be their only object
without any consideration for the quantities of work that they are doing. We have again
visited Kempton & Brandon's. The conditions here are deplorable, chiefly toys and girls
and Phillips' also present some difficulty, in so far that no one is prepared to accept the
are engaged on Nursery work, and the difficulties of organising are great. Cunnington's
responsibility of collecting contributions. We have chiefly met these operatives at the
factory gates with our literature, and by personally canvassing them to increase cur
membership.
At the firm of Pocock's the
We have made a special effort amongst the following firms, which are chiefly recog-
nised in London as the first-class firms :-
Britten & Bannister.
Petch & Co.
Hitch & Penny.
Polikoff's.
Goodman's.
Turner's.
Carlton Shoe Company.
De Larnge's.
Lehany's.
We estimate that upwards of 500 girls are employed at these firms, yet cut of this
number we have not more than 50 members. We have met these girls at these firms on
two or three occasions, both on leaving the factory and returning after dinner hour. Every
girl has received a membership card and literature; in some cases they were very insolent
and rather resented our appeal to them to become members. In some cases we are of the
opinion that the agreed minimums are not being complied with, and except for verbal
conversations we have no other evidence. At all these firms all the men are members,
but we receive very little encouragement from them. We are endeavouring to arouse
their interest in order that they should exert their influence towards making these firms
of firm is deplorable, and owing to the attitude of our members who seem to have neglected
fully organised. The existence of such a large body of women unorganised at this class
difficult. We are
we have made is given further support by our members working on these firms, that good
efforts that some improvement will take place, and we are fairly confident that if the efforts
results ought to follow.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
J. H. BAUM.
LEN. SMITH.
between to Derby. The former place is a contrast to the East End of London, especially
at this time of year, which is perhaps the most pleasing of all the seasons.
The past month has been spent in the County of Leicestershire with a visit in
in the larger centres.
does as an encouragement to those who are cut off from the association which is possible
as even if the operatives are members of the Union, they appreciate a visit, acting as it
The volume of trade in the county areas round Leicester gives ample scope for work,
---

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
335

The attendance and attention at the meetings at the factory gates is on the whole
very good. On several occasions one has had nearly twenty minutes in which to address
them, which gives the opportunity of presenting a more practical statement than is possible
in a shorter time.
The places visited are Syston, Anstey, Mountsorrel, Silcby, and as already stated,
Derby. In some cases the spirit of the operatives is very good, but in others it is of another
kind, and the task is greater in consequence. The conditions in some cases also add to
the difficulties of organising. The presence of other industries such as hosiery give the
women an economic independence which is of great value to them, and girls pass into the
trade and obtain our rates of wages without any real effort on their part, and many of them
appear to have no idea that the Union has done anything in fixing these rates.
At the meetings and in conversation the work of the Union in obtaining the National
Terms of Settlement and the need of a strong union to maintain same has been emphasised,
and we think the result will be some new members, though their minds move somewhat
slowly, and their actions may be similar. But as hope has to be a strong feature in the
make-up of a trade union organiser, we view the situation with confidence.
The effort, however, must be a sustained one in these areas if good results are to follow,
and the Union obtain the control that is essential if our conditions are to be permanently
secured. I believe it can be done, but new conditions require new methods, and it may be
that the Union will have to review the situation in this spirit.
The situation at Derby is perhaps not so hopeful from the point of view of member-
ship, though here again the meetings at the factories were very good, both from the point
of view of attendance and attention given to what was said. At all these meetings literature
has been distributed, in which our conditions are fully explained, and the obligation of
the operative to the Union duly emphasised.
The situation at Derby has not been helped by the action of the late Secretary, and
the members express themselves very strongly on the subject. A case like this makes
one doubt whether a generous attitude is on the whole the best for the interest of the Union.
In this case our members are firmly convinced it has been harmful to the branch.
There are other features that want consideration before we can proceed here with
any confidence, though one cannot help thinking that some of these places drift too far
before we deal with them.
20th June, 1925.
WALTER R. SMITH.

MR. LLOYD GEORGE ON UNEMPLOYMENT.
When the Unemployment Bill was introduced by the Labour Party on the 22nd
May, 1925, Mr. D. Lloyd George, M.P., made, amongst other statements, the following :-
There is one survey which I should like to see undertaken; it is a very difficult one
to make, and that is a survey of the extent to which we can hope in future to provide
employment for our people out of our export and foreign business. Are the Government
quite convinced that in future, looking at what is going to happen, that we can depend
to the same extent upon our foreign business as we have in the past. We have depended
upon foreign trade more than any other country in the world. There is no country in the
world that has, I will not say entirely, but to such an extent depended for the very life
of its population upon trading with countries across the seas. It is a very perilous position
to be in. That is one of the questions that ought to be examined the extent to which
in future we can hope to depend for 100 per cent. employment upon our foreign trade.
If we cannot, then we must look to our resources at home, and to our resources in the
Empire, as my hon. Friend very well stated in his speech. There is no country in Europe
with a soil like ours which has so small a proportion of people settled on the land. I am
not speaking of Russia and the countries which are not highly developed, but I am speaking
of Western Europe. There is no country in Western Europe which yields as little from
the soil. We are paying £375,000,000 every year for produce which this country is capable
of producing. In addition, we are paying £60,000,000 every year for timber which might
be produced here. I do not say that the whole of that produce, but a very large proportion
of it, could be produced here, if you would only examine what is done in other countries,
where the condition of the peasantry is very much better than it is in this country. Take
the question raised so effectively the other day, the question of afforestation. That is
a question of vast moment in regard to the produce of this country and the exchanges of
this country. We are spending ₤60,000,000 every year upon timber, a very considerable
proportion of which could have been produced here.
[It is remarkable what statements can be made when not in office. When the oppor-
tunity was within the power of the older parties, the carrying out of these reforms-which
would have been beneficial to the workers were constantly shelved.-E.L.P., G.S.].


---
```text
336
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. — Trade is still bad with us, although there is word of a
good order having been received by a local firm. There is word to the effect
that a satisfactory production of sample orders will result in a continuous
supply of supplementary orders. How good this news is can be guessed by
anyone who has experienced the frightful ordeal of long continued idleness
or short time. We earnestly hope this matures, as a great many operatives
here will need months of good time to give them a lift up of any kind. We must
take this opportunity of commenting on the great loss the Union in Scotland
has sustained in the sudden and lamented death of our Council Member, Mr.
C. Bleakley. Mr. Bleakley was frequently with us here, and even the humblest
member realised his plucky and sincere nature. Interested to the core in the
problems of the worker, he used every occasion to labour for their best interests
and no one was sorrier than he himself in not accomplishing more for their
uplift. It was always a pleasure to have him visiting either to explain National
Agreements or to take up some thorny question which had caused trouble
His transparent honesty prevented him from deluding his conscience or his
colleagues with the all too popular sophistry of one in position seeking to find
an easy time by shirking reality; rather he made his lot more difficult by his
refusal to hide the truth even although it added greatly to his work. During
his years as Council Member for the North it was his constant desire to get
our position appreciated in its true colours. The type of employer, the class
of trade, the distinctive factory, such as they exist in Scotland, called for treat
ment different to what you find required South of the Border, and our friend
was ever anxious to have them rightly understood as a sphere of Union labour,
and we must ever feel grateful to him for his efforts. His last years were
important in so far as he was provided with opportunities to help a class of
member for whom he had a warm side, namely the Repairer. His work on
the Trade Board makes it easier for the one who follows, and although it was,
and will be for some time to come, a heartbreaking struggle, still he was always
optimistic of what might be achieved. Although so earnest in his work for the
Union, he was an ideal companion in his leisure. His sunny disposition made
it easy for him to blend with any company, and his presence was always accept-
able where happy recreation was desired. We regret his economic circumstances
caused him such great anxiety latterly, and the pity is that such worry may
have hastened the end. It was a sad shock to hear of his death, and all his
colleagues of this branch mourn the passing of a brave spirit and a sincere
friend to the rank and file of the trade. We are glad his home town branch
has already started a fund for his people, and we hope it will meet with great
success. While his worth is still vivid in the minds of all the members it should
be possible to raise a sum worthy of the object, and a great tribute to a champion
who has secured a good place in the history of the Union.
CHESHAM. - Trade here still remains slack.
CHESTERFIELD. — Trade bad with men making New Work.
CORK.-Trade good.
DERBY. — Trade shows signs of falling off, the clickers at the two leading
firms losing time. We are sorry to record the death of one of our oldest mem-
bers, C. Petty, who was one of the first to join the Union in Derby nearly
forty years ago, and has been a continuous member ever since. We are also
sorry to record a heavy sick roll, Smallpox having claimed some of our members,
one firm refusing to employ operatives who would not be vaccinated, with the
result it has cost the Union nearly as much for the ill-effects of vaccination
as the other malady. Some of our members have refused to be vaccinated,
and have been suspended till they are. The Labour Exchange have stopped
their pay, but they are appealing against the decision. Mr. D. McCarthy and
```

---
Mr. W. R. Smith are in Derby trying to organise the black shops. It will be
a very difficult matter.
DUNDEE.—" He's gane; he's gane. He's frac us torn." The announce-
ment of the sudden and tragic death of our Council Member, Christopher
Bleakley, created a profound and deep feeling of sadness in many of the members
of this branch. 'Tis but of recent date we heard his cheery voice and ringing
laughter; and now how painfully sad the thought, these are stilled for ever.
Our friend, Chris., was, in a sense, a man of outstanding characteristics. None
could question his sincerity in the manner in which he espoused the cause of
labour. His determination of what he took in hand to successfully carry
through. A man of a lovable disposition. Rarely if ever offending. Keen to
resent an injury. A large and generous heart, with always an open hand when
occasion arose to assist. The members of the Scottish branches will miss him
very much, as he was most assiduous in looking after their interests, as a member
of our general executive. We shall miss him very much. His death has created
a vacancy it will be difficult to fill. "Now the labourer's task is o'er," and our
hearts go out to the widow and family.
EDINBURGH.—Our Repairing Section has been very busy during the
month. Mrs. Bleakley and family wish us to thank all the branches and
shopmates for their kind expressions of sympathy in their sad bereavement.
The Edinburgh Branch will certainly miss his counsel, he having been an active
member of the Branch for over thirty years. He was always trying his best
to better the working conditions of not only the shopmates, but the general
body of workers all over. His place will be difficult to fill in the Union. May
we all endeavour to follow his example. Whatever the consequences, "Right
was always might," however much the sacrifice.
GLASGOW.—Trade has somewhat slowed down here this month, a
considerable number of our members losing time, and the outlook is discouraging
owing to the lack of orders for Shipbuilders and Engineers in the Clyde Valley.
It is with sorrow we lament the great loss to the Scottish branches, by the
death of our esteemed Council Member, Chris. Bleakley. Its suddenness one
feels as a great shock as only a day or two previous we were engaged with him
in the interest of our Union, and in fact it must be said he "died in harness."
His place will be hard to fill. We wish to express our heartfelt sympathy to
his wife and family at this time of their great loss and bereavement.
GLASGOW No. 2.—Trade is very quiet at present, some of our members
having a considerable period of suspension. We regret the passing hence of
our Council Member, Chris. Bleakley, to whose memory the usual token of
respect was paid at our Branch Meeting. To those of us who came into personal
touch with him we feel the members have lost one whose interests were theirs
all the time. To Mrs. Bleakley and family we extend our deepest sympathy.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.—Trade during the month has become
considerably worse. Rushden very poor. Wollaston more unemployed.
Finedon three firms closed, 120 or more out. Irthlingborough fair, but not so
good as last month. Irchester whole of clickers at one firm finished or trans-
ferred to Rushden firm. Bozeat more hopeful. At an interview with Mr. F.
Drage, of the firm of Drage & Sons, we were informed that half of the employees
would be starting in the middle of Whit-week or week after. On June 8th we
find most of the operatives have returned to work. Raunds is improved in
ordinary Army and Navy work. Stanwick number standing off. During the
month Messrs. John Cave & Sons, Rushden, provided and opened bowling greens
and tennis courts for employees of that firm. President attended as member
of Rushden U.D.C., and Secretary represented the Union. A rest-room has
also been provided for female employees. As Secretary remarked at opening
ceremony, "it is hoped that it will set an example to other employers," that
the workers must cease to be spoken of as "hands" but as human beings,


---
with minds that think, hearts that feel, and souls that can soar above the purely
mechanical tasks of the factory.
KINGSWOOD. Trade, indications of improvement.
LIVERPOOL. During the past month the Boot Repairing trade has been
very good. To the stereotyped query "any complaints," the reply is in the
negative. We note in the May Report the General President's remarks re the
Trade Board. We can hardly realise from a brief report what the specific
trouble is, but we know what it is to be fed up and feel like throwing up the
sponge. We hope he does not contemplate sacrificing "bottom dog" on the
altar of prestige and dignity. Better to worship at the shrine of Bacchus and
acquire" that fellow feeling which makes all the world akin."
Man and His Shoes.
How much a man is like his shoes!
For instance both a sole may lose;
Both have been tanned; both are made tight
By cobblers; both get left and right;
Both need a mate to be complete,
And both are made to go with feet.
With shoes the last is first; with man
The first shall be the last; and when
The shoes wear out they're mended new;
When men wear out they're men dead, too.
They both need healing, oft are sold,
And both in time turn all to mould.
They both are trod upon and both
Will tread on others, nothing loth.
Both have their ties, and both incline
When polished, in the world to shine.
They both peg out. Now, would you choose
To be a man or be his shoes ?
-Shoe Trades Journal, 29th, May 1925.
LONDON METRO.-Trade here is still very bad and there does not
appear to be any prospect of it improving for some time to come. A joint
mass meeting of the London Metro. and London Sew-Round Branches was
held at the Lansdowne Club, on 21st May, when the General President (Mr.
T. F. Richards) presided for the purpose of putting before the members the
advantages of indoor working to both Louis heel and Sew-Round makers. It
was a poorly attended meeting, but a resolution that negotiations be opened
for the provision of indoor workshops for all Louis heel and Sew-Round makers
was carried with but four dissentients. At one time it was the foreign element
who were the sinners as regards to taking large quantities of work out and
employing several hands in their own homes, but now unfortunately our own
people are doing likewise. Mr. T. F. Richards, General President, in the May
Report, in his wisdom attacks the London Clickers' Statement. Well, when
the responsible employers themselves have agreed to a list of prices to be paid
for cutting, it seems a bad policy to tell them that they are paying too much.
All towns have cheap shops and Statements will not be worth much if they,
the cheap shops, can dictate through their cut-throat policy the line any
Statement should take.
The statement made by the General President in the May Report was
as follows:-
some means of demarcation in the difference between their present clicking
The Branch will have to act differently, and there will have to be
statement and the cheap shops.
To begin with, a "fourths" in London is twopence-halfpenny per
dozen more than Leicester best; this in itself calls for treatment.
For two years there has been a reference before the National Joint Standing
Committee from the London employers for a reconsideration of the position.
I am anxious that the members in London should not be deprived of their.


---
work, but should have a statement covering the common work which so success-
fully competes against better centres at a lower rate, because London only
closing, lasting, finishing, stock or press departments. London Metro, is one
have one statement and that is for clickers. There are NO statements for the
of the oldest branches of the Union, and yet only have one piecework state-
ment.-T.F.R., G.P.
LONDON SOUTH. We are very pleased to announce that we have had
very good results from the visit paid by Mr. Len. Smith, Organiser, who did
the Branch, and it is to be hoped that all members will appreciate the work
done and rally up at these meetings and keep their contributions paid.
MAYBOLE. - Trade is much improved, nearly all our members having been
restarted. We are also pleased to report sickness light. It is with extreme
sorrow and regret that we heard of the sudden death of our colleague and friend,
Chris. Bleakley. We are sure this is a blow to all members of the Union,
especially the Scottish members. Mr. Bleakley was a staunch friend of all
workers, and especially the workers in the boot and shoe trade. We shall all
miss him, but none like Mrs. Bleakley and family, to whom we tender our
heartfelt sympathy in their great loss of one who was a devoted husband and
father. A man among men.
NOTTINGHAM. - There is no improvement in trade here. Quite a num-
ber of our members are only working on alternate days. We have to report
the death of H. Mais, one of our old members. He has been a member of the
Union almost since it started, and has been in this branch over 40 years. The
Secretary and some of his old shopmates attended the funeral as a mark of
respect.
PLYMOUTH.-Trade has been bad during the month and our Out-of-Work
figures have not been so high since 1920-21. Some of our men, discontented
drawing unemployment pay and doing nothing, have commenced business on
their own account, and as a Branch we wish them good luck. We ask for a
little more consideration and forethought when discharges are contemplated,
for we do not see where employers are advantaged by forcing into the already
overcrowded market skilled men who will act as their competitors. This is
what invariably happens with an active intelligent worker; having led an active
life and formed the habit of industry, he begins to tire after a few weeks holiday.
He gets anxious for the future and looks about for a little shanty to open up
on his own account. This is not an easy task, and many a night finds him foot-
sore and despondent after a weary search, but with perseverance and a little
luck a place is found and with courage, hope, fear and uncertainty intermingled,
he pays his first week's rent, and buys a patching machine. After this every
nerve is strained and every sail is set to win the prize, success." Sometimes
a cut is made on the prevailing Price List. Be this right or wrong the man has
to live under a system of competition and get a foothold as a tradesman, but
who is responsible? We suggest a little more consideration and forethought.
Our men generally prefer to work short time rather than standing in the ranks
of the unemployed, but many employers argue that their men are members
of the Union, and with the additional State benefit no harm will be done by
discharging, but discharges in the boot repairing trade acts in the form of a
boomerang, and requires considerable dexterity in handling; sometimes the
thrower is hit, and a knock-out blow administered in this fashion does not
excite much sympathy. We hear with deep regret of the sudden death of Mr.
C. Bleakley, and join with the Council in their expressions of sorrow and appre-
ciation of his sterling value and worth.
STAFFORD. There is an improvement in this centre, and we are hoping
for a retention of same.
Our members have suffered a long period of depression.
WATERFORD.-Trade continues good.
GREAT YARMOUTH.--Sorry to still have to report trade very slow.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

340
HOW GREAT BRITAIN HINDERS RATIFICATION
OF THE HOURS OF CONVENTION.
At the present session of the International Labour Office, the chair was taken by
MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P., O.B.E., General Secretary of the National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives, and the workers' representative on the I.L.O., when the question of
the Ratification of the Hours of Convention was under discussion.
MR. CULLEN, a representative of the Irish Free State, said:
Perhaps the most important of the Conventions yet adopted is the Washington
Hours Convention, and, speaking from this tribune last year, my adviser ventured to
Our General Secretary, Mr. E. L. POULTON, J.P., presiding at the
League of Nations International Labour Office, Seventh Session,
Geneva, 30th May, 1925.

express the fear that the statement then made by the British Government Representative
of ratification of by Great Britain. That fear has been realised. The other day the distinguished Repre-
sentative of the French Government suggested that the workers of the world might begin
to think that the many delays and endless discussions about ratification were only a screen
for a determination not to ratify. What other opinion can the workers draw from the
facts? The position is that ratification by Great Britain would undoubtedly result in
say that, although we have brought our list of ratifications up to a substantial number,
and our workers are determined to do their best to secure further ratifications regardless
ratification by a large number of States. Certainly, speaking for my own country, I can
of what may be done by other countries, it would nevertheless be much easier to secure
ratification by Ireland if Great Britain were known to be prepared to ratify without any
rcom for doubt. At present there is grave reason for doubting the intentions of the
British Government.


---
Two difficulties were mentioned here by the British Representative; the five-day
week and the special conditions of railwaymen. May I say frankly that I cannot under-
stand how anyone who has carefully studied the full text of the Hours Convention, and
particularly Article 5, could imagine that its stipulations would militate against the adoption
of either the five-day week or the maintenance of the railwaymen's agreement. Certainly,
we have not seen-and I do not think the Irish railwaymen, although our railway workers
belong to the same Union as their railway comrades in Great Britain have seen any
precise statement of what the alleged difficulty really is. I do not like to seem to criticise
Great Britain; we have had occasion enough for that in the past; and it is out of the
sincerest friendship for British workers that we venture to ask them and their Government
to approach this question, not merely in a spirit of vague goodwill and of pious hopes for
the future, but with a resolute determination to secure ratification without further delay.
Much more hangs upon this than the welfare of British workers. A
fundamental social reform for the benefit of millions of workers all over
Europe depends upon the British ratification, and even from the point of
view of Britain herself it is important, because it is perhaps not too
much to say that the leadership and prestige in social reform and indus-
trial progress which Great Britain undoubtedly held in the XIXth century,
and well into the XXth century, will be lost completely if the Hours
Convention is not ratified by that country.
M. SCHURCH (Switzerland) followed, and during the course of his remarks, said :-
They maintained that a reduction of working hours to eight per day would have an un-
favourable effect on Switzerland, from the point of view of international competition;
but public opinion prevailed and the results were most favourable for Swiss Industry.
Another attempt to go back on the eight-hour day in Switzerland was rejected by a decisive
majority after a referendum in February, 1924. This shows that public opinion in Switzer-
land is thoroughly favourable to the eight-hour day. The workers, however, consider
that exceptions to the present eight-hour day are granted somewhat too easily by the
Government in Switzerland, and they greatly regret the decision of that Government not
to ratify the Washington Hours Convention.
MR. ARAYA (Argentina) said :---No reproach can be levelled at the Argentine Republic
in this respect, so far as the state of her legislation is concerned. The average hours
worked are not excessive; indeed, after the establishment of the forty-eight hour week,
there has arisen a movement in favour of the forty-four hour week.
MR. O'RAHILLY (Irish Free State) said: It is well, however, to remember that this
involves the duty on our part of attempting seriously to think internationally and a readi-
ness to adjust our national legislation in the wider interests of the workers of the world--
a standpoint which, I must say, is not always evident in the Government discourses we
have been listening to here. A medley of individual national apologies does not make
an international conference, they merely make a multi-national meeting; and I venture
to express the hope that ultimately we shall not have these prolonged proceedings here,
but that we shall have a special commission to enquire into the reasons why such and
such a country has not ratified such and such a Convention. We want an objective,
business-like examination of those reasons and of the difficulties which countries have found,
and we cannot find this in the series of eloquent discourses in a general conference here.
I hope that we shall ultimately have a commission, especially if we adopt the system of
amendment.
For instance, I cannot understand what is the difficulty about railway workers which
prevents the ratification of the Hours Convention, and I venture to express the opinion
that no one else listening here can understand either. I trust that we shall in the near
future, as I have said, have a business-like separate commission for the examination of
such national difficulties and excuses.
MR. RIDDELL (Canada) said :---British Columbia has taken a forward step and has been
the first Province in the Dominion of Canada to accept the eight-hour day and to put it
into operation. I also made a thorough study of legislation, and the legislation in our
Provinces would enable them, with practically no amendments to that legislation, to accept
more than 50 per cent. of our Draft Conventions and Recommendations.
ITALY has recently ratified the agreement: states that until Great Britain does so
they will not enforce the same.
AUSTRIA, BELGIUM, and France are in a similar position.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.-Membership of Unions reporting at end of May, 1925,
80,119. Unemployed at end of May, 1925, 3,347; percentage, 4.2. Decrease in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.1. Increase in percentage as
compared with a year ago, 0.6.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1925.


---
342
Mr. E. L. POULTON ON FORTY-EIGHT HOURS WEEK.

On Monday, 25th May, 1925, speaking at the I.L.O., Geneva, MR. E. L. POULTON,
(British Empire) said: I wish to speak on the wider question of the lack of ratifica-
tions of the Conventions that have been passed in the various Conferences since 1919.
I beg to express, on behalf of all the workers, their sense of keen disappointment at the
disappointment. Their hopes in 1919 were very high they kept those hopes at that
only, when there ought to be between 800 and goo. This to the workers is a very great
fact that we have to meet here this morning and can record approximately 150 ratifications
high altitude for some considerable time, but as the years pass and they find this lack of
Conventions nevertheless remain unratified by the countries assembled here, and I am
ratifications, their hopes gradually begin to go down. We learn this morning that, whilst
the Director is able to say that some advance has been made, the great majority of the
here, when they go back to their several countries, to do all that is possible to ensure
asked on behalf of my colleagues to appeal particularly to the Government Representatives
the putting into effect of these Conventions to which the workers attach so much import-
ance, having regard to the effect that they would have upon the lives of themselves, their
wives and their children.

If we refer to the Director's Report itself, we find that since 1921 there have been no
fresh Conventions passed. It cannot, therefore, be said that we are asking as workers
that we were attempting too much. We were endeavouring to make the pace so fast as
to go at an extraordinary pace in ratifying Conventions. It was said in the earlier days
I have said from the tribune in past years that one of the main reasons for the desire of
workers that neither Governments nor employers could keep up with what we desired
the workers was the lack of labour legislation during the years that are now behind us and
shall go home determined to do what we can to ensure the putting into force of the rati-
for which we have to make up the lee-way, and I do hope that from this Conference we
fications as portrayed in the Director's Report itself.

In that connection I was very delighted to hear the Bulgarian Minister state that he
hoped Governments would give all the information possible to the Office and to this Con-
ference, as the Bulgarian Government was determined to do everything possible to ratify
all Conventions. I congratulate the Bulgarian Government on arriving at that decision
and I hope that other Governments will arrive at the same decision in relation to the
ratification of Conventions. The same Minister added, however, what was to me a very
important point and one which ought to go home to all the Delegates. He said: we
cannot however remain almost alone as regards the hours question. Now that is to us,
as workers, going to the vital principle, when a country which has ratified tells us that
she desires to ratify every Convention, but nevertheless has to make in the speech of one
of its Ministers of State such an important reservation as that to which I have just referred.
I trust before we have done with the Director's Report, we shall have many statements
from Government Representatives and from Employers' Representatives that they are
going to carry out the Preamble to Part VIII. of the Treaty of Versailles. Having made
that statement in regard to the general ratifications, or lack of ratifications, I now want
to come to two in particular, because these two stand out in the eyes of the workers as the
most important of all and upon which they have set their hearts for many years past.

We have heard this morning the statements of the Belgian and British Representatives.
If I understood aright the statement of the Belgian Minister, he said Belgium was a small
country but was also very desirous of going forward. It could not go forward, however,
without the help of other countries, and therefore Belgium would ratify Conventions as fast
as other countries did so. Mr. Betterton, on behalf of the British Government, made a state-
omitted to tell the Conference. I was hoping that Mr. Betterton would have been able
ment with which personally I was very disappointed-not for what he said, but for what he
ment of the Minister of Labour made in the British House of Commons, which Mr. Betterton
to state here this morning that the British Government had gone further than the state-
which we can build up any very sure fabric. I have read in the papers since I have been
read from Hansard. That statement, while not altogether disappointing, is not one on
cannot find a way out of the difficulties with which they are surrounded, so that they may
here that the Ministers of certain countries are proposing to meet together to see if they
be enabled to ratify the Hours Convention. I hope that as a result more ratifications will
be secured.

operations in regard to trade and industry would make it difficult for the British Govern-
Mr. Betterton stated that one of the great difficulties in Great Britain was that certain
understood, that there are Articles in the Convention itself which will enable the British
ment to ratify the Convention. I wish to say, in language which I hope will not be mis-
or any other Government, if they have the necessary desire and goodwill to put the Hours
Convention into force, to deal with those difficulties. Articles 4, 5 and 6 of the Convention,
as I have told the Representatives of my own Government time after time, will enable
those difficulties to be surmounted. I trust we shall not hear in future that Governments
are refusing to carry out the Convention because of such difficulties.


---
Every country is bound to have some difficulty in carrying out a Convention which
has been passed here in the international spirit, but it is for each country to bring its laws
into conformity with the Conventions which are adopted here in these Conferences, and
which we believe to be in the highest interests of all.
"Belgian legislation on the eight-hour
I want to refer to one or two of the statements with regard to this matter which are
day goes beyond what is required by the Washington Convention. As Belgium has an
printed in the Director's Report. It states:
eight-hour day its interest clearly requires that it should do all in its power to bring it
about that its competitors in the world markets should also accept the same system."
That was said by a Representative of the Belgian Government. At the top of another page,
the Bill "that is, a Bill which was to be brought into the French Senate" it is indicated
that the Act of 23rd April, 1919, on the eight-hour day in its main lines fits in with the
provisions of the Conventions."
I want to add to that in Great Britain we have a day of eight hours or
hours for
millions of other workers-miners and those under what we call the
Trade Boards-by law, and by what is equivalent to the law of the land,
an Order in Council. That also applies to railways.
In the case of three great countries, therefore, one has a law which it says is better
than the Convention, another a law which in its main lines fits in with the Convention,
and the case of the third I have just mentioned. Despite this, they do not ratify the
Convention. Why? Why, if in their main lines their laws conform, do they not ratify
the Convention? Why, if in some respects their laws are better, and if in another case
millions are already working a day of eight hours or less, do they not ratify? Surely
the least they can do to show their good faith is to ratify, so that the workers can see one
more of their aspirations embodied in Acts of Parliament, so that their hours of labour
may be safeguarded against any unscrupulous employer who may attempt to make them
work longer hours. That is what the workers are afraid of; that is what they fear. Such
an action on the part of unscrupulous employers would precipitate a great industrial
struggle, and I submit that at this time of day we ought not to be compelled to resort to
industrial struggles merely to maintain an eight-hour day or a forty-eight hour week.
The second question I should like specially to stress is that of white lead. Those
who have been to the Conference for a few years will know that we had a battle royal one
with the other. Day after day, in Committee, we were fighting one against the other,
but ultimately we came to an agreement. Here is an industry which is affected very seri-
ously so far as the rights of the workers are concerned, by the use of this white lead, and
yet, if you look at the Director's Report, you will find that, of the 56 nations which are
connected with us in this great International Conference only five have ratified the Hours
Convention and only seven the White Lead Convention. I submit that that is eminently
unsatisfactory. When we raise the hopes of the workers as we do here, and when the
eyes of the workers are concentrated upon this great International Conference, they
expect that when we pass resolutions after serious and long discussion, we are going to
honour our word and carry out our bond when we get back to our own countries. I there-
fore hope that our appeal as workers will not fall on deaf ears. It has been suggested
to me already that this is not a place for propaganda. I submit that it is a place for
propaganda-for the propaganda of great humanitarian views and great humanitarian
ideals as expressed in these Conventions which we pass from time to time, and it is not
an unreasonable request which we as workers make, that when we assemble in 1926 we
may be able to read with pleasure and gratification that these Conventions-particularly
the Hours and White Lead Conventions-have not only been ratified, but put into working
order in the countries which are associated with us.
I.L.O. GOVERNING BODY.
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., again Elected at Geneva.
GENEVA, Monday. -Mr. E. L. Poulton, of the British Trades Union Congress General
Council, was at the International Labour Conference again selected by the Workers'
Group as a member of the Governing Body, receiving, as on the previous occasion, the
highest number of votes.
The Convention dealing with equality of treatment for all workers in a country,
native or foreign, as regards compensation for industrial accidents, was passed by the
Conference, with 125 votes cast for and none against the measure. That such a large
number of votes should be given for a Convention without opposition is very unusual,
and Mr. Poulton is to be congratulated on the success which attended his efforts.
In the Standing Orders Committee proposals have been made from Italy which, if
carried into effect, would limit the autonomy of the Groups, especially the Workers'
Group. These proposals are strenuously opposed by Mr. Poulton and other Labour
representatives. Daily Herald, 9th June, 1925.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

**345**

After examining this new text, the Selection Committee has decided to submit to the
Conference the following Draft Resolution :-
Whereas the Labour part of the Treaties of Peace provides not only for the protection
of industrial workers, but also for the protection of agricultural workers, and whereas
the international Court of Justice has confirmed this intention of the Treaties ;
Whereas by virtue of this decision, and of the general principles of the Labour Part,
rural workers must be accurately represented in the various bodies of the International
Labour Organisation ;
And whereas the special nature of agricultural labour and the great variety of cate-
gories of agricultural workers in every country render the question of their organisation
and representation especially difficult and delicate, and whereas it is important to have
full knowledge of the facts in order to avoid possible misunderstandings or even disputes ;
The Conference requests the Governing Body to instruct the International Labour
Office to prepare and submit as early as possible a report showing what are the various
Categories of agricultural workers in every country, and also the principles upon which
they are organised and where necessary represented both in their national institutions
and in the International Labour Organisation.
For, 100; Against, o.

**Asiatic Labour.**

Draft Resolution concerning an enquiry into conditions of labour in Asiatic countries,
submitted by Mr. Joshi, Indian Workers' Delegate.
The Selection Committee, after a preliminary examination of the Draft Resolution
concerning an enquiry into conditions of labour in Asiatic countries, submitted by Mr.
Joshi, Indian Workers' Delegate, the text of which was published in Provisional Record
No. 1, has received a revised text, darfted in agreement with Mr. Joshi.
After examining this new text, the Selection Committee has decided to submit to the
conference the following draft resolution :-
The Seventh Session of the International Labour Conference expressed the hope that
the International Labour Office will continue to collect and publish all available informa-
tion regarding the conditions of labour in Asiatic countries; and also requests the Governing
Body of the International Labour Office, in consultation with the Governments concerned,
to undertake, as far as possible, a documentary inquiry into the conditions of labour in
those countries, more especially in China, India, Japan, Persia and Siam, and in the
colonies, protectorates and mandated territories in Asia.
For, 91; Against, o.

**Mining.**

The Selection Committee, after a preliminary examination of the Draft Resolution
concerning the standardisation of working conditions of miners, submitted by Mr. Mertens,
Belgian Workers' Delegate, the text of which was published in Provisional Record No. 1,
has received a revised text, drafted in agreement with Mr. Mertens. After examining
the new text, the Selection Committee has decided to submit to the conference the following
draft resolution :-
Considering that the Committee of the International Miners' Federation at a meeting
held in Brussels, on the 28th April, 1925, adopted the following resolution :
Whereas in certain coal-producing countries economic difficulties are such as to lead
to continually increasing unemployment among miners and the lowering of their standard
of living;
Whereas these economic difficulties arise very largely from competition and com-
mercial rivalry in the international coal market;
Whereas this competition and commercial rivalry is more acute and embittered by
reason of the differences in the working conditions existing in the principal coal-producing
countries;
The Committee decides that efforts should be made to secure the standardisation of
working conditions of miners on an international basis;
Since the Committee desires to be fully informed before it formulates definite and
concrete proposals it decides to organise, in agreement with the National Miners' Federa-
tions, an international investigation in the principal coal-producing countries. This
investigation shall deal with hours of work, annual holidays and wages paid by employers
to the various categories of working miners;
In order that the proposed investigation should be as thorough as possible and that
the enquiry may be completed with the least possible delay, the Committee also decides
to appeal to the International Labour Office for assistance and the co-operation of the
means of investigation at its idsposal.
For, 87; Against, o.


---
```text
346
LABOUR WOMEN'S CONFERENCE.
DELEGATES' REPORTS.
I attended the Labour Conference of Women only, held at Birmingham, 27th and
28th May, 1925. Over eight hundred women delegates were present, from all parts, to
voice their opinions and pass resolutions.
The Chairman, Miss E. Wilkinson, M.P., gave an interesting opening speech, and
spoke of points in the Budget, with special interest to women.
The Conference listened with great attention and interest. Resolutions were passed
on Housing, Emigration, Education, and the World's Food Supplies.
A special report by the Standing Joint Committee of Women's Organisations, on
Bread and Socialism, which was meant to be instructive and educational to all women
present, was very fully discussed and digested.
The Conference each year improves, both in the standard of mentality and procedure.
When the Trade Union leaders of this country are as much alive to the organisation of
women into our Unions as are the Labour Party in enrolling members into the Labour
Party, then we may expect a Conference of Trade Union Women as large, and our trade
union membership of women very much increased.
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS.
The National Conference of Labour Women, held at Birmingham, 26th and 27th
May, 1925. There were 860 delegates present from all parts of the country, presided over
by Miss Ellen Wilkinson, M.P.
The delegates present representing were:—Women's Sections Labour Party, 731;
Trade Unions, 52; Co-operative Guilds, 17; Fabian Society, 7; Independent Lab
Party, 30; Railway Women's Guild, 23.
The Conference opened with an address from Miss Wilkinson, who remarked that we
had met under a rich man's Budget, and stated the injustices of the same.
Dr. Marion Phillips presented the report of the Labour Party in the women's interests
at home and abroad.
Resolutions were passed demanding a non-contributory scheme for Widows' Pensions,
the speeding up of building houses under the Wheatley Act, also the Labour Socialist
International. To press for the institution of an annual international conference of women
delegates. Other subjects considered were: Health in the Elementary Schools, Price of
Bread, the Purity and Cleanliness of Food Supplies.
Mrs. Harrison Bell, the Labour representative on the Overseas Settlement, spoke on
Emigration. This resolution created a lively debate.
Other resolutions passed dealt with Internationalism, Armaments and Peace, Treat-
ment of workers under Unemployment Insurance Acts. The strengthening of Trade
Union Movement amongst women workers by better organisation. Birth Control also
came in for a long debate, several speaking for and against.
The Conference, I thought, was very interesting, educatively and politically.
(MRS.) L. H. GUMSLEY.
Over one thousand delegates attended the Labour Women's Conference, held in the
Town Hall, Birmingham, on 27th and 28th May, 1925, and were welcomed by Mrs.
Councillor Howse.
MILLIONAIRES' BUDGET. It was reported the Budget would relieve a quite moderate
millionaire to the extent of £40 a week in super-tax, some would be richer by thousands
a year, but the relief to small earned incomes was counted in shillings.
Labour's idea of Mothers' Pensions was to allow the mother to make a home for her
children, and to take her, if she so desired, out of the labour market. The pensions under
the Budget scheme were utterly inadequate. The widow with two children would receive
18s., with three children only 21s. This, compared with the Army pensions for a widow
of a Private with two children 44s., and with three children 50s.
UNEMPLOYMENT. - Referring to sneers about workers learning to qualify for insurance,
Miss Wilkinson declared that was no doubt to agree to the turning down masses of un-
employed on the ground that they were shirkers, and the women should make a strong
stand in their own homes against such tactics.
BIRTH CONTROL. - The resolution advocated that it should be permissible for doctors
employed in any public funds to give information on Birth Control to those who desire it.
The debate was of a lively character. Mrs. Laski, speaking in favour, said capitalists did
not want working women to have scientific information about Birth Control, as they would
```

---
have no soul
Miss Quinn (Leeds) rose to
of Birth Control into the policy of the Labour Movement would create a split. She main-
tained it was a crime against God and humanity. Mrs. Spivey said it was a crime against
humanity to bring children into the world at the present time.
TRADE UNIONS. - A resolution calling for the strengthening of the Trade Union
Movement amongst women by better organisation was passed unanimously.
WOMEN LABOUR CANDIDATES. There was much applause for the motion by the
immediately to levy themselves a small weekly sum as a political fund for the express
delegate for West Willesden, that the Conference call upon members of women's sections
purpose of running working women candidates for Parliament.
JUSTICE. Judicial and penal questions were dealt with in the form of a composite
resolution which included a request to magistrates not to allow corporal punishment
for children, and urged that probation should be used to the utmost, especially for offenders
under 21.
Other resolutions protested against the harsh treatment of women workers under
the UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACTS, and for the ESTABLISHMENT OF HOMES OF REST
fer persons suffering from nervous breakdowns or mentally deranged.
It was decided the Labour Party deal stringently with any representative of Labour
who would not support sex equality-economically, educatively and politically.
The resolution further declared that no proposals for equality of suffrage between
men and women will be acceptable which is based on raising the age for men voters and
reducing the age of women to 25. The resolution was carried.
WIDOWS' PENSIONS. - The Government's scheme next came in for vigorous denuncia-
tion. Mrs. Dollan (Glasgow) moved a long resolution protesting against the proposals
to establish Widows' Pensions on a contributory basis, and to transfer Old Age Pensions
to the same basis. Miss Evans, seconding, pleaded for the young widows with no children,
and Mrs. Holland (Swansea), who spoke as a widow with five children, denounced the
pensions scheme as a fraud. The only time the State recognised me in fifteen years,"
she said,
"was when Conscription was brought in and they took two of my sons and
returned one to me disabled for life. The Poor Law is infinitely superior to this scheme."
The resolution was carried.
،،
The resumed Conference of Labour Women at Birmingham opened on a note of
sadness. Miss Ellen Wilkinson, presiding, announced that Mrs. Holland, of Blackpool,
one of the most ardent Labour women in Lancashire, who was to have attended as a
delegate, had died suddenly of heart failure on the eve of her departure for the Conference.
Delegates expressed their sorrow by standing in silence.
LAND POLICY. It was distressing to learn the Labour Party had not given a clear
lead on the land question.
Miss Heagney, Fraternal Delegate from Victoria, conveyed greetings from the Labour
Union of Australia, and stirred delegates with a glowing account of what the Labour
Government had done. They have pensions of 17s. a week for women at 60, and there
is a maternity allowance of £5 for all women-these on a contributory basis.
A. SMALLEY,
Delegate.
I attended the National Conference of Labour Women held at the Town Hall, Bir-
mingham, on 27th and 28th May, where over 860 delegates were present. Miss Ellen
Wilkinson, M.P., presided, supported by Dr. Marion Phillips, and others.
After being cordially welcomed by Mrs. Howse, President of Birmingham Labour
Women's Council, and Mr. Ager, of the Birmingham Labour Party, letters of greeting
were read from various bodies.
Resolutions dealing with Widows and Old Age Pensions, Housing, Health in our
Schools, Emigration to British Dominions, Internationalism, Armaments and Peace,
and Birth Control, were put before the Conference for discussion.
Mrs. Dolan (Glasgow) moved a resolution denouncing the proposal of the present
Government to establish Widows' Pensions on a contributory basis and transfer Old Age
Pensions to such a basis. It also condemned the inadequacy of allowances for widows
with children, and the proposal to make the workers pay contributions as enough was
already extracted from the workers. It also pointed out that Old Age Pensions at 65
were inadequate to meet the present day hardships, and it also urged that people incapaci-
tated before that age and unable to work should be taken into consideration, and advocated
the pension at an carlier age. The resolution was carried unanimously.
Miss D. Jewson put to the Conference a Resolution dealing with Housing, urging
that pressure should be brought to bear on Local Authorities to compel them to use every


---
Here is the extracted text:
le before
people
348
big profits. After some discussion the resolution was carried.
the people. Miss Jewson denounced building rings, putting the life and health of the
opportunity afforded them by the Wheatley Act to make progress in building houses for
Emigration to British Dominions, seconded by Miss Bondfield, to the effect that family
A great deal of discussion took place after Mrs. Harrison Bell moved a resolution of
emigration was the only satisfactory form of emigration put into operation in co-operation
with the Dominion of Canada Land Settlement Scheme. The Resolution was defeated
and an Amendment agreed to that further investigation be made by the Standing Joint
Committee and a further report be made. Many delegates denounced emigration as no
cure for umemployment, and that we should colonise our own country, and not until every
acre of land was cultivated should we think of emigration. Miss Jessie Stevens, after a
recent experience of conditions in Canada, very much condemned emigration, as she declared
things were quite as bad there with regard to unemployment as here.
Yours faithfully,
V. HOWARD,
Delegate.
The Conference opened with Miss Ellen Wilkinson, M.P., in the chair. There was
a splended attendance of delegates, and a striking feature of the Conference was the serious
manner with which the women followed the business during the whole of the time.
of women into their trade unions, and appealed to them to make the unions their Approved
Several of the speakers appealed to the gathering to push forward the organisation
Societies for Health Insurance.
for the taking over of the land for the people, and stated that she was in favour of con-
Mrs. Hooper opened a discussion upon the question of a Labour Party Programme
fiscation. Other delegates felt that we ought not to separate the Land question from
other things, and asked why we should not include property when discussing these matters
Mrs. Heagney, the fraternal delegate from Australia, was given a warm welcome br
the Conference. She stated that she brought greetings from the Labour Union of Australia,
and stirred the delegates by her account of what a Labour Government had done for the
people in Victoria. In that country, she said, women have Old Age Pensions of 17s. per
week at 60 years of age, and a Maternity allowance of five pounds on a non-contributory
basis.
Mrs. Harrison Bell moved a resolution, "That this Conference is of the opinion that
family migration is the only satisfactory form of migration, and views with sympathetic
interest the Land settlement scheme just being put into operation in co-operation with the
Dominion of Canada." She stated that ex-service men had been induced to leave this
country by misleading advertisements, and to invest their savings upon farms where there
was little hope of success, and the work of the Overseas Committee was to prevent this
happening. This was seconded by Miss Margaret Bondfield, who stated that while we agree
that it is necessary to settle our people upon the land in this country, we also ought to have
a scheme to help and protect those who were desirous of going abroad to try and make
good.
Important resolutions upon the subject of Health occupied a considerable time, and
it was during this discussion that one of the speakers urged the necessity of doctors being
permitted to give advice to married women who desired it, upon the subject of Birth
Control. One of the delegates, who evidently took strong exception to this matter being
discussed at the Conference, created quite an uproar, and it was only owing to firm handling
of the meeting by the Chairman that the discussion was able to be kept in proper order.
A very popular decision was one that Women's Sections throughout the country should
levy themselves weekly for the purpose of creating a political fund in order that working
women could be run as Parliamentary Candidates.
Resolutions dealing with War and Disarmament were carried, and an emergency
resolution protesting against the persecution of the workers in Bulgaria under the Tsankoff
press our Foreign Office to make the strongest representation to the Bulgarian Govern-
terrorist government, was carried, including one that the British Labour movement should
ment.
ference, but I feel that the interest shown and the ability with which the delegates dealt |
Space is not sufficient to deal with the whole of the matters discussed by the Con-
Women's Labour Movement, and the early return of a second Labour Government with a
with the various problems confronting the movement, speaks well for the future of the
working majority.
K. BANNARD,
Northampton.


---
DISEASE-INFECTED HOVELS OF EARL SHILTON.
But District Council Vetoes Building Scheme.
Earl Shilton, if credit is to be given to a rumoured opinion of the county health
authorities, is not in need of any more houses. This unique distinction has been conveyed
to the township by way of the Hinckley Rural District Council, whose plan for a further
colony of 37 houses has not met with the approval of officialdom on account of the "lack
of need when compared with other districts." Eighty houses have been built in the town
ship since the war, and the new scheme is for 150, 37 to be built in the boundaries of Earl
Shilton. It is understood that the county health officials' opinion is that the houses
if built, would be occupied by natives of the district who would gladly change from the
village of their birth and upbringing for the chance of a house. That is a fact, but Earl
Shilton can fill these houses on its own, abundant proof of which was given to me in a to-day.
So bad is the shortage that the many couples who were married at Whitsun have
none of them the remotest hope of getting a house for a long time to come. The 80 Council
houses already erected could have been filled five times over, as in many other cases, and
the number of homeless naturally increases every day. The Council, the chairman of
which is Mr. Daniel Astley, J.P., is repeatedly implored to do everything possible for the
relief of the homeless, but in face of opposition from the authorities they are helpless.
These facts are similar in greater or less degree in hundreds of other cases up and
down the country. But a greater and more serious horror makes Earl Shilton district
the more gruesome an example. Earl Shilton is the most consumptive township in
England. The dread disease started many years ago, and has grown to appalling proportions since the war, helped by the pitiful conditions in which the inhabitants have
to exist. In a recent inquiry, it was stated that out of 18 recent deaths only one was from
a cause other than tuberculosis. Yet Earl Shilton is powerless. In my tour, I saw three
dwelling-places, two of them with the taint of the disease, and all of them in such a state
as would be incredible to anyone who did not see them.
One cottage was inhabited by a one-legged South African war veteran and his wife.
Both were hollow-eyed and weak with consumption. The man was a living wreck. He
was living in a thatched cottage -- one of a row. It originally consisted of four rooms,
two up and two on the ground floor. The top-rooms are uninhabitable, and open to the
sky in patches up to a square yard in dimension. The walls are bulging, and the sun
streams in through large splits where the roof has fallen away from the walls. The roof
is now in imminent danger of total collapse. The man and his wife sleep in the bed in the
living room, but when it is raining their bed is soaking wet from water that has come
through the roof and ceiling. Even downstairs the sun and the rain can pour through
the tops of the walls. The man pays 2s. 3d. a week for this.
Next door is a shoe clicker, his wife and four children. They, too, have been driven
from their upstairs rooms, and all sleep in one room. On the floor are tin baths to catch
the rain water. The woman told me that she would be willing to pay 6s. a week if she
could get a cottage fit for humans to live in. Here again they are living in imminent
danger of death from a total fall of the thatched roof. Not one single night in the year
are the sleeping children safe. In another cottage in the village lives an old woman who
has not been in a bed for a fortnight. There are great gaps in her roof, and in the recent
windy weather she was out in the street until one o'clock in the morning through fear of
her cottage tumbling about her ears. She cannot get the bed down the shaking stairs
and sleeps on a sofa. Her husband was consumptive.
There is no use in condemning these houses and evicting the tenants. They would
starve in the street. Until houses are built they will exist in the infected buildings while
they hold together. One of them collapsed completely a short time ago. The medical
men in the village have given up the struggle against the disease unless hope of more
houses is coming. There can be no fighting against it under present conditions. It will
remain a village of death until the District Council can start to build. They have the land
and they have the builders. Only officialdom "does not see the need." Meanwhile, the
green fields of Leicestershire surround a plague spot.--Leicester Mercury, 8th June, 1925.
[The Council have constantly bombarded the Ministry of Health (and Insurance
Commissioners) since 1913, but very little headway has been made. - E.L.P., G.S..
GOSSIP.
Old Wolverhampton trade unionists, as well as a large circle of the general public,
will feel interested to know that I spent a pleasant time on 1st June, 1925, in the company
of four of the best known and most respected veterans of the Labour cause in this district,
including Mr. Harry Moreton, who entering on his 88th year, can look back with pride
on his many years' service as secretary of the Boot and Shoe Rivetters' Society, member
of the Board of Guardians, and first Labour representative on the old Wolverhampton
School Board. Express and Star, Wolverhampton.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
351
Reprint of Union Circular 242.
National Union of Boot & Shoe Operatives.
34 GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
16th April, 1921.

FELLOW OFFICERS,
Re UNEMPLOYED MEMBERS AND
PAYMENT OF CONTRIBUTIONS.
The Resolution contained in Circular No. 241 as follows:-
“ That the Members be asked at the next Branch
Meetings to authorise us on their behalf to deal with
those Members who have no income, whether from lack
of employment or no Out-of-Work pay, on the same
lines and in the same manner as was done with those
Members who joined the Forces in the late war.”
has been endorsed by the Members, and I beg to inform
you that this will operate as and from Saturday, 23rd
April, 1921.
Members must make their claim for exemption of
payment of contributions under the scheme; such exemption
must be strictly in accordance with the resolution named
above.
Yours faithfully,
S. Bulton
General Secretary.


---
EXTRACT FROM MR. MACDONALD'S WEEKLY
LETTER TO THE "HERALD" JUNE 13th, 1925.
1,250,000 Workless.
There are now close on one and a quarter million unemployed, nearly a quarter of a
million more than at this time last year and 60,000 more than last week.
"Our great industries are languishing: over engineering, coalmining, shipping,
there rests black depression and the threat of wage cuts.
"And what is the Government doing in the House of Commons? With its enormous
majority it is using the "relay" system to suppress effective discussion on a Budget that
protects the rich, and on fiscal proposals that will further raise the cost of living, and offers
a quack remedy for Nottingham's ills.
"Tory dominance is in the saddle. Power is being used with a callous brutality to
break us physically or to compel us to cease our critical examination of the business before
us.
"The House of Commons," said Mr. MacDonald, "can be used or abused. We used
it last year; this year the Tory Government, with its servile majority and undemocratic
mind, is abusing it. This aggravates the problem, for in any case the pressure of work is
getting too great.
"The remedy lies in Devolution-in taking a lot of work away from us. That is the
only way to give us proper business hours and to make the Parliamentary machine function
properly.
"We should devolve greater responsibility on to municipal authorities, and enable
them to do much more work on their own initiative. They cannot do this now except by
coming here and promoting private Bills.
Relieving Congestion.
"If municipalities were given such powers, we should not have to deal so much with
general legislation, because good municipalities would carry out progressive programmes of
work in their own areas, or in conjunction with other authorities-they would get on with
their own job much more expeditiously; they would save themselves money and save the
House of Commons very valuable time."
"Would it not be an advantage if the House of Commons procedure was remodelled
somewhat on municipal lines?" Mr. MacDonald was asked.
"I have always failed to understand," he replied, "how that view is practical. The
difference is one between legislation and administration. On a city or borough council you
get your reports of work done or contemplated by the committees, and these reports are
generally dealt with very expeditiously and quickly, but it is all a record of administrative
work.
"When you come to initiating legislation it is a very different thing. In Parliament
you must have discussion; you must express views; you are divided by vast differences
of principle and interest. The simple unavoidable fact, for good or ill, is that the House
of Commons can never be a made municipal administrative council.
"I'm sure," he concluded, "that the reform of the House of Commons does not lie
in that direction; but it is quite certain that the passing into law of our Local Authorities
Enabling Bill would do a great deal to relieve the congestion."
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 2nd JUNE, 1925.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included . . . . . . . 72 per cent.
Food only . . . . . . . 66 "
FOOD.
At 2nd June the average level of retail prices of the principal articles of food showed
a slight decline as compared with that at 1st May. This decline was mainly attributable
to reductions in the prices of butter, milk and sugar.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of July,
1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of food
included in these statistics was about 66 per cent. at 2nd June, as compared with about
67 per cent. at 1st May and 60 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1924.--The Ministry
of Labour Gazette, June, 1925.


---
356
COURT OF APPEAL
Awards Northampton Workman 1d. a Week. Interesting Case.
To-day the Court of Appeal, consisting of the Master of the Rolls and Lords Justice.
Warrington and Atkin, remitted to the Northampton County Court Judge an application
by Wilson, Lovatt & Sons, builders, of Clarence Street, Wolverhampton, for review of
the weekly payments under the Workmen's Compensation Act to Tom Johnson, brick
Sons, at the Northampton Electric Power Station, Hardingstone, a stone mullion which
In October, 1922, Johnson injured his right leg while working for Wilson, Lovatt
layer, of Green Street, Northampton.
he was erecting slipping on to his right leg.
Under a recorded agreement he was paid 35s. a week until August, 1924, then the
employers applied for a review.
The County Court Judge held that the man's incapacity had ceased and made an
order for the termination of the weekly payments. Against this the workman appealed
review and diminution. There was no application for termination, therefore the County
Court Judge was not entitled to terminate the payments, though he might well have reduced
The Master of the Rolls, giving judgment, said the employers application was for
the payments to an insignificant amount.
The case would be sent back with a direction that the right award to make in the
circumstances was one penny per week.—The Lords Justices concurred.—Northampton
[This proves that it is quite legal for Compensation to be revised, and to so reduce the
Daily Echo, 11th June, 1925.
amount as to keep it "alive."-E.L.P., G.S.J.
NATIONAL SUMMER SCHOOL, RUSKIN COLLEGE, OXFORD.
August 15th to 29th, 1925.
Under the auspices of the Trades Union Congress and the Labour Party, a National
Summer School will be held at Oxford during the two weeks from Saturday, 15th August,
to Saturday, 29th August.
The School will be open to men and women who are members of organisations affiliated
to the Trades Union Congress or the Labour Party, and it is hoped that Trade Unions,
Trades Councils, local Labour Parties, Women's Sections, and Co-operative Societies and
Guilds will send members.
Oxford is centrally situated and easy of access. The city is full of interest and is an
admirable centre for a Summer School. The School will be held in Ruskin College, which
has been placed fully at the disposal of the two National Executives by the College Authori-
ties. A Common Room for members of the School will be provided at Ruskin College
and the College Library will be available.
As regards the general arrangements of the School, there will be lectures and dis-
cussions each morning and shorter "group" discussions after tea. There will be lectures
on the Political Outlook, the Industrial Outlook, Trade Union Organisation, Unemploy-
ment, Labour and the Commonwealth, Labour's Foreign Policy, Socialism and Industry,
Labour and National Finance, Social Insurance, &c.
The afternoons will be free for visits to places of interest such as Colleges and University
Institutions, the Bodleian Library, Museums, Galleries, &c., and for excursions and river
trips. The members of the School will be asked to co-operate in the evening arrange-
ments, which will be of a social character.
Members will be accepted for either the first or second week of the School or for the
full fortnight.
A registration fee of 10s. per person is payable on application. This fee is for the
purpose of covering the expenses incurred by the Joint Research Department in organising
School, &c.
The cost of board and lodging will be about £2 10s. per week. The lodgings will be
arranged by the Department, but the members of the School will pay for their board and
lodging direct to their landladies. The weekly charges cover the period from Saturday
tea to the following Saturday breakfast, inclusive. A limited number of men will be
housed in Ruskin College.
It may be possible to arrange for reduced railway fares for those visiting the School.
Details of application for membership of the School may be made to The Secretary,
Joint Research and Information Department, 33 Eccleston Square, London, S.W.1, and
envelopes marked on the top left-hand corner Summer School."


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
357
NOMINATIONS FOR COUNCIL MEMBER.
DISTRICT No. 9.
Registered
Number.
Branch Nominating.
Branch to which
Member belongs
Brown. Mr. A.
Campbell, Mr. T.
Gamble, Mr. M. (retired)
Noble, Mr. R.
Reid. Mr. J. P.
Sheerin. Mr. J.
White, Mr. R.
3358
00008
5093
5520
100
4549
4318
Dundee
Kilmarnock
Glasgow
Glasgow No. 2
Dundee
Arbroath
Aberdeen
Edinburgh
Dundee
Kilmarnock
Glasgow
Glasgow No. 2
Arbroath
Glasgow
Edinburgh
THE NEXT WAR !!
There is in Europe, as it exists to-day, almost every condition tending to war,
except financial competence, and the lack of that we are supplying as far as we can by our
failure to insist that the money now spent on armaments shall be applied to the satis-
faction of our Continental debts. War over the Eastern frontiers, sooner or later, is not
only possible but probable, and it is sheer folly to assume that it can be localised and that
obligations entered into in the West will not be affected by events in the East.
Let us assume, however, that Germany does accept the French proposal, and that later
she breaks her undertaking in the way provided against. France at once invades Germany,
with Great Britain standing benevolently aside. France may win, in which case a grave
problem would at once be created for this country, which cannot desire to see the Rhine
a French river and Belgium practically a French dependency. Germany may win, and the
threat is restored to get rid of which the British Empire sacrificed a million lives and ten
thousand millions of treasure.
The people of this country must realise, before it is too late, that a Security Pact,
whatever form it may take, is not a Pact of Peace but a Pact of War. War on the
Continent may be inevitable in any case. It will be, humanly speaking,
ensured if we bind ourselves in advance to participate in it.
[The above is an extract from the leading article in the London Evening Standard,
16th June, 1925, and is, in other words, a statement which we are constantly bringing to
the notice of our members. Unless we are wide awake we shall find another war sprung
upon us. It should be our determination to do all possible to render negative all the
efforts made by the warmongers, and to strengthen and support the efforts made for
peace and goodwill.—E.L.P., G.S.].
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light,
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925
January 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78 77 80
February 15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88 77 79 79
March 15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 86 76 78 79
April 15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 82 74 73 75
May 20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 81 70 71 73
June 25 45 75-80 100 105 150 119 80 69 69 72
July 25 45-50 80 100-105 105-110 152 119 84 69 70
August 25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 71 71
September 25 50 80-85 110 115 161 120 79 73 72
October 30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 110 78 75 76
November 30-35 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 80 75 80
December 35 65 85 120 125 169 99 80 77 81
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922) Agreement, and present date.
---

---
358
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
Branch for Dundalk.
M a meeting on Saturday to form a branch of above Union a number of men employed
by the Celt Ltd., the local boot factory, attended.
Mr. Geo. White, Belfast, was present.
Mr. Clarige (Chairman) said it was most essential that they have a union. T
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives was recognised all over the world. In o
per week, at present it was turning out 10,000 pairs. The Union helped that factory s
place where he had been before the members joined it, the weekly output was 3,000 pair
see that they got good wages and good working conditions as well as helping the industry
increase its output. It would do the same for the Dundalk factory. The Union would
There had been talk in town about scab labour in the factory. No such thing exister
One could not expect that men would get the maximum or even a minimum wage wh
learning the trade: learners must start on a small wage and realised that. When the
became more experienced they would qualify for a better wage. In some trades men had
were very considerate, but they must always be working for better conditions, both
to pay a fee to learn. He did not think they had been treated badly. Their employer
themselves and for the industry.
Mr. White detailed the advantages of joining the Union.
Mr. Wall proposed that a branch be started. This was passed unanimously.
The election of officers resulted: -Chairman, Mr. Clarige, Secretary, Mr. Brett
Treasurer, Mr. Kearney Committee, E. Wall, M. Walls, L. Maguire. Dundalk Time
13th June, 1925.
INCREASING POPULARITY OF BOOTS & SHOES.
It is estimated that in the East Lancashire district alone there are now something
like 1,250 boot and shoe makers and repairers in business, which is 25 per cent. above
the average for pre-war days. The introduction of ex-soldiers into the trade has, of
course, added to the number, but the increase is mainly due to a change
of fashion. Clogs, which were formerly in vogue, are declining in
popularity on the part of textile workers, and with the decrease in the
number of cloggers there has been an appreciable increase in boot and
shoe repairers. Clogs are now a less distinctive characteristic of Lancashire life as
are shawls. Shoe Trades Journal, 29th May, 1925.
"STICKING TO THE LAST."
Shoemaker Brothers of 91 and 80 Years.
A family of six, all over 80, and two over go, live at Cassland Road, South Hackney.
Their aggregate ages total 525 years.
The "baby" of the family, William Hews, is 80 years and five months, and he and
his elder brother John, who is 91 years and three months, are engaged in making hand-
sewn boots, at which trade they have been for over 50 years.
June, 1925.
The other nonagenarian of the family is a sister, Mrs. Curtis. Lloyds News, 7th
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
Percentage Unemployed at 25th May, 1925:
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270; Total,
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES - Estimated number of insured persons at
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 10,602; Females, 3.732; Total, 14.334
142,490. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 25th May, 1925
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 10.1; Great Britain only, 9.9. Compared with 27th
increase, 0.6; Total, decrease, o.I. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1925.
April, 1925 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, decrease, 0.5; Females,
Males, 11.5; Females, 7.4; Total,


---
359
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
CHILD LABOUR IN CHINA.
Child Labour in Rugmaking in China.
The shops in which rugs are made in Peking are dark and overcrowded, with no
attempt at sanitation, and the workrooms serve also as dormitories for the workers. The
working hours are approximately those of daylight; only three shops in Peking are working
less than 12 hours a day.
Almost three-fourths of the employees in this industry, according to a special supple-
ment to the Chinese Social and Political Science Review, quoted in the Industrial and
Labour Information of the International Labour Office, are apprentices, who as a rule
receive their food and clothing and very little money, but no regular wages. The boys
are brought in from the country at the age of 11 or 12, and sometimes younger, to serve
under a contract for three years. During this time they are entirely under the control
of the shopowner, living in the shops in which they work and receiving no moral or educa-
tional training and no physical care. Large numbers of them contract tuberculosis and
other diseases.
The system is practically one of indentured child labour. Moreover, the apprentice-
ship is practically a "blind alley," and for most of the boys there is no future, as, when the
apprenticeship period is completed, other boys are brought in to take their places.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR CONFERENCE, SEVENTH ANNUAL
Forty-six States.
SESSION, 1925.
The Seventh Annual Session of the International Labour Conference of the League
of Nations was held at Geneva from 19th May to 10th June, 1925, forty-six States being
represented. These included not only the important industrial countries of the world,
with the exception of the United States and Russia but including Germany, but also
many of the smaller and of the less advanced States. Among the distant countries were
Japan, China, Australia, India, South Africa, Canada, and the South American States.
Complete delegations consisting of two representatives of the Government and one each
of the employers and the workers were sent by all except ten, and these were mainly of
lesser industrial importance.
The President and Committees.
Dr. Benes, the Czecho-Slovakian statesman, was unanimously elected President
on the proposition of Mr. H. B. Betterton, M.P., Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry
of Labour and senior British Government delegate. Speaking at the close of the Session,
Dr. Benes referred to the feeling that the International Labour Conference was a per-
manent institution with a definite place in modern international life, and added "it has
become a centre for the development of a wise international spirit, moderate, but at the
same time profound."
Following its custon, the Conference appointed six committees (the members of each
Committee being selected equally from each of the groups, Government, employers' and
workers'), to study the details of the questions before it and report to the full Conference.
Three "Second-Reading" Votes.
A provisional system of a "second reading" for Conference decisions had been adopted
at the 1924 Session. It had been felt that many Governments had been unable to ratify
Draft Conventions agreed upon by earlier Sessions by reason often of quite small points,
sometimes in the wording, and that, if they were given an opportunity of suggesting
amendments which would facilitate their own ratification before a final vote was taken,
the speel of adoption of international labour legislation would be increased. Provisional
decisions were therefore taken on three subjects last year and Governments given time
to forward such amendments before the present Conference.
Accident Compensation Equality for Aliens.
The first of these questions was equality of treatment of aliens regarding workers'
and accident compensation. After discussion in committee and in full Conference a
Draft Convention was a loptel by 125 votes to none. By its provisions States who ratify
undertake to grant to the nationals of any other State which is a member of the Inter-
national Labour Organisation who suffer personal injury due to industrial accidents in
their territory the same treatment regarding workers' accident compensation as is given
to their own nationals. A Reconnen lation was also adopted by 128 votes to none on
to question of disputes arising out of the application of this system and on allied problems


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
Asiatic Labour Conditions.
The Conference, on the proposition of Mr. Joshi, the Indian workers' delegate,
instructed the International Labour Office to make a documentary inquiry into the con-
ditions of labour in Asiatic countries. A further resolution was adopted requiring the
Office to assist in the collection of information regarding the hours of work, wages and
holidays in the coal-mining industry throughout the world. This arose from a demand
made recently by the International Miners' Federation.
The "Two-Reading" System.
The "two-reading" system which had been provisionally adopted in 1924, as men-
tioned above, having resulted in the rejection of any international agreement on glass-
workers, and in the decision of the Conference to take the final votes on workers' com-
pensation immediately, the Conference decided to remit a number of amendments which
had been proposed to it to the Governing Body which is to report on them to the 1926
Session.
A New Governing Body.
One of the duties of the Conference was the election of a new Governing Body of the
International Labour Office, which holds office for three years. Of the twelve Govern-
ments represented, the eight States of chief industrial importance, including Great Britain,
India and Canada, must be included. The Argentine, Spain, Norway and Poland were
elected to the other four places, the Argentine and Norway replacing Chile and Finland.
The six employers on the outgoing Governing Body were re-elected; they include Sir
James Lithgow, former president of the Shipbuilding Employers' Federation; and Mr.
W. Gemmill, of the Transvaal Chamber of Mines. The workers' group is also practically
the same and includes Mr. E. L. Poulton, Secretary of the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives, and Mr. Tom Moore, President of the Canadian Trades and Labour Congress.
Ratifications of International Labour Conventions.
During the Session, 15 formal ratifications of International Labour Conventions
were announced, bringing the total to 161; the total in May, 1924, was 96.
It is noteworthy that the 15 announced during the Conference included the first
ratifications registered by France and by Germany; and the first by a South American
State (the Argentine Republic).
The total strength of the Soviet army is 1,058,000.
*
*
*
During the year 1924 were imported £6,753,679 worth of canned fish, and £4,276,313
worth of fresh, cured, or salted fish.
*
*
*
Imports of iron and steel from France, Belgium, and Germany during the first five
months of this year were 824,000 tons. During the corresponding period of last year
the figure was 566,000 tons.
*
*
*
The number of British-made motor-cars exported during the first four months of
1924, when the industry was protected by the McKenna Duties, was 3,012. In the corres-
ponding period of this year, with the duties abolished, the number of exported cars
was 6,387.
*
*
*
During the year 1923, the proportion of the following imports which came from Empire
sources were as follows: - Unmanufactured tobacco, 7.45 per cent.; wine, 7.3 per cent.;
raisins, 24.4 per cent.; currants, 6.15 per cent.; dried and preserved plums, 5.36 per
cent.; figs and fig-cake, 0.01 per cent.
*
*
*
During the first three months of this year, the average royalty on each ton of coal
raised was 61d.
*
*
*
Imports of wheat into Great Britain during 1924 were 117 million cwts., as compared
with 104 million cwts. in 1914; wheat meal and flour 11 million cwts., as compared with
10 million cwts.; and barley 21 million cwts., as compared with 16 million cwts.
-From The Labour Press Service, 18th June, 1925.


---
381
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
Record Number of Cases Settled.
We are pleased to record the fact that since our last Report the following
settlements have been effected through the Union's Solicitor, Mr. Evan
Barlow:-
Mr. S., Kettering No. 2, ₤10 and £1 15. od. costs. In this instance
there was no liability, but our Solicitor secured the above sum as an ex
gratia payment.
Mr. M., Leicester, £30 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. K., Kettering No. 2, ₤50 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. I., Leicester, £40 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. J. E. D., Mansfield, £25 and £2 2s. od. costs. Here again there
was no liability, but the Solicitor secured this sum as an ex gratia payment.
Mr. C., Leicester, £100 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. N., Leicester, £75 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. R., Leicester, £65 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. K., Leicester, £75 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. S., Kettering, £350 and £15 15s. od. costs.
Mr. W., Kettering, £200 and £10 10s. od. costs.
Mr. H., Leicester, £300 and £26 5s. od. costs.
Mr. I., Leicester No. 2, £125 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. N., Kettering, £100 and ₤IO IOS. Od. costs.
In spite of this long list of settlements, we would remind members that
lump sums of money are not obtainable by law, but only by agreement,
proving, once again, what may be done for our members when the Insurance
Companies know that there is a powerful organisation at the back of them.
THE HALF-YEARLY STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS
is presented herewith. The details are given on the following pages. Despite
the heavy demands on the Sick and Unemployment Funds we are pleased to
record the fact that there is an increase in the Central Office funds. It should
be noted that the Sick and Funeral Benefits have increased from £15,740 5s. 10d.
for last half-year to £22,988 9s. 2d., or an increase of 46 per cent., whilst the
Unemployment Benefit has increased from £18,440 18s. 6d. to £24,228 Is. 3d.,
an increase of 31.5 per cent. In connection with the Benefits paid through the
State Unemployment Section, it will be observed that the increase is 37 per
cent.; this is a great advantage to the members by being enabled to receive
State Benefit through the offices of the Union, and we trust that every branch
will see the advantage in administering the same.
The loss recorded on the Political Fund is due to the Union's activities in
connection with the work carried on on local bodies, which work is of distinct
advantage, not only to one section of the community, but is of a general
character.
B


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
382

It should always be borne in mind that the great benefits given for
small contribution are only possible on account of the system under which
work of the Union is conducted - Arbitration. Further, it should be rem
bered that the costs of the Solicitor in connection with Compensation (
are borne by the Union, which in itself is a considerable benefit to those membe
who unfortunately meet with accidents.

TRADE DEPARTMENT.

For the
half-year ending
30th June, 1925.

£
s. d.
34079 8 10
32198 16 6
173187 3 10
For the
half-year ending
30th June, 1924.
£
s. d.
38525 18 1
31940 11 9
164262 10 4
Increase on the Decrease on the
corresponding
half-year.
£ s. d.
258 4 9
8924 13 6

correspo
half-y
£
4446
Total Trade Income
,, Expenditure
,, Funds, Trade Dept.

The Detailed Items of Trade Expenditure are as follows:-
Travelling Assistance
Investigating
Loss of Tools by Fire
Victimisation
Dispute Benefit
Arbitration
Out-of-Work Benefit
Share of Out-of-Work Cons.
Three-fourths Share of
Organising
Three-fourths Share of
Printing and Stationery
Legal Expenses
Grants
Gen. Fed. of Trade Unions
Political Fund
British Trade Union Congress
Scottish Trade Union Congress
Delegations and Conferences
Upkeep of Central Office
Miscellaneous
Management Expenses
7 2 4
74 18 2
3 17 0
36 0 8
402 12 6
284 2 1
24228 1 3
494 10 3
1196 14 3
1188 5 8
177 18 6
325 7 0
1147 10 10
247 5 0
23 0 10
271 9 10
254 19 10
217 9 4
1617 11 2
16 2 7
75 2 6
6 16 7
57 10 4
147 0 0
186 11 11
22541 9 0
471 12 8
768 13 5
1454 8 11
95 4 2
100 5 0
777 10 3
1088 15 11
403 11 6
26 0 10
1493 4 11
333 4 4
250 5 3
1647 1 8
255 12 6
97 10 2
1686 12 3
22 17 7
428 0 10
82 14 4
225 2 0
58 14 11
777 10
156
SICK AND FUNERAL DEPARTMENT.
Total Sick Income
Expenditure
,, Funds, Sick Dept.
32324 17 0
25094 2 11
157967 1 4
29188 14 0
22700 15 3
136735 13 2
3136 3 0
2393 7 8
21231 8 2
The Detailed Items of Sick and Funeral Expenditure are as follows:-
Sickness Benefit
Funeral Benefit
Share of Out-of-Work Cons.
One-fourth Share of
Organising
One-fourth Share of
Printing and Stationery
Management Expenses
Major Stevens
Leicestershire Insurance
Committee
21129 19 2
1858 10 0
314 16 3
398 18 1
396 1 11
455 17 6
19013 15 6
2178 10 0
300 11 10
256 6 4
484 16 7
465 14 0
2116 3 8
14 4 5
142 11 9
88 14 5
9 10 0
540 0 0
I 1
FIDELITY DEPARTMENT.
Total Income
Expenditure
,, Funds, Fidelity Dept.
64 7 6
683 10 7
62 10 0
618 8 1
I 17 6
65 2 6


---
```text
384
GAINS AND LOSSES ON THE HALF-YEAR.
f
s. d.
f
s. d.
Total Funds at Central Office, now
"
last Half-year..
334175 18 4
325291 4 11
Total Funds at Branches, now
last Half-year
"
..
Net Increase on Half-year
Net Increase on Half-year
118918 2 II
11637 I I
8884 13 5
7281 I 10
£16165 15 3
Total Increase
GAINS AND LOSSES (CENTRAL & BRANCH FUNDS).
Increase on Trade Fund
Sick Fund
Fidelity Fund
1880 12 4
7230 14 I
64 7 6
Less Loss on Political Fund
Net Increase on Central Office Funds
Branch Funds
9175 13 11
291 6 5
8884 13 5
7281 I 10
£16165 15 3
TOTAL INCREASE
MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNION.
Financial Members-
Males
Females..
52548
21557
Probationary
74105
6490
GRAND TOTAL
80595
1925. 1924. 1924. 1923. 1923. 1922. 1922. 1921. 1920.
JUNE. DEC. JUNE, DEC. JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. DEC.
Financial 74105 72647 70494 69112 68403 68787 69174 71224 81874
Probationary 6490 6098 7250 6553 6772 6310 7019 5986 6989
Totals 80595 78745 77744 75665 75175 75097 76193 77210 88850
JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCILS AND VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS.
At the forthcoming Trades Union Congress in September we have a
resolution upon the agenda dealing with the above matter, and also one on
Unemployment.
The resolutions are as follows :-
VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS.
"This Congress instructs the General Council to urge upon H.M.
Government the desirability of giving to National Agreements voluntarily
entered into and approved by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity
as awards under the Trade Board Acts, 1909 and 1918, with the object
of ensuring the observance of fair conditions of labour by all engaged in
the industry whenever requested by the parties to the agreement."
UNEMPLOYMENT.
"That this Congress views with the greatest concern the serious
volume of unemployment now existing, and deplores the lack of effective
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
measures on the part of the Government to attempt to alleviate the
situation. It further declares its emphatic opposition to the spurious
remedies of lower wages and the degradation of established working con-
ditions, and calls upon the Trade Union Movement to offer its utmost
resistance to any attempt to increase the hours of work. It asserts the
unquestionable right of the unemployed worker and his dependents to
adequate maintenance, and reiterates its demand for the establishment
of a National Employment and Development Board for the purpose of
devising and co-ordinating measures whereby the extent of unemployment
may be reduced."
We hope that both resolutions will be passed. The one dealing with
Voluntary Agreements has been, in the past, somewhat misunderstood. We are
only asking that any Union which has a proper agreement between themselves
and the Employers' Association, should, if both sides desire the same, to
make it applicable to all engaged in the industry, and thus prevent "under-
cutting" of wages and conditions at the expense of the worker. This surely
is a sound principle, and one that will make for the elimination of those
who want to reduce the standard of living.
THE POLITICAL AND INDUSTRIAL WORLD
is, from the workers' standpoint, very unsatisfactory indeed; especially so is
this the fact if looked at from the proceedings during the past few weeks in the
House of Commons. Of talk there has been an unending stream, and appeals
for something to be done to relieve the present abnormal circumstances. When,
however, Labour puts up its case through the Labour M.P.'s, the net result
is that "Parliament can do but little to remedy the situation," and later on,
when votes are taken, the big majority by which the Conservatives were returned
shows itself in constantly voting down the Labour proposals. The attitude of
the Government upon the great and serious question of unemployment, as
portrayed by the speech of the Premier, the Rt. Hon. Stanley Baldwin, М.Р.,
is indeed one of great disappointment, and ought to be a speech to satisfy the
workers that their hopes lay in a Labour Party in the House of Commons,
with a sufficient majority to make it a real power. We are being constantly
reminded of the fact that the Labour Party was in office last year and did not
solve the problem; what is omitted is the fact that the Party was in a minority
so far as the number of members making the House of Commons was concerned,
and to a very considerable extent was therefore handicapped by the limits
which were imposed upon the Party.
Further, the very people who "taunt" the Labour Party with its short-
comings conveniently forget that whilst Labour had nine months wherein to
bring into being new methods, the older parties of the State have been in power
and authority for hundreds of years, and the present condition of affairs is
due very largely to their lack of statesmanship, and certainly reflect no great
credit upon them. We appeal, therefore, to the membership to keep steadily


---
Here is the extracted text:
386
and persistently at work to build up such a Labour Party as will ensure, in the
near future, a sufficient number of members in the House of Commons who
not only insist upon drastic reforms, but will be in sufficient authority to pr
upon the Statute Book of the Realm such Acts of Parliament as will bring ira
being a system which will relieve the workers from many unjust burdens ther
at present are carrying.
OBITUARY.
It is with sincere regret that we have to record the death of another
Branch. Mr. Rawlings has for many years been an active member of
officer of the Union, MR. J. RAWLINGS, Secretary to the London South
the Branch and did yeoman work on behalf of the members in South
London. Upon the death of Mr. G. Standeven, in January, 1924, he
was elected Branch Secretary.
Mr. Rawlings was buried on Thursday, the 16th inst., at 2.30p.m.,
and we were represented at the funeral by the General President and
General Secretary.
We trust that the efforts put forth on behalf of the workers by Mr.
Rawlings will be an incentive to the younger men to carry on the work
he has been called upon to lay down.
To the relatives of the deceased officer we have tendered sympathy
for their great loss, and also appreciation of the work of our late colleague.
We hope it will be some consolation to them in this their loss to know
that Mr. Rawlings was held in esteem by his comrades.
We have further to record the very sudden death of MRS. BLEAKLEY,
the wife of Mr. C. Bleakley, who himself died as recently as May last.
It is indeed a sad blow to the family to lose both parents by sudden
deaths and especially within such a short period of time. We beg to
assure the family of the sympathy of the membership of the Union in this
their time of trouble and loss.
UNEMPLOYMENT.
A Special Conference was held on the 24th inst., called by the General
Council of the Trade Union Congress, at the Central Buildings, Westminster.
The basis for representation being different from that for the Annual Congress,
we decided that inasmuch as the membership of the Union could not be con-
sulted, we were represented thereat by the following: -Mr. T. F. Richards,
Mr. W. R. Townley, Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards, Mr. L. Smith, Mr. W. R. Smith,
and Mr. E. L. Poulton. The Conference was well attended, and after con-
siderable discussion upon the present disgraceful condition of affairs regarding
the vast army of unemployed and the attendant suffering occasioned, a series
of resolutions were passed dealing with the question of insisting upon the


---
387
Government dealing with this paramount question. A report will be found
on page 441.
We are pleased our colleague, Mr. W. R. Smith, drew attention to the
most important item in which the Labour movement believes the develop-
ment of home resources, particularly in regard to the land, much of which is
derelict. Although Mr. W. R. Smith's speech was of nearly ten minutes'
duration, we regret the Daily Herald only gave him the following in their
report of the Congress :-
"Mr. W. R. Smith (Boot and Shoe Operatives) regretted that the
resolutions made no reference to the development of home resources,
especially the land, much of which was derelict."
MINERS.
At the Conference named above, a full statement was made regarding the
position of the Miners and the attempts being made to still further reduce their
standard of life, a standard already too low. There was no doubt about the
mind of the Conference as to supporting the Miners, and while it is hoped a
way may yet be found whereby a stoppage will be prevented, we want to make
quite clear to the membership that the Trade Union movement as a whole is
expected to loyally support the Miners in their resisting the onslaught if forced
upon them. Their case is quite clear; they have already been forced down
to a standard below which they are unanimous in stating they cannot go
further. Their case has been before the General Council of the Congress and
they are unanimous in declaring for doing all possible to back up the Miners.
We cannot say more at present except that the members need not be surprised
if we have to call at short notice meetings of the members to ask for further
powers than we have at present to render assistance to other Unions.
WOOLLEN TRADES.
A statement was also made at the same Conference regarding the attempts
that the Employers in such industry are making to reduce the workers' wages.
Here also the workers are determined to resist such proposed reductions, and
a number of operatives have already ceased work rather than submit to any
reduction. We hope that success will attend them in their resistance. It is
indeed ironical to find on the one hand complaints as to restricted trade, and
on the other these proposed reductions of wages which will further restrict
trade, and this on the plea of increasing trade. These cases ought to wake
the workers up to the absolute necessity of so rousing the conscience of the
nation as will ensure the withdrawal of the proposals which our comrades are
confronted with. The Trade Union movement is going through a very trying
time, and we appeal to the members to stand loyally by and help as far as
possible those who are called upon to bear the brunt of the battle.
BALANCE SHEETS.
We beg to call the attention of those Branch Secretaries who have not yet
sent in their balance sheet for the quarter ending May last. On reference to


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
388
period of eight weeks was allowed to
clapse during which time balance sheets were to be sent to the Central Office.
Twenty-six branches have so far failed to send a copy along, and we trust
Circular No. 357, it will be seen that a
RECEIPTS FOR BENEFITS.
no further reminder will be necessary.
remit ALL receipt forms to the Central Office as soon as signed, to enable the
To save the writing of unnecessary letters Branch Secretaries should
JUBILEE HISTORY OF THE UNION.
accounts to be closed promptly.
Members who desire to secure a copy of this most interesting and valuati
immediately with the Branch Secretary, as the stock is constantly being
record of the work of the Union for its first fifty years should place their order
reduced, and we do not intend to have a
copy, and should be ordered at once.
reprint. They are only 6d.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
a full report of the political world as seen b
By purchasing the Herald daily
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only
Footwear."
We remain,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
Yours fraternally,
“
Union Stamped
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.


---
389
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE. The state of trade warrants all of us to look for the cause, and, if possible,
point to the remedies. At once let me say that all countries appear to be in the same
plight, as shown by the facts of our international relationship. Other countries have
been quoted, and we have therefore informed ourselves of the position in other countries
as here in this one. Our confrères in other lands cannot press home their industrial
demands unless the operatives are willing to be organised, and in this connection we could,
and would, like to stop home competition by getting all Operatives in the Union and all
Employers in the Federation; and owing to the self-centred interest inherent in the
unlearned, these impositions are put upon those who are conscientiously trying to do the
right thing. We have evidence of this where several manufacturers have been called upon
to abide by the National Agreement, and the pity is that some small penalty is not imposed
upon them : in fact, we here in this country appear to be imposed upon by the Non-
Unionist and Non-Associated because of our desire not to be either vindictive or unkind,
and whilst we may wish it. We are able to check bad wages and worse conditions in other
countries and we are doing it; that is more than the Employers are doing, they fully
believe in underselling each other. We don't, and our influence in the shoemaking coun-
tries, some twelve in number, only one exceeds the 48 hours, which at least is an achieve-
ment for the Unions so organised. Then we must always bear in mind that the purchasing
power of money differs in different countries and also the economic position has to be
considered. For instance, let us take Messrs. Bata Bros., Zlim, Czecho-Slovakia or
Moravia. They employ four thousand workers and are capable of turning out sixty
thousand pairs per week of women's and children's glacé kid, patent, willow, satin canvas
and leather. They manufacture everything necessary on the spot ; they make their
own leather, having their own pine forest for tanning bark ; make some of their machinery;
a wood-working department, paper and cardboard factories, printing works, and print
a weekly newspaper distributed among the workers. They have their own dairy farm
from which the workers are supplied with flour, milk, meat, cheese, eggs, &c. The firm
is also erecting a garden town of four hundred houses, schools, library, baths, the building
materials being supplied from the firms own brick-kilns, quarries and forests. The firm
have one hundred and eighty retail shops in Czecho-Slovakia, and one hundred and twenty
abroad, or a total of three hundred retail shops. They also manufacture felt and cloth
shoes for Bohemia and Moravia. The estimated turn-out is put at one hundred thousand
pairs per day, of which sixty thousand pairs are turned out by machinery and forty
thousand pairs by hand. Including the cottage industry it is estimated that in the country
of Czecho-Slovakia no less than forty thousand people are engaged in shoemaking, and
their output is about forty million pairs per year. If one carefully considers the above
it will be seen that such a firm can get all the wealth they need from any two or three of
the above investments, for apparently this firm is practising the Socialistic system by
having and being the overlord, but one wonders where the ordinary small private trader
can successfully compete with a system of co-ordination as this appears to be. Of one
thing I am concerned and that is we ought to know more of this firm and its conditions.
MANSFIELD. Messrs. Faire Bros., of this town, employ some hundred and twenty
girls, and we succeeded in joining about one hundred and eighteen in January last, and
promised them as they had been members before, after improving their position, they
allowed themselves to be intimidated and left the Union, but we promised to see the
firm before Easter if they would remain loyal. We learned in a few weeks that the manage-
ment had had the girls in the Office and tried to intimidate them from belonging to the
Union. I asked for, and obtained, an interview with Sir Samuel Faire and his brother, in
Leicester, who promised me that they would have no trouble with us and that no inter-
ference with the operatives would be permitted, but further interference has taken place,
and to make sure twenty-five girls were discharged with the object of causing them to leave
the Union. Many girls stopped paying. We wrote the firm who again assured us in face
of this fact, that they were not interfering with the girls and their membership, and although
the six months has elapsed, asked for by the firm, they have not put themselves in order.
It makes one lose confidence in mankind when men of position act in this manner and allow
others to drag their name into the public gaze, when the conduct displayed by the manage-
ment at Mansfield is such that we must inform the Industry of the fact that this firm is
acting contrary to the letter and the spirit of the National Agreement, which all honourable
firms adopt, and we must ask the employers to help us to respect their own agreement,
and also respect the attitude of our members who refuse to work up materials produced
under unfair conditions. We are told that the law of libel is great: well, we are prepared
to put that to the test by making the facts known.
RUSHDEN. The firm of Chamberlain has been visited respecting the conditions we
were permitting at the auxiliary firms like the above, and also Looms', of Market Har-
borough, and other firms who cut leather and make stiffenings and heels, all of whom make
C
---

---
390
that will befall them should they join the Union.
were always paid. Now if others are going to take from the factories this work, ther
up materials which used to be made up in shoe factories, and for which Trade Union rate,
One wonders and marvels how in the
who like Faire Bros., Mansfield, have lectured their operatives on the terrible consequence
Federation by stiffening makers has taken place, including Looms', Market Harborough
need be no surprise for us to ask that union rates be paid. A deputation to the Employer
guilty of the grave misdemeanour of persuading the
name of common decency people can be found who can depute the Employers' Federatio
with interest and sympathy, because if we failed with one or two, our strength would
informed Mr. G. Looms that when we appeal to the employers we know they will lister
with our members and the unfair materials and their source of origin. We still prefer
that Looms' and Faire Bros. will act with us and save us having to resort to other means
and ask for help when they are
employees to think of their employers' imaginary and selfish outlook. I have already
which we can obtain our object without acting unfairly.
non-union and coloured labour is found at low rates for America, varying from 7 to 1
AMERICA.-Our enquiries regarding Stiffening making in America has elicited
fact that although in some factories non-union labour is invariably the rule, yet in other
dollars per week. Boys and girls are also employed in the factories, which means in
great natural country with all its wealth has a corner in its heart, although there are ot
money from 28s. to 6os. per week, of from 48 to 60 hours per week, showing that this ver
stiffening factories whose employees are non-unionist yet earn from 15 to 25 dollars per
weck, which is not too great for the place described by some of its countrymen as of " Di
We cannot leave this matter here, more will be heard of this later.
Origin."
to inspect the same.
TRADE BOARD.-Two more days have been spent on this work and the Boot Trad
Association had set up a repairing plant at Wembley and invited the Advisory Committe
otherwise detained, sent a substitute. The Exhibition was a very good and compact one
The Minister of Labour had consented to open the same, but bein
done. A new Rounding and Channelling machine by the Standard Machinery Co. wasa
and illustrated very fully how repairs can be made to look as good as new when proper
very distinguishable feature.
The general work of the Board was the granting of permits, the registration of appren
General, has not yet given his decision respecting the division of a repairer's duties, and
when he is working under the Act and when he is working outside the Act.
BOZEAT. A visit to all the firms in the district respecting the payment of the extra
Is. claimed by us several months ago met with favour by the employers, who felt that
the circumstances our claim was not unreasonable, but could give us no promise at presen
of anything further in the future. We could not refuse this small concession in the present
state of trade.
MANSFIELD SHOE COMPANY. - Several visits have been paid to this firm who had
Government contract, and who are not proceeding with the same. We have had several
differences with the firm, who are in an isolated district, and who feel they are too far from
a shoe centre to get the facilities afforded by such contact-hence we get at misunder-
standings because of the geographical area, and it requires some amount of trouble to ger
differences corrected. However, the firm being federated, they can always check ou
claims, and we hope to ultimately arrive at a proper understanding. It is for this reason
that when we do not hear from a firm for several months it invariably happens that a lor
has got to be done before we can get all the accumulated troubles corrected. We are
still negotiating.
BURTON-ON-TRENT MEMBERS. A visit to Earl Shilton to see the head of this firm
resulted in the firm paying time and a quarter for overtime for the future, but demurred
to pay for the past, alleging that the Rossendale Union did not press, and also intimated
to us that they are about to slightly reduce our members' wages because they are higher
than the Rossendale Statement. We have intimated to them that we cannot accept this
way of dealing with our members, and hope that no such attempt will be made, or trouble
these days of kindred alliances all factory operatives ought to have an alliance for self-
AMALGAMATION of all Unions in the Leather Trade ought to take place, and also in
preservation purposes. If a universal or a national stoppage is about to become due.
then all ought to be consulted and all could then participate.
and the other has made very bad time, but we hope for better times, and when one remem-
MELTON MOWBRAY has been visited with the object of renewing, if possible, our
position in that town, where owing to the 1920 stoppage one factory closed down altogether.
bers our benefits and the Unemployment Benefits, and our Holiday Pay, it is 75 per cent.
of those who have no income, which would have saved in the old days very many members
casier to pay contributions to-day than in the old days. We do pay now the contributions
We are also in touch with Oakham, but owing to the prolonged illness of our friend. Mr.
Wainer, of Melton, we have not been so much in touch as formerly.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
391
SUPERANNUATION. The Sub-Committee appointed reported to a special Council
Meeting on this matter, and there appears to be only one way of dealing with this matter
at present, that is, by all future recipients to pay an additional contribution, and one
wonders how many members there are prepared to do that. Beyond this I will not divulge
at present all the other points that may appear in a Memoranda later.
ADVISORY COUNCIL OF TRADES BOARDS met at Montagu House, to consider, among
other things, the method of Inspectorship in connection with the Trade Board Acts, but
owing to the grave crisis in the coal industry and the general Council Meeting precisely
at that time, and several of our members being on that body, after carefully looking
through the Annual Report to be presented to Congress at Scarborough, we adjourned
the meeting with the Council, Todd and the Chief Lady Inspector until a later date.
LONDON SOUTH.- The General Secretary and myself had the sad experience of attend-
ing the funeral of Mr. J. Rawlings, Secretary of the Branch, who passed away after a very
few days illness through pneumonia. This branch only a few months ago lost their old
Secretary, Mr. G. Standeven, and this calamity falling so soon must make the older members
feel very sad indeed.
WATERFOOT. I have also paid a visit to Waterfoot with the avowed object of trying
to prevent friction between us, but as the Secretary had had a special call, I could only
write him very fully asking for an opportunity of meeting the Executive of that Union
of 6,000 strong, and by such methods avert the friction that may arise on any question
in which both may be interested. I have told Mr. Taylor that at present all I am doing
is unofficial, but if I can get something tangible to place before the Council of the National
Union, I should be only too pleased, as we shall never get unity until units unite. Bodies
are always made up of these units, and it is necessary that these must make the first move
which, to say the least, was the recommendation of the General Council's Dispute Committee.
All members are very loyal to the Union who buy and read the Daily Herald, and act
upon its advice in Trade Union matters, especially if they wear STAMPED SHOES, or at
least be sure they have been made under Trade Union conditions.
Yours fraternally,
General President.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, LONDON, N.W.5.
19th July, 1925.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1924 667,902 8 7
January, 1925 2,840 1 10
February 3,952 4 8
March 4,124 16 0
April 4,054 10 6
May 4,023 13 8
June 3,993 2 6
£690,890 17 9
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1924 358,625 13 7
January, 1925 3,954 7 9
February 5,226 1 9
March 3,682 10 3
April 3,031 5 0
May 3,510 14 9
June 4,823 1 9
£382,853 14 10


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
7th Edition.
392
NATIONAL JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL
FOR THE BOOT AND SHOE MANUFACTURING TRADE AND
NATIONAL CONFERENCE AGREEMENT (SEPTEMBER), 1924.
HOLIDAY (PROVISION) SCHEME.
THE JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL FOR THE BOOT AND SHOE TRA
equal contributions from Manufacturers and Operatives, under the follow
on 27th May, 1919, adopted a Contributory Holiday Scheme, based
conditions, and the Scheme was incorporated in the National Confere-
Agreement (September), 1924:
1.-Weekly contributions after August Bank Holiday, 1925, will be:
Employer
Operative
Men (over 21)
1/2
1/2
Youths (18-21) and
Women (over 20)
8d.
8d.
Boys (16-13)2
Girls (16-2
4d.
4d.
permitting
2.-Withdrawals for the following amounts after the dates shown:
factory closed for usual holidays (3 days Easter and Whitsun; I week Christmas
and August):
HOLIDAY
Fri., 25th Dec., 1925
Mon., 5th April, 1926
Mon., 24th May, 1926
Mon., 2nd Aug., 1926
and requiring the following credit balances to be left :
December, 1925
Easter, 1926
Whitsun, 1926
August, 1926
subject to
-AMOUNTS-
Youths and
Men
Women
Boys and
40/-
16/-
16/-
40/-
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
20/-
12/-
12/-
20/-
...
...
...
...
Girls
10-
6-
6-
10-
4/4
21/-
19/-
5/4
12/-
8/-
28
6-
4-
3.-Payments being made at times to suit local arrangements, but pre-
ferably on the first pay day after the holiday.
4-Withdrawals not exceeding the amount standing to an operatives
credit, and only taking place at above dates.
5.-Operatives leaving between holidays having amounts to their credits
paid after the next holiday or, on request, transferred to their next employer.
6.-Operatives absent through sickness being allowed on resumption of
work to make up arrears for 4 weeks.
7. -No contributions being payable by employers in respect of those weeks
for which operatives do not contribute.
8.-Operatives agreeing to deduction of their contributions from wages
and signing the contribution card accordingly.
"
9.--All contributions for each factory being paid into a
vision Account" at a bank, controlled by a Management Committee of not less
than two (half representing the employer and half the operatives).
July, 1925.
(Signed) RUTH TOMLINSON,
E. L. POULTON,
}
Joint Secretaries.
Holiday Pro

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
393
THE AUDITOR'S REPORT.
THE CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LIMITED,
AUDIT DEPARTMENT,
99 Leman Street,
London, E. 1.
The Executive Council,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
I beg to report that I have audited the Accounts of the Union for
the Half-year ended 30th June, 1925, with the Books and Vouchers
relating thereto, and have obtained all the information and explanations
I have required, and am of the opinion that they exhibit a true and correct
view of the Union's position according to the information given, and as
shown by the books.
The Deeds of Investments have been examined, and found to be
in order.
The system of accounting is an excellent one, and the books are
exceedingly well kept.
15th July, 1925.
Yours faithfully,
A. E. NEWMAN,
Public Auditor.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
421
FUNERAL BENEFITS
For Half-Year ending 30th June, 1925.
AYR
No.
Name.
4445 Galbraith. T.
Occupation.
.1ge
Cause of Death.
Imount.
1 s. d.
.
Totals.
£ s. d.
Maker
53 Heart Failure
600
BELFAST
1931 Rice, P.
Repairer
46 Pulmonary Tuberculosis
600
BRISTOL
988 Ayles, E.
912 Wilkins. G.
709 Vincent, A.
830 Duckett. G.
111221 Powell. J.
856 Gilbert. F.
BRISTOL No. 2-
1610 Wheeler, J. F.
71986 Peacock, W. J. (wife of)
1222 Cann, A. H. (wife of)
BROMSGROVE
111242 Bushnell J.
111266 Warman, H. (wife of)
CHESHAM-
119976 Green, A.
CORK-
153593 O'Connor, J.
DAVENTRY-
3643 Muddiman, W. (wife of)
DERBY-
3802 Petty, C.
DUNDEE-
3341 Kidd, A.
95469 Crone, J. R.
68513 Wright, P.
73827 McPherson. A.
EDINBURGH-
4152 Bleakley, C.
GLASGOW-
4998 Thomson, A. (wife of)
4830 Vance, W. J. (wife of)
4894 Carroll, F.
5026 Berryman, T.
4794 Henderson, H. (wife of)
154385 Stewart, G. (wife of)
4500 Simpson, W. (wife of)
5583 Duff, S.
4680 Blyth, R. (wife of)
5124 Youill, A.
4743 Williamson, H. (wife of)
4992 Mackie, A. (wife of)
140674 McKeown, W.
Consol Operator
Laster
Repairer
Laster
Finisher
ST.. Edge Setter
Padding
..
Laster
..
..
..
..
..
..
30
56
73
69
71
61
48
34
67
61
39
39
19
61
Phthisis
Pulmonary Tuberculosis
Morbus Cordis
Pneumonia
Hernia..
Mitral Disease of Heart
Phthisis
Pneumonia
Broncho-Pneumonia
Arterio Sclerosis
Mitral Stenosis
Heart Failure
Tuberculosis
61
61
40
52
59
62
57
41
69
49
75
46
27
68
80
53
67
56
81
50
00
Ο
0
0
300
3
3
6
6
3
3
6
6
3
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ο
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

420
BRANCH REPORTS.

ARBROATH. Trade is still bad, and now the middle of the year brings
round the need for statutory holidays. Needless to say our members, could
to accept a further
interval which will pass as a time of rest and pleasure. We have written before
a stop in benefit which is always needed. We have been awaiting in vain for
the shrieks of indignation over the new proposals of the Government re Un-
employment Insurance, and once again must we confess we cannot understand
the British worker. He seems willing always to be kicked or squeezed or
diddled or hoodwinked, and even ready to kiss the hand that hands over the
“medicine.” if one can be allowed to confuse the metaphor. How insured
contributors should permit say the idle benefit being spoken of as the “dole,”
how they should tolerate further meddling with waiting period and with
ordinary rights to benefit, how they should lie down to this bare-faced project
to reduce unemployment by depriving claimants wholesale of benefits, is some-
thing which will be of enormous interest to the students of psychology of the
future, but which remains a perfect nightmare to those of the present. After
a period of approximately five years’ depression, when all kinds of resources
are long since swallowed up, and when after a fitful summer we are approach-
ing a British winter season with its cruel demands for greater expenditure,
the screw will begin to turn which will leave huge numbers with no alternative
but the workhouse or the grave. The new codified instructions for the adminis-
tration of Unemployment Benefit have been issued, and several very unsatis-
factory issues appear to have been in the mind of the Ministry when this was
prepared. Throughout the period between one set of regulations and another,
the permanent officials are exerting their cuteness in finding fresh difficulties
to put in the way of those who claim, and if those restrictions fail to rouse
serious opposition, the underlying idea is then embodied in a definite instruction.
How this works can be seen from the treatment of juveniles who become
insured for the first time. When the right of “waver” was first allowed to
the 30 stamp conditions, those juveniles were admitted to benefit after their
first stamp, the view being held that if they had worked at insurable employ-
ment between the ages of 14 and 16 years, they had proved their right to be
regarded as being normally insurable, while only being eligible for stamps at
16 seemed to prove they had got all the reasonable amount of insurable employ-
ment that was possible in their case. This went on for some time, but at last
some bright brain discovered a technical flaw, and held that no employment
was insurable before a person became 16 years of age; therefore the statutory
condition was not fulfilled until a longer term of stamps was necessary to prove
“normality.” Various restrictions were imposed until no one in an official
position knew what was what, but now it is laid down that three months of
insured employment must be proved before a juvenile gets benefit. And all
the time only a few kicked. If a greater volume of protest had been made
this objectionable finding would have been prevented. Many other instances
could be given to prove that very oppressive conditions have grown up gradually
which only required a united opposition from Unions to kill at their inception.
BURNLEY. We would like to see an Organiser as promised. Our
branch is dying of apathy and indifference.
CHESHAM. Trade here still remains slack.
CHESTERFIELD. — We have to report trade bad at the time of sending.
We have several members out of work, and our sick list is rather heavy for the
time of the year. The prospects do not look very bright for trade improving
at present.


---
CORK. Trade still remains good.
DERBY. Trade in Derby is of uneven character; the C.W.S. appear to
have plenty of work, but the other firms are not making half time. We have
a few signing the Out-of-Work Book, also some that have been suspended
In places like Derby when you fall out in the boot trade you do not have much
chance of getting back. The firms seem as if they would sooner employ
Melbourne operatives than local ones.
DUNDALK.-Trade is very bad indeed, so much so that members are
started by men employed by a new factory, matters are rather unsettled
management was approached and asked to allow all to share alike as regard
being dismissed and short time is the general rule. This being
We regret to state we had trouble here this week, ending 4th July. The
short time. This was refused, so our Branch President, an Englishman, volun-
teered to stay off too. The members considered this a great sacrifice. At
and presented their local President with a very handsome pipe in case, as a
monthly meeting the members strongly resented the management's action
mark of respect and esteem for his laborious toil in connection with the Branch
at the same time wishing him every success in his future occupation. He is
he having been employed for seven years under a Waterford firm previous to
leaving Dundalk on the 6th inst. for Waterford, where his family are domiciled
his coming to Dundalk. We may mention also that the sewer and stitcher-
the only one we had-packed up on Friday evening, the 3rd inst., and returned
we understand enough stock is on hand to supply the requirements of the firm
to his home in Northampton-had enough of Dundalk management. Further,
for three or four months, and it is difficult to understand what is to happen next.
the 3rd inst., the forelady was dismissed without notice. Now we have the
In all cases the employees have been dismissed without notice. On Friday
foreman finisher's wife in her place.
EDINBURGH.-Trade in Repairing Section fairly busy during the month.
We are sorry to report the death of Mrs. C. Bleakley only six weeks after her
husband and late Colleague C. Bleakley. Our sympathy goes out to the family
in their double bereavement. Up to the time of sending returns away the
response to our appeal has been very gratifying. We shall publish a full
list in next month's Report. This response goes to show that if a man has
convictions and states them, even if you don't always agree, one has to respect
the man. On looking over one of the Organisers' reports we see the statement
that operatives are always pleased to see any of the National Officials of the
Union, acting, as it does, to encourage the outlying districts. This is exactly
he position the members all over Scotland feel. A visit from any of the
ficials is ever welcome, even if some knotty questions are asked. Let
otland have a visit from one of the Organisers, it would be greatly appre-
ated. We are pleased that the firm recently organised by our late Colleague
ave now started paying to National Agreement as far as wages are concerned,
but have not adopted the Holiday Scheme. Of course we shall endeavour to
have same applied as it is part of our Agreement. Male members with this
firm are proving staunch to Union, but the females are rather a difficult pro-
position. The Branch thanks all those who have contributed towards our
appeal. Owing to the death of Mrs. Bleakley we propose putting all the
Trusting this will meet with the approval of all contributors.
banking account on behalf of the three girls left at home.
money collected into a
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.-During the month trade has gradually
become worse, with the exception of Raunds, who fortunately have Govern-
ment or Crown Colony contracts. Quite a number of firms state that they
hardly know how to keep going.
and in view of the industrial situation a decided improvement cannot be
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.-Trade in this centre is far from active,


---
expected immediately. The Kingswood Boot Trade has figured prominently
in the local Press during the past week, one anonymous scribe declaring that
unless the attention of the Government is called to the serious state of affairs
(in Kingswood) the industry will be wiped out entirely. Strong exception
turer, who is reputed to possess a comfortable bank balance, and who has
pointed out that when employment generally improves, Kingswood will more
than justify its existence in the great boot manufacturing industry and so
say all of us- but what of the operative? If Kingswood is to justify its future
existence as a prosperous boot centre, the operative will have to be considered,
and the time to do that is now, with special reference to the rising generation,
and we contend that what is badly needed in this District, is ample opportunity
for technical education. The day of the outworker and the backyard work-
shop is past, and instead of looking for Government assistance, the whole of
the Kingswood manufacturers should get together, cultivate the community
spirit, come down off their perches, and discuss matters with their men.
will do more to stimulate pride in craft, which is essential in modern boot
manufacture, and help to remove that frequently expressed contempt for the
industry which is so prevalent. The members at Branch meeting moved a
sympathetic vote of condolence with the widow and family of our late friend
and colleague, Chris. Bleakley, who will be remembered in Kingswood for
sound organising work for the Union. The Branch voted the sum of £2 2s. od.
to the fund organised by the Edinburgh Branch.
LIVERPOOL.-The glorious summer weather during the past month has
been grand for holidays, sports, and making hay, but has caused a slump in
boot repairing in the majority of shops. When the weather breaks we may
expect a rush, some of our unfortunate members say let it be soon. We note
that some of our members are behind with their contributions. Eight weeks'
arrears is the limit for receiving benefits according to rule.
NORTHAMPTON.-Trade remains somewhat slack for time of the year,
causing some to be discharged and others to work short time. But of course
where men are on Supplementary Wage Basis they are able to earn a little over
standard rates whilst at the factory. Our members were very proud of the
honour attained by our General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., and passed
the following resolution :-
"To offer Mr. E. L. Poulton our heartiest congratulations on the
honoured and responsible position, he having been elected on the League
of Nations, and from personal knowledge of his abilities, feel he will carry
out those duties with credit to our Union, and the People's cause generally,
and that any action he takes, or advice given, will be a result of con-
sidered judgment."
It was with regret we heard of the death of C. Bleakley.
PLYMOUTH.-During the month we have been occupied with a claim
by one of our members for State Unemployment Insurance Benefit. The local
Labour Exchange having referred the matter to the Chief Insurance Officer,
and he disallowing the claim, we determined to present the case before a Court
of Referees. We are pleased to report that the Court recommended the pay-
ment of the claim, and the Chief Insurance Officer has now agreed with their
recommendations. Our member had been given one week's notice to terminate
his engagement as a dayworker, after nine years' service, and offered piecework
on the seat, which he refused, contending that it would be impossible to earn
a living on the seat as all the best work was done by machinery, and only the
most difficult and unremunerative remained. We stated before the Court
that our Union had a National Agreement with the Masters' Federation of
Great Britain and Ireland, which showed that it was only common justice


---
Here's the extracted text from the image, cleaned up a bit for readability:

**432**

before changing from day to piecework that four weeks' notice should be given and notice in writing to the Branch Secretary; this had not been done. We won our case. Thus we see once again the benefit of Trade Unionism and organization as exemplified in the National Agreement, taken as a standard of morality and fair play for the trade, influencing the minds of impartial authorities and establishing a precedent which must stand for all time as the play-fair standard of our trade, and the death knell of "battledore and shuttle cock."

STONE. - It is with sincere regret that we have to report the death of one of our oldest members, Albert Smith, 60307 (brother of the late Thomas Smith, the first General Secretary of our Union). He joined our Branch at the commencement, 17th September, 1887, and was largely instrumental in us joining the National Union. He was President of our Branch some years and always worked for the benefit of Branch and its members. As a Labour member he was elected, with others, in April, 1894, to the Stone Urban District Council, and retained his seat for 12 years, when he resigned. A good record for a Labour member over 30 years ago. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife and family on their sad and sudden bereavement.

WATERFORD. - Trade still remains good.

WELLINGBOROUGH. - Trade is still very bad, the district experiencing a shortage, which in the opinion of some of our older members is the worst for many years.

**RESULT OF VOTING FOR COUNCIL MEMBER.**

**No. 9 District.**

**BRANCH**

Aberdeen
Arbroath
Ayr
Dundee
Edinburgh
Glasgow
Glasgow No. 2
Kilmarnock

TOTALS

* Mr. R. WHITE not securing a clear majority a second vote will be taken at August Meeting.

No result received from Belfast, Cork, Maybole and Waterford.


---
EMPLOYMENT OF LABOUR DIRECT SAVES MONEY OF NATION
says the Postmaster-General, Sir Wm. Mitchell Thomson.
A large part of the transport work of the Post Office is carried out under a system of
contracting. That system of contracts has been universally applied to the carriage of
certain directions to see whether under certain conditions they could not
carry on a road service more economically by employing their own
vehicles, and not those of the contractors. This, however, does not
apply generally; it only applies under certain conditions. There is no
doubt that the work we have carried on in that way has meant that
we have been able to operate our own motor vehicles more cheaply
than by contract.
I hesitate to put an actual financial figure, but the State has affected
a saving over this work somewhere in the neighbourhood of £60,000.
In three instances, during recent times, reductions in the tenders of the
contractors have meant a saving of £50,000 yearly.
Extract from Statement of Postmaster-General in House of Commons, July 20th, 1925.

FACTORIES AND WORKSHOPS: CHIEF INSPECTOR'S ANNUAL REPORT.
The Annual Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories and Workshops for the year
1924 has been issued.
The Report states that, taking industry as a whole, trade conditions have again
been bad, though there have been particular industries and branches of industry which
have been very prosperous and where employment has been good, and there are others
where, though conditions cannot be described as good, they have certainly been better
than they were during 1923.
Reference is made in the Report to the continued development of new industrial
areas, to the steady increase in the removal of factories from the centre to the outskirts
of London, and to the continued and rapid increase in the generation and use of electricity.
The number of registered factories in Great Britain again increased during 1924,
the total being 142,494, as against 139,920 in 1923. Workshops declined from 140,850 to
133,729. Factories thus for the first time exceed workshops in number; the decline
in workshops is largely due to the introduction of electrical power, the use of which con-
verts premises from a workshop into a factory. There is, too, the tendency for the small
places to be absorbed by the big; in particular, the small dressmaker and milliner,
it is stated in the Report, can no longer compete with the large stores.
The only new legislation affecting the Department which became operative during the
year was the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923, which imposed new duties on the staff
both in regard to notices and registers required to be kept for workmen's compensation
purposes, and in regard to first-aid. Section 28 of the Act, which came into force at the
beginning of the year, abolished the dual standard of reportability of accidents (viz., one
day's absence from work in the case of machinery accidents and seven days' absence in
the case of all other accidents), and established one uniform standard, of three days'
inability to earn full wages, without any differentiation as to causation. The Ministry
of Labour Gazette, July, 1925.

BOYS' NIGHT WORK.

Five Inspectors for 6,000 Factories.
There are only five inspectors for 6,000 factories and workshops in the large industrial
area of Bradford, Halifax, and Keighley, and a considerable amount of night work is done
by boys.
These facts were brought out by a deputation representing workers in the textile
trade which waited on the Home Secretary (Sir William Joynson-Hicks) with reference
to the dearth of factory inspectors.
The Home Secretary promised to recommend to the Cabinet that steps be taken to
remedy the shortage of inspectors,
-Westminster Gazette, 21st July, 1925.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
438
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
At Sileby, on 24th, 25th and 26th June, Mr. W. R. Smith was with me, and we had three
Since my last report I have been working in Leicestershire and Manchester
good meetings at separate factories.
Heath in the dinner hour and evening. Several shops were visited by us during the week
I went to Manchester on the 29th, and with Mr. Mason went to a shop at Newton
and the management of same seen on questions of the non-observance of Graduated Scale
of Wages and Holiday Provision Scheme. Some new members were made.
outside our ranks to join up at once.
in London. There is a good trade union spirit at Anstey, and were it not for the short
time being worked there just now, I believe that we could induce the thoughtless ones
The following week I spent at Anstey, and attended a special meeting of the Council
Messrs. Johnson, Newton Heath, were unanimous that the Union should press for the
From 13th July up to the present, I have been at Manchester. The employees of
Scale of Wages. Mr. Mason and I had many interviews with the management on these
application of the Holiday Scheme, and the observance of the Minimum and Graduated
points. Some improvements were made in wages, but the firm would give no definite
reply on the Holiday money question.
I brought the position of this firm before the Special Council meeting on 9th July
and it was then agreed that I should have power to deal with Messrs. Johnson, subject to
report this sanction was given to me, and I have given the firm notice in the name of the
a further report to the Central Office, and getting approval to withdraw labour. On my
whole of their employees that they shall cease work on 31st July, unless the firm settle in
the meantime on the matters in dispute.
We have made some progress on some cases where the minimum wage was not being
hope the firm may settle with us during the week, and not force the matter to a strike.
paid, but the position on the recognition of Holiday money is still not satisfactory. We
I have from time to time during the past six years suggested to the Manchester manu-
facturers that they form a local association for the purpose of establishing something
facturers in prices in conjunction with the Union officials, but they have failed up to now
tions in recognising National Agreements. With the exception of one firm they are all
to do so, or to join the Federation of Manufacturers and recognise in this way their obliga-
opposed to trade unionism in any form.
27th July, 1925.
D. MCCARTHY.
During the past month we have endeavoured to deal with the firm of Looms', Market
Harborough. This firm is chiefly engaged in Heel Building, and cutting stiffeners for the
trade; no Holiday Fund is in operation, and the wages generally are below the recognised
scale. We have only a few members engaged here and have made continuous attempts
to organise the operatives by frequently meeting them and endeavouring to persuade
them to become members. As a result of our efforts we were enabled to induce a number
of them to become members, and there seemed every prospect of increasing the number
the following week, but it at once became apparent to us that the firm were determined
to interfere with the liberty of the operatives. When we followed up our work the following
week we were informed that six members had been dismissed, three of whom had recently
joined the Union, with the usual excuse that it was shortness of work. This for the present
time has had a deterrent effect, though it will not interfere eventually with the determina-
tion of the men to join when trade improves. This attitude reflects very little credit
on the mentality of the firm, whose ideas of limiting the rights of how the operative should
spend his money would not be tolerated if the operative dictated to the employer what he
should do with his profit that he had produced for him. Other operatives who have
joined the Union have since been discharged.
We have also visited Desborough and found trade very bad, but we had a meeting with
the operatives at Bird's and Riley's. There were a few girls working there who were not
members, but promised to join.
We have visited Olney, and met the operatives at Hinde & Mann's, also Cowley & Sons
youths and girls not members, and there is need of further improving our membership here.
Unfortunately both these firms were working short time. There are a good number of
number of whom were resident in the Finedon district. There were about 30 non-members,
Whitney & Westley, at Burton Latimer. On two occasions we met the operatives, a good
We met the officials of the Kettering Branches who asked us to visit the firm of
and after canvassing them they all promised to join up. It is very pleasing to record the
of organisation which enables them to keep well in touch with their members. For two
very efficient method that is adopted by the two Branches with reference to the details
weeks we have been in Mansfield endeavouring to deal with the position at Faire Bros.
---

---
439
Some time ago 130 girls joined the Union, and we understand Mr. Fewkes, Director, took
upon himself the responsibility of dismissing 25 girls and has since denied the right of the
irls from joining the Union. We have frequently met the girls and tried to induce them
to again take up their cards. Despite our efforts, the girls seem terrified, because of the
given. The conditions at this firm are far from satisfactory, and is a negation of the
action of the firm, although we understand that some small increase of wages has been
National Agreement. The girls are fully conscious of the conditions that operate here,
the firm would allow them the freedom of becoming members. Thus you have the deplor-
but they are compelled to accept the same and would gladly pay their contributions if
able spectacle of the only way in which persons can successfully carry on their business
may have been a very excellent one in the seventeenth century, but we cannot allow
is to terrify the employees and then prevent them from having any rights. This idea
those ideas of that period to dominate a period where the Schoolmaster had tried to do his
work very efficiently.
We have also endeavoured to organise the girls working at Thrall's, who are chiefly
engaged on Stiffeners dit The wages paid here are exceedingly poor, and there is great need
en improving the conditions. There seems every prospect that the girls will eventually
join, and though there are about only 40 engaged here, the conditions are so bad that
drastic alterations are required if this firm is to be brought up to our Agreement.
Special attempts have been made at the Mansfield Shoe Co. Continuous and system-
atic visitations have been made by canvassing the operatives. There are about 450
operatives engaged here, but we were not satisfied with our membership, and also there
versations we discovered very little opposition to the Union, simply timidity and mis-
is a great need of getting a better understanding amongst them. In our frequent con-
understanding stood in the way of them becoming members.
We made a special attempt to hold a meeting for the whole of the firms in the town,
but we did not get a very good response, only from the Mansfield Shoe Co. We are very
pleased to report that as a result of our efforts at Mansfield Shoe Co., 50 new members
have been made with fairly good prospects of increasing that number.
LEN. SMITH.
J. H. BAUM.
At every factory in Sileby,
The early part of the month was spent in the Sileby area.
Mountsorrel, and Rothley, meetings have now been held and operatives canvassed outside
as to joining the Union. In each case the reception has been good, and if the results are
not so helpful as we would like, it is well to remember that the state of trade does not tend
to make the work of organising so easy as we would like, but the effort that has been
made, will, I hope, be productive of results later on when the condition of trade is better
than at present.
My strong opinion is that this district should be given all the attention possible,
from the point of view of organising. There is scope for such work, and the area is import-
ant in the sense that it borders upon our largest centre, and we should protect our position
in every way possible.
The National Labour Party made application for my services in connection with the
By-Election in the Forest of Dean, and the Central Office having agreed to same, I spent a
week in connection therewith. I was asked to make a special effort in the rural part of
the Division, and the majority of the meetings I addressed were on village greens, and they
were in every respect, most encouraging; the attendance was good, and the attention.
paid to the speeches were all that could be desired. I am persuaded that the effort helped
very substantially in these rural parts, and I am glad that our Union was able to con-
tribute, through myself, towards the victory so handsomely won.
I feel I cannot leave this subject without a reference to the cause of this election,
viz., the death of Mr. J. Wignall. He was one who had won the regard and affection of all.
who knew him. Kindly disposed, generous to a fault, a man of strong conviction, who on
many occasions in the House of Commons, on such subjects as Unemployment, spoke with
such first-hand knowledge and earnestness that he commanded the respect of all. His.
death is most regrettable, and I feel I have lost a close personal friend.
On Friday last I attended with my colleagues, the Special Trades Congress at the
Three resolutions had been
Central Hall, Westminster, regarding Unemployment.
drafted by the General Council, which, so far as they went, could not be taken exception
to, but I feel most strongly, and in this I feel I have my colleagues with me, that in any
suggestions or proposals put forward to deal with this great depression, foreign markets,
though of great importance, do not cover the whole position.
question of home resources and the proper cultivation of the land.
I therefore raised the
I do hope our movement will not lose sight of this question. In my opinion it is of
the greatest importance, and sooner or later-the sooner the better-it will have to be taken
up. The land of this country is far too vital to the interests of our people to be left as
something to be controlled by individuals as a private concern.
asset, and must be treated accordingly. It must be brought into the service of the people.
It is a great national
---

---
440
It must yield the maximum supply of food. There must be the maximum number of
people employed upon it, and that under conditions different to what obtain to-day.
There should be a desire to stay, as against a temptation to leave the countryside, so far as
the agricultural worker is concerned; to ensure this means great improvement in the
conditions of working and living. To do this we must control the first essential land
and have a policy that is in harmony with present national needs. This is our responsi-
bility and we must rise to it.
The question of the Miners' dispute will be dealt with elsewhere, but the importance
the issue warrants everyone of our members doing all in their power to assist the Miners
in their struggle. This time the Miners must win.
25th July, 1925.
WALTER R. SMITH.
THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS GENERAL COUNCIL.
TRADES COUNCILS
As you will probably be aware, the General Council is attempting to co-ordinate the
Trades Councils in the country, and there is evidence that their attempts are meeting with
gratifying success. It is hoped by this method that an essential link in our chain of organ-
sation will be forged, and the branches of your Union, if affiliated to the local Trades
Council, will be kept acquainted with the general trend of national affairs of an industrial
character. Associated with local branches of other Trade Unions they will be affiliated
to a body which, if representative of all industries in the area, should prove a valuable asset.
Trades Councils have in the past laboured under two great difficulties. In the first
place there has been no effective co-ordination of their work by a suitable headquarters
and, secondly, the local Trade Union branches have refrained from affiliating, thus im-
poverishing the local Council, both from the point of view of scope and of finance. The
first difficulty is being dealt with by the General Council; the second is a matter upon which
they desire the assistance of your Organisation.
Under the circumstances the General Council request that your Executive will use
their influence to induce all your branches to affiliate to the local Trades Council on their
full membership. The work will, under the new conditions, tend to grow more interesting
and important, and, by the mutual assistance of the various Trade Unions affiliated to
the local Council, a more effective and stable organisation may be accomplished.
I am, yours faithfully,
W. M. CITRINE,
"WEIR" HOUSES. Assistant Secretary.
The General Council have had under consideration a communication from the Scottish
Trades Union Congress drawing attention to the recent enquiry into the preparation and
erection of "Weir" steel houses. The Scottish Trades Union Congress at Dumfries
instructed its General Council to take the necessary steps to safeguard the conditions
existing in the building trade, and asked that the matter should be taken up with the
British Trades Union Congress and the Parliamentary Labour Party.
Our General Council have given consideration to the matter and there are certain
aspects of the question which it appears to them should be fully understood by affiliated
Unions.
The General Council is not expressing any view as to the suitability or otherwise of
this type of house to meet the requirements which a decent standard of housing demands,
but it has been stated authoritatively that the proportion of the cost of such houses paid
directly in wages to the workers is seriously lower than that in the case of brick or stone
houses. It is estimated that in "Weir" steel houses of a type costing £380, £80 only is
paid in wages, the remaining £300 being for material and overhead charges. In the case
of stone and brick houses costing £400, £160 (or double the amount in the case of the
"Weir" house) is paid directly in wages. This inordinate difference justifies the building
operatives' contention that the effect of the development of the "Weir" house is not only
to lower the standard of wages, but actually to reduce the volume of employment.
The General Council supports the Building Trades Unions' contention that in the
erection of any type of house, recognised building trades' rates and conditions should be
applied.
Lord Weir has continued to be tenaciously opposed to any agreed rates with the Trade
Unions, and there are no rates operating with his firm on this class of work other than those
which he himself has arbitrarily fixed. It is encumbent on every Trade Unionist, particu-
larly those representatives on public bodies, to insist that the Fair Wages Clause in
respect of building work is carried out.


---
Here is the extracted text:
441
UNEMPLOYMENT.
A Special Trades Union Conference on Unemployment was held in the Central Hall,
Westminster, on Friday, 24th July, 1925. Chairman: Mr. A. B. Swales, President of
the General Council.
The Chairman, in his opening statement, called attention to the gravity of the situation
with its long continued roll of such a vast army of unemployed, and the necessity of dealing
drastically with such an appalling situation, affecting as it does the lives of millions
of workers. The following resolutions were, after discussion, unanimously passed, it
being intimated by the Chairman that in view of the gravity of the situation it might be
necessary to call the Conference together again within a few days.

(1) That this Special Conference of Unions affiliated to the Trades Union
Congress regards with the utmost apprehension the appalling increase in the number
of unemployed as compared with the pre-war period, and declares that this increase
can, with effective governmental legislation and administrative action, be materially
diminished. As our industries are to a large extent dependent on export trade,
the manifest duty of the Government is to pursue a foreign policy calculated to develop
amicable diplomatic relations, and trading relations through the medium of the
Overseas Trade Acts and the Trade Facilities Acts, with all countries, including
Russia.

(2) The Conference views with the strongest resentment the declared intention
of the Government to reduce the benefits now being paid to unemployed workers
by means of a lengthening of the waiting period from three to six days and the cur-
tailing at the discretion of the Ministry of Labour of the right to extended benefit.
It declares that as unemployment is admittedly inherent in the present system, any
deprivation of the workers of adequate maintenance is inhuman in the extreme.
It asserts the right of every citizen to work or full maintenance.

(3) The Conference declares its determination to exert the utmost possible
pressure upon the Government to take such steps as are necessary for the remedying
of the present critical situation, and urges all Trade Unions and other Labour Organisa-
tions throughout the country to press these demands vigorously upon their local
Parliamentary representatives and upon the Government.

During the past six years a chronic feature of our Social life has been that one
million workers have been unemployed, which, together with their dependents, has
meant at a modest estimate that three millions of our fellow human beings have been
permanently existing on the border-line of starvation. In addition, "part-time"
employment has intensely aggravated this deplorable condition.

This Conference records its intense conviction that such a state of affairs cannot be
allowed to continue indefinitely, and that organised labour must not only protest
vigorously against the present apparent indifference towards this social injustice,
but, in addition, if redress is not speedily forthcoming, it will be compelled to take
such action as conditions and opportunity dictate.

Statements were also made regarding the present serious situation of the Miners
and the termination of their agreements and proposals of the Mine Owners to reduce
wages and lengthen working hours. Also the proposals of the Employers in the Woollen
Industry to reduce wages. In both cases it was made clear that the workers would, to the
utmost, resist these retrograde proposals. They therefore asked for the full support of
the Trade Union movement to enable them to resist successfully. We feel sure such an
appeal will not be made in vain. There must be at this time loyalty and help given to
those who have to resist the present demands of the Employers, and we feel sure it will be
given, and thereby enable a successful resistance to be put up.

Our colleague, Mr. W. R. Smith, drew attention to one of the most important items
in which the Labour movement believes the development of home resources, particularly
in regard to the land, much of which is derelict.

T. F. RICHARDS, General President.
W. R. TOWNLEY,
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS,
LEN. SMITH,
W. R. SMITH,
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
Delegates.

TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.-Membership of Unions reporting at end of June, 1925.
80,463. Unemployed at end of June, 1925, 3,682; percentage, 4.6. Increase in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.4. Increase in percentage as
compared with a year ago, 1.5.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1925.


---
444
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
Thursday, 2nd July, 1925.
THE REAL CAUSES OF THE CHINESE DISTURBANCES.
"Twenty years ago there were two modern cotton mills in China to-day there are
twenty years. Further it must be borne in mind that little more than a generation ago,
in London gives some idea of the enormous industrial development in China within the last
"the present foreign sections of Shanghai were mud flats and rice fields. To-day the city
115, 49 of which are in Shanghai." This statement from the Chinese Information Bureau
has over 1,000,000 population, and is one of the great ports of the world. Hankow with
1,500,000 is in the centre of the iron and coal region. Canton has a population of 950,000
and Peking of 811,566." In the Yangtze Valley alone there have sprung up within the
are few foreign-type articles of domestic consumption that are not now manufactured by
last three or four years, 53 factories, 26 electric plants, 18 transportation companies,
16 cotton mills, 12 mining companies, and many other miscellaneous companies and there
China on modern lines. Although 80 per cent. of the population of China are still engaged
in agriculture, probably over a million are now employed in modern and semi-modern
factories. The conventional estimate of the population of China is 400,000,000 so that
the almost limitless reserves of the rural population which, as is well known. live close
it will be evident that there is plenty of room for industrial development by drawing upon
of sending their children
to the starvation line, and must therefore welcome opportunities
gigantic population with deep-rooted
into the cities even if the wages earned by them are the merest pittance. Modern indus
traditions of obedience to authority, and with extremely low standards of living-these are
Movement has already made a beginning with its colossal task of improving the standard
the difficulties which the Chinese Labour Movement has to face. The Chinese Labour
class-conscious workers. The movement of to-day was not planned overnight.
of living of the workers, and converting them from oppressed wage-slaves into self-respecting
agitation among professors and
students, the Press was stirred, the great masses of Chinese Labour began to show faint
trialism going ahead with great rapidity, and a
The war led to a world-wide awakening: there was
signs of stirring.
As early as 1920 there was a successful strike of engineers in the district of Canton:
and from that time onwards there was great labour activity in all trades, which took the
forms of: (1) the outbreak of strikes; (2) the establishment of trade unions. In May
1922, there was a general labour congress at Canton, at which about 160 delegates were
present. But the event of outstanding importance was the seamen's strike at Hong Kong
in 1922, which ended in a signal victory for the workers. The seamen fought against harsh
treatment, a 14-hour day, and a standard of living which was close to the starvation line
As their petition received no attention, 15,000 men struck; whereupon the British Govern-
ment of Hong Kong declared their union to be an illegal society. Then a sympathetic
strike broke out, comprising 50,000 coolies, domestic servants, and other unskilled workers.
The strike lasted nearly three months, and enabled the strikers to secure rises of 15 to 30
per cent.
Another important strike was that of the cotton mills of Shanghai in February, 1925,
which later extended to the transport workers, the dockers, the waterworks employees
and the workers of the British-American Tobacco industry. Impartial reports show
unmistakably that this strike was the direct result of the inhuman exploitation of the
Chinese workers. In this case the Japanese capitalists were the principal offenders:
and, as on previous occasions, the chief complaints were that working hours were exorbi-
tantly long, and that the workers were beaten and otherwise ill-treated in the factories.
Although the strike cf February, 1923, was mainly due to Japanese capitalists, other
strikes broke out among the workers employed by British and American industrialists.
As China has no social legislation, foreign capitalists look upon her as especially well-suited
for their purposes and they are backed up in their exploitation by the governments of
the Great Powers, who have not always done all they might to promote the formation of a
solvent and efficient government in China.
Looking back over recent events (namely the strikes, the rebellion against foreign
capitalists, the demand for social legislation, &c.), it must be admitted that this is no
sudden movement, but that Chinese Labour has reached a new stage in a process of develop
ment of which it is impossible to foretell the end.
China as little else than manifestations of Chinese nationalism, must be received with due
caution, although it cannot be denied that there is evidence of growing national feeling,
The statements of the non-Labour Press, which is inclined to regard the events in
such as has been observed in other nations who have endeavoured to throw off the yoke
of foreign powers or foreign capitalists.


---
Here is the extracted text:
447
HOW TO GET BACK TO PROSPERITY.
Mr. H. J. Bostock on Fallacy of Reducing Wages
and Importance of Developing the Home Market.
On the 14th inst., the evening prior to the business meeting of the Boot Manufacturers Federation, the President (Mr. John H. Marlow) and the committee of the Northampton Boot Manufacturers' Association received the delegates at a dinner, which was held in the Masonic Hall, Northampton.
"To the Prosperity of the Federation" was the theme of the chairman's toast. He expressed the great pleasure Northampton felt in welcoming the leaders of the Federation, and referred to the importance of the shoe manufacturing industry, employing as it did over 100,000 operatives. The Federation controlled over 90 per cent. of the employers, and the relations between themselves and the National Union was reflected in the fact that for 30 years there had been no official strike or lockout, as a result of which the shoe trade was looked to with respect and envy by the great industries of the country.
Mr. H. J. Bostock, J.P., in responding to the toast, said: "Aggregations of capital could be justified only if the owners thereof used them to promote the public weal."
"In these days," Mr. Bostock proceeded, "everyone was asking what was ahead. The country to-day, instead of being a land fit for heroes to live in, was one in which many who fought for it had now to exist on the dole, and were often abused as a consequence. The dole was sometimes abused, but if there had been no dole there would have been revolution."
Continuing, the president said, "there was no greater fallacy than to think they were going to get back to prosperity by reducing wages. The home market had lost purchasing power and could recover it only by increasing production. They needed to rearrange the balance of production. There were too many engaged in some trades-such as coal and engineering-and not enough in other industries such as building.
No pre-conceived political notions should stand in the way of promoting better production, in which connection he particularly mentioned food. With regard to manufactures he pointed to the changed positions of the country and the rest of the world. There was export trade to be done, but it was to be fought for. They had in the home market a rich field, but it must be developed on new lines. Old methods would not suit present-day conditions."
In conclusion Mr. Bostock stated that he believed in advertisement. It would pay this country to advertise its advantages as a tourist resort for Americans. The United States had no history. and Europe offered many attractions to the wealthy of the United States, who came with much money, and left a considerable amount behind them. Any-thing that increased the flow of money would have a beneficial effect not only on the hotel industry but also upon the manufacture of antiques which was now an important trade in this country. (Laughter.)---The Shoe and Leather Record, 17th July, 1925.
BOOT MANUFACTURERS' FEDERATION.
Annual Meeting in Northampton.
The following are extracts from the reports issued in connection with the annual meeting the thirty-fifth-held in Northampton on the 14th and 15th July, 1925.
In opening the proceedings Mr. H. J. Bostock, J.P., said amongst other things "that without an increase in the purchasing power of consumers in the great industrial areas, the home demand for shoes could not be stimulated. The time was long overdue for the problem of unemployment to be seriously attacked at its roots."
Annual Output.
Statistics of output for the year 1923 were compiled from information at the disposal of the Federation for the purpose of the memorandum of evidence submitted by the president, Mr. H. J. Bostock, before Sir Arthur Balfour's Committee on Industry and Trade on January 29th, 1925, and so useful was the information considered that it was decided to complete the Federation records as far as possible for the years over which statistics of the industry had been collected. The results had been checked by an outside source, and in submitting them for the use of members, the committee desired to emphasise that they were to be regarded as estimates of output based upon a partial survey of the industry only.
The figures were :-Output for the year 1920, 91,136,000 pairs; 1921, 77,744,000 : 1922, 96,053,000; 1923, 100,490,000; 1924, 111,383,000.
On the 15th inst., Mr. C. W. Horrell was elected to succeed Mr. H. J. Bostock as President of the Federation. We can only hope that the same broad outlook will be and trust that the new presidency as was the case under the presidency of Mr. Bostock, continued under the new presidency as was the case under the presidency of Mr. Bostock, within the near future, emerge into more prosperous times.


---
448
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.
Its Development in Different Countries.
question as to whether unemployment insurance should be included in a comprehen
The time seems now to have arrived for exhaustive international examination of t
scheme dealing with all kinds of workers' insurance and that the possibilities of the unifica
tion of social insurance in all its branches in a State should be considered, according
the conclusions reached in a new publication of the International Labour Office of
League of Nations called "Unemployment Insurance." (International Labour Off
London Branch, 26 Buckingham Gate, S.W.r. Price 2s.).
This volume contains a comparative analysis of national legislation concert
development of unemployment insurance, first as a trade union enterprise and later a
insurance against unemployment. Beginning with a short account of the origina
national undertaking, it points out that such systems exist in seven States and exp
then devoted to the study of national systems from the point of view of the scope of 3
insurance; definition of unemployment the nature and duration of benefits financie
the common characteristics of present-day insurance institutions and laws. Chapters a
"The comparative analysis of national laws, undertaken in this report" states.
final chapter, "would apparently lead to the conclusion that while insurance organisati
is subject to great differences from country to country, it might be possible to lay dow
certain principles, based on practical experience, to serve as a basis for a future mo
detailed Recommendation by the International Labour Conference of the League of Nation
dealing not only with the principle of insurance, as previously, but with certain metho
organisation and administration.
of organisation."
UNEMPLOYMENT DOLE FRAUDS.
False Representations by Brighton Man.
At Brighton Borough Bench this morning, David Phillips, 24 Ewhurst Road, was the
defendant to two adjourned summonses for making a false representation when appivi
for unemployment benefit on 9th April and May.
Dealing first with the second summons, Mr. G. C. Pratt, who prosecuted for the
Ministry of Labour, said defendant was a machinist registered at the Brighton Emplor
ment Exchange. He made a claim on 19th December, 1924, for benefit for his wife, and
had since drawn benefit for her off and on to the extent of 5s. a week. It was alleged
by the prosecution that on 24th, 26th, 27th and 29th April the wife was working for a Miss
Ferris as a charwoman, and was paid is. 6d. a day for two days, and 3s. a day for th
remaining two.
Evidence in support of this statement was given by Miss Nellie Millie Ferris.
Pleading not guilty, defendant said he left home at nine in the morning, and did not
return until five, six or seven in the evening, and was unaware his wife was doing this werk.
The Acting Clerk (Mr. Sinden): What did you do every morning?
Defendant: I was out looking for work. I happen to be one of your genuine cases.
The Other Summons.
In the other case, Mr. Pratt said defendant drew a full week's pay for 2nd to 8th April.
It was alleged that he had work on 2nd, 3rd and 4th, and drew ₤2 18s. 6d. for it. The
department, he added, had great difficulty in discovering these frauds, and he asked the
Magistrates to take a serious view of the present case.
Fines of 20s. in the first case and 40s. in the second were imposed,
with alternatives of nine and fourteen days' imprisonment.
-Brighton Argus, 20th July, 1925
0.7 per cent.
SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.
June, 1925, 52,119; Decrease on a month ago, I. I per cent. Decrease on a year ago,
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 27th
118,580; Decrease on a month ago, 2.4 per cent.: Decrease on a year ago, 3.6 per cent.
Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 27th June, 1925
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1925.


---
449
TUBERCULOSIS.
Decrease in Child Mortality. Scientists on Need of Public Education.
Tuberculosis in childhood was discussed at the Eleventh Annual Conference of the
National Association for the Prevention of Tuberculosis, at the Hall of the Royal Society
of Medicine, Wimpole Street, W., yesterday. The Hon. Sir Arthur Stanley, chairman of
the Council, presided, and he was supported by Sir Kingsley Wood, M.P., Parliamentary
Secretary to the Ministry of Health. Public Health authorities throughout the British
Isles were represented, and members of the medical profession were present from America,
Austria, the Argentine, Australia, Denmark, Russia, Spain, and Switzerland.
SIR KINGSLEY WOOD, in opening the conference, paid a tribute to the work of the
Association. Dealing with the prevention of tuberculosis, he said its chief
birthplace and home was the sunless, ill-ventilated and overcrowded
dwelling, and it was for that reason that the Ministry of Health was
giving great attention to the housing difficulty. They were more hopeful with
regard to tuberculosis in childhood. In ten years the mortality among children from
pulmonary tuberculosis had fallen by about 46 per cent., and from non-pulmonary tuber-
culosis by about 42 per cent., while the number of new cases notified of both types of
the disease had also substantially diminished.
PROFESSOR PIRQUET, of the University of Vienna, in a paper on "The Significance
of Tuberculosis in Childhood and in Youth," referred to investigations in Vienna which
But for middle age, he added, tuberculosis represented the very worst
went to show that tuberculosis in children was not so dangerous as we formerly believed.
disease. - The Times, 7th July, 1925.
One more testimony to what, for many years we have been preaching, viz., If the
people had good homes; where the sun could get into the rooms and overcrowding was
done away with, still further improvements would be brought about, and Consumption
still further reduced. It, further, is interesting that Sir Kingsley Wood should make the
said statement, and also add to it, "that the Ministry of Health was giving great attention
to the housing difficulty."
It is to be hoped that after such a statement the "attention" will be in a greatly
concentrated form and quickly result in such a number of houses being erected as will
fully meet the demand. Such a policy would also have another result, viz.: Find work
for a great many people, who at present are without employment.-E.L.P., G.S.]
TUBERCULOSIS IN SHOEHANDS.
Hinckley Medical Officer of Health on High Death-Rate.
That tuberculosis is prevalent among the boot and shoe operatives of Earl Shilton
and Barwell was the statement made by Dr. J. E. O'Connor (medical officer of health),
at this afternoon's meeting of the Hinckley R.D.C.
He said that at Earl Shilton the number of deaths had been exceptionally high.
Referring to smallpox, he observed that if contacts were vaccinated within three days
they would in all probability escape infection.
If vaccinated within four days it was very doubtful whether they would do so.
Commenting on the value of receiving medical reports, Mr. Dan Astley, chairman
of the Council, recalled that it was not so long ago when the Council refused to let the
medical officer of health read his report, because they considered it to be "all bosh."-
Leicester Mercury, 20th July, 1925.
EMPLOYMENT
OVERSEAS.
NORWAY. BOOT AND SHOE MAKERS: Membership, April 30th, 1925, 1,232;
31st March, 1925, 1,217; 30th April, 1924, 939. Percentage Unemployed, 30th April
1925, 3.8; 31st March, 1925, 2.4; 30th April, 1924, 5.3.- The Ministry of Labour Gazette,
July, 1925.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
ADMIRALTY (CONTRACT AND PURCHASE DEPARTMENT).-SHOES, Brown Canvas :
John Horrell & Son Ltd., Raunds; Owen Smith, Raunds.
WAR OFFICE. BOOTS, ANKLE : J. Horrell & Son, Raunds; W. Laurence, Raunds;
C. E. Nichols Ltd., Raunds; W. Nichols & Sons, Kettering; Owen Smith, Raunds;
Tebbutt & Hall Bros., Raunds.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```text
15
SOME OF THE THINGS THE WORKERS WANT.
By Fred Hewitt, Editor Machinists' Monthly Journal.
The workers want employment.
The worker wants steady employment.
He wants to bring about a condition wherei
he will feel that cach day's work may not be his last.
He wants to work not more than 44 hours per weck.
He wants his fair share of the wealth he helps to produce. He wants tr
to be employe
in surroundings as comfortable as the nature of his employment will periet
He wants sanitary workshops.
He wants protection against unnecessary risk.
He wants compensation laws passed for his and his family's protection
He wants to enjoy a full measure of freedom guaranteed all citizens of a free
He wants the right to live and let live.
So far, partial success has crowned their efforts to obtain these, but a full real
of their desires will only come when they join in a common cause. Then and ther
will the workers obtain those things they want, and to which they are entitled.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES. - Estimated number of insured perso
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270 T
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males. 10,714 Females, 3,776; Total, 14.150.
Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 22nd June, 2
142,490.
Percentage Unemployed at 22nd June, 1925:
Males, 11.6; Females, 7.5;
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 10.2; Great Britain only, 10.0. Compared with 25th
May, 1925 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, increase, o.1; Female
increase, o.1; Total, increase, o.r.- The Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1925.
THE WORLD WE CREATE.
By Emma Playton Seabury.
A song for the idle who roam at will,
And a shrug for the men who shirk,
But who will sing of the prick and sting,
Of the bitter taunt and the cruel fling,
To the man who has no work
The man who will delve if he had the chance.
With saw or with plane would build.
Oh, who can tell of the bitter shame
To sink from man's estate,
And to humbly take for his children's sake
The coin that is flung! Oh, the hearts that break
In this world that we create!
For the plan of God was the same for all,
The right to be and do;
If only we would learn to see
That the world was made for you and me,
And not for a chosen few.
Oh, the saddest sight in the world to-day
Is our neighbour passing by
With a weary pace and a blanching face,
Who is out of work and out of the race.
And we make it you and I.-Justice, U.S.A.
*
*
*
Then let us make a right New World;
Where joy and peace shall be,
And work for all shall be the plan;
Based on true equity.
A world wherein real help is given;
Where men are truly free.
Where loads are light and life is bright;
For all, for you and me.--E.L.P., G.S.
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
451
GREAT BRITAIN STILL THE HINDRANCE TO RATIFICATION OF
HOURS OF CONVENTION.
IRISH FREE STATE. Speaking in the Dail on the 30th April last, the Minister of
immediately
In instry and Commerce stated that they did not intend to ratify the Draft Conventions
Of the Hours of Convention he said. "It seems absurd that we should ratify it while
the highly industrialised countries have not yet proceeded to do so, particularly those
which are nearest and with whom we are in competition."
Thus one more country has been added to those who will either not ratify the Hours
"Convention, or will not put it into operation until Great Britain has done so. Italy,
Anstria Belgium and France are in a similar position. E.L.P.. G.S.I.
WASHINGTON HOurs conventioN: RATIFICATIONS.
In answer to a question in the House of Commons on the 24th June, asking how many
countries had ratified the International Eight-Hour Day Labour Convention, the Parlia--
mentary Secretary to the Ministry of Labour made the following statement:-
The Washington Hours Convention has been ratified by Austria, Bulgaria
Czecho-Slovakia, Greece, India, Italy, and Roumania. The ratifications of Austria
and Italy are conditional upon ratification by other States. The Ministry of Labour
Gazette, July, 1925.
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st JULY, 1925.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included ..
Food only
73 per cent.
67
"
FOOD.
At 1st July the average level of retail prices of the principal articles of food showed a
slight upward movement as compared with 2nd June. This advance was mainly due to a.
rise in the average prices of eggs, butter and potatoes (old potatoes having been displaced
by new potatoes at higher prices). There was relatively little movement in the prices
of the other articles of food included in the statistics.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of
food included in these statistics was about 67 per cent. at 1st July, as compared with
about 66 per cent. at 2nd June and 62 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1924. The
Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1925.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914: All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light.
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915
1916
1917
1919 1918
1920
1922 1921
1923 1924
1925
January
10-15
35
65 85-90
120 125
165
92
78
77
80
February
35 15
65-70
90
120 130
151
88
77
79
79
March
15-20 35-40
70
90
115
130
141
86
76
78
79
April
15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95
110
132
133
82
74
73
75
May
20
40-45
75 95-100 105
141
128
81
70
71
73
June
25
45
75-80
100 105
150
119
80
69
69
72
July
25
45-50
80
100-105 105-110 152
119
84
69
70
73
August
25
45-50
80
110
115
155
122
81
71
71
September
25
50
80-85
110
115
120 161
79
73
72
October
30
50-55 75-80 115-120 120
164
110
78
75
76
November
30-35
60
85
120-125 125
176
103
80
75
80
December
35
65
85
169 125 120
99
80 77
81
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement. December (1922) Agreement, and present date.


---
469
LOANS FROM GUARDIANS.
The General Council of the Trades Union Congress has recently had
submitted to them the question as to whether Boards of Guardians could
recover relief granted to necessitous persons on the basis of a "loan." The
reason the matter was brought before the General Council being due to the fact
that in one County Court the Judge decided that Guardians could not recover,
whilst in another Court the Judge decided that the Guardians could recover.
The General Council have therefore taken legal advice upon the subject
and the opinion of Counsel consulted is that Guardians CAN RECOVER.
This is a most important matter and the opinion of Counsel will be found on
pages 484-485, from which it will be seen that there is no doubt about the
question, which is one of considerable importance.
INDUSTRIAL AND POLITICAL.
The past month has been a month wherein history has been made, if for
one matter only, viz.: the ferment in the industry of Mining. The position
is a notable one when the vast issues involved are considered. The threatened
reduction of wages and worsening of conditions of employment in the said
industry were only actually faced up to by the Government when it was seen
that there would be a unity in the ranks of the workers which had never on
such a scale been achieved before. The General Council of the Trade Union
Congress called together the Executives of the various Unions on the 29th
July, 1925, for consultative purposes, as also to report the actual position.
The net result of the meeting was to promise aid to our comrades who were
likely to be called upon to bear the brunt of the fighting. Had matters
developed, we should have had to follow up the circular of the 31st ultimo
authorising us to deal with the question from a financial standpoint.
The Trade Union movement will, as a result of the present-day develop-
ments, undoubtedly have to alter some of its machinery, especially on its
financial side, with a view to greater and speedier help being given to those
who have to stand off in disputes, and thereby render effective assistance to
ensure success in carrying out a policy wherein all have had opportunity in
shaping. The setting up of a commission by the Government, likewise the
subvention to the Mining Industry, has not by any means settled the differences
that exist; on the contrary it has only secured that employment goes on for
the time being while an enquiry takes place as to what are the actual conditions
obtaining in the Mining Industry.
Meantime, it is incumbent upon the whole Trade Union movement to take
such action and adopt such methods as will make our machinery work effectively
in practice as well as on paper if called upon to operate. The times, while
somewhat dark, are also full of possibility for a move forward provided that
wise methods and tactics are adopted in pursuance of the carrying out of
policy.


---
Here is the extracted text:
470
Parliament has adjourned until 16th November. The Session has not been
notable for much that will help the evorker.
THE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT (1925).
which comes into operation on 4th January, 1926, calls for contributions a
set out hereunder:
Employer
Employee
Men
8d.
7d.
Women
6d.
Boys
4d.
3d.
Girls
3½d.
3d.
The waiting period has been increased from three days to one week a
from the 1st October, 1925, before benefit is payable.
The discretion in regard to extended (uncovenanted) benefit which the
Minister has prior to the Unemployment Insurance (No. 2) Act, 1924, is restored
so that extended benefit IS NO LONGER A RIGHT BUT WILL BE GRANTED BY THE
MINISTER IF, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, HE CONSIDER
IT EXPEDIENT IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST TO AUTHORISE SUCH GRANT.
Under the Unemployment Insurance (No. 2) Act, 1924, the power of the
Minister to waive compliance with the first statutory condition (which requires
claimant to prove that not less than 30 contributions have been paid since
e beginning of the first of the two insurance years next before the beginning
his Benefit Year) expires on the 30th September, 1925. The new Act
extends that power to 30th June, 1927.
WIDOWS', ORPHANS' AND OLD AGE PENSIONS ACT
becomes operative as from 4th January, 1926, inasmuch as
(a) The payment of contributions under the Act.
(b) The payment of Widows' Pensions, Children's Allowances and
Orphans' Pensions,
2nd July, 1926.
The payment of Old Age Pensions under the Old Age Pensions Act to
insured persons over 70 years of age without inquiry as to means, residence
or nationality.
2nd January, 1928.
The payment of Old Age Pensions under the new Act to insured persons
of 65 years of age and to others as and when they reach 65 years of age.
Contributions under the Health, Unemployment and Pensions Acts cease
to be payable upon attaining 65 years of age, but the employers' contribution
is still payable.
Benefits for sickness, disablement and unemployment (State schemes)
cease at 65 years of age.
The normal rates of contributions will be :-
Man
Woman
Health Insurance
Employer Employee
Pension
Total
Employer Employee Employer Employe
4½d.
4½d.
4½d.
2d.
2d.
4d.
9d.
7d.
6d.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image, formatted for clarity:

471

The Labour Party did its best to improve these measures from the workers'
standpoint. The bald fact is, however, that what counts is the number of
votes recorded in the various Divisions, and here the Labour Party is in a
hopeless minority, proving once more how necessary it is to increase the number
of Labour Members in the House of Commons, and thereby ensure a voting
majority vote instead of the present minority. The
strength which will be a
lesson is plain—Work, work, work in and for the cause of Labour so that we
are ready at all times for an Election.

MANCHESTER DISPUTE.

For a considerable time past we have paid attention to the boot and shoe
factories in Manchester, and visits have been paid both by the General Officers
and the Organisers to the district.
Quite recently the firm of Messrs. Johnson & Co. refused to honour the
National Agreement, and on the 8th inst., the operatives on our instructions,
left work, and were on dispute until the 19th inst., when Mr. D. McCarthy,
with Mr. J. Mason, the local branch secretary, entered into an agreement with
the firm, whereby a considerable advance has been made. A number of the
operatives resumed work on the 20th inst., and arrangements were made for
the others to commence within one week.
This proves once again our determination to bring all manufacturers in
the industry up to, at least, the National conditions.

RESULT OF VOTING

for Council Member for District No. 9 is as follows, and we beg to congratulate
Mr. R. WHITE upon his election, and trust his tenure of office will be
helpful to the members and congenial to himself :-

| BRANCH.     | MR. R. NOBLE. | MR. R. WHITE. |
| ----------- | ------------- | -------------- |
| Aberdeen    | ..            | 37             |
| Arbroath    | ..            | 272            |
| Ayr         | 5             | 10             |
| Belfast     | 15.           | 43             |
| Cork        | ..            | 58             |
| Dundee      | 12            | 335            |
| Edinburgh   | ..            | 16             |
| Glasgow     | 25            | 7              |
| Glasgow No. 2 | 10            | 90             |
| Kilmarnock  | 36            | 25             |
| Maybole     | 385           |                |
| Waterford   | 79            |                |
|             | 3             |                |
|             | 20            | *893           |
| TOTALS      | 599           |                |

\* Elected.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
472
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
JUBILEE HISTORY OF THE UNION.
Members who desire to secure a copy of this most interesting and valua
record of the work of the Union for its first fifty years should place their order
immediately with the Branch Secretary, as the stock is constantly being
reduced, and we do not intend to have a reprint. They are only 6d. per
copy, and should be ordered at once.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movemen
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretari
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day is
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secreta
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returr
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branc
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that “Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President, W. WARNER.
J. WHEELER.
W. HINDES.
C. BATES.
R. WHITE.
E. LAW.
A. J. DOBBS.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
ALEX. SMITH.
L. P. POOLE.
J. MANNERS.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
473
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN,
LONDON, N.W. 5.
17th August, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
THE MINING DISPUTE.—Probably the most important happening during the past
month has been that in connection with the Miners. So serious was the outlook that the
General Council of the Trades Union Congress immediately rose to the occasion by calling
a special conference. Whilst those of us, and the whole movement generally, have been
clamouring for peace, the Miners for seven months have been endeavouring to inform the
Owners that under no circumstances could they accept a worse position than they had,
and for the time being were prepared to negotiate, so long as the position was not made
intolerable. To this the Owners paid no heed, and so within two days of the notices
expiring, the General Council called an extraordinary conference of the whole of the
executive councils of all unions affiliated to that body. As a result the Central Hall,
Westminster, was fairly full. After a very serious consideration of the position placed
before the delegates in private assembly, they, with an united voice carried an unanimous
resolution that if the lockout notices were enforced, every trade unionist in the Kingdom
would stand by the miners in their trouble. That fiat was issued and made known to the
Cabinet. They (the Cabinet) decided they would provide sufficient money for the Owners
to make up the difference they claimed would be lost if the miners refused the reduction.
This means the Owners are getting their way, and are imposing their will upon all. They
are not reducing the miners’ wages, but are receiving the proposed reductions from the
taxpayer.
We need not stop to enquire what form this strike would have taken had the Owners
refused to give way by withdrawing the lockout notices. One thing is certain; the
refusal to handle coal would have brought about a stoppage in all industries—including
the boot and shoe industry. We should then have taken the members into our confidence
and advised them as to the course to pursue. We are convinced that we should have
supported the Miners, both morally and financially. It must not be forgotten that that
Trades Union Congress with its 4,328,235 members; 2,000,000 ex-members, and at least
4,000,000 sympathisers would have brought the country to a complete standstill. What
would have happened then? No one knows.
We have always been satisfied that only madmen recommend a decrease in wages,
because it is wages and wage-earners that create 80 per cent. of the trade of any country.
We are pleased to know that for the moment this matter is to be investigated—once
more—although it would be interesting to know what this stupid Government will do
when the Report is presented. Will it be shelved as was the Sankey Report? It should
be remembered that the natural tendency of every executive—trade union executives
are not exempt—is always to be loath to accept reservations of a smaller number of persons
than themselves.
We are led to understand there will be four or five persons on this new Commission.
Who can imagine the British Cabinet—all tories to the backbone, and invariably all stupid
—would agree to accept the findings of five persons, no matter how eminent they may be?
The Labour movement must not lose sight of the situation. We can only say that one
hopes those people who voted for the present Tory administration will remember they are
responsible for the position and should go in “sack-cloth and ashes.”
UNEMPLOYMENT.—A special Trades Union Congress was held a week prior to the
above to deal with the question of unemployment, a report of which appears on page 441
of the July Report.
This question has been the sole subject for which some of us have tried to find a
remedy for over forty years. It is still with us. Three years ago we recommended at a
conference in the Kingsway Hall, London, that all trade unionists should stop for one
day as a protest against the treatment of the unemployed. One of the most prominent
labour leaders protested against the suggestion adding that it would be better to give the
unemployed one day’s pay. No stoppage has taken place: none of the unemployed
had the pay. Another prominent labour leader said if the operatives stopped work, it
would be difficult to get them to restart. These people were reminded that we could
have two days off for a coronation, but not one for ourselves. Many felt that if a stoppage
B
---

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
473
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS, 60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN,
LONDON, N.W. 5.
17th August, 1925.
THE MINING DISPUTE. — Probably the most important happening during the past
month has been that in connection with the Miners. So serious was the outlook that the
General Council of the Trades Union Congress immediately rose to the occasion by calling
a special conference. Whilst those of us, and the whole movement generally, have been
clamouring for peace, the Miners for seven months have been endeavouring to inform the
Owners that under no circumstances could they accept a worse position than they had,
and for the time being were prepared to negotiate, so long as the position was not made
intolerable. To this the Owners paid no heed, and so within two days of the notices
expiring, the General Council called an extraordinary conference of the whole of the
executive councils of all unions affiliated to that body. As a result the Central Hall,
Westminster, was fairly full. After a very serious consideration of the position placed
before the delegates in private assembly, they, with an united voice carried an unanimous
resolution that if the lockout notices were enforced, every trade unionist in the Kingdom
would stand by the miners in their trouble. That fiat was issued and made known to the
to make up the difference they claimed would be lost if the miners refused the reduction.
are not reducing the miners' wages, but are receiving the proposed reductions from the
taxpayer.
We need not stop to enquire what form this strike would have taken had the Owners
refused to give way by withdrawing the lockout notices. One thing is certain; the
refusal to handle coal would have brought about a stoppage in all industries including
the boot and shoe industry. We should then have taken the members into our confidence
and advised them as to the course to pursue. We are convinced that we should have
supported the Miners, both morally and financially. It must not be forgotten that that
Trades Union Congress with its 4,328,235 members; 2,000,000 ex-members, and at least
4,000,000 sympathisers would have brought the country to a complete standstill. What
would have happened then? No one knows.
We have always been satisfied that only madmen recommend a decrease in wages,
because it is wages and wage-earners that create 80 per cent. of the trade of any country.
We are pleased to know that for the moment this matter is to be investigated-once
more-although it would be interesting to know what this stupid Government will do
when the Report is presented. Will it be shelved as was the Sankey Report ? It should
be remembered that the natural tendency of every executive-trade union executives
are not exempt-is always to be loath to accept reservations of a smaller number of persons
than themselves.
We are led to understand there will be four or five persons on this new Commission.
Who can imagine the British Cabinet-all tories to the backbone, and invariably all stupid
-would agree to accept the findings of five persons, no matter how eminent they may be ?
The Labour movement must not lose sight of the situation. We can only say that one
hopes those people who voted for the present Tory administration will remember they are
responsible for the position and should go in "sack-cloth and ashes."
UNEMPLOYMENT.—A special Trades Union Congress was held a week prior to the
above to deal with the question of unemployment, a report of which appears on page 441
of the July Report.
This question has been the sole subject for which some of us have tried to find a
remedy for over forty years. It is still with us. Three years ago we recommended at a
conference in the Kingsway Hall, London, that all trade unionists should stop for one
day as a protest against the treatment of the unemployed. One of the most prominent
labour leaders protested against the suggestion adding that it would be better to give the
unemployed one day's pay. No stoppage has taken place: none of the unemployed
had the pay. Another prominent labour leader said if the operatives stopped work, it
would be difficult to get them to restart. These people were reminded that we could
have two days off for a coronation, but not one for ourselves. Many felt that if a stoppage
B


---
474

I agree that even in our
Union we have instances when some of our members come out on strike as a protest and
remain out for more than the three days allowed.

Still, we are living in serious times, and the only solution is a majority of Labour
M.P.s with power for five years, when I forecast the workers of this country would never
go back upon a Labour Government. To hold the Labour Party responsible for the minority
is unfair and unintelligible.
WOOLLEN INDUSTRY. After the Congress had dealt with the Miners' question, the
position of the woollen industry was explained by Alderman Ben Turner, president of the
Textile Workers' Union. Although this organisation have a Guarantee Fund similar to
our own which has been in operation for twenty-five years, the Employers brought about
the stoppage.
A Mr. Martin corrected my statement made at our Jubilee conference
that we were the only union in the world with a monetary Guarantee against a strike or
to reduce wages at a time like the present. The sympathy of the Congress went out to
lockout, and I shall now be able to remind him that he has broken his parole by wanting
Mr. Turner and his people. It is to be hoped that all Unions will endeavour to give all
the financial assistance they can. This dispute has been settled for the time being.

SILEBY has again been visited only to find that Mr. F. Leader, the branch secretary,
is still away, and owing to bad trade an old member of ours who is doing the secretarial
work feels organising is likely to be slow for some weeks to come.

LEEDS.—I have had to intervene in a dispute at the Co-operative Wholesale Society’s
Meanwood Road Works, Leeds, where, because the management could not get their prices,
for a skiving operation in the closing room, the matter was taken to the Board of Arbitration
by my colleagues in that City. Before a settlement was reached, two of the four women
operatives who had given evidence were paid off and dismissed, being given wages in
lieu of notice. The other operatives came out in sympathy and refused to return to work.
My presence at their meeting only had the effect of them asking me to see the Directors
at Leman Street, London, E.1, the following day. I met the Directors, not as a trade union
official, but as an old co-operator. They refused to discuss the matter until the operatives
had returned to work.

I returned to Leeds the same evening, and advised the operatives to return to work
although I felt the Directorate through their Management had aggravated the situation
by tampering with witnesses by discharging them whilst the prices were still before the
Board of Arbitration. I appealed to the Secretary to the C.W.S.—who is a lawyer—as to
what a judge would have thought of counsel tampering with witnesses. However, we did
our best to get these girls reinstated, and strange to relate another woman had been started
before these girls were discharged to take one of their places. We also learned younger
girls had been promoted to fill the positions. To still further obtain benefit for their own
piecework, which we should say was done to cheat
the piecework prices. Although this information was placed before the directors four
days after resumption of work it did not seem to penetrate into their minds. My impression
is that they are determined to stand by their own Management. I have expressed to them
the opinion that we are disappointed with the settlement which was to the effect that one
of the girls would be reinstated within six weeks. The other one they would not reinstate
because she lost time—with the firm's consent. This is the most unsatisfactory dealing
I have ever had in connection with the C.W.S. factories. To prove our contention was
the correct one I have quoted the request of Sir Arthur Steel-Maitland, Minister of Labour,
to the woollen manufacturers, to allow the operatives to return to work on old conditions
pending investigation; this they did, but the C.W.S. Directors refused my suggestion :—
That old conditions should prevail and all operatives return to work pending investigation.
As stated above, they refused, and I have informed them I am not surprised that some
of my colleagues describe C.W.S. Directors and Committees as being more difficult to deal
with than private employers.

LEICESTER.—A visit has been paid to one of the large firms in Leicester, because
they had made arrangements to “stand off” their operatives for three weeks at a time.
It was evident from the examination made, that whilst no blame can be attached to our
members, the employer and management or the employer through the managers and
foremen, had been made acquainted of the fact that after twelve days “standing off”
our members are entitled to Suspension Benefit. We shall now look upon this firm with
suspicion as they did not hesitate to tell us that our members were entitled to the benefits
for which they paid. It was my duty to inform the firm that if this was the spirit in which
members of the Federation were going to deal with the Union, then our funds could very
easily be diminished by such action.

I have not given up the idea, and shall consult my colleagues in Leicester, as to whether
this question ought not to be reported to the Boot Manufacturers’ Association in Leicester.
Manufacturers’ Federation, because any unfriendly action by a firm against the Union will
Personally, I shall fully report the facts to Miss Ruth Tomlinson, secretary to the Boot
not make for harmonious working, but will have a contrary effect.


---
Here is the extracted text:
475
The Daily Herald still supplies the most news of the position of labour. Every
member should buy and read it daily.
Ire von wearing " Stamped
Footwear? If not why not
Buy "Stamped"
Roots and Shoes and ensure good conditions of working.
Yours fraternally,
T.
ithand
General President.
DATES OF COUNCIL MEETINGS, 1926.
January
24th.
June
20th.
February
21st.
July
25th.
March
21st.
August
22nd.
25th.
April
September
26th.
16th.
October
May
24th.
Conference at Blackpool,
November
21st.
December
19th.
May 24th-29th.
To ensure correspondence being dealt with by Council it SHOULD
BE DISTINCTLY UNDERSTOOD that letters MUST reach the General
Secretary by WEDNESDAY MORNING prior to the above dates, otherwise
letters will be held over for the following month's sitting.
TRADE BOARD PROSECUTION.
Repairing Shop Handed Over to Employees.
On Tuesday, George Quick Latham, managing director of the St. Crispin Boot
Repairing Co. Ltd., Bristol, was summoned at the Bristol Police Court for offences under
the Trade Boards Acts.
Mr. C. L. M. Langham presecuted on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, and Mr. W. S. A.
Brown represented the defendant, who pleaded guilty.
Mr. Langham said that on 4th February an inspection was made of the defendant's
wages book, and it was found that he was employing two adult workers and one apprentice,
all of whom had been paid less than the rates fixed by the Repairing Trade Board. The
adult workers were Hart and Dunn. Hart was being paid 425. 6d. instead of 60s. for 48
hours, and Dunn 48s. instead of 60s. Hart had been underpaid 84 185. 11d. and Dunn
56 25. 8d.
On 19th February the defendant gave an undertaking to pay the arrears before 7th
March. Subsequently receipts were sent to London alleging that the arrears had been
paid. These proved to be false, no arrears having been paid. This was the serious part
of the case.
Evidence was given by Dunn that the defendant told him he could not pay the arrears,
and if he had to the works would have to be closed. Rather than have this happen witness
signed the receipt. There was no compulsion. Similar evidence was given by Hart.
For the defence Mr. Brown referred to the financial trouble the firm had had, and said
it was well known that the boot trade was bad at present. The works had now been
handed over to the employees to carry on and make what they could out of them.
The magistrates fined the defendant £2 10s. in respect of each case and ordered him
to pay magistrates fined the defendopted a lenient course because the defendant had
derived nothing from the offence. Shoe and Leather Record, 31st July, 1925.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
476
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.

In my last report I mentioned that notice to cease work had been given at Messrs.
Johnson, Newton Heath, Manchester. Up to then the firm refused to entertain the
Holiday (Provision) Scheme in any form and often offered the opinion that the Man-
facturers' Federation were wrong in recognising such a scheme. Their workers, who are
now all members of the Union, thought otherwise and, at their request, Mr. Mason and
made a further application for Holiday Pay. Though the firm is not federated, as note
any particular shop. Mr. Mason and I agreed, with the members' consent, that if Messr
Johnson would guarantee holiday payment for one year and put the wages right of those
not getting the rates within four weeks, we, on our side, would guarantee that the Union
would use all its powers to make the other firins pay at the end of that period. This did
not satisfy the firm. The notice expired before the holidays. The shop was picketterl
and the other day in all probability would be paid, but that might depend on how the
offer to pay four days' holiday money next year (the 48 hours are worked in five days
on 10th August, and none went into work. After eight days we settled on the definite
without contributions from the workers. The wages, with one exception, would be put
and one at Whitsuntide, and the probability of a day at August, making a week's pa
Union was dealing with other firms. This meant two days next Christmas, one at Easte-
right in four weeks. We placed the firm's offer before the members on 19th August and
and because of that we made our claim exceptional and moderate. During the month we
antee for holiday payment. It was our desire in the first instance to avoid a conflict.
they agreed to accept it as it came so near to the request made for a twelve months guar.
have added about 120 members to the Manchester Branch.
D. MCCARTHY

During the month further efforts have been made to reorganise the operatives working
at Faire Bros., Mansfield, trading as Premier Stiffener Co., where pressure has been put
upon the workpeople to break away from the Union, and a general system of terrorisation
has been put into operation by discharge and threatened discharge. Every difficulty is
put in the way by the firm, and the general position is one where methods of publicity will
have to be adopted in order to draw attention of the trade in general to firms of this character.
Thralls & Co. Ltd., are in the same position. About 50 girls are engaged at this firm.
Fear of discharge operates here, a difficulty which is surprising when the position of the
district is taken into consideration, this being a large mining area and a vast majority of
these girls being daughters of men engaged in this depressed industry. Still there are
at the Mansfield Shoe Co., about 60 new members being made and good prospects for a
further increase. We hope to attain in the very near future 100 per cent. in the Union.
Statements are compiled for each department, and to assure their proper application it is
essential that both male and female operatives should belong to our organisation.
with the organisation of the
Attention has also been given to the firm of Ward & Co. All our conditions are
observed by this firm and, strange to say, this is used as an excuse by the operatives work-
ing here why they should not join the Union. It is an unusual psychology, but still, with
persistent propaganda, we hope to overcome this difficulty.

25th August, 1925.
LEN SMITH.
J. H. BAUM.

I concluded my last report with a reference to the miners' dispute, which, at that
time, looked like developing into the biggest thing in the history of the Trade Union Move-
ment of this country. The news of settlement, or shall I say postponement, came as a
surprise to many, as the attitude of the Government had been one that appeared to leave
the issue to be fought out. One cannot help thinking (and the Prime Minister's speech
in the House confirms this) that the solid front presented by the Trade Unions was responsi
ble for the change af attitude, and while the way out cannot be looked upon as a final
solution, it must be the duty of the Movement to use its forces to see that the ultimate
decision shall be on lines which will be both sound and just to the workers and the com
munity.
to say nothing about the state of trade which one has to admit is very bad. This, of course,
The work of organising during the month has been somewhat hampered by the holidays,
is one reason why the operatives should join our Union, having regard to the way our
benefits protect them in these days of trade depression. Both men and women can resist
temptation better if there is some income entering the home, and so the conditions won can
be maintained and the possibilities of further improvement brought nearer.


---
477
The places visited during the month are Whetstone, Blaby, Cosby, Sileby, Shilton,
Anstey and Wigston. Meetings have been held in most of these, when the attention
shown was quite good, and the interest displayed was all one could desire, and we feel that
it is only a question of time when we shall have the united support of the workers in these
areas,
But persistent and continued effort is needed in some of these places. The differences
between them is very great, on the one hand there is a strong robust feeling behind the
branch or section, on the other there is apathy and indifference. No one objects to our
conditions in the sense that they are not good and desirable, but the impression one gets is
that some operatives think it will all come to them as a matter of course, and that they
need not specially exert themselves to secure them.
While not desiring to pillory any employer, experience teaches that only by perfect
organisation can we get the full recognition which is essential for our purpose. The con-
ditions of to-day are not final ones; there can be no such thing as finality in our work, and
being from this problem, surely a further reduction of working hours becomes an urgent
at the moment with thousands of operatives out of employment in the country, no centre
necessity.
The average figures for this year show an increase of 16 per cent. over last year, and
when to this is added the short time obtaining at many factories it is apparent that our
industry has reached a stage when a revision of working hours has become a matter of
great urgency.
But the only way by which we can bring this about is by the workers recognising the
need through membership of the Union. It is for this and other reasons we must continue
our work of educating and instructing those who fail in their duty towards their neigh-
bours. There is also the further point: we are frequently told that wide and drastic
changes are needed in our social system if justice is to be done to the workers. This few
would deny, but I am persuaded that working-class advancement will come sooner and
better if we have working-class organisation.
22nd August, 1925.
WALTER R. SMITH.
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE OF LABOUR AND SOCIALIST WOMEN.
The Labour and Socialist International is calling a Conference of women delegates
of their affiliated organisations to meet on 21st August, the day before the full Congress
opens at Marseilles. The agenda will deal with the present state of organisation among
Socialist women in the different countries on which a report is being compiled, on informa-
tion sent by each, and of discussion on resolutions dealing with the aims and methods of
the Socialist Movement amongst women. Representation at the Conference will be on
the same basis as that of the full Congress, and the delegates will therefore be appointed
by the Labour Party and the I.L.P., their votes being allotted in the proportion of 29 to 1.
The Labour Party delegates so far appointed are Mrs. Harrison Bell, Mrs. Dollan, and
Dr. Marion Phillips. The I.L.P. have appointed Miss Bondfield, Miss Dorothy Jewson,
and Miss Pallister, and it has been arranged that any organisations represented on the
Standing Joint Committee of Industrial Women's Organisations may add to the number
and they will then be included in the delegation. Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards (Boot and Shoe
Union), and Dr. Bentham, Mrs. Tawney and Miss Rose Smith Rose (Fabian Society),
have been thus added to the delegation. The discussion will be in the main on the organisa-
tion of women politically, and a very full report of this in the different countries has been
prepared, which we propose to publish în a shortened form next month. Other questions
will be the ainis and methods of Socialist Women, and the Standing Joint Committee has
prepared a resolution dealing with these subjects, which will be submitted after agreement
of the Labour Party in the name of the British Delegation. -The Labour Woman, August,
1925.
ASCENSION.
All things climb a starry stair,
By a law that no man knows:
What was yesterday a thorn
Will to-morrow be a rose.
What was once a chrysalid
Soon will soar, free fluttering:
What was yesterday a wish
Will to-morrow be a wing."
-LUIS G. URBINA (Mexico). "The World To-morrow."


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
478
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. Trade still remains depressed in our area, and see.
We had hopes that something might develop out of sample
likely to continue.
orders received here, but nothing further has been heard so far. If we fail to
hear good news of employment, the Government is determined to make us hear
bad news where unemployment benefit is concerned. All readers of the
Monthly Report will be aware of the ferocious conditions attached to recapt
of extended benefit after September. The public seem fairly indifferent t
the cruelty of it all. Without excuse and simply to harass the poor" out-o
work," all the rotten conditions of past periods have been resuscitated agam
to squeeze out thousands from benefit, and so lessen unemployment. During
been abandoned after severe criticism, yet they come up again as thong
the past special periods each of those conditions have been tried, and ther
due to some flash of genius which will save the situation. Organised Labour
accomplish with the enemy, and this matter calls for a further display of the
should not lie down to it. We have witnessed recently what a united front car
same strength. The twelve millions who are working should stand by the...
instead of being forced to go to Parish Councils for relief. It has been free
who are idle, and see that they get emergency or extended benefit as it is calleri
machinery to deal with unemployment distress. They were to confine the
mooted for some time back that the Government meant to introduce oth--
but instead of asking those who were rejected to go to the Poor Law, the
Insurance scheme to rigid principles, and not make it a compassionate fund
of idle workers who failed to qualify under the Insurance scheme. No one
would quarrel with that plan if it had matured, but here we are with Parlia-
ment on holiday, with winter rapidly approaching, and with no provision of
this kind brought forward. If the Labour Party had devoted their time to the
task of securing an alternative, subsidiary, and intermediate scheme for the
been a useful compromise effected. The Trade Union Congress and the Labour
tightening of regulations of Unemployment Insurance, then there might have
Party should still fight for an alternative scheme of relief, and they will get the
backing of every Parish Council and Poor Law Authority in the country.
We are looking forward to the visit of our General President, and hope we shall
get good meetings of our members to hear him. Mr. Richards has been often
enough in Scotland to understand the conditions here, and we hope great
good will come out of his visit. He will be interested in seeing our factories
again after a lapse of two years.
were to establish a scheme of "Distress Relief Grants" to meet the position
CHESHAM.-Pleased to report a slight improvement in trade here.
CHESTERFIELD. There is a slight improvement in trade here, but
still we have members out of work. We must congratulate the Trade Union
Congress for bringing about solidarity in the Miners' fight. We shall want
more of it in the future, as the real fight with Capitalism has commenced,
and with solidarity we can win every time.
CORK. -Trade still continues good, the Lee Boot Co. building additional
premises.
DUNDALK.-Trade, though showing a slight improvement, at, is as yet far
from what might be desired. The fact that some of our shopmates are on the
dole, while others are doing labouring work speaks for itself. All our members
will be returning to work on Monday after one week's holiday minus pay.
EDINBURGH. -The members are pleased that the General President is
going to pay us a visit at the end of the month. We trust they will turn out
and give him a welcome. The firm recently organised have now given all the
---

---
479
and the Holiday Scheme to be gone into. Through time we believe these
members the Minimum Wage, but there is still the question of Boy Labour
matters will be put right. We expected to publish the amounts raised on
pairers were fairly busy after the holidays, but it has fallen away again. One
behalf of Mrs. Bleakley, but there is still some subscriptions coming in. Re-
of our factories is fairly full up with orders at present. The Scottish Employers
Federation have raised a fund for Mrs. Bleakley, with very good results, which
goes to prove that our late colleague was a great favourite in Scotland. The
Executive Council of the Union have taken the right action in backing up the
Unions give of whatever backing they have. Let the employers know that
Miners in their fight for a decent wage. Good luck to the miners. Let all
Trade Unionists all over the country are prepared to back one another when
it comes to a matter of breaking the Unions.
HIGHAM & RUSHDEN. -Trade during the month has generally been
very poor, with a few factories running on full time, most employers stating
that they have extreme difficulty in keeping on.
improvement at present. Most factories are closing for a
There seems no sign of
long holiday.
KILMARNOCK. - Trade has been fair during the last month, but unfor-
tunately our Kilmaurs members are still out from the lack of work. The
repairing trade is fairly steady, due, no doubt to the approaching holidays.
We are
pleased to report that one of our members has been selected by the
V.C.L.C. as one of six students to attend international summer schools held
abroad under the auspices of the International Federation of Trade Unions.
Our shopmate, Thomas Campbell, is the only one N.C.L.C. student selected
from Scotland, and along with the two others will attend a school at Brunnsvic,
Sweden, for fourteen days, and three other students are going to Prague,
Czecho-Slovakia. We are very sorry to hear of the death of Mrs. Bleakley, and
are sure we echo the sentiments of the members of this branch when we extend
to the now doubly bereaved family our deepest sympathy.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.-Trade is, to use a local colloquialism,
"hanging in the breeching," and a good deal of uncertainty exists as to the
prospects of a busy season in view of the serious industrial situation. Our
best wishes go out to the Miners in their great struggle for the right to live.
LEEDS No. 1. We regret to report that so far as the heavy and medium
trade here is very bad, but so far as the lighter class of work is concerned is
fairly moderate. We wish to heartily thank our General President, Mr. T. F.
Richards, for his services in the C.W.S. dispute. We would once more draw
the attention of our members who are in arrears, that if at all possible it is
hoped they will make an effort to see that should sickness or unemployment
overtake them, that they are entitled to Union benefits. We also regret to
report that our old Branch President, Mr. John Buckle, J.P., is seriously ill,
and we sympathise with him and his family during his long and serious illness.
LEICESTER No. 2. - We are sorry to report that trade in this centre is
very bad. Quite a number of manufacturers have made the holiday the
opportunity of a long suspension, which means that we are having to deal with
a good number claiming Suspension and Out-of-Work Benefit. There are times
when we feel that those working men and women who helped to return the
present Government have become awakened to the fact they have backed
the wrong "hoss." Where are the good times and full employment which
were promised? Echo answers
،،
where."
LIVERPOOL. Trade has been on the quiet side during the past month.
NORTHAMPTON.-Trade remains quiet here resulting in large numbers
discharged and suspended. Sickness normal. We regret having to record
that Jas. Gribble has been compelled to leave the town, but are pleased to know
he has got be able business at Hastings-a Boarding Hotel-and when
he gets settled we feel sure he will be pleased to welcome friends. At anyrate,


---
his work in the past for the Union and in the political arena entitles him to
have a reasonably comfortable time.
NORWICH. Trade in Norwich maintained a fair average during the first
portion of the month, the last week showing a decided falling off in many
factories. As a consequence many additional out-of-work claims have been
made by our members, making a higher total for July than in any corresponding
month since the severe slump of 1920 has been passed. With a strongly
organised membership such as we have in Norwich it seems impossible to avoid
carrying a continuous surplus of labour on the out-of-work fund, even in the
months that provide the largest volume of trade. Viewing the situation at the
present time, it certainly appears plain that the industry is over-populated
with labour, and that unless and until a permanently increasing trade is secured,
many of our members will be either temporarily or continuously unemployed.
Industrial development aided by inventive skill applied to machinery produce
shoes with ever-increasing rapidity, while additional markets seem impossible
to secure to keep pace with production. Our members notice these signs,
and hear from the Prime Minister with grave dissatisfaction that wages in all
industries must be reduced, thereby still further restricting the home market
bringing in its inevitable train more unemployment. We smile and go on talking
the same generalities of thirty years ago, not seeming to recognise that to deal
with the unemployment problem for our people in this generation we must find
new ways, employing fresh ideas till such time as the people desire, and with
the fundamental change that makes possible the Co-operative Commonwealth
PLYMOUTH. - We have been watching the development of the coal
crisis with interest, and wondering what would be the end if the colliers' wheels
ceased to spin and no more coal was landed on our shores. We can only see
the few remaining markets closed indefinitely, perhaps for ever, semi-starvation
for the miners, and short commons for thousands more of our fellow workers,
illions of money frittered away in the struggle, pits closed never to be opened
ain, hundreds more added to the ranks of the unemployed, and the standard
life considerably lowered throughout the land; then bloodshed and revolu-
cion such as no Englishman can contemplate without a shudder. We have no
desire to see our country reduced to chaos, but if a stoppage occurred our sym-
pathies would unreservedly be on the side of the miners, for their wages appear
to be on the borderline of starvation, and should in the name of humanity
and reason, rise and not fall. How this can be accomplished, by greater
efficiency, amalgamation, unification, nationalisation, or a fortunate turn in
the international situation, we must leave, but we must say without hesitation,
that the nation should adopt any system known to the genius of man, in order
to secure a living wage for the miners. It was Asquith, we believe, said on one
occasion, "that there was nothing higher and nothing deeper in the Liberal
faith than this: that the interest of the few must give place to the interest
of the many." Neither can we imagine a Prime Minister so dull as to think
that the miners formed a small minority on one side, while on the other stood
the community ready to protect itself at his bidding; the facts are far different
and if our Premier would only take a vote of the electorate, on the question:
"Are you in favour of a living wage for the miners of Great Britain?" he
would soon find the community on the side of the miners, whatever the change
involved in the coal-mining industry. Do not let us be deceived by such
statements as these: "No minority in a free country has yet coerced the
whole community," or "the community will protect itself." Of course they
will, that is perfectly true, but has no more to do with the question than the
man in the moon. The miners are asking for a living wage, only a living wage-
and this the twentieth century.
WATERFORD. - Trade continued good during the past month.
GREAT YARMOUTH. - Sorry to report Water Boot trade still very slow
in Great Yarmouth.


---
481
NORTHANTS DISTRICT COUNCIL.
Minutes of Quarterly Mecting of the Northants District Council, held in the Co-
operative Hall, Desborough, on Saturday, April 18th, 1925, commencing at 2.30 p.m.
PRESENT: Mr. W. Langley, J.P., the President, presided; a large number of delegates
also attended. There were also present, as representing the National Council, Mr. C.
Bates. Mr. Mr. Townley, Mr. L. Poole, and Mr. T. F. Richards, the General President.
The Executive Committee of the Desborough Branch also attended the meeting.
MINUTES. The report of the previous meeting having been circulated, it was resolved
that same be accepted as read and approved. Same were signed by the Chairman.
Mr. T. F. Richards, General President. then introduced a discussion on the subject
of " THE LEGALISING OF THE NATIONAL AGREEMENTS. "
At the outset Mr. Richards dealt with the unique organisation of our own industry,
Unlike most industries, the boot and shoe trade was catered for entirely by our own Union.
We covered every department in a boot and shoe factory. Comparison in this respect
was made with the Engineering industry with its 48 unions, and with other trades similarly
placed.
The growth of Trades Unionism, particularly in its relationship to the State and the
various enactments legalising trade unions, were then outlined. Mr. Richards claiming
that progress had been largely brought about by the thought, energy and farsightedness
of a few individuals.
The developments in our own Union arising out of the National Lockout of 1895
were then commented on.
The advantages of arbitration, would not, Mr. Richards urged,
be successful but for our National Agreement. That was the safeguard, and very little
attempt had been made by the manufacturers to take away from us any of the advantages
contained therein. The employers know, and we know, that it would not be good for
us to have an upheaval.
The history and costs of the disputes in the trade since 1895 were then given by
Mr. Richards as follows :-
St. Cuthbert's, Edinburgh
Nantwich
C.W.S.
Melbourne..
Preston
Eyam & Stoney Middleton
Chesham
Jackson & Joseph, London
..
1911-13
£
2,184
s. d.
0 0
1913
281 0 0
1913
..
7,864 5 4
1913-14
..
1,230
0 0
1913-14
4,506 9
6
1918-19
8,555 19
0
1923
12,172 5
0
1925
1,488 17
0
The settlement in four of the cases were totally unsatisfactory, i.e., Nantwich, Mel-
bourne, Preston, Eyam and Stoney Middleton. Generally speaking, we have no desire
to even renew similar conflicts, as we feel that the other side has been willing for a satis-
factory settlement as well as ourselves in all these disputes. In the four cases mentioned,
it was merely the right of man to belong to a trade union that was at stake, and in these
cases the liberty of the subject was bound to be defended by us, although the members
affected had perhaps in some instances not been members of ours for more than four or
five weeks. With these facts in front of us, and then again realising that according to the
most reasonable estimate that can be given of the number of people working at the industry
being round about 120,000, and seeing that in our own Union we have 80,000 members
ely 2,000, and the Rossendale Slipper Union round about
only, the old body approximately
6,000, one feels inclined to ask why that other 32,000 of a floating population is not with
When we look at the above-mentioned four places, where we have few members,
and then consider the efforts of our organisers during the last two years in the East End
of London, we think that if the Government of the day, whoever they may be, and what-
ever party they may belong to, can be of any assistance to an industry, our Union Executive
is willing that the Resolution carried at the 1922 National Conference, moved by Mr.
H. J. Bostock and seconded by myself"That the Government should be urged to
give National Agreements voluntarily entered into, and approved by the Joint Industrial
Council, the same validity as wages under the Trade Board Acts." I want all our members
to know, and I tried to make it clear at the Conferences, the need that "National Agree-
ments voluntarily entered into" which would mean that those agreements
us.
ments being subject
their lifetime, and at the will and pleasure of both sides. To my mind this should eliminate
the fear in the minds of those anti-compulsory arbitrationists, who like ourselves, do not
look upon voluntary arbitration as compulsory arbitration. We enter the arbitration
C


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
482
with the intention of arriving at a settlemet without resorting to or thro
the line chairman or I mpire to do for us what we oftght to
and when there is a large body gathered together of from 15 to 30 pe
similarly find in our National Conferences with the Employers
mpt to the present to find that among them there is alway
reasonableness in assembly of that kind, with the result that we are please
the fact that for 30 years there has been no general stoppage of work.
Our disputes had done but little good. Most of them had been fought in
the principle of collective bargaining. districts, with the very worst material and against employers who had little re
was then instanced as to the value of legislation. What could be done wit
enforceable agreement with a multitude of small employers, could, it was claimed
equally, if not more successful in our own highly organised trade.
Mr. Richards then again made reference to the National Resolution on the m
but as an experiment he was heartily in favour of it being tried. I want us to try..
He was not positive that legislation in the terms of the resolution would be succe
experiment rather than not try it at all. It is more for the defence of our good mo
pence from a type of individual whom we could not describe as being loyal to the mo
that we should press our views in this direction, rather than with the idea of having
We should have sufficient work to do to keep them in order, even with the as
ance of the Government Officials, no matter how distasteful that may be. Seeing ...
some of the most important industries of the country have made arbitration -The Mi
and the Agricultural Workers got Government assistance; the Miners having had th
assistance in various ways, mainly in their Checkwaymen and their recent attempts
get a minimum wage fixed-it should encourage us to believe that if it is necessar
have like activity to assist the Miners, it can be helpful to the Operatives in the Boot an
Shoe Industry to ask for similar assistance.
MR. ATTEWELL (Northampton No. 1): I strongly oppose the recommendatio
Mr. Richards has not made out a case on behalf of his so-called experiment. Trade Unions
the ownership of industry that is desired. It will be as well if we ask ourselves if these
agreements are agreements in the usual sense of the term ? They are not. They are
are a means to an end. It is not the mere getting of better conditions, but a change
employers care to impose. Legalise such agreements and you would make it possible
forced upon us by superior economic pressure, and we have to accept just the terms the
Our own policy of arbitration has merely placed us in the position of accepting the advar
for a man to be hauled up before the Courts on all sorts of pretexts. Legalisation wou
penalise the operative just as much as it would effect and could be evaded by the emplover
tages which other Unions had gained by fighting for them.
MR. UNDERWOOD (Rushden): I admire Attewell, but I agree with Richards. We
must seek the law of protection for ourselves and in the interests of the people emploved is
the industry.
MR. PENDERED (Northampton No. 2): Our Union should always be in the positice
to point out to the workers that they are being robbed daily. The moral of the class
struggle must be ever in view. Agreements are merely statements in which you have
agreed to be robbed, and indicate the degree to which you are going to be robbed in the
future. If you are going to make agreements legal and enforceable by law, then you
weaken the whole future position of the Union and of its members.
MR. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): I believe legalisation of agreements to be a good
thing, and I am prepared to support anything which would be to our advantage. We
have agreements which have been come to by Arbitration. The necessity of then legalising
them seems so obvious that I can never understand why it has not been adopted before,
and by many other Unions. The backward districts have the power of determining the
progress of our own industry. Legalisation would have a very large influence where the
conditions are bad. By having the legal force behind us it would help us to demand a
higher power that we can exercise at the moment. Progress is determined by the power
which exists at the moment, and the greatest progress has been made during times oi
prosperity. Legalisation would bring equality of power and advantage.
MR. TEBBUTT (Earls Barton) contrasted the present difficulty of the small places
as against the larger well organised centres, and pointed out how legalisation of agreements
would help the small centres.
MR. ROWLETT (Kettering No. 1) asked what effect the motion would be likely to
have on the membership of the Union ?
MR. TOWNLEY (Northampton No. 1): There seems to be some misunderstanding as
to what is meant by the legalising of Agreements. Whether we agree that the manu
facturers should rob us or not, we ought not to agree that some districts should continue


---
Here is the extracted text:
of the terms of the agreements ?
483
commented on,
been pu
1 and the
MR. CRESTER (Kettering No. 1) asked whether Mr. Richards was prepared mil
legal mind to interpret and decide any point of dispute arising out of interpretatiotu
MR. LANGLEY (President), then commented on the various aspects of the discussion
and to go on to any platform and say, that we ought not to go in for an increase in wages
and copied the gains of the militant Unions. We had gained and beld mor
than the others bad been able to secure by other methods. But I an
until the Miners, Engineers, Agricultural Workers, &c., have been brought up to us.
policy of the Trade Boards and its relationship to membership was also commented on.
and Mr. Richards also stated he was prepared to trust the Judges to do the right thing
and invited Mr. Richards to reply.
MR. RICHARDS, in reply, stated that he did not agree that we had taken
advantage
more by arbitration
am prepared to say.
The
MR. I. H. JOHNSON (Vice-President) Daventry, then moved that the best thanks
of the Council be extended to Mr. Richards for his informative address
formally supported, and the motion was heartily and unanimously carried.
The President then declared the meeting closed.
MR. C. BATES
The delegates were then entertained to Tea by the Desborough Branch, to whom
thanks were extended.
BOOT & SHOE FACTORIES IN NEW ZEALAND.
The following information will doubtless be of interest to our members seeing that
statistical report on the Factory Prod seeing that
Dominion of New Zealand, 1923-4-
In connection with the manufacture of boots and shoes there are 81 factories in the
Dominion, at which 1,449 males and 859 females are employed. The salaries and wages
paid during the period under review were £292,070 to males, and 92,624 to females,
giving an approximate average of 4 per week for males, and f2 2s. 6d. for females for
50 weeks each year.
The production for the year 1923-4 was: Boots and Shoes, 1,471,093 pairs; Slippers,
17,217 pairs: Shoe-ettes, £56,299; Leggings, 53 pairs.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out:-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
t
s.
d.
January, 1925
..
To December, 1924 667,902 8 7
2,840 1 10
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
s.
d.
To December, 1924 358,625 13 7
January, 1925
..
3,954 7 9
February
..
3,952 4 8
February
..
5,226 1 9
March
4,124 16 0
March
3,682 10 3
April
..
4,054 10 6
April
..
3,031 5 0
May
..
..
4,023 13 8
May
..
3,510 14 9
..
June
..
..
3,993 2 6
June
..
4,823
19
..
July
..
..
2,653 13 10
July
..
..
4,221 6 9
£693,544 11 7
£387,075 17


---
1.
484
LOANS FROM GUARDIANS.

The Poor Law Amendment Act, 1834, provides by S. 58 that any relief or
cost price thereof which shall be given to or on account of any poor person above the
of 21, or to the wife of any part of his family under the age of 16 and which the said
or considered as given by way of loan, and whether any receipt for such relief or
shall be considered, and the same is hereby declared to be a loan to such poor por
given or not by the person to or on account of whom the same shall have been 
The Poor Law Commissioners made two orders, one the Outdoor Relief Prohibitory C
(21st December, 1844) Art. VII, and the Outdoor Relief Regulation Order 14th D
relief given in conformity with the provisions of such Orders may, if the guardians shall
1852, Art. IX. dealing with relief by way of loan. These Orders provide in effect t
relief or an engagement to repay the same.
think fit, be given by way of loan.
There cannot therefore be any doubt that any outdoor relief lawfully given by guar
dians to a poor person or his wife or family may in the discretion of the guardians be g
by way of loan whether the recipient gives a receipt for such
relief or an engagement to repay the same.
by way of loan. And it will be observed from the words of the section I have quoted
or engagement may be given.
In my opinion the guardians may require such a rece
condition of relief or not.
The statute contemplates that such a rece
and that the repayment of the loan may be enforced as stated later, whether a receipt
engagement has been given or not, and whether the guardians could require this as a
2,—The same Act of 1834 provides by S. 59 that where any relief shall have been give
by way of loan, or where any relief, or the cost price thereof, shall be treated as a loan.
under the rules orders and regulations of the said commissioners, or the provisions of this
Act, it shall be lawful for any justice, upon the application of the guardians of the parist
or union providing such relief and upon proof of the same having been given to or on account.
of any such person, his wife or family, as aforesaid, and of the same, or any part thereof
still remaining due, to issue a summons, requiring such person, as well as the master of
employer of such persons, or some person on his behalf, to appear before any two justices,
at a time and place to be named in such summons, to show cause why any wages due or
which may from time to time become due from such master or employer, should not te
paid over, in whole or in part, to such guardians and if no sufficient cause be shown to
the contrary or if such person or someone on his behalf, shall not appear on the retum cf
such summons, then the said justices shall, by order under their hands, direct the master
become due or payable to such poor person, to pay, either in one sum or by such weekly
or employer for the time being from whom any wages shall be due or from time to time
sideration the circumstances of such poor person and his family, out of such wages, to such
or other instalments as the said justices shall in their discretion think fit, taking into con-
siderdians, the amount of such relief or so much there as shall from time to time be dre
or unch master or employer for so much of any such wages as shall be so paid by virtue of
Srunpaid; and the payment to and receipt of any such guardians shall be a good discharge
any such order; and if any such master or employer shall refuse or neglect to pay to the
guardians producing any such order the money thereby directed to be paid, according
to the terms of such order and at the periods thereby fixed for such payment, the same
may be levied and recovered and the payment thereof from time to time enforced against
such master or employer, in such and the like manner as penalties and forfeitures are
recoverable under this Act.
Having regard to this provision I am of opinion that there is nothing illegal in a person
who receives relief by way of loan entering into an agreement authorising the repayment
of the loan by instalments to be paid by the master or employer out of wages, withou:
waiting for a justices' order. And I see no illegality in the master or employer acting on
the authority of such an agreement.
Whether the guardians could insist on such an agreement as a condition of the grant
of relief is not clear. But the point is not material, for the guardians may proceed under
the section last above quoted whether there has been any such agreement or not. All I
need say is that if such an agreement is made, it is not, in my opinion, illegal.
3. The section last referred to is not the only statutory enactment relating to the
recovery of relief by way of loan. It is provided by 11 and 12 Vict. C. 110 S. 8 that all
relief to be granted by the guardians to any pauper upon loan, and which shall be charge
able to the common fund of the union or to any parish therein, may be recoverable in the
County Court or other Court for the recovery of small debts for the district wherein the
union or the major part thereof shall be comprised, on the plaint of the said guardians
who may apply and be heard in such court by any officer appointed by them for such
themoner prescribed by the statutes enabling ther appointed oficers to acti


---
486
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
HEALTH INSURANCE-A WORLD SURVEY.
A world satvey of the laws and national regulations governing health insurace is
League of Nations
compulsory insurance for industrial workers in Japan in 1022.
against sickness
placing, as they do, individual initiative above all
Recording this remarkable
The absence of active intervention
contained in a new publication, now ready, from the International Labour Office of the
1 world satvey of the laws and national regulations governing health insurace is
its adoption in other countries, including Great Britain in 19, to the establishment أنه
The rise of health insurance is described from the first German Act of 1883, flitoリ
progress in forty years, the volume states whereas in Europe, collective protection
kness is almost general, the great oversea countries still adopt a waiting attitude
on the part of the authorities is characteristic of the present position of sickness insurance
legislation in the American States, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and several
Nevertheless, in nearly all these countries, the questio cf
wider State intervention is under consideration. For this reason, it would seem particu
insurance laws are based and which involve active State collaboration in the form cities
of imposing compulsory insurance, or of giving moral and material encouragement to jor
larly appropriate at the present time to discuss the legal principles on which sickre
The volume considers the problem in detail under the following heads the soote
of sickness insurance laws, constitution and organs of insurance institutions, sickness
other industrial communities.
insurance.
insurance finance and sickness insurance benefits.
WOMEN WORKERS IN UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
A Study of Hours of Labour.
into the scheduled working hours of women employed in the industries of thirteen States
The results of an inquiry by the Women's Bureau of the U.S. Department of Labour
tion, the weekly publication of the International Labour Office of the League of Nations.
on 15th September, 1922, are quoted in the current issue of Industrial and Labour Informa-
Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, New Jersey, Ohio, Rhode Island, South
The States covered by the investigation were as follows: Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia,
Carolina and Virginia. Two cities outside these States-Philadelphia and Chicago-were
also included in the inquiry.
Information was secured on the scheduled hours of 162,792 Women, employed in
,709 plants.
Almost one-fifth of these women worked an eight-hour day or less, over one-third
a nine-hour day, and nearly one-fourth more than nine hours. In South Carolina over
foumore, while Iowa and Maryland, with one-third or more of the total number of the
women included in the inquiry, were scheduled for a day of eight hours or less. The other
States fell between these extremes.
over three-fifths, had a daily
A 50-hour week was the standard for the largest group of women, and over one-third
and Maryland took the lead, with approximately 68 per cent., 55 per cent., and 52 per
had a week of 48 hours or less. As regards the 48-hour week, Rhode Island, New Jersey
cent. respectively, of the women reported in each, showing such a schedule. An over-
whelming majority of the South Carolina women, on the other hand, regularly worked
more than 54 hours a week, while in both Georgia and Alabama practically two-thirds of
the women had a weekly schedule of more than 54 hours.
Differences were shown in the hour policies of two industries employing large numbers
of women, namely, the manufacture of textiles and clothing. While a day of between
8 and 9 hours was most common in the clothing industry, a 10-hour day was customary
for the largest group of textile workers. Only 6 per cent. of the textile workers had a week
of 14 hours or less, in contrast with one-third of the clothing workers showing such a
schedule. Practically one-half of the women in the various textile industries had a week
of 55 hours or more, as compared with less than 3 per cent. in the clothing industry.
Reduced Hours and Output.
The report gives information with regard to experiments in the reduction of the work-
day, in certain industries, to conform with the eight-hour standard.
These experiments show that businesses which have shortened their working week
have not suffered by the reduction, judging by such records as have been kept of the output
of the plant before and after the change. In certain types of industries, where the attention
of the worker is of greatest importance, reductions of one or more hours a day brought no
decrease in daily production.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```
487
work in most industries to nine hours, while three Alabama, Indiana and Iowa place
Two of the States included in the study, Missouri and Ohio, have Jassmitime the day's
imitation on hours of work in any industry.

EMPLOYMENT OF SEAMEN.
Australia Ratifies International Convention.
Information has been received at the International Labour Office of the league of
Nations at Geneva that Australia has ratified a Convention dealing with the employinent
of seamen which was adopted by the second annual session of the International Labour
Conference, held at Genoa in 1920.

By this Convention, the State which ratifies it agrees that "the business of finding
employment for seamen shall not be carried on by any person, company or other agent y,
indirectly by any person, company or other agency, for finding employment for secamen
is a commercial enterprise for pecuniary gain; nor shall any fees be charged directly or
in any ship," and undertakes to provide punishment by law for any violation of this
provision. Such agencies are allowed to carry on their work temporarily under Govern-
ment licence during the period of reorganisation and the establishment of free public
exchanges for the finding of such employment for seamen. Committees of equal repre-
sentatives of shipowners and seamen are to be set up to advise on questions connected
with these exchanges while seamen and shipowners are to be guaranteed freedom of
choice.

The Convention has already been ratified by Belgium, Bulgaria, Esthonia, Finland,
Italy, Japan, Norway, Poland and Sweden.
This brings the total of ratifications of Conventions adopted by the International
Labour Conference to 160.

POSTAL WORKERS IN RUSSIA.
"Considerable Unemployment."
The following summary of conditions among postal workers in Russia, as shown
by reports to the Ninth Congress of Russian Postal, Telegraph and Telephone Workers,
a Union numbering 102,500 members, held at Moscow in June, is given in Industrial and
Labour Information, the weekly publication of the International Labour Office of the
League of Nations.

Whereas in industry wages are now on an average 78 per cent. of their figure before
the Communist revolution (60 per cent. in heavy industry), the average wage in the postal,
telegraph and telephone services is only 50 per cent. of its 1914 level, and in the provinces
it is even sometimes lower.
In view of the fact that there is no longer a deficit in the working of the postal, telegraph
and telephone services, but even a certain excess of revenue over expenditure, the delegates,
in agreement with the Central Committee, demanded that the Commissariat of Posts,
Telegraphs and Telephones should increase wages 40 per cent. The employees also
demanded that the wages of provincial employees should be brought to the same level
as those of employees in the great centres, and that there should be an end of the existing
difference in the wages of telephone operators, who were generally better paid than tele-
graphists and postmen.

The Commissary for Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones stated that he hoped to be
able to increase wages by 25 per cent. during 1925, but was unable to promise any further
increment.
The greater majority of the delegates pronounced in favour of an uninterrupted day's
work (with the exception of a break for meals), and against the "spread-over" system.
The delegates urged the necessity of supplying all employees, in accordance with the
Labour Code, with special working clothes. At the moment only employees in the big
centres benefited by this regulation. It was also stated that housing conditions were
extremely unfavourable and prejudicial to output. Employees were often compelled
to live at a considerable distance from their work and to spend several hours a day in the
train. They were thus tired when they came to work, and the work suffered.
It was also stated that many employees were living in deplorable conditions of over-
crowded and insanitary dwellings. The result was a general lowering in the average level
of health, which could not but be harmful to efficiency.

The Central Committee was accused by many delegates of paying insufficient attention
to the question, and of not bringing sufficient pressure to bear on the Commissariat of
Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones, in order to obtain the sums ear-marked for the con-
struction of dwellings for employees, which sums it would appear that the Commissariat
was unwilling to pay on its own initiative.
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
488

INEMPLOYMENT. It was stated that unemployment was considerable among postal
telegraph and telephone employees, as the result of the numerous suppressions of posts
carried out with a view to economy.

Out of 102,500 members, about 1,000 were out of work. Of this number abo
2020 were receiving unemployment relief from their Union. Although the number i
post offices has been increased and although the Commissariat of Posts, Telegraphs ar
telephones intends to develop yet further its service of post offices, it was stated that
it was improbable that the unemployed would find work in the near future, since tire State
had not the funds to engage new employees. It was, therefore, thought probable tha
unemployment would continue to be acute.

FACTORY INSPECTION IN JAPAN.

Osaka Figures.
Figures recently published with regard to the enforcement of the Factory Ac
Japan, states Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly publication of the Inser
national Labour Office of the League of Nations, show that in Osaka, where 3,673 facto
come under the operation of the Factory Acts, as employing more than 15 persons, Penals
for violation of the Acts have been imposed in 462 cases.
The offences which were the subject of these cases included:
Employment of workers under the legal minimum age
Employment of children of school age without permission.
Employment of women beyond the legal maximum hours of work, 12
Other offences included neglect to make known to the workers the regulations.co
cerning compensation, &c., neglect to make rules for compensation, &c., and infringemen
of the regulations issued under the Factory Acts.
The Factory Inspection Department of the Osaka Prefecture, it is stated, intends
deal even more stringently than hitherto with all cases of infringement, "in order to com-
memorate the tenth anniversary of the enforcement of the Factory Act."

INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
"WAR AGAINST WAR."
Concentrating the Forces making for Peace.
The anniversary of the outbreak of the world war comes, alas, in the midst of
time is beginning to fade. Men forget quickly, and the forces which would blot
remembrance are stronger than those which seek to keep awake in men's minds the
of war. Not that nations are inclined to war-that they never were, even before to
but they allow themselves to be blindfolded and led by the makers of public opin
Hence the future is dark and dangerous, and will continue to be so unless the friends
peace set themselves to form public opinion, and fill men's minds with the firm determin
tion to abolish war and all its horrors.
The working class has never ceased to wage its great fight against war and militan
but little has been heard lately of the middle-class peace movement. Not much is achieve.
by holding a congress now and then; continuous unremitting work is essential. The
diversity and multiplicity of the middle-class peace organisations are a serious drawback
to effective co-operation. It should be possible to co-ordinate and organise continge
and systematic work. By the amalgamation of kindred organisations, efficient bodies
could be created, and the formation of national and international peace rings might make
it possible to carry on steady and unremitting propaganda among all circles of the pop-
ulation, and in dangerous crises to co-operate with the workers and thus exert a decisive
influence upon events. Although the slaughter of innocent men is worse than the financial
burdens which military preparations involve, yet the fact remains that not only is war
itself a burden to the peoples, but also the preparations for war. To put an end to this
mad state of affairs must be the untiring endeavour of all who are desirous of achieving
a happier future for humanity; and this desire must be strong enough to overcome
political antagonism and all the many diversities of opinion and outlook, which separate
men and hamper their successful co-operation. —Thursday, 6th August, 1925.

TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of July, 1925
80,967. Unemployed at end of July, 1925, 4,449; percentage, 5.5. Increase i
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.9. Increase in percentage as
compared with a year ago, 0.3. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, August, 1925.


---
496
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July. 1914: All Items food, rent, clothing, fuel and
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922.
1923
1924
January
10 15
35
65
85 90
120
125
165
92
78
February
15 20
35 40
70
00
115
130
141
860
77
77
March
15 20
35 10
70 7.5
90 9.5
110
132
1.3.3
82
76
79
April
20
40 45
7.5
95-100
105
141
128
81
74
78
May
25
15
75 80
100
105
150
119
70
73
June
25
15 50
80
100-105 105 110 152
19
July
84
Fig
71
7.
25
45 50
80
110
115
155
expo
122
81
71
70
Forg
August
25
50
80-85
110
115
161
Cou
120
71
70
ΠΟ
78
73
Egy
71
73
September
25
50-55 75-80 115-120
J20
164
79
73
October
30
30-35
60
85
120-125 125
176
72
103
80
75
73
EX
November
35
65
85
120
125
169
99
80
75
15
४०
December
77
31
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement. December (1922) Agreement, and presen
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 Ma..
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st AUGUST, 1925.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included
Food only
..
..
..
FOOD.
73 per cent.
68
35
At Ist August the average level of retail prices of the principal articles of food shome
and milk were all dearer than a month earlier, but these advances were largely counter-
a slight upward movement as compared with 1st July. Eggs, butter, margarine, chees
balanced by a seasonal decline in the prices of potatoes and by a slight reduction in the
average prices of flour and of bread. The remaining articles included in the statistics
showed no appreciable change in price.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of u
included in these statistics was about 68 per cent. at Ist August, as compared with abort
1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of cu
67 per cent. at 1st July and 64 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1924.
SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. -Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 25th
July, 1925, 48,696; Decrease on a month ago, 0.8 per cent.; Decrease on a year age,
1.8 per cent. Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 25th July, 10:5
£107.676; Decrease on a month ago, 3.4 per cent.; Decrease on a year ago, 7.6 per cent.
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, August, 1925.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270; Total.
142,490.
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 12,103; Females. 4,687; Total, 10,790.
Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 27th July, 1925
Percentage Unemployed at 27th July, 1925:
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 11.8; Great Britain only, 11.6. Total Percentages
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland) compared with 22nd June, 1925, increase, 1.6;
Males, 13.1; Females, 9.3; Toral,
28th July, 1924, increase, 4.3; 23rd July, 1923, increase, 1.3.- The Ministry of Labor
Gazette, August 1925.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NATIONAL UNION of BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Seat of Government, 34, GUILFORD ST, LONDON, W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 246.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

MONTHLY REPORT.

21ST SEPTEMBER, 1925.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE.
We regret to have to report that trade upon the whole is worse rather than
better, and the immediate prospect from the point of view of employment is
not at all a hopeful one. The figures in the Ministry of Labour Gazette are as
follows :-

BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment remained depressed during August. In a number of districts the
factories were closed for extended holidays, while after the resumption a very considerable
amount of short time was worked in the majority of centres. Compared with August,
1924, employment generally showed a decline.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 12.5 on 24th August, 1925, as compared with
11.8 on 27th July, 1925, and 8.7 on 25th August, 1924.
Returns from firms employing over 40,000 operatives in the week ended 29th August,
showed that 48 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that week, to the extent
of over 12 hours each, on an average.
Employment remained quiet in London and was generally worse than in August,
1924. At Leicester and Northampton many firms extended the holidays; and after
work was resumed employment was generally depressed, with much short-time working.

At Hinckley employment remained bad. At Rushden, where most factories closed
down for 10 days at the holiday, employment was bad, with general short-time working,
though there was a slight recovery towards the end of the month. On the other hand,
employment in the Raunds district was again good as a result of Government contract
work. The majority of the workers at Wellingborough were on short time, and employ-
ment remained bad and was worse than a year ago. At Kettering there was little change,
employment remaining poor and only a few firms working full hours.
At Leeds employment showed little change, and was poor in the heavy boot section
and fair in the light footwear section. Employment was very slack and slightly worse
than in the previous month at Stafford, short time again being largely worked. At Norwich
a number of factories were working short time, and employment was only moderate and
worse than in August, 1924. At Kingswood and Bristol employment was fair on the whole,
and better than in July; but at Street it continued poor and was much worse than a year
ago. In the slipper trade of the Rossendale Valley employment was fair on the whole.
B


---
517
Apart from the question of unemployment in our own industry the growing
volume of unemployment in the country is indeed very serious. The Govern-
ment, however, so far as outward appearances go do not appear to be looking
upon the matter in a way which the gravity of the position demands. The
fact of such a vast army of unemployed, and their dependents added, makes
it the main problem in our opinion which the Government should tackle very
seriously.
We would urge upon the members the necessity of keeping this subject
prominently to the front in their several districts, it being a matter upon
which there ought to be no division of opinion-either employment should be
found, or maintenance provided. We much prefer employment being found,
because despite statements that one reads and sometimes hears as to the
workers not wanting work, we know this is a gross libel upon them. Here and
there may be found a few (as in other grades of life) who do not want work,
but we know the great majority of the workers prefer work rather than idling
about. For ourselves, we resent the statements which are sometimes made,
reflecting as they do upon the workers as a whole.
RUSSIA.
It is generally known that a short time ago, a number of women went over
to Russia to enquire into the general conditions obtaining in that country.
During their visit they had a meeting in connection with the women employed
in the shoe industry, and Miss Loughlin, one of the members who went over
to Russia, was entrusted with a red leather banner printed on one side in
Russian, and the translation in English on the other side, to hand over to the
Women Leather Workers and Boot Workers of Great Britain. Miss Loughlin
handed this over to the General Secretary during the Trades Union Congress
week. We highly value this banner, and shall take the necessary steps to have
it properly framed, and next month we propose having a photo of it produced
in our Monthly Report with a statement of good wishes that the Russian
Women entertain towards the Women Workers of Great Britain.
We hope in the not distant future, whatever the differences may have been
in the past, such differences will be wiped away and a proper understanding
arrived at with the workers in all parts of the world. We may not be able to
agree upon many matters and methods, but we ought to be able to agree to
come together to try and understand one another's point of view, and thus
remove differences in the struggle of the workers for a better and fuller life.
THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS
was this year held at Scarborough, under the presidency of Mr. A. B. Swales.
On the whole the Congress was a very successful one, and once more confounded
the prophets who for some time past have been telling the public of the divisions
existent between the Trade Unions and the Labour Party, and the definite
split that would take place at this Congress.

---
518
more likelihood of success because
differences will from time to time arise from various standpoints. This is TIC
With two such vast movements there naturally is some difference, airl
the discussions that from time to time take place. For ourselves we shoule
look upon it as a backward step if there was any serious division between th
only inevitable, but tends to bring about mo
Trade Unions and the Labour Party.
The Congress represented 4,350,982 members. The President in his addres
made a strong appeal after surveying the position for a still wider outlook
the working class to so solidify their movements that come when the time mar
lengthening of hours, and finally stated: "It is the duty of all members 65
and a greater determination to resist any attempted reductions in wages
to move forward to the destruction of wage slavery and the construction of a
for the last final struggle, we shall be wanting in neither machinery, nor men,
system of society based upon co-ordinated effort and world-wide mutual
goodwill and understanding."
As usual, a considerable number of resolutions were dealt with, and the
report of our delegates appears elsewhere. We feel bound, however, to refer
to the two resolutions standing in the name of the Union, both of which were
passed.
The one on UNEMPLOYMENT was as follows, and was carried unani-
mously :-
"
That this Congress views with the greatest concern the serious
volume of unemployment now existing, and deplores the lack of effective
measures on the part of the Government to attempt to alleviate the
situation. It further declares its emphatic opposition to the spurious
remedies of lower wages and the degradation of established working con-
ditions, and calls upon the Trade Union Movement to offer its utmost
resistance to any attempt to increase the hours of work. It asserts the
unquestionable right of the unemployed worker and his dependents to
adequate maintenance, and reiterates its demand for the establishment
of a National Employment and Development Board for the purpose of
devising and co-ordinating measures whereby the extent of unemployment
may be reduced."
The second dealt with the question of VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS :-
"This Congress instructs the General Council to urge upon H.M.
Government the desirability of giving to National Agreements voluntarily
entered into and approved by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity
as awards under the Trade Board Acts, 1909 and 1918, with the object
of ensuring the observance of fair conditions of labour by all engaged in
the industry whenever requested by the parties to the agreement."
This resolution was strongly opposed by the Rt. Hon. J. H. Thomas, of
the N.U.R., Mr. J. Hill, of the Boilermakers' Society, Mr. Hallsworth, of the


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
519
V.U.D.A.W., and a representative from the Garment Workers' Union, whilst
delegates from the Weavers, General Workers and Transport Workers, spoke
in support of the resolution. Upon a card vote being taken there voted:
IN FAVOUR OF THE RESOLUTION
AGAINST
2,790,000
942,000
Thus the Congress has approved of a serious attempt being made for
Voluntary Agreements-when asked for by both sides being enforceable by
law. This is indeed gratifying to us, and we can only hope that ere long we
may see upon the Statute Book of this country, an Act giving such authority.
As previously stated the Congress was a very successful one, and we venture
to say is increasingly making its influence felt in all parts of the country.

POLITICAL.
Although Parliament is not sitting, many momentous matters are being
dealt with by Statesmen which might easily bring about disturbances between
nations. We would remind the membership that although THE WAR which
was to end war has ended, nevertheless there are more men under arms to-day
than was the case in 1914. Wars are still going on in various parts of the
world. Europe is still very unsettled, and it needs wise and courageous
statesmanship to deal with the situation in which the nation finds itself con-
fronted.
We are more and more convinced-and it may be even against themselves
_that Statesmen will be driven to deal with the abnormal situation largely
upon the lines which Labour has pointed out to escape from the troubles with
which mankind is beset. Meantime, a good deal can be done to bring about a
changed outlook among the people of this country to ensure labour views and
labour proposals securing ascendancy. We appeal to the membership to do
their part in accelerating the time when this state of affairs have become a
positive fact.

WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACT.
In March last, MR. A. T. WALTERS, of the Kingswood Branch, died from
Tetanus owing to a small wound under the left finger nail, whilst he was carrying
on in connection with his occupation of laying electric cables in the district.
We are pleased to report that the question of compensation has now been
satisfactorily settled, and the sum of £300 has now been paid into Court on
behalf of the late Mr. Walters' dependents.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
C


---
521

THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN,
LONDON, N.W. 5.
16th September, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
I regret not putting before you the agreement made between our Union and the
C.W.S. Directors in 1913 in my last report, and upon which we claimed the Management
at Leeds and ultimately the Directors, on the advice of an expert in law, their Secretary.
The agreement is as follows:-
"That no strike or lockout take place before the whole of the facts in dispute
are submitted by the Union, first to the Management, and then, failing settlement,
to a Joint Meeting of the Productive Committee of the Co-operative Wholesale Society
and the Executive Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives."
(Signed) WM. LANDER, Chairman.
It will be seen that the Union ought to have had an opportunity to investigate the
cause of the victimisation of two members for acting on Trade Union instructions, which
is in strict accord with the National Agreement governing the trade, and the full support
of the Council of the Union, who claim the right to advise members to lower their quantities
when an employer reduces the earnings. The Directors have already been informed that
a repetition of the C.W.S. conditions, and no orders will be given to return to work until
old conditions prevail, as in the case of the Woollen Textile dispute, and the advice given
by the Minister of Labour, which was, that all return to work as they left off. The directors
now know the prospects for the future.
The above statement is made for the benefit of many co-operators who do not think
it reasonable that operatives in C.W.S. Factories should ever be driven to take immediate
action.
LOOM'S, MARKET HARBOROUGH. This firm has again been visited as the outcome
of some correspondence and attitude I have taken up with them, and also Faire Bros.,
of Mansfield, but of Leicester fame, and that is to ask these firms if there is any reason
why we should not appeal to their customers and point out the actual conditions, as far
as we understand them. At this firm I was shown the Wages Sheets for the week previous
to my visit, and they showed that at least sixty-six out of a total of eighty-one are in
receipt of our scale and over, and the firm is also paying the Holiday Pay that week, so
The only two points to put them equal with any other firm is to
they informed me.
regulate the boy labour to its proper proportion and remove the embargo on Trade Union-
ism. I was pleased to find the firm in a much better condition than I expected, and we
hope the firm will do its best to meet us in order that we could give them a clean bill of
health.
We are bound to appeal to all Manufacturers and Merchants, as we have to the Govern-
ment, to only deal with those firms who respect and pay and work to our National Agree-
ment.
THE TRADE UNION CONGRESS by nearly two million majority, have encouraged us
to ask the Government to compel all firms connected with shoes, to work and pay to our
national conditions.
It has been my pleasure to interest myself in the competition we have from abroad,
and although I have never attended the International Conference of Boot and Shoe Opera-
tives, my interest has not been void, and the most important place to which I wish to
direct members attention is Czecho-Slovakia. The wage in this country is about 14s. 6d.
against our 60s. for 48 hours, but they have all food at cost price, and doctors are provided.
I have also been in close association with a friend in the largest Shoe Factory in
Austria, and my visit to Brussels with attendant inquiries and ultimate results whet my
appetite to know more, and now I am in correspondence with two gentlemen who have
both worked at Bata's, Zlin, Czecho-Slovakia, who began in 1894, employ 6,000 workers,
(4,000 Machine Makers, 2,000 Hand Makers,) and work on the American system. Every
man has a set quantity to do per day, the firm provide Dinner and Supper and other food
at cost price. Hospital, Theatre, and Cinema; owns most of the houses (building more),
they also own Woods, Sawmills, Brickyards, Herds of Cattle, Butcheries, Tanneries,
Linen Factories, Paper Factories, Box Factory, Printing Press, Ships, and even Railways
are owned by the firm. This firm have just given the operatives three weeks' holiday
with pay, accepts workers' savings, and gives about 10 per cent. interest on all monies,
and all monies remain in the firm. They pay no extra for overtime, and the worker
has to do his quantity day by day even if he stays late. This firm is from America and
is subsidised by the Czecho-Slovakian Government. I am still getting more information.


---
522
FATRE Beo, IrccesTER AND MANSFIEL
expert developments this work
may wait a little longer
members refused the One Union
I am in close touch with this firm and
The factors of the Sherwood Shoe Co, is also receiving attention respect.
we shall have to organise some places by public appeals with such bright prospects we
It looks as thoug
2,700,000 10 942,000, a majority of 1,848,000.
The General Secretary moved
In motion, but it has come and is coming much nearer
who thought the movement would make a colossal blunder, have been mistaken. The
THE CONGRESS AL SCARBOROUGH has been a success, as all (ongress are, and thos
movement
Power to buy was refuted our Unemployed resolution was carried, and our
unification, as was shown by the support they gave to many resolutions affecting the whole
power to compel non-federated and non-unionists to observe our National Agreement w
and 1 seconded. Mr. Sherwood supported, but neither of these are mentioned by the
Daily Herald. Mr. Bevin and Mr. Rowlerson also supported.
Miners,
Railwaymen, N.U.D. & A.W. and the Garment Workers.
the right to give to them a piece of our mind.
Mv visit to Scotland was undertaken to assure the members that the demise of
members, because the newly-elected Council Member being an employee and in work,
may cause the Central Executive to be less vigilant respecting the interest of our Scottish
Mr. Bleakley being so sad in itself, may have caused an impression that such an event
attempts on business lines to become his own employer as a repairer, but we took him
was out of work, other than the Council gave him for several years. He had made two
may be prevented from giving as much time to the work as Mr. Bleakley, who unfortunately
often away on Union business at a time when his customers wanted him, and like his
away so much that even in the initial stages, he was bound to give up because he was
predecessor he had to forfeit that small effort.
or embarrass the new Council Member, but undertake to attend to all his difficult cases in
I have, therefore, assured the Scottish members that we shall do our best not to harass
and do take much interest in the Union's activities. Although the meeting was not
emergency. Therefore, at Kilmarnock, we had a meeting of the "faithful" who took.
Education was a theme considered, but it was that we should as a Union support a scheme
largely attended, I hope that the members will agree it was immensely interesting.
which is neither Ruskin or the W.E.A. these latter the Union support, and we are inter-
ested in educating all members, especially the absent ones and the old ones, and would
not refrain from helping all. But we must decline to attack other sections of our move-
ment, and I hope will refuse to support the attackers whoever they may be. If the angels
let the mistaken ones learn by the newcomers' good work and stand or fall by their own
have come to earth then let them build up their good work on their own foundations, and
merit.
AYR. - The Ayr meeting was said to be much larger than usual, and much interest
the members expressed themselves very fully that old Trade Unionists ought to be loval
was exhibited by the members in the activities of the Union in its political outlook especially:
enthusiast has undertaken a self-denying ordinance until such time as Ayr Burgh is one
for Labour; he thinks this constituency is at present the bulwark of the reactionary
party, and it is for this reason that he and others, like myself, cannot imagine any Trade
Unionist putting a cross against the name of any member of any party which is opposed
to his own wage-earning political party.
MAYBOLE. Here we had a very good meeting in the dinner hour, the major portion
of the Maybole workers attending, and I addressed them on the great need of organisation,
quoting especially the need for another 30,000 members in the standing of our Union and
in the Labour world, with emphasis as to the benefit of the Holiday Scheme. The meeting
in the evening was not so big as usual, owing to the annual visit for one day of a Broncho
Bill Circus and Exhibition, which certainly depleted our gathering. I also had to investi-
gate the discharge of a young man who had been discharged for alleged bad language
indulged in by both the foreman and the employer, who were informed that we did not
defend bad language, bad work, or bad time, neither should we admit the right of foreman
or employer to use bad language to our members, who themselves were to blame if opera-
In spite of the Daily Herald's bad treatment. I ask you to buy it, and some day it will
photos and empty pictures. The General Purposes Committee of Congress improved
Daily Herald were too busy "puffing pals," and so missed the best speeches of Congress.
We shall again ask them directly for an explanation, and before this report reaches your
carried by 2,700,000
Railwaymen, N.U.D. & A.W. and the Garment Workers.
without prejudice, print others' speeches as well as their friends-put in matter instead of


---
Here the two branches of our Union had been trying to organize and
improve the conditions of Messrs. A. Strachan & Co., Graham Square, where there were
Girls in the Finishing Room. As the firm which has been in existence some twenty five
the date; the relationship of our branches and the firm is very cordial and bids fair to be
important help, as two of our old Secretaries have found employment there.
EDINBURGH. Here I found the branch interested in the firm of which Mr. Rankin
torms a considerable and important part of the business, where the Manager, Mr. Franklin,
assures me they have no antipathy to Trade Unionism, but as the work is mainly rubber
construction, and can make allowances for that portion who are engaged in any other
but to help, and the Shoe Section is the part we must preserve for all engaged in shoe
members, we hope that this action of the firm will have beneficial results to all concerned.
prepared at an early date, say October, to put into operation the Holiday Scheme, which
will give immense satisfaction to the operatives, and as we have already all but a few
The meeting of the members was as usual attended by those who really feel that
Trade Unionism is a vital force in their lives, and they appear never to miss an opportunity
to try and make an official visit as pleasant and successful as possible, but they all expressed
themselves that our visits were not frequent enough, but as explained before, they may
see more of some of us if there is a real demand for our presence.
DUNDEE. - Dundee being visited found the faithful in attendance, and good intent
was shown in the address, and the many phrases of Union work caused much surprise
that we had any further outlook than the objects of our Union, and I was reminded that
it was just thirty-three years ago since I moved and got carried the Socialist resolution
which at that time made no references to the sexes, which finds many opposed to who are
as they are, and as Morrison's have closed down the factory
ABERDEEN was next visited and again there was nothing approaching the size of the
meetings we have had in the past, as I explained that in itself shows or denotes a content-
factor, the few employed by them have had to seek other employment. This leaves the
branch to consist now of repairers only, and here, as elsewhere, the members think that an
Organiser would do good. I had to tell them that to send an Organiser to go round to each
place where one man was employed would be too costly, and advised them to form a small
Committee, of two say, and let them try their hand during their spare time, get and keep
a detailed report, send it on to the Council after three months' work, and ask them to make
a grant towards it, they would then be able to judge of its effect.
ARBROATH was next visited, and I called on our old comrade and ex-Council Member,
Alex. Smith, who was busy with his Registrar work. He looks well, and appears to me
better in health than he has been for many years. I also visited Fairweather's factory
whilst there, and had an informal chat with one of the employers. Like other firms,
trade with them is flat, but as I had arranged an evening meeting at Carnoustie, we called
Fairweather's men to a meeting at five o'clock, and they turned up well. They listened
intently and did not prolong the meeting as they had not had their tea. The officers
were all pleased with the splendid attendance, as this to them was a new innovation.
The
CARNOUSTIE was then visited, and the night was very cold indeed, which may account
for the smallness of the meeting, coupled with a benefit night of the Pierrots.
accustomed faithfuls were there as is their desire come weal, come woe, they can always
be relied on. I had to leave here rather early to reach Scarborough for the Trade Union
Congress General Purposes Committee, who were warned to meet on Saturday morning
in order to arrange the business of the week, and to get as many of the composite resolutions
in the hands of the printers as soon as possible, This was our work for the Saturday, and
on Sunday ali our Union delegates met to consider what support we could give the various
resolutions, and make any other arrangements affecting us during the rest of the week.
Yours fraternally,
General President.


---
BELFAST.
BURNLEY.
CHESHAM.
CHESTERFIELD.
DERBY.
DESBOROUGH.
DUNDALK.
---

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
525
DUNDEE. - Trade reports are such depressing reading that we have no
desire to dilate on such a theme, as our trade barometer is very low indeed at
present. There is, however, a slender streak of the proverbial "silver lining."
A report has just reached us that there is greater activity in Blackford than
Ist was a "red" (not a Communist) "letter night" in our branch. We had
our genial General President with us, from whom we had an excellent discourse
on what had been achieved by our organisation during the past year. In
passing he mentioned that next to the trade of compositors, who were the
highest paid workers, our trade came second. This is very creditable to the
Council, whose duty it is to keep a watchful eye on the interests and advance
ment of the members of our Union. At the close of the meeting the hope was
expressed that Mr. T. F. Richards might consider the advisability of paying an
annual visit to Scotland. Failing his ability to do so, our General Secretary,
or some member of the Council. These visits would be highly appreciated
younger members, and break down the apathy which is apt to grow without
Stimulation.
It would act as a stimulus, especially to the
EDINBURGH. - The following is the amount received for the Bleakley
Fund:-
Dr. Drummond Shields
Branches :-
£ s. d.
I
I
Ο
£ s. d.
Branches:-
Worcester
Daventry
Ο 10 Ο
010 6
Ayr
2 Ο
Bromsgrove
Kettering No. 2
Ο 10 Ο
Ο
I
Ο
Leicester No. 1
5 Ο Ο
Stafford
Leicester No. 2
Leicester Women's
2 10
5
I I
0
Ο
Ο
Norwich No. 2
Street
Leeds No. 1
Wolverhampton
Newcastle
Wellingborough
I
3
I
2
Ο
0 10
2
5
I
Ο
Ο
Ο
I
Ο
Desborough
Kilmarnock
Higham and Rushden
Manchester
Kingswood
2
3
I
2
2
Ο
Arbroath
Maybole
Aberdeen
5
Ο Ο
3
3
I
Ο
I
2
Ο
Edinburgh Trades Council
5
Ο
Kettering No. 1
5
Ο
Ο
Council
Northampton No. 1
5
20
Ο
Ο
Edinburgh Branch
Northampton No. 2
I
II
5
3
Chesham
Scottish Federation of Employers
21
6
Ο
Glasgow No. 1
5
Glasgow No. 2
5
TOTAL
£190 12
3
London Metro.
10 Ο
The Branch wish to thank all who have subscribed so liberally in making
this appeal so great a success. The Misses Bleakley wish to thank the Union
for their kindness.
GLASGOW.-Trade with us has slowed down since the holidays, and a
number of members have been suspended, while others are working short time.
We hope this may only be temporary. Generally the repairing section of the
trade is fair. We were glad to have a visit of the General President, Mr. T. F.
Richards, for whom we arranged a joint branch meeting, but although this was
fully announced, the attendance of members was disappointing. However,
those present appreciated the spirited and encouraging address they heard.
We are also grateful for the attention and services rendered by Mr. T. F.
Richards on Union business while here.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - The month has been a bad one for our
Branch. Extended holidays at beginning of the month generally, in some cases
meaning 14 days away from work. The last two weeks of the month trade has
improved, Rushden being better now than prior to August holiday, Raunds
fair, Finedon poor, Irthlingborough worse than for months past. Irchester has
suffered through extended stoppage of Closing Factory (now restarted) of T.
Brown & Co., Leicester. Wollaston and Bozeat, slight improvement.

---
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT Trade in this centre has improved
slightly, and generally speaking much difficulty is experienced in making full
time. There is therefore a reluctance to set on men unemployed. The apathy
and sluggishness affecting the volume of trade seems also to infect the oper
atives, and we have to be constantly on the alert educating, agitating, organising
LEICESTER No. 1. We are sorry to report that trade is still very bad
amongst our members, no less than £1,608 15s. od. being paid during the
month in Out of Work Benefit, almost half of which is Suspension Benefit.
Even this does not reflect the true position, as quite a good number of our
members have, unfortunately, drawn their full allowance, and are still out.
We do hope to be able to give a more favourable report of trade next month.
We trust our members will not fail to notice (and REMEMBER at the proper
time) that the unemployed will shortly "enjoy" more of the "benefits" of
a Conservative Government, i.e., six days waiting instead of three, as from
the 1st October. During the month a deputation from the Branch visited
Waterfoot, Lancashire, and valuable information was obtained regarding the
conditions of working in that district. Every facility was given by our friend
Mr. Taylor (Secretary) and his Executive. We are much indebted to them
and we hope to be able to return the compliment in the near future. We have
had Mr. W. R. Smith (Union Organiser) in this district during the last month
or so. He has worked very hard amongst the several sections in the County,
and although he has been seriously handicapped owing to the very short time
being worked, he has been successful in obtaining good results, quite a number
of new members joining.
LIVERPOOL.- The boot repairing trade has shown a marked improve-
ment since writing up our last report, which is probably due to the change in
the climatic conditions, and that the holiday season is nearly over, and also
the fact that the troubles in the Labour world are not so acute as they were,
although we are living in a critical age. We desire to draw the attention of
our members to the Council's Address in the August Report, which contains
interesting items which affect every member, on page 470. Another item of
interest is to be found on page 481, dealing with the history and cost of disputes
since 1895.
MANSFIELD. - Trade here is very fair. During the past month the
General President, Mr. Richards, with Mr. Len. Smith and Mr. J. H. Baum
have been in Mansfield endeavouring to organise the operatives at the firms
of Messrs. Royce & Co. and Faire Bros. Although they have not been able
to deal with the situation as reported at Faire Bros., quite good progress has
been made at Royce & Co., where over 60 new members have joined, and four
from Ward Bros. have joined us, and there is every prospect of further increasing
our membership.
MAYBOLE. - Trade is much better, Messrs. J. Lees & Co., R. Crawford &
Sons and J. M'Creath & Sons, all working full time. James Ramsay & Co. are
still working short time. We had a visit from Mr. Richards during the month.
We had an outside meeting in the dinner hour which was well attended, but
we were disappointed at the evening meeting, and while there were other
attractions at night it is no excuse for members not turning up. Mr. Richards
and the Secretary visited one of the firms on a small matter, and we believe
this visit will do no harm. At the evening meeting Mr. Richards agreed to
take up the question of an Arbitration Board for Scotland, and we hope he
will succeed.
NORWICH.-Trade in Norwich during August suffered a further set-back.
many additional operatives becoming unemployed; in fact, but for three leading
factories in the city which are running very well, the industry is in a very
shaky condition.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
NOTTINGHAM. - Trade very bad in this part, many of our members
only working two and three days each week, and short days at that. Repairers
also quiet.
PLYMOUTH. - Trade is still on the dull side, and we have several of our
members on the Out-of-Work Book. Some of these men would not object to
work anywhere in the United Kingdom, and are all-rounders. If any branch
secretary would do us a good turn he could rely on the best wishes from the
land of cream and cider.
WATERFORD.-Trade continued fair during the past month.
GREAT YARMOUTH. - Sorry to report again Water Boot trade still
very slow. Fishermen still buying Rubber Boots imported from America, being
cheaper for them as they are not earning enough to buy our Water Boots.

COMPARATIVE REAL WAGES IN LONDON AND OTHER CAPITAL CITIES.
Index Numbers of Comparative Real Wages (or Comparative Purchasing
Power of Money-Wages) in London and certain Cities Abroad at
1st April, 1925.

Average for all Occupations covered by the Inquiry. (London = 100.*)

Index Numbers based on Quantities
of each Kind of Food Consumed in
Working-class Households in
CITY.
Belgium
and France.
(1)
European
Central
Countries.
(2)
Great
Britain.
(3)
Southern
European
Countries.
(4)
(5)
Scandinavian
Countries and
Netherlands.
Overseas
Countries
(Canada and
U.S.A.)
(6)
General Average Index
Nos. (based on food
only).
(7)
General Average Index
Nos. (with allowance
for rent).
(8)
London
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Amsterdam
86
89
80
85
92
86
86
86
Berlin
67
72
58
59
67
55
64
62
Brussels
58
56
55
55
58
94
94
60
Copenhagen
85
107
88
86
106
34
34
97
Lisbon†
34
35
32
33
36
52
51
Madrid
46
58
45
49
55
54
55
57
Lodz
56
57
47
64
52
45
46
49
Milan†
44
50
41
45
48
82
83
85
Oslo
85
83
76
84
89
173
165
148
Ottawa
158
166
164
155
171
63
66
67
Paris
62
76
61
63
69
211
198
198
Philadelphia
189
190
200
190
208
49
50
54
Prague
48
53
50
48
51
46
47
50
Romet
43
46
46
47
47
78
74
72
Stockholm
68
72
72
70
83
186
151
151
Sydney
146
135
156
151
129
44
42
46
Vienna
37
47
40
39
47
47
47
50
Warsaw
44
53
40
46
50
47
47
* Although London is taken arbitrarily as base (= 100), the ratios would be the same
whichever city were chosen as base.
† The figures for Lisbon, Rome and Milan are relatively low. This may be accounted
for in part by the differences in the items of food consumption in the southern countries
from those ordinarily consumed in most of the other countries included in this Table.
The budgets used in the comparisons do not make adequate allowance for the consumption
of vegetable foods in Southern European countries.
D


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,

In my last report I said that we had made about 120 new members at Manchester.
I should have stated that two of those were females engaged in the Rubber Shoe Making
at Messrs. Frankenburg's. Since then nearly another too have joined. A good many of
them belonged to the Rubber Workers' Union a few years ago, but the firm refused to
recognise this Union only on the side where workers were engaged in the manufacturing
of rubber. This left the girls in the closing and binding of the canvas uppers, as well as
the girls who shaped the shoes and put the rubber soles on, unprotected from a trade.
union point of view. The Council gave me permission to set about organising these female
if the other Union would agree to forfeit all claims to them. On a few visits from Mr.
Mason and myself to the General Secretary of the Rubber Workers' Union, this was
agreed to. One of the directors of Messrs. Frankenburg's said that if our Union could
organise the other four firms engaged on this class of goods, that it would be a good thing
for the trade and for the workers employed in it. I followed this work up during a few
weeks of this month at Manchester and Liverpool. There is a big firm at Walton, Liver-
pool, engaged in the making of rubber, rubber cable and rubber shoes. The term "rubber
shoes" does not strictly define the meaning of the goods, as the bulk of the work would be
black, brown and white canvas uppers with rubber soles.

On 8th September I went to the Walton Rubber Works, and gave several hundred
bills to the females in the dinner hour and evening. To me it was sad to hear the com-
ments of many of the girls when they were comparing the wages they were getting with
our Union's scale on the leaflets I had given them. The girls have had no voice in making
the piece rates which they work to. Many of the girls agreed that they needed a union
badly, but the usual difficulty presented itself to them: " Who would make a start
"If the others join I'll join." The men employed here in the making of rubber and rubber
cable belong to the Rubber Workers' Union. It is our business now to come to the rescue
of the girls, and if they will help us like their sisters at Manchester have done, by joining us,
Walton will be made brighter for them. We had a fine meeting of the newly-joined
females at Manchester on the 9th. Three Shop Presidents were elected and two from
each of the three departments were elected as a Shops Committee to assist them. It is
worth placing on record that 130 females on a cold wet night came to a trade union meeting
and gave two hours discussing matters touching their lives in the workshop.

23rd September, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,

During the past month I have chiefly been engaged at Mansfield, endeavouring
to follow up the work of the previous month. I have frequently met the girls working
at Messrs. Faire Bros., and despite the efforts that I have made the position has not altered.
The girls are fully conscious of the inadequate wages they receive, and are desirous of joining
the Union, with a view of obtaining substantial increase in their wages. Up to the present
time the firm is absolutely refusing to them their rights, which, if the girls wanted to interfere
with the rights of Mr. Tewkes, would no doubt soon be resented. To terrify girls by
dismissal is sometimes the only defence some persons have, and though it may appear to
be an eminently satisfactory thing to do, it sometimes has the same results upon those
types of individuals when the same methods are adopted, with regard to their business
methods. I have continued the work at the Mansfield Shoe Company; though the progress
in membership has not increased so rapid as last month, the membership is still increasing,
but there is still a further need of increasing our members. I am fairly confident
that over a period of time this firm will eventually become well organised. I have met the
girls working at Thrall's, stiffener makers; the wages paid here are exceedingly poor, and
it is almost impossible to organise them. I understand that a well-known Leicester
gentleman has financial interests in this firm, and it would be advisable for him to pay
some attention with regard to the wages paid at this firm, because out of their scanty
earnings they can hardly afford to pay a few pence towards a trade union.

I had occasion to visit the firm of Betts & Broughton, Huthwaite, a little difficulty
having arisen in one of the departments, and after meeting the operatives and the manager,
matters were adjusted satisfactorily. This is not a very large firm and we are well organised
and all our conditions are observed. The firm of Ward's has again been visited, and six
of them have joined the Union. All our conditions are adhered to, but somehow the men
don't seem to respond, but I think now that a beginning has been made and a Shop Presi
dent appointed, no doubt others will soon follow. The firm of F. & C. Brown, repairers,
were called on, though there are only six men engaged here. After explaining to them the
work of the Union, they eventually all decided to become members at the end of
the week.
D. McCARTHY.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
529
I have again visited the firm of Looms', Market Harborough. Since my last visit
the firm have adopted the Holiday Scheme, and improvements have taken place with
regard to wages. The men seemed very reluctant to talk to me, and I thought that they
rather resented the stoppage of payment for holidays, in view of the fact that they were
working very short time. But by the distribution of literature dealing with the Scheme
the men seemed more satisfied. I am not altogether satisfied with the attitude of this
firm with regard to the men joining the Union. I am fairly confident, however, that this
attitude will eventually cease, but until it does cease, there is very little prospects of in
creasing our membership at this firm.
During the month I was afforded the opportunity of speaking to the Mansfield Trades
Council. I felt that some statement was necessary in order to call their attention to the
position of the girls at Faire Bros. and Thrall's. Though Mansfield is chiefly a mining
centre, unfortunately Trade Union organisation is not very strong, which is reflected in
the organisation of girls in the town. I impressed upon the Council the need of giving
some attention to women workers, because of the information I had received. I found
there was not any factory in the town which was paying anything near our scales. As a
result of this meeting the Trades Council have decided to convene a conference of the
various unions catering for the trades, with a view of a united effort to organise the women
in Mansfield.

21st September, 1925.
J. H. BAUM.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
In the first two weeks of the past month I continued my work in the Leicestershire
area that is covered by the Leicester Branches. The places visited were Syston, Wigston,
Blaby, Oadby and Earl Shilton. Meetings at factories were held at three of the above,
the results on the whole being good. Members have been made, and at the factories
where the membership is practically complete, appreciation was shown of a visit from
a national official.
In most of the places the state of trade is a handicap to organising, but the seed thus
sewn will give a return later on. Looking at the position nationally one cannot help a
feeling of satisfaction in the steady growth of membership in spite of bad trade, and the
propaganda work now being done will help to consolidate that membership, and one hopes,
I would like to express my thanks to the branches for the support
add to it later on.
given to me in my work in this area. The No. 1 Branch as the one most affected readily
granted assistance in the service of a member of their Committee, who is able to canvass
for members while I am speaking outside the factories.
Perhaps the most important event of the month has been the meeting of the Trade
Union Congress at Scarborough, and though the main decisions will be given in a general
report, the gathering merits a word or two of special reference.
I am afraid the general result has proved disappointing to our critics. A large section
of the Press was looking forward to a clash between contending sections, with the rout of
the one they were particularly opposed to. The disappointment lies in the fact that there
was no clash as they expected. There were some keen debates, but the tone all the way
through was mainly that of trying to find the right path to achieve the end we all have in
view, rather than to accomplish a sectional victory by dialectical skill.
True, some of the resolutions were of a nature that call for a detailed consideration
by affiliated bodies. There is always a danger that at times of a great crisis, we may in
our anxiety to find a solution of our difficulties take a line that perhaps on more mature
consideration might be different, it may not be so here, but whether or not, one can say
that if the decisions are right ones, then the sooner we give the rank and file of our members
the chance of realising their obligations and responsibilities in regard to them the better,
for it is certain that in these matters any movement or change without their intelligent
support will be fraught with danger.
One question of great importance was dealt with on lines that gives time for considera-
tion as to what is best to be done. There is a desire to give to the General Council greater
powers. There has been a steady movement in that direction for some time. The estab-
lishment of a General Council on its present basis, in place of the old Parliamentary Com-
mittee, had that object in view.
The suggestion now made seeks to give them powers in regard to all wage movements,
to render assistance to any Union on strike-evidently in a more direct form than pre-
viously-as it is suggested they should have power to levy all affiliated members, to give
them power to call upon an affiliated body to bring out all or part of their members in sup-
port of another Union who is defending a vital trade principle, and to arrange with the
C.W.S. to make provision for the distribution of food, &c., in the event of a strike or other
action calling for same. And the Unions are asked to make such alteration in their rules
as will regularise the same.


---
The Congress refused to come to any decision upon this matter apart from referring
the whole subject to the new General Council for them to consider and report to no
Congress. This is a wise course, as it would be nothing short of madness were decisions
reached that would prove useless when it was sought to put them into operation. It
must not be forgotten that different unions have different policies, that what might be
vital to one might not be so vital to another, and further that a Union in giving support
to another might place in jeopardy their own position, which so far as wage arrangement
is concerned is satisfactory if not vital to them.
If any move is made in this direction there must be the fullest consultation with all
the main Unions, so that every consideration may be given to the difficulties that are
bound up with such a procedure. In any change that takes place I am sure our members
would wish to play their full part and for that reason I would like to see this matter
adequately discussed, if possible, at our next Conference. We might refrain from some
think of the question, there is an undoubted tendency in this direction, whether it is
of the trifling subjects and get our minds on to these bigger issues. Whatever we may
temporary or otherwise time alone can decide. It may be that the Miners' dispute has
given it an added importance, which will subside if a satisfactory way out of that problem
can be found; but if so, it may be only for a time, as undoubtedly something of that char-
acter is the logical development of trade union organisation.
The subject lost some of its importance by being brought forward by small unions,
one with less than 400 members. The thought which naturally arises in one's mind, is, that
if the time is ripe for such a step, why have we these small unions to-day? Would it not be
far better for them to link up with the larger bodies ? Could not the National Union of
Vehicle Builders find a way of joining the Transport Workers ? Is it possible for us to
operate successfully on a wide area, if there cannot be a linking up within these narrower
limits ? I would strongly urge that this must be our first step. I know a great deal has
been done in this direction, but there is room for a great deal more.
It is up to every
Union to do its best in this direction. If by next Congress we had cut down the number
of unions by one-half, a not impossible thing to do, we should be much nearer to this
greater power, not merely in the passing of a resolution upon it, but in applying it with
advantage to the great problems before us.
By general consent the Congress was a great success. The attendance was splendid,
and the delegates were more seriously-minded than at any previous Congress I have
attended. It may be the Miners' dispute is responsible, or it may be that on all sides it is
recognised that we are approaching a period when our forces may have to be marshalled
to meet an attack on all fronts. The year 1926 promises to be a critical one for organised
labour. The Miners' question is not settled, but postponed. The issue next time may be
more difficult, but we must win through. To do this there must be no dissension in our
ranks, there must be no attempt to decry political action in favour of industrial. One
felt there was this tendency at the Congress. We claim they are the two arms of the
Labour movement, each to be used as occasion demands, as a means to achieving our end.
We may make mistakes, but they are not confined to one policy alone. There are as many
made on the industrial field as on the political, while each have their successes. Neither
will give us all we want at once, but both acting co-operatively will in the end get us
through.
I wish these important questions that were before Congress could be discussed at our
Branch meetings, they must be understood at the bottom as well as at the top. It is the
members who will have to act in the hour of crisis. We can but advise and lead according
to our lights, but leadership will be all the more effective if the bulk of the army under-
stand the purpose in view.
It only remains to be added that our Union was successful in its objective-Mr.
Richards was elected to the General Purposes Committee for next Congress (subject to
the enquiry as to the accuracy of the counting); Mr. Poulton was elected to the General
Council unopposed; while both our resolutions were carried, the one relating to the legalising
of voluntary agreements by an overwhelming majority.
19th September, 1925.
WALTER R. SMITH.

THE SPITALFIELDS DISPUTE.
On page 492 of the August Report a balance sheet appeared showing the amount
of money received from branches in connection with the appeal issued on behalf of the
operatives concerned in the dispute at Messrs. Jackson & Joseph. In this connection the
sum of £127 12s. 6d. was remitted by the Manufacturers' Federation for disbursement
to the dependants (under 14 years of age) of the operatives on strike.


---
531
TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
The Fifty-Seventh Annual Congress in connection with the Trades Congress was
held at the Central Hall, Queen Street, Scarborough, on Monday, the 7th September
and the five following days. The President this year being Mr. A. B. Swales
His address, after reciting the sacrifices that have been made during the past year,
and on the other hand the solidarity that has been shown by the workers, dealing most
especially with the two outstanding cases of the Miners and the Textile Disputes, were
enlarged upon.
He also pointed out the necessity for a wider outlook regarding not only as may be
said to be strictly industrial, but also the economic and political side of our work, showing
those who believe that a new order of society is inevitable before we can remedy the existing
increased necessity for Trade Union unity throughout the world, pointing out finally that
that at last there are clear indications of a world movement rising in revolt and determined
wils and to which in this address I have directed attention cannot do other than rejoice
to shake off the shackles of wage slavery. Just as our people have passed out of slavedom
into serfdom, and out of serfdom into wagedom, so will they finally pass out of wagedom
into freedom."
The General Council were able to report an increase in membership over 1923-24,
the figures being 4,350,982 with a delegation of 724, the number of affiliated societies
being 200.
The report of the General Council dealt with a very considerable number of matters
and is a document of 250 pages, ranging over all phases of industrial work.
The question of new premises upon which there has been a great deal of talk and
unwarranted statements made as to differences between the Labour Party and the General
Council were finally disposed of, making it quite clear that negotiations must continue
between the two wings of the party with a view to working together on their respective
sides.
Full support was given to the General Council regarding the position they took up in
connection with the Mining and Textile disputes, and the feeling of Congress was un-
doubtedly in the direction of the General Council using its full powers to help Unions on
the one hand, and to prevent if possible serious upheavals of industry on the other
As usual there were a great many resolutions, too many for us to tabulate here. We
are glad, however, to be able to record the fact that both of our own resolutions were
carried.
The first one on UNEMPLOYMENT reads as follows :-
"That this Congress views with the greatest concern the serious volume of
unemployment now existing, and deplores the lack of effective measures on the part
of the Government to attempt to alleviate the situation. It further declares its
emphatic opposition to the spurious remedies of lower wages and the degradation of
established working conditions, and calls upon the Trade Union Movement to offer its
utmost resistance to any attempt to increase the hours of work. It asserts the
unquestionable right of the unemployed worker and his dependents to adequate
maintenance, and reiterates its demand for the establishment of a National Employ-
ment and Development Board for the purpose of devising and co-ordinating measures
whereby the extent of unemployment may be reduced." - Carried unanimously.
Our second resolution which created a very good discussion, was as follows:-
VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS.
"This Congress instructs the General Council to urge upon H.M. Government
the desirability of giving to National Agreements voluntarily entered into and approved
by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity as awards under the Trade Board Acts,
1909 and 1918, with the object of ensuring the observance of fair conditions of labour
by all engaged in the industry whenever requested by the parties to the agreement."
This was also carried, despite the opposition of the N.U.R., Boilermakers, N.U.D.A.W.,
and Garment Workers, by a majority of 1,848,000, the voting being:-
For 2,790,000
Against 942,000
Thus we have been able, after a time to secure the concurrence of Congress that
agreements (when both sides agree) should be adhered to by those in the industry and
should have the force of law behind them.
We hope that the resolution will be put into force within the near future, and that
we may be able to record the fact that the Government has given practical effect to the
same.


---
532
It was expected by some that there would be considerable discussion upon two to
Intions which were decided as being out of order, that is, not in conformity with
AFFILIATION OF UNEMPLOYED WORKERS' COMMITTEE MOVEMENT
mittee Movement as an affiliated body.”
"That this Congress agrees to accept the National Unemployed Workers' Co.
Standing Orders governing Congress, viz.:
AFFILIATION OF TRADES COUNCILS.
“That this Trades Union Congress, realising the necessity for the strengthening
of the Trades Councils or Industrial Sections of Local, Divisional, or Borough Labor
Parties functioning as Trades Councils in the localities, calls upon the General Council
to do all in its power towards this end. This Congress further resolves that the
Trades Councils and the Industrial Sections of Local. Divisional, or Borough Labour
Parties shall be granted representation on the General Council, and instructs the
General Council to submit a scheme for this purpose to the next Congress.”
The effect of the decision was to make it clear that the rule governing Congress m
be fully complied with.
Apart from our own resolutions, the other important resolutions were as follow
ORGANISATION OF WOMEN.
workers’ charter is the efficient organisation of women and the raising of the standard
“That in view of the increasing exploitation of women in industry, this Congress
of their wages and conditions of labour, and calls upon the Unions affiliated to Congres
to try by all means in their power to enlist the co-operation of the women in building
affirms that one of the most essential steps towards the fulfilment of the industrial
up Trade Unionism.”
To this end, this Congress urges that:---
(a) “ All Trade Unions should accept women into membership on the same
terms as men where women are employed in the same industry, trade
or service, and that inside the Unions they should be accorded equal
privileges and responsibilities, and that the Unions at all times should
seek to secure the operation of equal pay for the same job."
(b) “More be done in the way of joint organisation among unorganised
women workers, by conferences run on properly organised lines, and
supplemented by local meetings of women within the local Trades
(c)
Councils.”
“The General Council organise an intensive national campaign for the
enrolment of women workers in their appropriate Unions."
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION.
men meeting with accidents should be co-ordinated and codified in order that the
"This Congress is of opinion that the various Acts of Parliament affecting work
claims of injured workmen may be effectively and expeditiously dealt with. Further.
this Congress expresses its disappointment with the Workmen's Compensation Act,
1923, and instructs the General Council to co-operate with the Labour Party in
bringing pressure to bear on the Government to provide facilities for the passing of a
consolidated measure, which shall secure at least such amendments as will include the
reforms set out in the Report of the Departmental Committee on Workmen's Com.
pensation, and also to provide that the widow will not be penalised through being
left with children whose claims will exhaust the present maximum amount of £600.
And, further to provide for in so far as they are not included in the Departmental
Committee's Report:--
(a) “Payment of compensation on the day of the accident, if the workman
is, on account of the accident, compelled to leave his work before the
completion of his shift.
(b) “An increase in the weekly compensation to not less than two-thirds
of the average earnings based on full weeks of normal employment.
(c) “Full difference between the pre-accident wages and post-accident
wages where the workman is unable to return to his pre-accident job.
(d) “It shall be obligatory on the part of the employer to find werk
in all cases where a workman has sufficiently recovered to do light
(e)
work.
“That compensation shall be payable to a person who meets with an
accident during the period such person is learning the trade but not
receiving any wages.


---
5.34
which moment has established with so much labour and sacrifice; that it warr
uspect of bulding work, then other forms in other industries will assume that the
Ne worker that if Lord Weir is permitted to break down the Fair Wages Clave v
s far as their own particular industries are concerned.
Scheme until Lord Weir's firm agrees to observe the same rates and conditions
in Housing Schemes to do their utmost to frustrate the adoption of Weir Howe
that it call upon the working class representatives on all Public Bodies integ٢٠١
ate free to do likewise as fa
every other employer in the building industry."
view of the 11tge
Government to require
LAND CULTIVATION,
and
Having regard to the number of young farm workers leaving the land, and
gency of the unemployment problem, this Conference calls upon
re from the County Agricultural Committees returns of all
cultivated and under-cultivated land, and to give the Committees wide pow
financial or otherwise, given to farmers should be contingent on certificates, ٢٢٦٠٠٠
control and compulsory acquisition of all such land. It demands that all assistance
produced that the land is satisfactorily cultivated."
IMPERIALISM.
by the British Government is a form of capitalist exploitation having for its objec
This Trades Union Congress believes that the domination of non-British peرآن کر
the securing for British capitalists (1) of cheap sources of raw materials: (2) the rig
to exploit cheap and unorganised Jabour and to use the competition of that labour
"It declares its complete opposition to Imperialism, and resolves: (1) to support
political parties in order to further their interests, and (2) to support the right of
the workers in all parts of the British Empire to organise the Trade Unions an
peoples in the British Empire to self-determination, including the right to ch
degrade the workers' standards in Great Britain.
It will be seen from the above resolutions the wide variation of the subjects de
complete separation from the Empire.'
with, and also their far-reaching possibilities.
The Congress becomes more and more in our judgment a body to which the worker:
will not only look to, but owing to its increasing influence, and the attention paid to it
policy which is most likely to bring about that reformed state of society which is so essentia
Statesmen and business men, will help to mould and determine vet more and more tha
in the interests of the workers.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President. S. THOMPSON.
G. PARBURY.
G. SMITH.
G. CHESTER.
L. P. POOLE.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
W. R. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
R. DUNN.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
Delegates.
WOMEN'S LABOUR AND SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
As requested by the Council of our Union, I proceeded to the Second Women's
International Labour and Socialist Congress, held at the Chateau Des Fleurs, Marseilles,
from the 21st August, 1925. The First Women's Congress was held in Hamburg in 1923.
The præsidium of women formed having instructions to maintain relations with the women
correspondents in all countries. The International Executive of men deciding to invite
one woman delegate of the præsidium to attend its meetings, Frau Popp, of Germany,
attending at Vienna in 1924, and Dr. Marion Phillips the one in Brussels, February, 1925.
The Socialist Women's Congress this year was decided on and called by the main Inter-
national Executive. There were representative women attending from 18 countries.
The Congress decided that the chair should be taken alternatively by Marie Juchaux and
Dr. Marion Phillips (to have different chairmen is a custom of International Congresses!.
The delegates were given a hearty welcome by members of the International Executive:
For England, Mr. Cramp; for Germany, Mueller; U.S.A., Hillquit; and for Holland,
Wibaut. Bracke, of France, also spoke a few words of welcome, but regretted exceedingly
that the women of his country, with Belgium, had no vote as yet.
It was decided that this Women's Congress should not overlap by discussing the
questions of the main Congress. Our chief business this year was to convince the women
of all countries of the need for a Socialist Women's International; the object being to
arouse the interest of the great masses of women in all countries to assist in the Socialist
movement. And secondly, to form a constitution which would be accepted by the main
---

---
535
Socialist International. It would be too long a story were I to describe the difficulties
Congress, to be part of and act in conjunction with the Secretariat of the Labour and
debates before arriving at even a very mild decision unanimously. Only those who
nguage. The customs and outlook of delegates from other countries which prolonged
movement among men and women of all countries, will appreciate our efforts.
have attended Congresses of this kind can understand Nevertheless, I. with other
women, know that all true men and women who are ansions for an International Socialist
The resolution to be submitted to the main Socialist Congress, to be moved by a German
our
woman, Frau Popp, is in full below:
RESOLUTION.
consist of women as well as men.
1. For the accomplishment of Socialism it is necessary that the masses should
be roused to assist in the active work of the reorganisation of society, and the masses
in all countries should do their utmost to assist in the organisation of women within
the Labour and Socialist Movement, and in order to accomplish this, every Socialist
Party should regard the complete emancipation of women as the primary aim of their
It is their duty to work for the full political equality of men and women,
especially with regard to electoral equality and equality in laws dealing with the
illegitimate children. They must also demand full freedom for women to enter
family, citizenship and marriage, and equality of rights between legitimate and
administrative and industrial life, and economic equality in regard to wages.
It is therefore essential that the Socialist Parties
policy.
upon the needs of women as well as men, Socialist women in all countries should
II. - As it is necessary that the policy of the Socialist Movement should be based
have the right to discuss and formulate themselves their views of social problems of
interest to women.
III. -The development of capitalist society has left women under many social
and educational disadvantages, so that from a political and economic point of view
their position is weaker than that of men, while the obligation and burdens of mother-
hood require that they should have special care and protection in industrial life.
of protection and care as the workers and especially the women workers think requisite,
It is therefore necessary that the Socialist Movement should advocate all such measures
in order to secure the welfare of mothers and children.
IV. In order to get full understanding between the Socialist women in the
different countries, an International Advisory Committee of women should be formed
consisting of representatives of the women; with the special duty of advising the
Executive Council of the Labour and Socialist International; and to assist in organising
biennially an International Conference of Labour and Socialist women.
mittee should be constituted on the same basis of representation as the Executive
Council of the L.S.I., and should be called together at least once every year.
This Com-
V. The administrative work of the International Organisation of Women should
be conducted by the Secretariat of the L.S.I.
The British Labour Party made me their fraternal delegate to the main Socialist and
Labour Congress, an act I appreciate very much, enabling me to be as one of and with them
all through the following week. I had a share of work on Commissions, and was able to
attend all Commissions, to hear the discussions, sitting with the British delegation in full
Congress.
This Congress met in the Palais des Expositions, and was opened by the Mayor of
Marseilles at 9 o'clock in the evening of the first day. The full sessions of Congress met at
four o'clock each day and continued until midnight. The mornings were spent in Com-
missions. The chief questions were Socialist Peace Policy, Dangers of War, Security and
Disarmament, Unemployment, Hours of Labour, Report and Proposals of the Women's
Socialist Conference.
The future home of the L.S.I. was considered and ultimately decided that Zurich
should be the place for the Secretariat.
The voting is by card according to the number of votes allotted to each country by
the E.C., according to Article 9 in their constitution.
The constitution suggested to the main Congress for their acceptance by the Women's
Labour and Socialist International was accepted unanimously, which makes the Socialist
women of all countries a wing of the main, as also is the Socialist Youths' movement in
all countries.
To all who doubt the future of a great International movement, may I say, in my
opinion, the Socialist movement is to the fore and very powerful, growing year by year
into a mighty force for the emancipation of all peoples. It was a privilege to attend.
Internationale" at 12.30 a.m. on Saturday morning,
We finished up by singing the "
29th August, 1925.
14TH SEPTEMBER, 1925.
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS.


---
536
NORTHANTS' DISTRICT COUNCIL.
The Quarterly Meeting was held in the Foundry Place School, Daventry, on Saturday,
25th July, 1925.
Mr. W. Langley, J.P., presided, and a full complement of delegates were present
There were also present additional delegates from most Branches, as well as Mr.
W. R. Townley, Mr. L. P. Poole, and Mr. E. L. Poulton, as representing the Nation
Council. Altogether 62 members of the Union attended.
In introducing Mr. Poulton to the meeting, the Chairman said how proud we felt
of the new Office held by the General Secretary, and expressed the general feeling that
was a compliment not only to the personal qualities of Mr. Poulton, but also to the
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives. He then called upon Mr. Poulton to address the
meeting on :-
"THE WORK AND POLICY OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR
OFFICE OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS."
MR. POULTON said: Allow me, first of all, to thank you Mr. Chairman and fellow
members for the compliment you have just paid me. I feel that it has been a great honor
not only to myself but to the Union that we occupy such a position in the first world
Parliament that has just closed; because I look upon this as the nearest approach yet
to an International Parliament. I entertain the hope that out of it will arise a real Inter-
national Parliament, not merely to determine conditions and policy, but also to determine
political policy as well, so that men and women shall learn to know one another and under-
stand the hopes and aspirations of each other, and thus develop a spirit which will prevent
them from plunging into war in the future. I hope that all members will be behind the
League of Nations, of which we form part. It will, however, only be as we ordinary
individuals press our views upon statesmen and members of Parliament from time to time,
that we shall prevent war taking place, because, whatever we may say, the fact remains
that more men are under arms to-day than there were before the War, for even during the
time that a recent Conference in Geneva was discussing the limitation of the manufacture
of arms by private firms, the smaller nations were greatly opposed to it. Their advocates
in dealing with the case said that if countries like Great Britain, France, Italy, America
and Germany were allowed to manufacture arms, and they were not allowed to manu-
facture them, they would be at the mercy of the big states, and therefore they should be
allowed to contract for arms with private firms. These are amongst the difficulties we
have to deal with and to counteract in pursuance of a peace policy. Nevertheless I do
not lose heart or feel dispirited because I believe that there is a generation growing to
whom we shall be able to influence, and with the additional education they will make it
increasingly difficult for statesmen and politicians to indulge in warfare.
The International Labour Office is, I think, an Office which, at the moment, very
largely unknown. I have spoken at a great many League of Nations meetings in various
parts of the country, and many times I have been thanked for bringing before the meetings
the wide ramifications and activities of the Office, and what it has done. I must make it
quite clear that we are part and parcel of the League of Nations, and one of the few good
things that has emerged from the Versailles Treaty is the idea of the League of Nations
and the Labour Office. I hope we shall be able to accomplish the work that has been given
us to do.
Whilst the League of Nations has for its object the idea of universal peace, such a
peace can only be established by the establishment of social justice. The Labour Office
assists by dealing with such injustices and hardships. It is engaged in the regulation of
working hours all over the world and the improvement of working conditions. For
example, the regulations as to hours worked include the establishment of the maximum
working day or week; the regulation of the supply of labour and the employment of
children. It also seeks to regulate the conditions as to the employment and protection
of women and young children and the provision of certain forms of technical education.
Certain rules and regulations are laid down as to how best we can do that work, but
I will not take up your time with these. The first meeting was held at Washington in
1919, and strange to say, the Labour movement in America, who took part in the business,
has not yet seen its way clear as a country to join the League of Nations. I regret this,
especially as they are always standing at the door and giving advice, without actually
taking part in the business and being prepared to take responsibilities for the things done.
I find that the great obstacle from the point of view of America is that they have a great
ideal of a combined American League, that is, the development of those many countries
which are outside and around the United States, and which, combined, could dominate
the world. The point which they emphasise, however, as their principal objection is that
Great Britain, or the Empire-to accept the wider sphere-has an undue preponderance
of votes and influence, because Great Britain and each self-governing colony send their
representatives, and the Americans object to this, and say that only an equal number of


---
representatives should be at the meetings to represent the Empire. This is the real
why America will not come into the League of Nations. It is, however, doing
soul work, and it has helped in moulding policy. It is to be hoped that ere long America
will take her place amongst the representatives of this world-wide League.

I look upon the question of hours as one of the most important that can be dealt
with; the provision against unemployment; women's employment and maternity;
night work for women; the employment of children of immature age; the age at which
children shall be employed at night; minimum age for employment in agriculture; white
lead; weekly rest, &c. &c. Since the Office has been established we have been working
hard, and we have accomplished much that is vital to the welfare of the workers.
Some people grumble about the slowness with which the work proceeds, but I submit
that we have accomplished a wonderful amount of work in the six years we have been
established, having regard to the slowness with which a nation itself does its work, apart
from the question of international policy.

Representation at the Conference is as follows: Governments have two represen-
tatives: the workers of each country have one representative and the employers one.
Advisers are also allowed to act in an advisory capacity. These delegates are selected
by the government from the most representative organisations existing in the country,
and the government of this country have decided that so far as Great Britain is concerned
the Trade Union Congress is the authority, and therefore every year the Government
sends to the Council of the Trade Union Congress, which body nominates the delegates
and also the advisers. The Government also send advisers who act along with the repre-
sentatives of the Government and the whole body splits itself up into Committees. The e
with myself, a British representative on each of the Committees that was sitting. Now
were seven different Committees this year.
these Committees have the duty of putting into words what they think should be the
method adopted regarding matters submitted to them by the Office. When they have
finished, their decisions are set out in the form of a report and presented to the full Con-
ference. The Conference then decides whether they will pass that report as a recom-
mendation or convention. You can understand that with 52 countries, with their different
outlook and development and the backwardness in industry of some of them, that progress
is necessarily slow. But we had better go slowly and surely than go fast and do nothing
but pass reports which we do not put into operation.
Each country has a questionnaire sent to them at the end of the year in the form of a
book of questions for the next year's Conference, and are asked what they consider their
on which the Committee work and upon which the Conference finally decides its policy
and the form such policy takes, either a recommendation or convention.

During the past four years we have passed Conventions and Recommendations-
which are a milder form of Convention-upon the Hours question. A number of countries
have adopted them and put them into force, but I regret to have to say that the British
Government has not yet put it into force, and that is why it is being held up in other
countries. Great Britain is the foremost industrial country in Europe, and the smaller
countries say that we in Great Britain have not adopted the Convention to put the 48-hour
week into force by law, and I have been told both in the governing body and in the Con-
ference that they will not put it into force until Great Britain does so. Our statesmen
tell us that we have already millions of our people working the 48-hour week under their
different craft agreements, or even less. We do not dispute that, but this is not the same
as if it were law, and we need something to put it into law. When you get back to your
districts ask your Member of Parliament what he proposes to do in the matter, and go on
asking him until he does something in the House of Commons, because the more questions
there are put, the greater the likelihood of Great Britain adopting it.

At Washington, Great Britain voted for this Convention, and not only voted for it,
but they sent a cablegram over here to our statesmen as to whether they should support
it or no, and the answer was " yes," and yet, strange to say, they have not yet brought it
before the House of Commons. It is something of a disgrace to this country, and the other
countries are continually using it against us.

We have also passed a Convention upon Unemployment and what help we can give
in this respect, and a number of countries have adopted these proposals, and are putting
them into operation at the present time. Regulations as to night work for women we
have passed because we believe that there should be a minimum of work not only for
women, but also for men at night, and as far as possible we should not have them working
at night. We have also dealt with the question of the minimum age at which boys and
girls should start work. We have also passed resolutions upon white lead poisoning in
paint. We had a tremendous fight to get this through, and I again regret to say that Great
Britain has not carried out her word in this matter, and again, as in the question of hours,
the other countries are playing upon this. We have passed regulations as to the age at
which boys shall go to sea, and provided for their being properly looked after whilst on


---
538

We look upon the ordinary thing and part and parcel of the life of the nation, and
that they are still working on Saturday afternoon and on Sunday, and any of you who
won't get the equivalent of Sunday, and I was very surprised to hear from
work. In any case I am very
Australian employer representatives that they were working Sunday with
I would much sooner or rather see a five-day week
extra pay
strongly opposed to Sunday work.
When we have done with the Conference and have gone to our respective homes,
body, which is really the Executive Committee, carry on the work
governing body to another. That body is elected for a period of three years. There are
Conference
o workers' representatives.
At our last Conference I believe we had 27 workers' delegates because unfortunately
some of the Governments did not send complete delegations and therefore we were pre
them for full delegations, so that we should have our full voting strength. There
delegates select the workers' delegates for the Conference, and it is these delegates
Union Congress select their delegates for the Conference, and it is these delegates
elect the governing body, and not any particular country, so that it does not necessar
the governing body. Our representation on that body is dependant on the votes, not o
follow because we are one of the big countries that Great Britain will be represented
of European countries, but on the votes of Australia, Canada, South Africa, Japan, China
and the rest of the countries represented.
competition for the seats on that body, and I look upon it not only as an honour, but as
great privilege that I have been re-elected to represent the workers, and I think I m
fairly say that the other delegates feel that I have done something to uphold their
on the governing body.
This body deals with the programme and secures information and details which
affect the work of the Office in all parts of the world, and there is growing up a more
for information on industrial matters, and it is becoming more and more a basis of research
more extensive bureau, and nations are looking towards the International Labour Office
biggest industrial library in the world, recording all matters, so far as they can be got
work. In a period of six years we claim to have collected in our Office at Geneva the
Therefore you can easily see that there
together, in any part of the world, and that information is available for any nation.
The Director is a brilliant Frenchman who played a great part in the Socialist move
ment in France, and some think if he cared to return to play an active part in the work
of his nation, he would yet be Premier of France, and so you see we have a man who has
been brought up in the best traditions of social justice.
We are now engaged upon another great work apart from its industrial side. There
are wandering about the world men and women and children, who have practically lost
their country in consequence of the war. Many of them belong to the unhappy countr
of Russia, and who cannot or will not go back there. We are endeavouring through the
Labour Office to either get these unhappy people back to their own country, or to get
in they are established. The
believes that we are the body who are most likely to do this work effectively, and I thin
it is a great compliment that such a young body has been entrusted with this work.
think it is an encouragement to feel that thousands of men and women are being helped
by the efforts of the International Labour Office. It is work which will also show to
people, in my opinion, that we can rise above the ordinary routine, and from the stand
point of humanity we are doing this work at the moment with a considerable amount of
success.
The methods adopted by the I.L.O., in relation to its work is broadly as follows.
We try to get to know the present laws of a country and by convention or recommendation
try and induce them to bring new laws into being regarding the workers and to bring
influence from the more advanced countries to bear on the backward countries. We do
not lose any opportunity with countries that are not carrying them out in trying to secure
conformity to the various proposals passed at the Conference. Last year I reported to
my colleagues (and when I got back they put the report into the form of a pamphlet).
This year I have just presented my report to the General Council of the Trade Union
Congress, and they have decided to publish it as a pamphlet and circulate it throughout
the whole country, because they feel it is well worth while that other people should know
what has been done at the Conference just ended. This year, apart from the Conventions
that were passed, we made progress in other directions. For instance, when one of the
Conventions was being discussed it was somewhat remarkable that nearly the whole of the
speakers were representatives of governments, and they were getting up in view of com
plaints that we workers had made earlier in the proceedings, and apologising for their
pountries not having yet ratified the conventions, and wanting to assure us that they had
had no opportunities in their countries, but they would at once assist to put into operation
---

---
machinery which would bring these conventions into operation. When you get men
equal in standing to our Chancellor of the Exchequer doing this you will see that we have
made some impression on the statesmen of a number of the countries, and that is why I
consider the Conference this year to be an advance on those previously beld.
One other example to show how we have progressed. I was surprised to learn that
Spain had sent one of her chief Officers of State, and he came all that way to deliver 11
ten minutes' speech because they wanted it recorded that they regarded favourably the
matter under discussion, and were willing to put it into operation.
I wish to speak of the wider question of Articles and Conventions that have been
passed since 1919. In my report I state: "I beg to express, on behalf of all the workers,
approximately 150 ratifications, when there should have been eight or nine hundred.
their keen disappointment at the fact that we had at this meeting this year to record
They kept this hope for some considerable time, but as the years passed and they found
This to the workers, is a very great disappointment, for their hopes in 1919 were high.
this lack of progress their hopes began to go down." I want to give this word that although
great tribute. You will easily see that if this country adopted the white lead convention
we have not gone a long way along the path, the fact that there are these ratifications is a
and the hours convention, there would be a great deal accomplished, and it would affect
ratify the hours convention you can easily see what an enormous advance would be made.
many more countries. If we could get Great Britain, France, Belgium and Japan to
might have secured. We have made an impression, and I believe a permanent and good
We must not lose sight of proportion when we think that we have secured all that we
impression on many countries, and we will carry out these reforms if the workers will but
back up the efforts being made on their behalf and thereby raise the general standard
of life.
We have put in a good deal of work among the backward nations of the world. This
countries, such as India and Japan. India is ratifying more conventions than any other
is a thing that is full of hope. Some of our conventions have been adopted by the Eastern
country, and to its great credit is carrying them out. They have passed the eight hours
convention, but it is a ten hours day in India. If we could get Japan and China to pass
the ten-hour working day it would make a wonderful difference. Regarding China,
despite the various reports, we must remember that in Shanghai there are 49 factories and
we have only five of them. But in these factories in China there are poor little mites of
five years of age. We are trying to create an impression upon the Chinese representatives
to deal as far as possible with the things complained of, and to appoint factory inspectors.
We have now got to this stage, and you will see how necessary it is for international action.
This year the Indian employers complained of the competition of Japan. Usually it
has been the Lancashire goods which have suffered and complained of Indian competition.
You will see how intricate trading has become, and how necessary it is that these nations
should be brought up to our standard, but of course their standard would always be a
different standard to ours, largely on account of the climate. My reference to the term
standard means of course the productive standard per person.
We had workers' representatives of India and Japan at the Conference this year, and
I hope next year we shall have a Chinese representative present. We have been talking
to these men and they are very anxious to know our conditions, and they are bringing
pressure to bear that we should send representatives to these countries and see what
actually is taking place.
I come finally to the question of cost. As you have doubtless read, or been told,
that the I.L.O. is a great waste of money and that we have a palace in which to do our
work, and wherein we waste the taxpayers money of this and other countries. As regards
the palace we have a staff of about 300 people in one building and a big building is neces-
sary for all these. It is quite true that the place we meet in at present is situated in a very
nice part of Geneva, and we can look across the Lake and see the great mountains, but so
If you go into the Board Room you will find ordinary
far as furnishings are concerned, I go into many offices in this country which are furnished
much more elaborately than ours.
boards for shelving so that we can save expense. This is where we do our work, and as
economically as possible. We must have our documents translated into various languages,
and nobody should object to this translation so that other nations may use them. We
at Geneva. In bringing to
spend less than £40,000 per year, on the I.L.O., that is Great Britain, but the country is
going to spend many millions of pounds on ships of war, and yet questions are constantly
being asked about the expenditure in " our nest of luxury "
bear our intellects and knowledge and taking part in conferences with the rest of the world,
and gathering information of great value to the industrial world, we spend the sum of
£37,000. That money is better spent than on ships of war which may go to the bottom
of the sea in two or three minutes, and I am anxious that we should take up the challenge
and show what great advantages lie therein. I hope you will continue to give us your
backing. One of the foremost representatives of the workers on the Continent said to
"You have got to remember this, that you have had your legislation
many years regarding many matters affecting the lives of the workers, whilst some nations
me not long ago,


---
512
headingislation ently, other countries have not yet passed legislation
3als with you will therefore realise our task and the
the otgati afion
onlusion, are you that your representatives will not shurk the
but illion for the sake of humanity, until such time as we can get rid of
working day or week, a living wage for all provision agair
disease ot injury, and for old age, and so assist in making the world better and orizure.
ment, serare a maximum w
than it is now for so many millions of toilers.
own
other?
Arbitration Boards?
Discussion and Questions.
MR CHESTER (Kettering). How far does the work of the Office bear relation too.
Do you first have a Board to jointly discuss the matr
to come before the full body or do you go there and debate without first consulting
MR. POULTON. The usual procedure is that the governing body discusses the Agerda
The idea is that the governing body shall talk over what we consider suitable for
On questions of International importance we first talk them over with
before them again, then the governing body must carry this out. The governing bod
Conference has supreme power, however, and if they decide that something should come
governing body, and if they turn it down it does not come before the Conference. T
has to get the material for the Agenda a long time in advance. We are now discussin
Conference.
government representatives, and opinions are freely expressed. A vote is taken of t
the Agenda for two years ahead.
MR. CAMPBELL (Kettering) desired further information as to the position of our o
Government in relation to the 48-hour working week. Why is our Government opposed
to this good work?
and was generally operative. He did not think the British Government had any need to
who said that the principle of the 48-hour week had long been recognised in Great Britai
MR. POULTON quoted an extract from the speech of a government representative
said that there were great difficulties in the way of the enforcement of the convention
take action in this matter. Mr. Bettington, this Government's representative, further
I (Mr. Poulton) argued at this meeting that this should not prevent the Government from
trying it. There were bound to be difficulties, but they would be no greater than the
difficulties of other countries which were already enforcing it. We, as workers, were forced
to the conclusion that behind the refusal of the Government to enforce this hours con-
vention was the fact that many people are hoping before long to break our voluntary
hours convention could be enforced if the will was there to do it. Believe me, there is no
agreements and increase our working day. If the law was there it would stop this. The
real difficulty, but they do not want to put it into force.
MR. POOLE, (Wellingborough) stated that he thought it unfair that the Governments'
representatives should number 12, and the workers and the employers six each. Why
not have the 12 from each, which seemed a fairer proportion?
MR. POULTON. We cannot alter the basis of representation. It is embodied in the
Versailles Treaty.
MR. CROUCH (Rushden) asked for more information about the homeless people. Who
are these people who have had to leave their home country and are afraid to go back?
MR. POULTON gave figures from his reports and said that Dr. Nansen was on the work
of the attempted reestablishment of these people and was doing the work well. Many
wanted to go to America and we were endeavouring to get them settled there.
Mr. ATTEWELL (Northampton) expressed opposition to our connection with the
International Labour Office. He claimed that we ought to work through our own Inter-
national. He further stated that the League of Nations was a gathering of the ruling
classes and that the dice was loaded against the workers because their representatives
were in a minority. All the information which the Office sends out could easily be got
from our own International. He quoted the case of the British Government's failure to
enforce the hours convention after agreeing to it as an example of the futility of putting
any faith in the I.L.O. He also agreed with the American view that the Colonies were
part and parcel of the Empire and this gave this country a larger proportion and repre-
sentation compared with other countries.
MR. POULTON stated that he agreed with a good deal of what had just been said, but
national, he agreed that it should be developed, but the International could do nothing
he wished his friend would look into economic history. With regard to our own Inter
from a legislative point of view. Whilst they had accomplished hardly as much as could
in the most backward countries and legislation was needed to do that. We must try to
bringing up the
Office to be successful because it would tend to improve present conditions. The last
get these things through our own House of Commons, who appeared not to want the


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
is put in by western financiers ?
541
speaker thought that it was bolstering up present conditions, but legislation was the only
in industrial conditions could be generally effected through our own International
medium to effect what was wanted to be done, so very little international improvement
MR. LYNE (Northampton). - Would it not be possible to get information through the
I.L.O. as to the amount of finance that is in these foreign enter, rises, and what proportion
MR. POULTON. - Our own department this week has issued a statement on these lines.
Out of 10 factories in Shanghai we own only five, and we own about one-sixth of the looms.
We have a good deal of information on the lines indicated, and this is supplied through the
MR. TOWNLEY (Northampton). - The Government has 12 representatives, the em-
plovers six and the workers six: if the whole world had Socialist Governments would
they send along 12 socialists? I should think they would, and would join with the
workers' representatives in matters of primary importance.
Labour Magazine.
MR. TOWNLEY moved:
"That, this Council, representing 31,728 members of the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives, hereby places on record its deep and earnest appreciation
of the services rendered to the International Labour movements and to the cause of
International goodwill and peace, through the International Labour Office of the
League of Nations, by Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P. We note, with considerable pleasure,
the recent honour conferred upon Mr. Poulton, and trust the utmost facility will
continue to be afforded by the Union to enable our General Secretary to carry out the
arduous duties entailed."
I think that everybody will be satisfied with the enormous amount of work that Mr.
Poulton is doing on behalf of the workers of the world. We should all agree that Mr.
Poulton has done splendidly. It is work that calls for all the thought, energy and con-
sideration that can be given to it, and I am sure that in selecting Mr. Poulton for this work,
we shall all agree that the Trade Union Congress could not have found a better man.
I
have much pleasure in moving the resolution.
MR. I. H. JOHNSON, in seconding the resolution, expressed the hope that every
member of the Union would interest themselves in the work of the I.L.O., and give to Mr.
Poulton their whole-hearted support in the magnificent work he is doing.
MR. POULTON, in reply, expressed his thanks and said how interesting and yet how
He would rather wear out than rust, and he felt that this work was
hard the work was.
essential and helpful.
The delegates were then entertained to tea by the Daventry Branch, to whom warm
and appreciative thanks were extended.
Many of the delegates afterwards visited the new Wireless Station at Daventry,
the arrangements for which had been previously made by Mr. Johnson, the Secretary of
the Daventry Branch. The opportunity was much appreciated and the Council's thanks
were extended to the Manager of the works and also to Mr. Johnson.
APPENDIX.
EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS READ BY MR. POULTON DURING HIS SPEECH.
Organisation and Objects of Department.
Whereas the League of Nations has for its object the establishment of universal
peace, and such a peace can be established only if it is based upon social justice; and
whereas conditions of labour exist involving such injustice, hardship and privation to
large numbers of people as to produce unrest so great that the peace and harmony of the
world are imperilled; and an improvement of those conditions is urgently required;
as, for example, by the regulation of the hours of labour, including the establishment
of a maximum working day and week, the regulation of the supply of labour, the pre-
vention of unemployment, the provision of an adequate living wage, the protection of the
worker against sickness, disease and injury aris
arising out of his employment, the protection
of children, young persons and women, provision for old age and injury, protection of the
interests of the workers when employed in countries other than their own, recognition of
the principle of freedom and association, the organisation of vocational and technical
education and other measures;
Whereas also the failure of any nation to adopt humane conditions of labour is an
obstacle in the way of other nations which desire to improve the conditions in their own
countries;
The High contracting parties, &c.
1
i


---
Here is the extracted text:
547
Apart from the spoilt papers it was quite evident that a considerable number of
delegates had been under misapprehension as to the number of votes they were allowed
to cast. In numerous instances unions had not used their full vote, but where there was
more than one vacancy in the group they had divided their total number of votes by the
number of vacancies, and had thus failed to exercise their full voting power. We consider
it desirable that steps should be taken to prevent this happening in the future and suggest
that the instructions printed on the ballot paper be fuller and clearer and also that the
Scrutineers be thoroughly instructed in order that enquirers on this point may be in turn
correctly advised.
The Scrutineers and Recount Committee further suggest that the General Council
should consider the advisability of making such arrangements as will secure that there is
not a complete change in the personnel of the Scrutineers each year.
The Scrutineers and Recount Committee suggest that it should not be competent for
properly nominated candidates to withdraw their nominations at a later date than, say
14 days prior to the opening of Congress. If this were done and ballot papers not printed
until after the last date for withdrawal had passed, it would obviate the possibility of the
names of persons appearing on the ballot paper who were not condidates.
(Signed)
HERBERT SMITH (Chairman).
GEO. LATHAN.
JOHN JAGGER.
W. R. SMITH.
DOROTHY EVANS.
EDWARD DUXBURY.
THOMAS CHADWICK.
J. S. BROWN.
ARTHUR JENKINS.
GEORGE İLLINGWORTH.
SIDNEY TAYLOR.

CO-PARTNERSHIP WORKSHOP.

Report of the Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Limited for the
Half-Year ended 1st August, 1925.
We have pleasure in submitting the 65th Half-Yearly Report and Balance Sheet.
The Sales for the half-year amount to £27,170 15s. 6d., a decrease of £825 15s. 1d. compared
with the corresponding period of last year. After providing for Interest on Share and Loan
Capital amounting to £1,034 11s. 11d., and depreciating Fixed Stock, Buildings, &c,
1,336 6s. 3d., there is a balance profit of £705 95. 2¾d., which, with the balance of £237 195.
brought forward from last half-year, gives a total of £943 8s. 2½d. for disposal.
We have added 13 new members during the half-year, 11 have lapsed, the present
number of Shareholders being 607.
The decrease in Sales and Profits is somewhat disappointing, but the corresponding
half-year with which the comparison is made was an exceptional one with regard to large
orders of a special character which could not be repeated. At the same time the half-year
just completed has been one of the busiest we have experienced, and in view of the general
condition of trade which is reflected in the printing industry the Committee consider
that the result is satisfactory. The London Branch is doing remarkably well and shows
a substantial increase in trade. Another valuable machine for rapid printing has been
installed there during the half-year and has already justified the rather heavy outlay.
The Kettering Branch has maintained its position fairly well and continues to render
good service.
Detailed figures for the half-year's trade are as follows -
£ s. d.
Leicester Printing Works 16,790 11 11
Box Department 5,891 8 7
London Branch 3.365 15 0
Kettering Branch 1,123 0 0
We are glad to be able to report that a definite scheme for the rehousing of the Box
Department is now in hand. The Society has purchased a freehold building site in Gravel
Street, separated only by a narrow passage from the Printing Works in Short Street.
Plans are being prepared for consideration for the erection of a three storey, well-lighted
and up-to-date factory, with provision for an additional two storeys when future needs
warrant an extension. The advantages of having this department in closer proximity to
the general offices and works, with the extra accommodation and facilities generally that
this scheme provides are obvious, and we feel sure will lead to considerable expansion
and development of this important branch of our business.
The present half-year has opened well with a considerable number of orders.


---
548
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Council do not hold themselves responsible for the views expressed by Correspondents
INTERNATIONAL SUMMER SCHOOL, SWEDEN.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
I attended an International Summer School held at Brunnsvic, Sweden,
1st to 15th August, as a student sent by the General Council of the T.U.C. and the
National Council of Labour Colleges.
These schools have been inaugurated in view of the ever-increasing interest
paid by the trade unions to the educational side of their work, and the I.F.T.U.
schools this year, one at Brunnsvic, and the other at Prague in Czecho-Slovakia.
On our arrival in Sweden, the students to the number of about fifty were met
of the Swedish Co-operative movement on the Saturday and the Trade Union on
on the Sunday. During both these days everything possible was done to demonstrate
warmth of the welcome extended to us, and in our tour of Stockholm and the mills
shops of the Co-operative Societies we were shown many interesting sights, some
I may give in more detail in a later report, as the briefness of this report makes neces
the exclusion of some valuable information as to the work of the young and mor
operative movement in this country.
On Sunday our comrades of the L.O. (the initials denoting the general T.V.
tion in Sweden) took us for a sail up the beautiful inland lochs, and on our arrival at Fast
we parted with the singing of the "Internationale." the students proceeding onwards
rail to the school and our comrades of the L.O. returning homewards
Work commenced at the school on Monday morning with a lecture on the wor
class movement in Sweden. This lecture was particularly interesting from the poi
view of a comparison with our own country. Although only a small labour mor
(Sweden has only a population of 6,000,000) the workers of Sweden maintain an exter
system of Workers Education through a body known as A.B.F. This body is constit
by representatives from all phases of the workers' movement and every shade of o
from Co-operators to Syndicalists is represented in the governing Council. The Brun
school is a permanent organisation to which trade unionists are sent for six months' tra
during the winter months. The location of the school on a lakeside among trees is
ducive to study, and the fact that the nearest town (Ludvika) is five miles away, also re
to make the school free from interruption.
Albert Falkenberg, an ex-Cabinet Minister from Germany, dealt with the trade uni
movement in that country and its latest developments.
Richard Sandler, Prime Minister of Sweden, gave an extensive lecture on Socialisat
Problems in Sweden. This lecture dealt in part with the problems of the present gover
ment in Sweden, and in part with the programme of the Social Democratic Party
probable methods of application.
J. W. Bowen, a member of the General Council of the T.U.C., gave a lecture on Britis
Trade Unionism, and dealt with it effectively in the brief time at his disposal.
Z. Piotrowsky dealt with the Polish workers' movement and the educational mov
ment also. A member of the school from another post-war country, viz., Czecho-Slovakia
gave a very good lecture on the problems facing the workers in that country. Belin
lecture was one of the most interesting I have heard for some time, and he was able
explain from the point of view of a native of the country, the very complicated racial and
economic problems in that country.
C. V. Bramsnaes, Finance Minister in the present Danish Government, gave us some
information with regard to the workers' movement in that country. The S.D.P. in Per
mark have only 55 seats out of 144 total, but are the government of the country.
Englebert Graf, the noted German economist, gave lectures on "Modern Tendencia
in Capitalism," and the "Materialist Conception of History." The best parts of both
these lectures were lost in the translation, as the technical terms did not correspond and the
correct meanings were very difficult to get.
Spencer Miller, junr., M.A., who is the General Secretary of the Workers' Education
Bureau in the U.S.A., gave a series of lectures dealing with American history and the
American Labour and Educational movements. Miller is a very capable lecturer and the
W.E.B., of which he is secretary, has over 2,000,000 members attached to it.
Comrade Brown, of the I.F.T.U., who was in charge of the school, was late in coming
owing to the fact that he was a member of the committee of eight in charge of the wa
strike, and was unable to come earlier. As most of us had not seen an English paper h
over a week, we were very keen to hear all the latest news with regard to the Coal crisis
---

---
also lectured on "
549
Comrade Brown gave us a lecture on the crisis and was able to give us first-hand information
interested in the present trend of the British Trade Union movement, and I was questioned
and the Labour Party. I may say in passing that the Swedish Trade Unionists are very
several times about the Quadruple Alliance and the Minority Movement. Comrade Brown
on the various negotiations between the Government, the Miners, the General Council,
Migration," dealing with the emigration question over the last too years,
and another lecture was on the " International Trade Union Movement."
The discussion on the lectures was very keen and the fact that each country had
lecturers of international repute representing them made the data obtained reliable to a
During the whole of our stay everything was done to make us feel at home, and
especial thanks are due to Mr. and Mrs. Hugo, the genial Rector of Brunnsvic, and his wife,
greater degree than usual.
for their kindness during our stay.
31st August, 1925.
Yours fraternally,
THOMAS CAMPBELL (06068).
ITEMS OF INTEREST.
During the first six months of this year the Empire has taken 42.6 per cent. of our
exports of British manufactured produce and manufacture, whilst foreign countries have
taken 57.4 per cent. Of our re-exports of imported produce, the Empire has taken 17.9
per cent. and foreign countries 82.1 per cent.
*
*
*
On 13th July the price of the 4lb. loaf in London was Iod. At the same period of
last year, when the Labour Government was in office, the price was od.
*
*
*
The profits of brewing concerns were £9,971,000 in 1913-14; £18,400,000 in 1922-23,
and £17,840,000 in 1923-24.
The cost of a
*
*
*
battleship of the latest type, inclusive of torpedoes, ammunition, &c.,
is approximately £7,000,000. The cost of a battle cruiser similar to H.M.S. "Hood"
is 26,000,000. The corresponding figures for a modern light cruiser are £2,000,000, a
modern destroyer £325,000, a modern submarine £400,000.
*
-The Labour Magazine, September, 1925.
*
*
The whole of the expenses of the
As against the above, the British contribution to the League of Nations (including
the I.L.O.) is approximately £100,000 per annum.
League of Nations (including the I.L.O.) are under £1,000,000 per annum; the work of
the League is to save life; raise the standard of working conditions, and improve the
lives of the people. WHICH IS BEST? One million pounds for the League of Nations,
or the above-named sums spent on battleships?
*
*
*
In the month of August this year, after eight months of Tory Government, the number
of registered unemployed increased by over 28,950 in one week. There was in registered
unemployed an increase of 176,085 over the number registered twelve months earlier,
when Labour was in office.
*
*
*
Instead of trade improving, the figures quoted show unemployment is again increasing.
So far from improving trade, the loss of this spending power has helped considerably to
destroy the home market. Every branch of the trades and industries supplying the home
market is necessarily affected by the loss of purchasing power by these successive cuts.
To Him That Hath-
*
*
*
Contrast the position of the wage-earner with the investor of capital. Figures show
that 1,411 companies, after payment of debenture interest, distributed profits as follows :-
In 1923, £130,759,424; in 1924. £139,362,273; an increase of £8,602,849. There was a
total return in capital invested in these 1,411 companies in a single year of more than
110,250,000.
The average rate of net profits being about 10 per cent., the investor in these com-
panies gets his capital back in profits every ten years.
While wage-earners suffer reductions, the banking accounts of directors and employers
increase, as the following figures show:-In 1918-19 the receipts from super-tax were
£35,500,000; in 1923-24, 102,500,000; an increase of £27,000,000.
In 1918-19 the receipts from death duties were £30,750,000; in 1923-24, £59,500,000,
almost double, and being an increase of £29,250,000.- Speakers' Notes.


---
ENGLISH C.W.S. ALL-ROUND INCREASES.
Another Dividend of 2d. in the £.
ONE MILLION POUNDS OF TEA PER WEEK SOLD.
Increases of 10 per cent. in the trade, 21 per cent, in the output from
the productive factories, and a net profit of £487,444, are the most
attractive features of the C.W.S. Committee's Report for the half-year
ended 27th June, which is now issued and will be considered at the forth-
coming meetings of the shareholders on 3rd and 10th October.
The total sales for the half-year were £37,160,319 an increase of £3,543,552 on the
corresponding period of last year. The total value of the supplies sent out from the
productive works was £13,563,668, an increase of £2,362,993.
The net profit, or surplus, after providing for all expenses, interest on capital, and
depreciation of property, amounted to £487,444; to which there is added the balance
of £114,249 brought over from the previous half-year. This leaves a total sum of £601,765,
available, from which it is proposed to pay a dividend of 2d. and of 1d. in the pound to
members and non-members respectively; £186,936 1s. 2d. is proposed to be
written off buildings, fixtures, accounts, &c.; and this leaves £132,548 13s. 11d. to be
carried forward.
The society's reserve fund stands at £742,270, and the insurance fund at £1,181,146.
The bank deposits and withdrawals for the half-year reached the remarkable sum of
£290,827,808, which is an increase of £26,891,538 on the corresponding period of last
year; and the bank shows a surplus of £69,342, which it is recommended should be trans-
ferred to the reserve fund. There are 19,459 current accounts, of which 5,632 are with
individuals and the rest with co-operative societies, trade unions, friendly societies, clubs
and other mutual organisations.
The sales of tea show a net increase, 1,355,535 lbs. for the half-year but Newcastle
shows a decrease of 9  per cent., and Scotland a decrease of 2 per cent. The total
sale of tea is 26,168,838 lbs.; or more than 1,000,000 lbs. per week.
Chocolate shows an increase, which amounts to the splendid figure of 61 per cent., not-
withstanding London's decrease of 20 per cent. and Scotland's 7 per cent. London's
increase is only 9 per cent.; but Manchester district romps in splendidly with
an increase of 261 per cent. in its purchases of Luton chocolate.
Manchester's increase amounted to 2,626 cwts, and the total sale was 6,526 cwts. The
same cheering tale cannot be told of cocoa. The total sale was 9,224 cwts., 540 cwts. less
than for the corresponding period, or 5 per cent. of a decrease. The whole of the
districts, including Scotland, share responsibility for the decrease; but Newcastle and
Scotland are again the heaviest.
A big increase, 42+ per cent., is shown in the trade of the flour, meal, and provender
mills. All the ten mills did well in sales, and all showed profits except the Liverpool
Provender Mill, which registered a deficit of £2,498; but the Liverpool African Oil Mills
showed an increase in trade and also earned a profit. -Co-operative News, 19th September,
1925.
S.C.W.S. PROGRESS.
Mr. Robert Stewart, J.P., presiding at the half-yearly meeting of the S.C.W.S. at
Edinburgh last Saturday, spoke of the continued progress of the society. Despite all the
critics said, they were marching on to greater triumphs. The sales for the half-year
were £8,673,158, an increase of £132,198 over the corresponding half-year, whilst the
productive departments showed an increase of £354,398, or 13.1 per cent., over the corres-
ponding period of last year. A dividend of 4d. to members and 2d. in the pound to nen-
members was recommended. There was a grand total of over 49,005,157 in reserves
The S.C.W.S. was one of the largest distributors of milk, and in regard to fishing, the
curing works at Aberdeen had received several good orders from Russia and Poland
Notwithstanding the smaller catches, they had been able to fulfill all the orders. He
pleaded for better support of the soap works. -Co-operative News, 19th September, 1925.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
553
STAFFORD TECHNICAL SCHOOL.
THE EVENING CLASSES IN BOOT AND SHOE MANUFACTURE commenced early in septem
ber and intending Students should join at once.
CLASSES WILL BE HELD IN: Pattern Cutting (Elementary), Monday: Pattern
Cutting (Advanced), Wednesday; Hand Lasting, Monday Machine Lasting, Monday,
Blake Sewing, Tuesday: Hand Sewing, Friday Machine Welting, Thursday: Hand
Finishing, Friday: Machine Finishing, Tuesday.
SPECIAL CLASSES Theory Uppers, Tuesday: Theory Bottoms, Tuesday, Theory
Management, Thursday: Closing Classes for Girls, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thurs
day and Friday.
CORDWAINERS TECHNICAL COLLEGE.
ST. JOHN'S LANE, FINSBURY, E.C. 1.
DAY AND EVENING CLASSES are held in the Technology of BOOT AND SHOE MANU
FACTURE AND BOOT AND SHOE MAKING :- Pattern Cutting and Designing; Cicking;
Upper Closing; Bottom Stock Cutting Lasting (Machine Sewn, Welted and Turnshoes);
Machine Lasting (Consolidated System); Sole-Sewing and Stitching (Blake, Welted and
Turnshoes); Machine Finishing.
Hand-Sewn Making; Finishing; Sewrounds Making; Last Making; Last Fitting.
For detailed Programme of Classes, No. 310 (post free), apply personally or by letter
to the Registrar, Cordwainers Technical College, St. John's Lane, Finsbury, E.C. 1.
CITY AND COUNTY OF NORWICH EDUCATION AUTHORITY.
BOOT AND SHOE MANUFACTURE. - Classes will be held on five mornings each week
and the instruction will cover the whole subject of Boot and Shoe Manufacture including
organisation and management. These classes will be especially suitable for "pupils"
in factories and for the most promising departmental students preparing for the higher
and responsible posts in the industry.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£
s.
d.
To December, 1924 667,902 8 7
January, 1925
2,840 1 10
February
3,952 4 8
March
4,124 16 0
April
4,054 10 6
May
4,023 13 8
June
3,993 2 6
July
2,653 13 10
August
2,520 1 8
£696,064 13 3
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
s.
d.
To December, 1924 358,625 13 7
January, 1925
3,954 7 9
February
5,226 1 9
March
3,682 10 3
April
3,031 5 0
May
3,510 14 9
June
4,823 1 9
July
4,221 6 9
August
4,914 8 0
£391,989 9 7
"The will is free:
Strong is the soul and wise and beautiful:
The seeds of God-like power are in us still:
Gods are we, bards, saints, heroes, if we will!"
-MATHEW ARNOLD.


---
554
REPAIRING TRADE BOARD.
Half-Yearly Report.
The following report on inspection and enforcement in the boot and shoe repairing
trade (Great Britain) for the six months ending 30th June, 1925, makes interesting reading
The number of firms on the Trade Board lists on 1st July, 1925, were 27,350. the
number of firms inspected for the first time during the period of six months were 933
making a total number of
1,024.
No. of firms employing less than 2 workers was 534
2
5
6
10
11
20
21
-100
over 100
273
28
9
5
(Excluding 175 firms employing no workers).
The total number of workers employed by the firms inspected was 1,911 1,530 etc.
ployed by firms inspected on routine, and 381 employed by firms inspected on complaint
the total number of complaints investigated during the period of six months was
The total number of complaints received during the period of six months was 175, and
Arrangements have been made for the investigation of 49 complaints outstanding
(including 65 outstanding from 1924); 25 of these were dealt with by correspondence
168 firms were inspected on complaint. The number of firms on whose premises current
notices were not posted were 194 on routine and 49 on complaint. Dealing with the
The results of inspection are as follows: 856 firms were inspected on routine and
question of records. The number of firms in which no records were kept or inadequately
so were 629. These refer to persons engaged on time only. The firms who were found
to be keeping no records of wages or inadequately so were 319.
whilst the total amount of arrears paid was 1,221 15s. The total number of workers
or complaint were 150, and the total arrears claimed from these firms was £1,879 13S. 9 d.,
The total number of firms found to be underpaying workers on inspection of routine
underpaid under inspection of routine and complaint was 198, and the total number of
workers to whom arrears were paid was 157.
Of the total arrears outstanding £54 13s. 9d. due from 10 firms is being paid b
instalments. The remainder, due from 25 firms was claimed comparatively recently.
complaint), Scottish, 193; North-Eastern, 138; North-Western, 153; Midland, 117:
The distribution of inspections throughout the following areas were (routine and
Wales, 218; South-Western, 122; and London and South-Eastern, 83.
There were 913 inspections occupying one day or less, 85 occupying 2 days, 18 occupy-
which have not involved inspection; 725 have been paid to establishments, whilst 154
ing 3 days, 4 occupying 4 days, and 4 occupying over 4 days. There have been many visits
secretaries, and others, whilst 8 visits have been paid in connection with permits of exemp-
have been paid to workers; 45 visits have been paid to Trades Union Officials, Association
tion, making the total of such visits amount to 932. The importance of the above inspec-
tions is the fact that where an inspection is made it is usually done with great thoroughness
and often involves a considerable time being spent upon the premises. The fact that during
the last six months 85 inspections have been made, occupying 2 days' time in each case,
bears out the above statement.
WAGE BOARD IN SOUTH AFRICA: NEW ACT.
The Under Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs has transmitted to the Ministry
of Labour a copy of an Act recently passed by the South African Parliament which provides
for "the determination of conditions of labour and of wages and other payments for labour,
the appointment of a wage board and investigations as to wages and conditions of labour.
Persons exempted from the application of the Act are those engaged in agriculture and
forestry, domestic servants in private households, officers of Parliament, those whose
wages are governed or regulated by any Act relative to the public service or the railways
and harbours service; workers covered by an award or agreement which has been made
lower than those in force under the new Act; and apprentices under the Apprenticeship
binding under the Industrial Conciliation Act of 1924 and which provides for wages not
Act of 1922.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
556
IMPORTATION OF FOOTWEAR TO THE UNITED STATES OF
NORTH-AMERICA.

The American Boot and Shoe Manufacturers' Association publishes statistic statemo
relating to Footwear Imports to United States. The following table shows the importatio
of boots and shoes in 1924 and 1923 classified after countries of origin, amounting to as
go per cent. of total importation.

Boots & Shoes
Boots & Shoes Boots & Shoes
for children
for women
for men
1924.
1924
1924.
1924.
468
16,268
8,347
Austria
25.093
72,112
3,659
29,999
France
17,810
125,923
8,091
36,001
Germany
8,458
100,667
109,125
34,893
Switzerland
1,054
6,206
19,393
Great Britain
38,537
155,294
17,774
44,453
15.573
24,088
Canada
57.435
All others
262,024
46,971
558.411
279,416
Total
Total Importation of leather footwear increased by 48 per cent. in 1924 compa
with previous year. International Correspondence, September, 1925.

SWITZERLAND.

Import of certain goods permitted.
The "Feuille Officielle Suisse du Commerce" for 1st September contains a lis
of the same date, effective as from 7th September, which grants a general licence for
importation into Switzerland of the goods shown below. These articles were alre
permitted to be imported over the Franco-Swiss and Italo-Swiss frontiers without licens
except in the case of those falling under Tariff No. 182.

Tariff No.
Articles.

18
Skins and leather for the uppers of footwear of all kinds, except
182
Leather for harness, belts and military equipment, black or natur
skin and upper leather of cow or ox hide, white (natural) or waxed
colour.
184
Skins and leather not specified elsewhere in the Tariff.
190
Leather parts of shoes and slippers.
199
Shoes and slippers of canvas, felt, &c., with leather soles or fitted wit
leather.
201
Shoes not specified elsewhere in the Tariff.

COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light,
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.

1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920
1921 1922 1923 1924 1923
January
10-15 35 65 85-90 120
125
165 92
78
77
February
15
35
65-70
90
120 130
151
88
77
79
78
March
15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130
141
86
76
78
79
April
15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110
132
133 82
74
73
73
May
20
40-45 75
95-100 105 141 128
81
70
71
73
June
25
45
75-80 100 105
150 119
80
69
69
70
July
25
45-50
80
100-105 105-110 152
119
84
69
70
August
25
45-50
80
110 115 155 122 81 71
71
73
September
30
50
80-85
110
115
161
120 79
73
72
November
30-35 60
85
120-125 125 176 103
80
75
80
December
35
65
85
120
120
169
99
80
77
81
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922) Agreement, and present date


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.**

Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our cor-respondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of member
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

**N**

NATIONAL UNION of BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Sec of Government, 34, GUILFORD ST. LONDON. W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 246.
NAT TEL: MUSEUM 4438
LONDON
TEL ADDRESS: NATUNISHOP
PHONE, LONDON"

General President
T. F. RICHARDS
General Secretary
E. L. POULTON J.P.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

MONTHLY REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,

26TH OCTOBER, 1925.

TRADE
is, from the point of view of employment, very slow indeed. there being a
considerable number of members in receipt of unemployment benefit. In
fact, from the Union funds we have paid during the past month the sum of
£7,784 18s. 9d., whilst £10,857 0s. 9d. was paid on behalf of the Govern-
ment scheme, a total of £18,371 19s. 6d. for one month. This sum of
money we know helps the members to meet their obligations, but we would
remind the members that the scale of payment from the Union funds would
be quite impossible, on the present contributions, were it not for the fact of
the method by which the Industry is governed, i.e., by National Agreements,
and the local arrangements based upon the same, all of them being dealt with
and adjusted from time to time by the system of arbitration; thereby
avoiding—without giving up any principle—the spending of money upon
constant strikes. As a consequence the funds can be used from time to time
to assist members who are unfortunately unemployed, needing as they do at
such times, something to fall back upon. Moreover, the payments of these
sums is a real contribution towards reduction of local rates, saving thereby
calls upon the ratepayers.

There are, in addition to the number entirely unemployed, a very large
number working short time; it will, therefore, be seen that the outlook is not
at all promising. We would urge upon all the members, nevertheless, to pay


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
and worse than in September, 1924. There was much unemployment and short time at
with
577
Bristol;
common, especially
Nettore some firms, however, were fairly well employed, and the average working
hots were reported to be about three-quarter time.
large number of boot and shoe operatives umemployed. At Stafford it was very
There was a slight improvement at Leeds, but employment remained generally poor,
wich employment was moderate, and about the same as in the previous month, but not
Jack, and there was a marked increase in short time working during the month
sogood as a year earlier: some departments were on short time, others worked some ovel
rime during the month. A further slight seasonal improvement was reported from Bu
in Kingswood there was little change, and short-time working was still common,
mth the smaller tirms. At Street there was a further decline, and employment was bad.
trade of the Rossendale Valley, though a good deal of short time was still being worked.
Employment was fair at Aberdeen, Kilmarnock, Maybole, and Ayr; quiet at Edin-
batch and Glasgow: bad at Dundee and Arbroath. On the whole it was somew
worse in the Scottish centres than in August, 1925, or in September, 1924.
The following Table shows the number of men and of women registered
for employment at Employment Exchanges at 7th September, 1925, in the principal
entres, at which approximately 81 per cent. of the total number of applicants for employ-
ment in the boot and shoe industry were registered :-
It was worse than a year ago.
Department.
Fair conditions continued to prevail in the shoe and slipper
Number of Applicants for
Employment at 7th Sept., 1925.
Men.
Women.
as
applicants
Increase (+) or Decrease (--)
Total.
Men.
as compared with
3rd Aug., 1925.
Women.
Total.
Making Department
Closing Department
Boot and Shoe Manufacture:
Preparing Department
Rough-Stuff Department
Clicking Department
207
620
1,706
44
251
17
24
644
7
24
57
-
12
23
69
1,729
28
2,189
302
+6
296
2,217
+
7
3,495
94
Clog Making
Slipper Making
Finishing Department
3,589
-303
296
+
79
2,153
815
2,968
+ 120
553
36
192
745
+ 65
2
Repairing and Hand-Sewn
38
+32+ III
+93 + 213
+77 + 142
8
I
9
Work
623
2
625
41
I
42
TOTAL
9,421
3,385
12,806
154
-116
270
The exports of boots and shoes in September, 1925, amounted to 122,068 dozen pairs,
or 3,319 dozen pairs more than in August, 1925, but 3,944 dozen pairs less than in September,
1924.
THE LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE.
During the past month the Labour Party Conference has been held at
Liverpool. The Conference was not only very largely attended, but the
spirit of the delegates was one of optimism and determination. The over-
whelming majority of votes recorded upon policy and support of the Executive
was very significant, making it quite clear that there must be on the part of
those who from time to time are nominated for positions that they must adhere
to the Party and its declared policy. Two votes especially we would call
attention to-the one dealing with the claim of the
COMMUNISTS,
and the one dealing with the question of another prospective Labour Govern-
ment. In the first case the vote against the Communists was for referring


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

579

unity may be brought about. A report of the delegates to this Congress will
be found on pages 598-601. Here again much of the time was taken upon the
Communist question instead of it being devoted to purely trade union work.

THE PASSING OF MR. FRED BRAMLEY.

It is with sincere regret we have to record the fact that Mr. FRED
BRAMLEY, Secretary to the General Council of the Trades Union Congress,
passed away very suddenly whilst attending a meeting of the Inter-
national Federation of Trade Unions in Amsterdam on the 10th inst.
It is well known that Mr. Bramley had been ill for some time; he felt,
however, after a recent sea voyage, somewhat improved, and determined
to take up the work in which he had spent most of his life.
It was seen both at the Congress at Scarborough and the Labour
Party at Liverpool, that he was not at all well. His desire, however,
to help the movement was so great that he felt compelled to carry on the
work, and it may be truthfully said he died in harness. As a matter of
fact he died after attending a meeting, and passed peacefully away in
his sleep.
Mr. Bramley did yeoman service for the cause of trades unionism
generally, and it was hoped he had some years of service in front of him;
this was not to be.
We can only hope that the loss of Mr. Bramley will be a spur and
incentive to others to continue to carry on the work of humanity in
which he spent most of his life.
To Mrs. Bramley and the family we beg to tender our sincere con-
dolences and trust the appreciation and high regard in which Mr. Bramley
was held by his colleagues will be some consolation to them in their
irreparable loss.

COSSACK OR RODEO HIGH LEG BOOT.

The Leicester Closing Joint Committee has fixed Closing prices as under for the
following method of Closing this boot :-

METHOD OF CLOSING.

Front Quarter Seam closed, silked and rubbed down.
Top Bands run on-Tape held in when doing second row.
Back Quarter Seam closed, rubbed down and back-strapped.
Sides of Vamp joined to Quarter.
Lining closed back and front.
Lining solutioned and fitted to inside of Quarter.
Front is then fitted.
Front machined through lining forming Mock Row on Golosh, one Single Row.

M. J. BELL-RICHARDS,
President of the Leicester Women's Branch of the
National Union.

T. W. SMITH,
Secretary, Leicester Boot Manufacturers' Association.


---
Closing Prices for Cossack or Rodeo High Leg Boot.

Fitting front on leg and lining all round.
Per gro & Pair
Cloins de
Machining on Vamp and Mock Row forming Golosh on Post Machine (lining
and front previously fitted.
Machining on Backstrap (1 inches in length) on Post Machine 1/3'
per inch)
Machining on Topbands, two rows including holding in tape.
Machining on Topbands, two rows including holding in tape
Silking front seam, two single rows, on lining strips (6/-), including cutting
strips (2 /-). See 104 J.I. in Closing Statement.
If silked on Union Special Machine, twin needle, Statement price,
(according to height, to be paid).
Closing front seam
Rubbing Down (Statement price according to height to be paid)
Closing back seam.
Silking back seam, two single rows, on lining strips 4/- per gross pairs for
the first 7½ inches (size 5), plus 10% extra for each additional inch or
fraction of an inch over 7½ inches, plus 15% extra for the Post M/c.
A boot 12½ inches high would be 4/-, plus 50%=6/-, plus 15% extra
for Post M/c...
Total
(The Committee recommends that the cutting of strips on back seam should
be done on the Table).
Rubbing Down back seam by hand (if done by machinist), 1/6d. per gross
pairs for the first 7½ inches (size 5), plus 10% extra for each additional
inch or fraction of an inch over 7½ inches. A boot 12½ inches high
would be 1/6 plus 50%
Total
NOTE.—The above price is fixed on the understanding that a special stick
is provided for the Rubber Down.
Closing Toe Lining (linen or leather)
Closing back seam of linings, seam not exceeding 3¼ inches in length
For each additional inch or fraction of an inch, over 3¼ inches.
Extra

The Folding and Skiving Prices will be paid as according to Statement
plus Extras for height as given thereon.
The Lasting Joint Committee for Leicester has decided that the following Extras
shall be added to the Statement Prices for the operations mentioned below:—
Seat Sinking
Pulling Over
Consol
Knocking-Up or Pounding-Up
Sole Attaching
Getting Off
Blake Sewing
Levelling.
Loose Nailing
Heel Attaching

Total Extras over the Lasting Dept.
d. per dozen Pairs.
NOTE.—The above prices to come into operation and to be paid from the commencement
of the working week ending on 1st, 2nd, or 3rd October, 1925.
T. W. SMITH,
Secretary, Leicester Boot Manufacturers’ Association.
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
581
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
purchase the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
so that the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
home can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
mums reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
wins to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
ser the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same.
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
make a success.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
Returns
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
R. WHITE.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
Please Note.- CHEQUES NOT "PRINTED PAPERS."
The Postmaster-General draws attention to the fact that considerable numbers of
cheques are posted in open envelopes prepaid d. only. Cheques, whether crossed or not,
and paper money generally, are inadmissible at a lower rate of postage than that applicable
to letters, and if packets containing them are posted insufficiently prepaid they are liable
to be surcharged double the deficiency.


---
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

60 LINDEN ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN,
LONDON, N.W.5.
16th October, 1923.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
Buy no boots unstamped or unbranded; the makers are usually ashamed of them.
The work for the month calls for great comment, inasmuch as the LABOUR CONFERENCE by overwhelming majorities decided to prevent any new organisation from disrupting the Party by personal attacks on the leading and Executive members, has been the policy of a section calling themselves Communists and based upon the Russian régime, most of them openly advocating the change made in that country as a legitimate means for a similar movement to take place here; but history counts in the matter, although all of us, proud of the term Socialist, know full well that the communal instinct in mankind is worth striving for; also that dictatorship by any section or class is the direct opposite to the policy advocated by the genuine Communists such as the late William Morris. When these new organisations come forward with old ideas, rehashed, and poorly force put forth as a remedy, one would think that only by such means can a nation's change be brought about. Our opponents were never tired during the past twenty years in telling the public. My own experience in West Wolverhampton was mainly taken up during the seven years of my close attachment to that constituency. We were constantly assailed with the statements that the advent to power of the Labour Government, or Socialists would see a violent revolution, but Labour has been in office, although only in power, for nine months, and left the state of the country better than they found it. Communists has left a lasting impression on the movement since their attack on the Chairman of the Labour Party and Leader in the House at the Woolwich By-Election and their belated friendship is looked upon with suspicion. If they think they have a claim on the workers for support, then let them proceed with their propaganda anywhere and everywhere that they have the chance. Those of us who admire their enthusiasm find it difficult to distinguish between their policy and that of the Anarchists of old, and the Syndicalism of a few years ago, but we only have to look at their ideal country, Russia and we shall not be happy until the Soviets, instead of electing themselves, go to the polling stations and take their power from the elected of the people. We are informed by deputation from the General Council of the Trades Union Congress that the imprisonment of the Russian Social Revolutionaries is being continued, and this is because they will not give an undertaking from doing the very self-same thing that the present régime did towards the revolutions when Kerensky was in power. Without the ballot box this method appears in all countries where violent revolutions have taken place, that having served power when having no one to fight, they fight each other, and if war is bad, it is no better having vanquished the enemy to then turn your attention to your friends. In Italy (Mussolini), in Ireland (the deaths of Mr. Griffiths and Michael Collins remind us), in China several would-be dictators, and in this country the Communists only believe in Parliamentary action for a purpose, and it is for these reasons that my colleagues and myself voted against these attempts to be party of a party whose constitution and policy they were opposed to. Their motto should be " Do as we say, not as we do."

In spite of all this, I consider it a most disgraceful thing if a Minister of the Crown has publicly gloated over any of this country's citizens being placed under arrest. There will be time enough after the trial to express his joy, but at present one can safely say that the Home Secretary will be greatly disappointed if he cannot bring about a conviction in the light of his alleged hilarity. It is only those of us who have been condemned behind our backs that can vividly feel for others so placed.

NORTHANTS BOARD OF ARBITRATION had referred the price of a Blucher to be dealt with by the Army Board, and upon inquiry it was found that a special price allowed some years ago, and then withdrawn, had been maintained. This was a very unusual thing, and if permitted, once the facts were known, would have resulted in a firm being permitted to make something in leather at a rate less than the statements provide for under the heading of "all other leathers." That in itself provides for this particular article, and ultimately the Army Board came to the conclusion that the statement already provided for this boot, and the same was referred back on that understanding.


---
STREET. A visit was paid to Street to confer with the Branch on a proposition
whereby bulk orders could be dealt with at rates less than the existing statements which
the Union, as there appears to be an advantage when a firm makes for the wholesaler,
have been compiled on a system of small orders and sizable lots. The details were placed
compared with firms who deal only with the retailers.
MARKET HARBOROUGH has been again visited and we have had a very pleasant inter
about the change, and we are hopeful that as we have removed our embargo, that the
new bordering on our activities with the firm's customers who had helped us to bring
... will do the same, because we cannot vouch for the future unless this is done in a
friendly spirit.
FAIRE BROS., MANSFIELD AND LEICESTER. Mr. A. W. Faire, Shoe Manufacturer,
wows with the firm. It is well for us that a gentleman so much respected, and with whom
of Messrs. Smith, Faire & Co., has taken this matter in hand, and we have had two inter-
we have always been able to deal without friction, should have undertaken the unwelcome
the Mansfield firm had made themselves acquainted with the customs of the trade. We
task of straightening out a tangle that would never had occurred if the Management of
hope to be able to report more favourably later.
SUPERANNUATION. The Council of the Union has been considering this matter and
have had special meetings and sub-Committees appointed for the purpose, and when they
have formulated their proposals, will place the matter before the members.
LEATHER FAIR. Our visit to the Fair did not enlighten us much, as officers, owing
to point in the direction of the coming together of buyers and manufacturers, machinery
to the small amount of machinery of the newer kind being shewn. The tendency seems
having appeared to have made itself master of the industry. There will always be minor
improvements, but few convulsions.
TRADE BOARD. Three more days have been spent in this work and several important
and operations more uniform and understandable. A fall back rate for juveniles has been
things done. The removal of anomalies has taken much time in trying to make the rates
recommended to the District Committees, which means that if any employer exceeds
the number of boys allowed, then he must pay from 7s. to 10s. per week more to that boy,
than any other boy, as a penalty or deterrent, as the Ministry are advised that to claim
the adult rate would fail to get any bench of magistrates to commit. The extension of
hours from 48 as govern factories to longer hours by one employer to the Shop Hours Act
limit, on the pretence that no repairing is to be done over forty-eight hours, has been
referred by the Minister of Labour to the Law Officers of the Crown.
INSPECTION. The number of firms inspected for the first time-over nine hundred.
Number of firms inspected during the six months-over one thousand, and the claimed
back pay amount to nearly two thousand pounds. This alone is sufficient for the justifica
tion for the existence of Trade Boards, and although some grumble at the Inspectors,
I am going to pay them this tribute that with all their shortcomings, THEY ARE DOING
SPLENDID WORK, and deserve much more praise and encouragement than they get. In
fact they are more thorough than many Trade Union Officials (whom I know), some of
their inspections taking over four days time. Take the case of the London firm who were
fined £10 each, man and wife, and £5 5s. od. costs, because their Manager caused false
records to be made and over £20 in arrears of wages ordered to be paid.
I wonder there is any man in the repairing trade mean enough not to pay his weekly
contribution to Trades Unionism, who benefits and receives the advantages obtained by
his more generous shopmates. I make this appeal to all repairers to join up, and also to
the Trade Union element: Don't take your repairs to any shop where non-unionists are
employed.
FROME. With Mr. J. Manners we met the Executive Committee of this Parliamentary
Division respecting the appointment of an Agent, and we gave reasons the Council had
for not appointing an Agent at once, and as they were going to review the matter in six
months' time from August, there is little doubt of the matter being favourably considered
then, should nothing occur to hurry matters in that division.
JOINT INDUSTRIAL Council. The sub-Committee appointed by this body has met
and considered how best to help on the principle of the legalising of National Agreements.
Negotiations are proceeding with the General Council for a Deputation from our Union
to the Ministry. The resolution re joining the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives
is proposed to be strengthened, and I hope, get put up in every factory.
SHODDY. This matter received attention and is to be dealt with, probably, by a
deputation to the Minister of Labour, Board of Trade and Minister of Health, and a cam-
paign ought to be started by the Union, and ultimately the Trade, for the elimination of
shoddy materials, and the slogan by Manufacturers, stamping on the soles of the shoes


---
LEICESTERSHIRE COUNTY ARBITRATION BOARD

The Annual Meeting of the County Arbitration Board was held at
Leicester, on Thursday, 22nd October, 1925.
Mr. G. A. Denman
were also present Messrs. J. H. Bott, G. Ward, W. Harvey, G. A. Burton,
J. Palmer and F. Wain, representing the Employers; Mrs. M. E. Osborne,
Greaves, A. Needham, W. Woodward, F. W. Burchnall, T. H. Vallance and
D. Astley, T. F. Richards, W. Warner, J. H. Osborne, G. Parbury, M.
representing the Operatives; and H. A. Flavill, Secretary.
The claims of the Operatives' side for extras for cleaning heels with alumini
insertions and for lasting the Ladies' Rodeo Boot were referred to an Empire
Lasting Statement to a 7 to 8 boot upon which the Statement Joint Committee had
The question of the application of the 2-8 prices in the Nurseries' and
to reach an agreement was referred back to the Committee for reconsideration
The fixing of closing prices for the Ladies' Rodeo Boot was referred to the
Joint Committee.
The Chairman, Mr. G. A. Denman, and the Vice-Chairman, Mr. D. Astley
thanked for their past services, and Mr. T. F. Richards was elected Chairman of the B
for the ensuing year, with Mr. J. H. Bott as Vice-Chairman. The Secretary, Mr. H
Flavill, was reappointed.
It was arranged that each side should send to the Secretary the names of their rep-
sentatives on the District Enquiry Committees.

C.W.S. BOOT PRODUCTION.

For the half-year ended 27th June the total sales of the Co-operative Wholesale Socie
Ltd., were £37,160,319, of which £13,563,668 was from the Society's own works. Included
in these totals were sales of shoes, leather, findings, &c., of £551,179 at the Manchester
headquarters, and of £309,213 at the London branch, these being increases of £56,040 and
£50,248 respectively. At the Newcastle branch the shoe and leather sales were £214,353,
as compared with £227,033 in the corresponding period of 1924.
The distributive sales in the shoe and leather departments were £1,074,745, while the
supplies from the Society's own works, tanneries and fellmongeries were £1,207,809, an
increase of over £130,000, or about 12 per cent. The value of the production in the boow
works at Leicester was £304,685, followed by the Rushden works with £228,305. Leeds
with £86,311. Heckmondwike with £63,950, Norwich £29,367, and Derby £20,191. The
supplies from the Pontefract fellmongery were £349,410, and from the tannery at Grappen-
hall £46,555.
Apart from the fellmongery at Pontefract, all the boot and shoe works made a profit
after charging interest on capital and depreciation. At Rushden the profit was £7,580
and it ranged down to the £591 obtained at the Norwich works. Shoe and Leather News,
24th September, 1925.


---
585
BRANCH REPORTS.
BELFAST. - Trade continues to remain very dull in Belfast and district,
while the Derry Section sends the encouraging report that trade is good with
them
and September. This was the first meeting of the reconstituted Board,
which is composed of thirteen members on each side. Our Union has five
sats allocated to them on the Board, all of whom we are pleased to state were
present at the meeting. The most important items on the agenda for the
eering was the motion from the employers' side, moved by Mr. Smyth and
moved
sonded by Mr. Kerr, "That the Time and Piece Rates be reduced by 25 pe
There were two motions from the workers' side sent forward by the
Branch Secretary: one was for a 10 per cent. increase on the present Time and
ve Rates, and the other motion was one complaining of the unsatisfactory
system of inspection, and urging upon the Government Department responsible
increase the staff of Inspectors so that the regulations made by the Board
the whole day, it was agreed to defer further consideration pending reports
would be better complied with. After considerable discussion, which occupied
from District Committees which have been set up till the next meeting of the
CHESHAM. - We are pleased to report a further improvement in trade
for the month, and that some of our members who have been unemployed for
a long period have obtained work again.
Roard.
members still out of work.
Len. Smith, who are
CHESTERFIELD.-Trade is still improving; we have, however, several
DERBY.-Trade in Derby has slightly improved, but it is still very bad.
We have had two of our National Organisers with us, Messrs. T. H. Baum and
doing good work, their only difficulty in making a good
number of new members is the short time that is being worked. Mr. Baum
addressed a Special Meeting of the Branch, when we had a fair number of
non-members present. He gave us a very good address, and answered a
number of questions satisfactorily. We, in Derby, are of the opinion that if
we could have the services of our organisers more often in the district we should
not be one of the backward centres.
nothing more than hopeful, notwithstanding the fact that this, the boot indus-
try, happens to be one of the numerous tariff protected industries which exist
in the Irish Free State. Basing one's remarks on, if not authoritative, at least
pretty authentic information, we regret to say more pairs of boots and
shoes, particularly in the better class have, and are being imported into the
Irish Free State than before Protection. Something is wrong. We wonder if
the ministerial advocates of Protection fail to see the opening Protection
affords (profiteering!) Or are there only going to be two elements which
shall derive benefit from Protection-first, the Government; second, the
capitalist. The Government, by way of revenue raised from imported con-
signments; second, the capitalist by availing himself of the opportunity of
putting an additional three shillings on every pair. Boots or shoes usually
sold for £1 may now be sold for £1 3s. od. This may suit the classes, but what
about the masses? Are they beneath consideration? Painful rumours are
afloat in regards to solely appointed agencies extracting or rather endeavouring
to extract a 90 per cent. profit. Further, it is rumoured interesting aspirants
must do likewise or go without the goods. This state of affairs, if true, is
desperate, without even waiting to get hold of the market as business concerns
do. We are heading for the precipice of catastrophe, present omens prog-
nosticate industrial and commercial stagnation. The consumer, who pays the


---
piper, should name the time.
not destruction for its aims.
580
We are
industrial and commercial enterprise.
pleased to report that as a result of a
preliminary discussion, quite cordial relations exist between the employers and
our Union. Apparently those gentlemen consider combined organisation ha
We give it as our word of honour, and in deine
so speak for all fellow members, that it is our intention to assist any woll
kindness first, and hope to demonstrate that social service is compatible wit
meaning company to conduct its business in accordance with principles of
past month. New Workers are still quiet. Like other centres the Ministry o
EDINBURGH. Repairing Section have been fairly busy during the
refused uncovenanted benefit from Labour Exchanges. Could not the Labou
Labour working of new regulations are showing more workers who are being
unable to find useful work. We see by Unionist Conference that the present
movement organise a protest against the treatment meted out to workeT
from the tyranny of the Trade Unions. As far as our knowledge goes the
Government are asked to pass into law a Bill to protect Unionist member
Branches have had another successful meeting in connection with Advisor
are quite at liberty to contract out. Why don't they do so? The Scottish
Committee. Several items of interest were under discussion.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Trade generally remains fair, in com-
month, although certain factories have a number of operatives standing off
parison with rest of the country a general improvement on the previous
KILMARNOCK. - Trade in Kilmarnock not so good this month, but
pleased to say that our Section in Kilmaurs is improving this past month.
The repairing trade is very steady throughout the district.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. - The general volume of trade in this
of the year. The industrial situation in the coal mining areas indicate a Door
centre has improved, but lacks the briskness usually associated with this season
demand for heavy footwear, and consequent short time for om operatives.
LEICESTER. - We are sorry we cannot report any improvement in trade.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S. - The Leicester Women's Branch have to
We have our share of the Rodeo or Russian boot here in Leicester, prices of
report unemployment is still as rife as ever.
There seems no improvement.
which we immediately settled with our manufacturers. The same have proved
sent a copy of the prices to all branches where there are women members.
We hope they have been helpful. Only one branch has acknowledged the
copy. Some weeks ago we despatched from this office 80 copies of our revised
statement, and with the exception of about four, we do not know whether
they have reached their destination. The prices for treeing the Cossack boot
are:-Patent, per pair, 3d.; Glacé, per pair, 2d.; Willow, per pair, 2d.
We would like the Leicestershire County prices published for machining as
we know there are large quantities being done on piecework. Our members
at Wigston and Blaby are working to Leicester prices.
LIVERPOOL. We are pleased to report a clean bill of health and every
member employed. The boot repairing trade has been fairly good during the
past month. We have had quite exciting times and plenty of oratory, with a
divergence of ideas and views expressed by delegates to the Labour Party
Conference held in St. George's Hall, Liverpool, the last week in September,
besides all the outside meetings organised by different sections of the Labour
movement. Our Organiser, Mr. D. McCarthy, has been down here trying to
enlist a few recruits for the industrial army.
with no prospects in view. A meeting of the Board of Arbitration was held
LONDON SOUTH.-Trade in London South continues to be very bad
on the 8th of September in connection with indoor workshop question in the

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
587
to terms. Finally
see if they can come
Sew-round trade. A long discussion took place between workers' side and
employers. Some of the employers are in favour, others against
decided to call a full meeting of the Masters' Federation to se
The Board adjourned until the 21st. Another Board Meeting wa
held on the 21st in connection with the Sew round trade. The employers and
workmen have had this question before them several time
want a 4th quality glacé kid sew-round, our side objects. Finally it was sont
to the Umpire, who decided on a 4th quality, but the workers' side still refuse
to accept the Umpire's findings, and the meeting adjourned until the roth
October for a further report.
and likely to remain so.
T
The employer
The new members joining the branch in the early
NORWICH. Trade becomes rapidly worse and the immediate signs do
not hearten one to optimism in the future. Unemployed claims are heavy
section has slightly improved in one or two factories on the evening shoe trade,
weeks of the year are being lost in many cases through unemployment, although
we are confident of regaining them when work improves. The turnshoe
and we wait with some anxiety the coming of Spring orders.
NORWICH No. 2. Trade is not at all flourishing. With two or three
exceptions every factory is working short time as well as standing the men off.
Yet for all that it would not be surprising if the output for the City is not in
short period during the year, the trade (under our economic conditions) is
Carving more labour than it can utilise during the normal week. What was
considered a fair sized factory a few years back is only considered a standstill
affair to-dav. We believe we are holding
heavy, due no doubt to the very changeable weather and to a mild epidemic
though that is rather poor consolation. Our sick experience has been rather
excess of what it was before the war.
of influenza.
It is very apparent, excepting for a
our own with the other shoe centres,
PLYMOUTH. - September has been very slack with us, and we are re-
minded by one of our unemployed members that October has brought with it
Insurance Benefit is paid. This means two weeks' unemployment before one
the "six waiting days," instead of the three as previously, before Unemployed
penny-piece is secured to keep the home fires burning; but it must be pointed
only part of the price to be paid for placing in power the Con-
out that this is only
servative Party after a big majority of working men were made to "see red."
Now we see it was only a red illusion to attract attention while the swindlers
difference, but nine shillings to a poor unemployed man is much more than
nine thousand shillings to a rich one. Apparently the Government considered
that the unemployed benefits were too easily obtained, and encouraged working
men to be idle. They grew suspicious and could not trust the workers, there
fore they made it a little more difficult and discouraged idleness by cutting
off nine shillings from the first week of unemployment, so please allow us to
record the following:-October, 1924: The British working man entrusted
the Conservatives with the reins of government and graciously paid them four
hundred pounds per annum as a minimum only, Cabinet Ministers more accord-
ing to size of hat. October, 1925: The Conservatives show their appreciation
of the British working man by distrusting him, and recognise his kindness
by cutting off nine shillings from the first week of unemployment, then blandly
tells him it is a little pick-me-up for his moral fibre, that he is relying too much
on State assistance, that he will really be better without the nine shillings
than with it. When these platitudes are uttered at political meetings there
are some working men who actually nod their approval and bray like donkeys.
Yet there are intelligent people who say "man came from monkeys."
STAFFORD.-Trade in this centre still remains very slack.
WATERFORD.-Trade was fair during the past month.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since my last report I have been engaged mainly at Manchester and Liverpool
Liverpool Rubber Works at Walton on zoth September, and spoke in
Conference at Liverpool, were invited to the meeting. Fifty of the girls attended thi
he dinner hour and evening to the girls engaged in making rubber shoes and boots Co
tinued the work nest day and engaged a room for an indoor meeting on ist October. My
colleagues, Messrs, W. R. Smith and Len. Smith, being delegates at the Labour Part
at the firm in their particular line, There was no hesitation in giving particulars To
meeting. They were invited to give us some idea of the conditions of labour outati
say that we were surprised at the low earnings of the pieceworkers would be putting in
mildly. They unanimously agreed that it was necessary to join the Union to proters
them and improve their position. The meeting was postponed to the following evening
and they were rewarded in the fact that 121 women and girls became members of the
with the view of getting a better attendance. My colleagues again joined me at this meeting
Union. Three Shop Presidents were elected and we promised to come again and give
further help to make them strong enough to elect a full-time Secretary on their own, omng
to the peculiarity of their work and the distance from the Liverpool Branch. I have
mentioned in my last report that we had joined 200 women at Manchester engaged on thi
been there on a few occasions since and the membership is now bordering on 200. I
class of work. It would be a blessing to the women and girls at the five factories employed
in making plimsolls and rubber shoe goods generally if they would join our Union and give
North British, of Edinburgh, Stuart's, of Dunfermline, and the firm at Leith, could only be
chester, are in favour of uniformity of rates being fixed if the New Liverpool Co., The
us a chance to improve the piecework rates and weekly wages. Frankenburg's, of Man-
Members in the area of the Scottish firms named might send any
brought into line.
information they have on these shops to the headquarters in London.
of Mountsorrel, to recognise the graduated scale of wages and minimums, and the Leicester
For a considerable time efforts have been made to get the firm of Parker & Barlow
Mountsorrel on the 22nd. We are to meet again on the 29th, when we hope to make a
County Statement. With this object Mr. W. R. Smith and I met Mr. J. H. Parker at
settlement that in fairness the employees and the trade are entitled to.
26th October, 1925.
D. MCCARTHY.
During the past month I have chiefly been engaged in the Derby district, visiting the
following firms: C.W.S., Clemson's, Maden & Ireland's, and the Derby Boot Company
Unfortunately trade is not very good, and has therefore interfered with any marked
improvement in organisation. I have frequently met the operatives working at Maden
Ireland's, where our organisation is very weak, many of the operatives having ceased
membership some time ago. They have been working very short time for some months
now, but by coming in personal contact with them and explaining the work of the Union,
further interest has been added, which I think over a period of time will eventually have
beneficial results. No Holiday Fund is in operation, and the operatives consider that as
two other firms in the town are paying, the position is not fair. This appears to be an
excellent reason why they should all belong to the Union, but as I have pointed out to them,
that until they show a better appreciation of the power of organisation, the matters that
they complain about can never be adjusted. With trade improving, I think that by
consistent work the operatives' confidence can be regained, whereby negotiations could
proceed which will gradually improve their conditions. Clemson's have also been working
very short time, and a fairly good number have lapsed, but definite promises are being
made that as trade improves they will eventually commence paying. Conditions are
decidedly bad at the Derby Boot Company, the operatives are not very responsive, only a
few of the girls seem to have any spirit, the rest accept the conditions and just
Fear appears to be the usual driving force at this firm, and no doubt the employer would
be at a loss if he depended upon anything else to conduct his business, and the only way to
end this condition of affairs is for the men and women to assert their position as human
beings, and demand humane conditions of employment.
st grumble.
I called a meeting of the whole firms in the town, which was fairly well attended.
A good discussion took place on the work of the Union. As a result of this meeting several
matters were raised with reference to the C.W.S., which no doubt will be adjusted.
I have again visited Mansfield, and met the operatives working at the Mansfield
working at Faire Bros., but no improvement is possible until negotiations are completed
Shre Company. Our organisation is steadily improving at this firming also met the girls
with this firm. The girls resent very much the interference of the firm with their rights,


---
Here is the extracted text:
325
THE FORTY-EIGHT HOURS WEEK.
Considerable attention is still being given to the question of the forty-eight
hours week and the possibility or otherwise of it becoming law. At the Seventh
Session of the League of Nations International Labour Office the question was
discussed at length, and we regret to report that the attitude of the Government,
through its representatives, is one of disappointment. Many members of
the League have already ratified the Convention of 1919, but will not put it
into operation until the British Government has done so. We trust that our
members will do what is possible to keep this matter before their local repre-
sentatives, and thus create such an opinion as to show the Government that
the Convention must be ratified, and that at an early date.
The Seventh Session of the I.L.O. also passed conventions in favour of
the abolition of Night Baking, Equality of Treatment of Workmen and
Foreigners' Accidents, and Compensation for accidents and industrial
diseases.
It is, however, very regrettable to have to record the fact that the attitude
of the British Government, instead of leading in industrial matters, as we
contend they should do, they either remain neutral or are reactionary. This
has very considerable effect upon other nations, and undoubtedly reduces
the influence of Great Britain upon other nations' representatives.
This is additional evidence of the necessity to as far as possible, and as
early as possible, change the representation of the country so as to ensure the
Labour Party not only being in office, but in real power, and thus give an
incentive to progress and peace amongst and between the nations of the
earth.
We wish to congratulate the General Secretary upon his re-election as the
British Workers' Representative upon the Governing Body of the International
Labour Office. Mr. Poulton was elected at the top of the poll, and was also
one of the acting chairmen of the Conference, which is indeed an honour for
the Union.
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR No. 9 DISTRICT.
The list of names of members nominated to fill the vacancy created by the
lamented death of Mr. C. Bleakley, will be found on page 357. Voting must
take place at the monthly meeting nights, and the votes counted on the 13th
prox., and posted to reach the Central Office by the FIRST POST on the
15th July, otherwise they will be disqualified.
POLITICAL MATTERS.
Since writing our last Address, the Labour Party has made a further
attempt to ascertain the attitude of the Government on Unemployment.
Reference was made to the fact that "163,000 more persons are unemployed
than twelve months ago." Mr. J. R. Clynes, speaking to the resolution, called
attention to the fact that in the King's Speech reference was made that the
B


---
```text
326
when an attempt should be made to find a solution or frankly declare that
Government would deal with the subject, and the stage has now been reached
there is nothing which the Government can do. The reply on behalf of the
Government was indeed vague, and they only expressed the hope that within
have again reached something like what they were before, when we shall share
the not too distant future, when the consuming powers of our customers
that the Government have no real policy to meet the grave subject of unem-
in the prosperity which will come to them as to us." It is therefore evident
ployment. Here, again, we trust that our members will remember these facts,
and when they have an opportunity to record their vote-be it early or late
majority of Labour Members in the
we trust they will so use it as to secure a
next House of Commons.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION.
We are pleased to report that W. J.B., of Bristol, who met with an acciden
in October, 1921, has recently secured a lump sum of £200, the costs being
paid by the Insurance Company.
We beg to repeat, however, that lump sums are not obtainable by law,
but only by agreement, and members desiring legal assistance must repor:
immediately to the local officials, who will then communicate with the Central
Office.
NEW IRISH BRANCH.
We are pleased to report that as a result of negotiations with the Central
Office and with the assistance of Mr. G. White, of Belfast, a Branch has been
formed at Dundalk, 29 members joining at the first meeting. The officers
have been appointed, and we trust that not only will the branch in Dundalk
tand loyally by the Union, but that they will be enabled to enjoy the full
Ivantages of their fellow members throughout the United Kingdom.
JUBILEE HISTORY OF THE UNION.
Members who desire to secure a copy of this most interesting and valuable
record of the work of the Union for its first fifty years should place their order
immediately with the Branch Secretary, as the stock is constantly being reduced,
and we do not intend to have a reprint. They are only 6d. per copy, and
should be ordered at once.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
327
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear "should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
THANKS FROM MRS. C. BLEAKLEY.
Mrs. C. Bleakley, I Drum Terrace, Edinburgh, asks through the Council
to kindly thank on her behalf, all members and officials for their kind letters
of sympathy and floral tributes. Mrs. Bleakley is unable to thank all indi-
vidually, and asks members and others to accept this intimation as an apprecia-
tion in her loss.-E.L.P., G.S.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
ADMIRALTY (CONTRACT AND PURCHASE DEPARTMENT).- SHOES, BLACK LEATHER:
G. M. Tebbutt & Son Ltd., Northampton.
WAR OFFICE. BOOTS, ANKLE: J. Horrell & Sons, Raunds; S. Walker, Raunds;
W. Lawrence, Raunds; C. E. Nicholls, Raunds. SHOES, CANVAS: Stead & Simpson,
Leicester. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1925.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

328

GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT

FELLOW MEMBERS,

COMPETITION. The state of trade appears to be making some of our manufac-
turers very dissatisfied with what they describe as foreign competition, although many of
them have been critics of their confrères in other towns, and not a few have hinted at the
way that some of their nearest neighbours conduct their business; to all this I hope we
shall always lend a willing ear, because it is just as much to the Union's advantage as well
as to the operative, to note that scientific management does not culminate in lower wages
We have already responded to the appeals made to investigate conditions; we are satisfied
that the workers' slogan, "equality of opportunity," is fast becoming an international
demand amongst the organised workers. The unorganised have no conception, but j
hour day, which to this day has not been legalised in this country-(although we have to
follow the organised, "picking up the crumbs." The attempt to interfere with the eigh
a Labour Government in power for some of the time) - it is passing strange that
other countries should be ahead of us in this respect, the eight-hour day becoming la.
Russia, Finland 1917, Norway, Germany, Italy, Poland, Luxembourg, Austria, Cze-
or adopted by agreement: - Panama 1914, Uruguay 1915, Ecuador 1916, Mexico, Portuge
Slovakia 1918, Jugo-Slavia, France, Denmark, Switzerland, Spain, Sweden, Washi
Bulgaria, Greece, Roumania and India 1919. Tory England, Ireland and Holland
appear amongst the above list of enlightened countries, and up to the present all atter
have been defeated. Will our members remind their employers that the above stateme
that nineteen countries had adopted an eight-hour day before the Washington Conventio
and of these the most important countries from which we get shoes, viz.: - France, Ger-
hour day, and in most other matters we find generally that conditions are not half so bad
many, Austria, Switzerland, Czecho-Slovakia, and Sweden, had all adopted the eight
as our employers try to make us believe. If they would throw in their lot with those
us who believe in dealing with and buying only from those whose conditions of employmen
they would be setting an example that
could honestly ask others to follow,
what you may be doing yourself. In this connection we have been very busy putting
to have gone wrong, and it is useless for prominent
members of the Employers' Federation to complain of home or foreign competition while
they place orders and encourage these people who studiously avoid paying the rates o
wages governing the trade. It makes one think and wonder whether these pretenders are
really acting privately as they would have the public believe.
MARKET HARBOROUGH has occupied more than a week of my time during the past
month, chatting with the operatives daily during that time, and eventually calling a
meeting and taking a number of names of operatives who were willing to join the Union.
For conscience sake we called another meeting nearer the factory, but in the meantime the
employer had asked all the operatives (more than one hundred) to stay behind for fifty
minutes. This gentleman, an old shopmate of mine, worked with me at Messrs. Cooper &
Sons, Redcross Street, Leicester, and was a loyal member of ours for years, and I am
informed is a good living man-so tampered with the minds of these operatives that none
beyond a handful dared to come to the meeting. I therefore sent him the following letter,
and append his reply thereto:-

[COPY.]
MR. G. LOOMS,
Bath Street, Market Harborough.
DEAR MR. LOOMS,
15th May, 1925.

I ain very sorry indeed to find that after several days I have been attending
outside your factory for the main purpose of persuading your employees to join the
Union. This, I think you will agree with me, is a very perfect legitimate and legal
paid, said a thing which could be construed as of a detrimental character to yourself
thing to do. I should regret, if I have at any time, during the many visits I have
member of our Union, in doing your best in this short span of life for yourself without
the least injury to others, and I have endeavoured, I hope, to carry out this principle,
or the firm. I have one object in view, which you had when a young man, and a
of my colleagues who visited you some time ago, and I thought, therefore, I could
keeping with your own impression, viz.: that you did not get on very well with one
said (I don't know all the circumstances under which the statement was made), but
assuredly depend upon your sympathy, if not your spirit; in fact some of the men have
they had got it at one of the meetings this week that you were rather favourable to
the Trade Union. I think you have rather dispelled that idea.


---
We are bound in our humble way, to attend outside the factory of any firm of
boot and shoe manufacturers, or who are doing auxiliary work, work which under
ordinary circumstances would be done by boot and shoe manufacturers, to endeavour
to get them to adopt our National Conditions, of which I enclose a copy. I think
you will admit that your conditions are below the conditions enclosed, and as these
are minimum conditions, we think at least that, speaking as man to man between our
selves, and as an old shopmate, I was not aware that you wished to have an
advantage over your fellows in any respect. I believe you subscribe to a form of
faith in which that is its fundamental principle. I should be very pleased to receive
from you the slightest intimation that you had no intention of preventing or interfering
with the liberty of the subject, that you don't wish to say whether your operatives
shall go to Church or to Chapel, join the Salvation Army or the Boys' Brigade, and I
would like to respectfully suggest that you permit them to spend their wages in those
directions which are likely to give them the best results economically, socially, and
politically.
It would be a pleasure to still find that you are still in heart and spirit the same
man as an employer, as you were when a wage-earner.
Hoping that this appeal will have the desired effect in allowing and encouraging
everyone to keep up the standard of life and living to the highest possible point,
is the wish of
Yours sincerely,
T. F. RICHARDS,
General President.
MANUFACTURERS OF
SOLES, HEELS,
COUNTERS, LEATHER
AND FIBRE.
CONTRACTORS TO H.M. GOVERNMENT.
G. LOOMS,
CROSS STREET WORKS,
MARKET HARBOROUGH.
9th June, 1925.
MR. T. F. RICHARDS,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
DEAR SIR,
London, W.C. 1.
We desire to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 15th ult., which we
regret has not been replied to earlier owing to the writer being away from business.
We have carefully taken note of the contents, but do not see there is anything
calls for a reply from us. The relations with our workpeople are pleasant, they have
perfect freedom, and you may rest assured that their welfare has always been our
constant aim. In fact, we think they know, the conditions of work and wages here
are better than generally prevailing in this industry.
Therefore, further correspondence on this subject would not serve any useful
purpose.
Yours sincerely,
For G. LOOMS.
W. LOOMS.
This cannot go on. What.right has any man to interfere with the liberty of the
subject; this cannot be tolerated, and I am asking my colleagues to allow our Mr. L.
Smith and Mr. J. H. Baum to give the firm special attention. It is only fair to say that
this firm, being an auxiliary firm, is kept going by the Boot Manufacturers' Federated
members, and is not associated with any organisation. This is not all; we note that
this firm say they are Government Contractors. If they were, we could make them pay
in accord with the Fair Wages Contract Clause of the House of Commons, and to make
sure, I am approaching the Director of Army Contracts for information. We believe
this firm has already been removed from the Government list, but we will make sure.
I hope they are on the list, they will then be compelled to pay at once.
MANSFIELD. We have still another firm in the same auxiliary branch of the trade at
Mansfield, where we are trying to get the heads of the firm at Leicester to adopt the trade
conditions. The "heads" say they have no antipathy or opposition to us, but the local
people at Mansfield have had the girls in the office and lectured them on the "folly" of
belonging to a Trade Union and the dire consequences that would, or will follow. These
people who set up this business ought to have informed their principals what were the
conditions of the trade, and not have taken advantage of unorganised labour to make a
success of a business on non-union lines. Further, one would have thought that sooner


---
or later these gentlemen ought to have known that they could not be exempt from a set
of conditions wholly imposed by themselves on others. In this they must have been out
of date completely, but we still hope that they will conform to the conditions without
any friction.
LEICESTER. - We have been pressing three firms in this City who are Stiffening Makers,
in the Manufacturers' Association, we expect them to conform to the conditions covering
for compliance with the Holiday Scheme, and although they are not eligible for membership
the trade. Several of these firms who do this kind of work are already paying, but the
agree, because of their competitors (and as the two firms at Mansfield and Market Har
three firms of Mr. J. Peake, Messrs. Gardner & Pratt, and Messrs. Burrows Bros. cannot
obtained, through the kindly offices of Mr. W. A. North, J.P., who has acted as mediator
between us (and at the employers' request, we were bound to accept the offer), and we have
borough are in a much larger way of business, one can easily sympathise), but we have
at last obtained a definite date when these firms will commence to pay. Meantime there
will be no relaxation of our efforts to bring into line all firms engaged in the industry.

LONDON SEW-ROUND BRANCH held a general special meeting of members for the
purpose of getting the members' views on the question of pressing the employers to make
provision for them to work on premises provided by the employer in preference to home
employment. The usual arguments were advanced in favour, but yet a few were found
to vote against this humane and commonsense plan, and as we have already assisted
them before the National Joint Standing Committee to grant them the benefit of the
Holiday Scheme (Mr. W. Addington Willis decided that all workers were involved, and
that one farthing in the shilling up to 56s. per year was in keeping with the letter and spirit.
working indoors will eradicate evils which have always attended home employment.
They asked me to preside on behalf of the Union, which I did, and we wish them success
in their efforts. The Metropolitan Branch is also involved, the President and Secretary
at the Board of Arbitration. The next move will be to table this motion.

The MANUFACTURERS' FEDERATION has had to be appealed to because either the hot
weather or bad trade appears to be affecting the kindly way in which some employers have
treated us recently. They now suggest that all things are all right, if we will let their
people alone. My answer is: No news is bad news; if we hear often all is generally
good, but when bad or wrong, we must ask all to toe the line irrespective of the size or
reputation of the firm. Wrong is no man's right.

PRODUCTIVE FACTORIES. - We have been appealed to respecting one of these firms
whose generosity in making advances and giving advantages, has reduced the volume
of work, and they find that our old adage of a good statement and no work is not beneficial
to a business, and when a whole factory is involved someone has to take the lead and
point a way out. We are always willing to advise in these matters, and if necessary
address those involved. We are well aware that when the Co-operative Wholesale Society
appealed for loyalty from the Distributive Societies, and the fact that trade has been very
good with them this year up to the present, unless they cut off the private firms who supply
the movement which they have not done, we knew that the fall in trade would find the
productive. In fact some societies won't allow their Managers to place orders outside
the C.W.S.; some don't allow them to place them outside the Movement. I agree with
this latter attitude, and have tried and shall still try, although I don't appear to get much
help from the operatives themselves, that the C.W.S. as such ought to give no orders fer
shoes to any private firm. Let them utilise more or both of the "white elephant" factories
they have at Wellingborough and Norwich; neither building is half occupied, and yet
the C.W.S. are buying goods from two factories where we have only a minority of members.
nd the Directors refuse to do as the Government always do, i.e., publish the name of the
ospective contractors. This they have refused.

RAUNDS, ARMY CONTRACTS. In order that there may be no overlapping or different
ices paid in the various districts, I visited Raunds for this purpose, and found that the
Red Book was still the guide for Army Canvas. I was shown the stuff now being made
there, which is in appearance, whilst new, something entirely different. The canvas
bodies are about as thick as leather and thin leather blank cap and golosh cover them with
a leather through runner and a crepe sole and heel.

IRTHLINGBOROUGH, NENE VALLEY TANNING CO. The Secretary of the Northants
Advisory Council (Mr. G. Chester) had arranged for the Council to visit the above works
and proved to us most interesting. Our party numbered 40 and a very instructive and
thanks to the Chairman of Directors, Dr. Robb, Mr. Hawthorne, of Finedon, and others
enjoyable afternoon was spent. We saw the process of making upper leather from the small
South African hides to the finished article of Box Calf; the consecutive processes of Chrome
Tanning are as follows : Soaking, unhairing, neck, splitting, fleshing, deliming, machine
dyeing, setting out, drying, sawdusting, staking, tacking on, seasoning, glazing, boarding
scudding, hand scudding, tanning in drums, neutralising, sammying, splitting, shaving
plating, trimming, measuring. The rates paid men are 60s. per week, and about


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```
are members. After the visit, which occupied about two hours, the Directors were kind
enough to provide us with a very nice substantial tea, of which we heartily partook and
warmly thanked the Directors for their kindness which was twofold. This visit has made
me think and feel again that the Leather Workers ought to be one unified body, but we
ought to get the Amalgamated and the Slipper Union of Rossendale to join up with us
first.

HOME SECRETARY. – With the General Council we waited on the Home Secretary
to hear his replies to several resolutions, including Compulsory Workshops put forth by
the Factories and the Shoe Makers, and he said these places were on the wane and he did
not feel that he ought to be hurried, in fact he was entirely unsympathetic. On the ques-
tion of bringing buildings under the Factory Inspectors, there is a move in that direction,
if and when he gets his amended Factory Bill through. He agrees that more Factory
Inspectors must be appointed. Like all his friends, they are perfectly satisfied with this
beautiful world; those who voted for them are getting their desserts, and have helped to
set back the clock of progress.

Fellow members, support the Daily Herald, your own paper, and encourage your
friends to do the same, and expose Shoddy Shoes wherever found.

Yours fraternally,

W. Y. Richards
General President.

60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, LONDON, N.W. 5.
15th June, 1925.

REPORT OF DELEGATES TO BRUSSELS.

As fraternal delegates to the Biennial Conference of the Belgian Leather and Skin
Workers' Union, which has some ten thousand shoe operatives, who by the way are about
75 per cent. of the whole of the shoe workers in Belgium, we beg to report that the Con-
ference was held on Saturday, Sunday and Monday of the Whitsuntide holidays. The
delegates, some eighty in number, assembled at the Maison du Peuple, or in English the
House of the People. We had a pleasant, but rough, passage from Dover to Calais, and
were struck by the policy of small holdings which are so prevalent in France and Belgium.
We boarded our train at Calais and went through St. Omer, Armentiers, Lille to Blandain,
the Belgian frontier. Here we were for the second time in the hands of the Customs.
Later we passed through Fingeens, Tournai, Barry Moude, to Loos, Englies, Halle Hall,
to Brussels, where Comrade Hellinck and Comrade Wartel met us. The first named is
the general secretary of the Union, and the latter our interpreter, who could speak a little
English, and was a tailor by trade employed at the Maison du Peuple, and a member of
the Management Committee of that place, who are trade unionists and co-operators and
socialists all rolled into one. The building is used for trade union meetings, and for the
sale of some articles, a restaurant where food and drink can be obtained, and where the
people from the provinces are sure of getting a meal at a reasonable cost. To us the cost
of living appeared to be quite 25 per cent. cheaper than in this country. Clothes and
some other articles cost much more, including furniture. Most of the labourers on the
land, those in the streets and gardens, wore sabots (or woodon shoes) with everlasting
wear, and only wear for a dash a pair of slippers or something easy for the feet. This
only applies to the very poor, and, as stated above, those who work on the land, which is
very moist in some parts, more so in France than Belgium. Women are in the majority
as field workers; oxen are used extensively by milkmen, rag and bone dealers and those
who pretend to push a hand cart have a dog underneath in harness who never appears
to be told where he has got to pull as his neck is in the collar as soon as the cart moves.

The Congress was attended by their three presidents-Charles Jorden, Jean Diericks
and Egene Deprex. Delegates were Citoyens Richards and Warner, and Madam Richards,
a visitor from Angleterre (England), Drett (France), Lex (Germany), Shinty (Luxembourg).
Interpreters were Wartel (for English), Shinty (for German), Vanhove (from French into
Flemish), and Luppens (Flemish into French). All understood French or Flemish who
belong to the Union, and they had to have every speech translated into French and Flemish.
The General Secretary was Alex Hellinck; the Secretaries were Leon Petry and Georges
Terrin. The basis of their organisation and benefits are similar in character to our own;
```


---
are apprentices and are paid on a 332
vention as substitutes for our arbitration boards. of the information we obtained was from an old shopmate, Adolphe Vallenion, who is a
contribution scales and benefits are various. Day labour is the order of the day, and much
laster. He was wounded in 1916, sent to England and found work at the C.W.S. Works.
Rushden, after declared unfit for future service. The girls' minimum is about two-third
of that for men; all work is held together and they complete the work right through.
There was one machinist at the Congress, Madame Valeria la Traneg. The rise or fall in
graduated scale, and increases take place every siz
the cost of living alters the wages and to-day's mean would be 400 points. All juveniles
months, and in most of the big centres the rates are as with us, settled by the local com-
delegates presented Mrs. Bell-Richards and Madame la Traneg with bouquets. A banquet
After the Chairman's short address and the fraternal delegates had spoken, the
provided their own harmony and some beautiful singing was heard and there was only one
was arranged for the whole of the delegates, and a very pleasant evening was spent. The
drawback is the language, but a six months' careful study of one hour per day would wor
short speech of about ten minutes at the commencement from the Chairman. The great
wonders, but expression and intonation have to be acquired afterwards.
Comrade Moena took up the fourth contribution question as to its being used 30.
2,479; neutral 868; majority 3,504. Contributions are 2.50, and as a franc is only worth
for strikes, and was it to be compulsory or voluntary. The voting was for 5,903 agains
and get sick, strike, accouchement, death, out-of-work pay. The latter means 5 frame
24d. or 97 to the f at the time we were there, this means they pay about 6 d. per wee
from the Union and 3 from the State, or 8 francs per day, which in English money is 15.
per day or 10s. per week. The girls get 5 francs all told, or about Is. od. per da:-
6s. 6d. per week.
We tried to get permission to go round a shoe factory, but one had a fire during the
week prior to the holidays and the other the employer was not of the kind to help us
says Comrade Hellinck. The nearest was about 100 miles away and permission was not
sure, so we abandoned the idea during this visit. Of one thing learned, is that Belgium
no competitor of this country, and there is no outrage of the 48-hour week; they do not
or Belgique or Eke as they call it, and especially Brussels (in their spelling Bruxelles
believe that their Government nor the employers will ever be strong enough to abolish
the 48-hour week. The only regret is that, like ourselves, we both permit overtime.
This is, I hope, our next demand for it to be abolished.
We cannot close without thanking all the comrades in Brussels and Belgium who added
to our comfort and permitted us to spend a pleasant outing at Waterloo and other districts.
Statuory, music, painting and very fine and beautiful buildings were much in evidence.
When the same effort is put forth by the powers that be to utilise their wealth for the
benefit of making a sturdy and intellectual people, we shall be nearing the millenium.
12th June, 1925.
T. F. RICHARDS,
W. WARNER,
Delegates.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1924 667,902 8 7
£ s. d.
January, 1925
To December, 1924 358,625 13 7
..
February
2,840 1 10
January, 1925
3,954 7 9
..
March
3,952 4 8
February
5,226 1 9
..
April
4,124 16 0
March
3,031 5 0
..
May
4,054 10 6
April
..
..
..
4,023 13 8
May
3,510 14 9
..
..
£686,897 15 3
£378,030 13 1


---
333
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Many of the factories in the parts of Leicestershire where I have been during
the month have been on short time. It is bad for operatives who suffer in their earnings
because of bad trade, but it makes the work of an organiser unpleasant as well. Even
at shops that are weak in trade union organisation and where the National Agreements
are not observed, short time is the rule.
There are two factories at Derby, Maden & Ireland's and Lynch's, where we have
only a few members. Mr. W. R. Smith and I visited these shops. We had a fine meeting
at the first factory. The heads of departments seemed a bit alarmed over the operatives
staying out so long, and giving Mr. Smith a cheer at the close of his speech. The meeting
at Lynch's was good, but all did not turn up as at Maden & Ireland's. The conditions
at this shop are bad according to reports, and yet some were having half days off for want
of trade. The non-unionists working for less than trade union rates have no guarantee
of regular work any more than trade unionists have where the Agreements are observed,
and the anti-trade union employer has no real assurance year by year of increasing his
trade and banking account by employing non-union labour and paying below a fair standard.
Poor pay ultimately means poor work.
We have had several good meetings at Sileby, making special appeal to the females
to recognise how the Union has improved their conditions in recent years. At Messrs.
Newbold & Burton's, where about one hundred operatives are employed, nearly all returned
from dinner in time to give Mr. Smith and myself a good opportunity to state our case
for the Union. So at Willett's, and other shops in a fair way gave us a hearing. It was
only at one shop where the whole of the workers except one did a good sprint to get away
from us. I have a better opinion of these people probably than they would give me credit
for. I believe that they must have felt within themselves that they are an unworthy
set, and that they could not stand and find reasons for their position as non-unionists.
D. MCCARTHY.
23rd June, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since writing our report we have met the repairers working at Upsom's, and we
are very pleased to report that the whole of the repairers are now members of the Union.
We also met the operatives working at Pocock's. We are hopeful that further visitations
will eventually induce them to again rejoin. All the girls are receiving the recognised
scales, but up to the present we have no members amongst them, though they quite
readily admit that it was mainly due to the Union that they receive the present wages.
Met the girls working at the Carlton Shoe Company. This is a well-organised firm so far
as the men are concerned, but we have only a few women members. We canvassed the
whole of them with membership cards, and while a good number of them appeared to be
interested, there was a great deal of indifference. A number of youths working at Freeman,
Hardy & Willis's were not members. After meeting them on two occasions, all of them
promised to become members. Met the women working at De Larnge's, where all the
men are members, but we have only three women members. We are hopeful that as a
result of our visit here, some improvement will take place in our membership. We have
again visited the firm of Polikoff's. In the evening we met the clickers, who appear to
be the best organised, for the purpose of dealing with prices paid for the work cut. After
Mr. Mason had dealt with the grievance, we took the opportunity of pointing out to them
the position of the girls working at the firm, with the result that we are likely to get more
active support in this direction. Met the girls working at Turner's, another firm where
the men are all members. In conversation with them we discovered some time ago some
of them were members, but lapsed. Constant visits are required at this firm if an improve-
ment is to take place in our membership. We have again met the girls working at Good-
man's. This continued visitation should have some effect, but there appears to be a great
deal of hesitancy amongst them, and we have not been able to discover the reason why.
It is a good firm, and the chief objection may be due to the fact that when a fire took place
adequate damages were not forthcoming in the opinion of the girls to meet their losses.
On three occasions we have met the girls working at Britten & Bannister's. We
canvassed the whole of them with literature and membership cards, and when they entered
the factory simply gave the Shop President the cards with nothing on. We again met the
girls after this incident, but some of them seemed totally indifferent. The girls who are
members have approached the firm with reference to the attitude of the girls toward the
Union, but without any success, stating that they could not interfere. Met the girls
working at Lehany's. At all these firms that we have visited in connection with the organi-
sation of women, we estimate that upwards of 400 women are engaged, with a membership
of about 50, while the men are practically all organised, and if we are going to make any
C
---

---
334

satisfactory progress, the men working at these firms will have to render more effective
service than they are doing at the present time.
Another visit to Pocock's has revealed to us the possibility of again putting the firm
on a more satisfactory basis. All those who have lapsed have promised to again consider
the matter.
We have met the operatives working at Jos. Branch's. A number of youths here
were not members, but they promised to join. The girls were also canvassed, but found
We have visited the firm of Petch & Sons. We have no girl members here, and in
no one here a member.
Tuesday evening next week.
Lazarus's, Branch's, Knights', Harrison's, Cooper's, Levine's, H. & S. Solomon's, Franklin's
During the week ending 13th June, 1925, we met the operatives working at Meltzer's
Hyam's, J. Branch's, Pocock's. We attempted a meeting with the lasters and finishers
working at Franklin's, but unfortunately there was only a small attendance. This is not
the first time that we have had to record a failure, though we have made very decided
progress in organising this firm in these two departments. We are not satisfied that our
firm. There appears to be a large number of young girls and boys working at this firm,
and with regard to the organisation of the women it is exceedingly poor. We are endeav-
ing to arrange another meeting of the operatives. We attended a meeting of the operatives,
at John Branch's. This is not a very large firm, and from our investigations the con-
ditions are not satisfactory. We joined a few youths up and the local officials are see-
We have chiefly met these operatives at the
the operatives are still as dull and uninterested. This firm appears to have full control
accepting any obligation. With regard to H. & S. Solomon's, the position has not improved,
over them, and as they are working overtime, plenty of work seems to be their only object
without any consideration for the quantities of work that they are doing. We have again
visited Kempton & Brandon's. The conditions here are deplorable, chiefly toys and girls
and Phillips' also present some difficulty, in so far that no one is prepared to accept the
responsibility of collecting contributions.
factory gates with our literature, and by personally canvassing them to increase cur
membership.
the firm with reference to the complaints of the men. At the firm of Pocock's the
have promised to again consider the question of rejoining. The organisation at this firm
We have made a special effort amongst the following firms, which are chiefly recog-
nised in London as the first-class firms :-
Britten & Bannister.
Petch & Co.
Hitch & Penny.
Polikoff's.
Goodman's.
Turner's.
Carlton Shoe Company.
De Larnge's.
Lehany's.
We estimate that upwards of 500 girls are employed at these firms, yet cut of this
number we have not more than 50 members. We have met these girls at these firms on
two or three occasions, both on leaving the factory and returning after dinner hour. Every
girl has received a membership card and literature; in some cases they were very insolent
and rather resented our appeal to them to become members. In some cases we are of the
opinion that the agreed minimums are not being complied with, and except for verbal
conversations we have no other evidence. At all these firms all the men are members,
but we receive very little encouragement from them. We are endeavouring to arouse
their interest in order that they should exert their influence towards making these firms
fully organised. The existence of such a large body of women unorganised at this class
of firm is deplorable, and owing to the attitude of our members who seem to have neglected
efforts that some improvement will take place, and we are fairly confident that if the efforts
results ought to follow.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
The past month has been spent in the County of Leicestershire with a visit in
between to Derby. The former place is a contrast to the East End of London, especially
at this time of year, which is perhaps the most pleasing of all the seasons.
The volume of trade in the county areas round Leicester gives ample scope for work,
as even if the operatives are members of the Union, they appreciate a visit, acting as it
in the larger centres.
J. H. BAUM.
LEN. SMITH.


---
335
The attendance and attention at the meetings at the factory gates is on the whole
very good. On several occasions one has had nearly twenty minutes in which to address
them, which gives the opportunity of presenting a more practical statement than is possible
in a shorter time.
The places visited are Syston, Anstey, Mountsorrel, Silcby, and as already stated,
Derby. In some cases the spirit of the operatives is very good, but in others it is of another
kind, and the task is greater in consequence. The conditions in some cases also add to
the difficulties of organising. The presence of other industries such as hosiery give the
women an economic independence which is of great value to them, and girls pass into the
trade and obtain our rates of wages without any real effort on their part, and many of them
appear to have no idea that the Union has done anything in fixing these rates.
At the meetings and in conversation the work of the Union in obtaining the National
Terms of Settlement and the need of a strong union to maintain same has been emphasised,
and we think the result will be some new members, though their minds move somewhat
slowly, and their actions may be similar. But as hope has to be a strong feature in the
make-up of a trade union organiser, we view the situation with confidence.
The effort, however, must be a sustained one in these areas if good results are to follow,
and the Union obtain the control that is essential if our conditions are to be permanently
secured. I believe it can be done, but new conditions require new methods, and it may be
that the Union will have to review the situation in this spirit.
The situation at Derby is perhaps not so hopeful from the point of view of member-
ship, though here again the meetings at the factories were very good, both from the point
of view of attendance and attention given to what was said. At all these meetings literature
has been distributed, in which our conditions are fully explained, and the obligation of
the operative to the Union duly emphasised.
The situation at Derby has not been helped by the action of the late Secretary, and
the members express themselves very strongly on the subject. A case like this makes
one doubt whether a generous attitude is on the whole the best for the interest of the Union.
In this case our members are firmly convinced it has been harmful to the branch.
There are other features that want consideration before we can proceed here with
any confidence, though one cannot help thinking that some of these places drift too far
before we deal with them.
20th June, 1925.
WALTER R. SMITH.

MR. LLOYD GEORGE ON UNEMPLOYMENT.
When the Unemployment Bill was introduced by the Labour Party on the 22nd
May, 1925, Mr. D. Lloyd George, M.P., made, amongst other statements, the following :-
There is one survey which I should like to see undertaken; it is a very difficult one
to make, and that is a survey of the extent to which we can hope in future to provide
employment for our people out of our export and foreign business. Are the Government
quite convinced that in future, looking at what is going to happen, that we can depend
to the same extent upon our foreign business as we have in the past. We have depended
upon foreign trade more than any other country in the world. There is no country in the
world that has, I will not say entirely, but to such an extent depended for the very life
of its population upon trading with countries across the seas. It is a very perilous position
to be in. That is one of the questions that ought to be examined the extent to which
in future we can hope to depend for 100 per cent. employment upon our foreign trade.
If we cannot, then we must look to our resources at home, and to our resources in the
Empire, as my hon. Friend very well stated in his speech. There is no country in Europe
with a soil like ours which has so small a proportion of people settled on the land. I am
not speaking of Russia and the countries which are not highly developed, but I am speaking
of Western Europe. There is no country in Western Europe which yields as little from
the soil. We are paying £375,000,000 every year for produce which this country is capable
of producing. In addition, we are paying £60,000,000 every year for timber which might
be produced here. I do not say that the whole of that produce, but a very large proportion
of it, could be produced here, if you would only examine what is done in other countries,
where the condition of the peasantry is very much better than it is in this country. Take
the question raised so effectively the other day, the question of afforestation. That is
a question of vast moment in regard to the produce of this country and the exchanges of
this country. We are spending ₤00,000,000 every year upon timber, a very considerable
proportion of which could have been produced here.
[It is remarkable what statements can be made when not in office. When the oppor-
tunity was within the power of the older parties, the carrying out of these reforms-which
would have been beneficial to the workers were constantly shelved.-E.L.P., G.S.].


---
```text
336
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH.- Trade is still bad with us, although there is word of a
good order having been received by a local firm. There is word to the effect
that a satisfactory production of sample orders will result in a continuous
supply of supplementary orders. How good this news is can be guessed by
anyone who has experienced the frightful ordeal of long continued idleness
or short time. We earnestly hope this matures, as a great many operatives
here will need months of good time to give them a lift up of any kind. We must
take this opportunity of commenting on the great loss the Union in Scotland
has sustained in the sudden and lamented death of our Council Member, Mr.
C. Bleakley. Mr. Bleakley was frequently with us here, and even the humblest
member realised his plucky and sincere nature. Interested to the core in the
problems of the worker, he used every occasion to labour for their best interests
and no one was sorrier than he himself in not accomplishing more for their
uplift. It was always a pleasure to have him visiting either to explain National
Agreements or to take up some thorny question which had caused trouble
His transparent honesty prevented him from deluding his conscience or his
an easy time by shirking reality; rather he made his lot more difficult by Es
his years as Council Member for the North it was his constant desire to get
refusal to hide the truth even although it added greatly to his work. During
our position appreciated in its true colours. The type of employer, the class
of trade, the distinctive factory, such as they exist in Scotland, called for treat-
ment different to what you find required South of the Border, and our friend
was ever anxious to have them rightly understood as a sphere of Union labour,
and we must ever feel grateful to him for his efforts. His last years were
important in so far as he was provided with opportunities to help a class of
member for whom he had a warm side, namely the Repairer. His work on
the Trade Board makes it easier for the one who follows, and although it was,
and will be for some time to come, a heartbreaking struggle, still he was always
optimistic of what might be achieved. Although so earnest in his work for the
Union, he was an ideal companion in his leisure. His sunny disposition made
it easy for him to blend with any company, and his presence was always accept-
able where happy recreation was desired. We regret his economic circumstances
caused him such great anxiety latterly, and the pity is that such worry may
have hastened the end. It was a sad shock to hear of his death, and all his
colleagues of this branch mourn the passing of a brave spirit and a sincere
friend to the rank and file of the trade. We are glad his home town branch
has already started a fund for his people, and we hope it will meet with great
success. While his worth is still vivid in the minds of all the members it should
be possible to raise a sum worthy of the object, and a great tribute to a champion
who has secured a good place in the history of the Union.
CHESHAM.-Trade here still remains slack.
CHESTERFIELD.-Trade bad with men making New Work.
CORK.-Trade good.
DERBY. - Trade shows signs of falling off, the clickers at the two leading
firms losing time. We are sorry to record the death of one of our oldest mem-
bers, C. Petty, who was one of the first to join the Union in Derby nearly
forty years ago, and has been a continuous member ever since. We are also
sorry to record a heavy sick roll, Smallpox having claimed some of our members,
one firm refusing to employ operatives who would not be vaccinated, with the
result it has cost the Union nearly as much for the ill-effects of vaccination
as the other malady. Some of our members have refused to be vaccinated,
and have been suspended till they are. The Labour Exchange have stopped
their pay, but they are appealing against the decision. Mr. D. McCarthy and
```

---
Mr. W. R. Smith are in Derby trying to organise the black shops. It will be
a very difficult matter.
DUNDEE.-" He's gane; he's gane. He's frac us torn." The announce-
ment of the sudden and tragic death of our Council Member, Christopher
Bleakley, created a profound and deep feeling of sadness in many of the members
of this branch. 'Tis but of recent date we heard his cheery voice and ringing
laughter; and now how painfully sad the thought, these are stilled for ever.
Our friend, Chris., was, in a sense, a man of outstanding characteristics. None
could question his sincerity in the manner in which he espoused the cause of
labour. His determination of what he took in hand to successfully carry
through. A man of a lovable disposition. Rarely if ever offending. Keen to
resent an injury. A large and generous heart, with always an open hand when
occasion arose to assist. The members of the Scottish branches will miss him
very much, as he was most assiduous in looking after their interests, as a member
of our general executive. We shall miss him very much. His death has created
a vacancy it will be difficult to fill. "Now the labourer's task is o'er," and our
hearts go out to the widow and family.
EDINBURGH.—Our Repairing Section has been very busy during the
month. Mrs. Bleakley and family wish us to thank all the branches and
shopmates for their kind expressions of sympathy in their sad bereavement.
The Edinburgh Branch will certainly miss his counsel, he having been an active
member of the Branch for over thirty years. He was always trying his best
to better the working conditions of not only the shopmates, but the general
body of workers all over. His place will be difficult to fill in the Union. May
we all endeavour to follow his example. Whatever the consequences, " Right
was always might," however much the sacrifice.
GLASGOW.-Trade has somewhat slowed down here this month, a
considerable number of our members losing time, and the outlook is discouraging
owing to the lack of orders for Shipbuilders and Engineers in the Clyde Valley.
It is with sorrow we lament the great loss to the Scottish branches, by the
death of our esteemed Council Member, Chris. Bleakley. Its suddenness one
feels as a great shock as only a day or two previous we were engaged with him
in the interest of our Union, and in fact it must be said he "died in harness."
His place will be hard to fill. We wish to express our heartfelt sympathy to
his wife and family at this time of their great loss and bereavement.
GLASGOW No. 2.—Trade is very quiet at present, some of our members
having a considerable period of suspension. We regret the passing hence of
our Council Member, Chris. Bleakley, to whose memory the usual token of
respect was paid at our Branch Meeting. To those of us who came into personal
touch with him we feel the members have lost one whose interests were theirs
all the time. To Mrs. Bleakley and family we extend our deepest sympathy.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.—Trade during the month has become
considerably worse. Rushden very poor. Wollaston more unemployed.
Finedon three firms closed, 120 or more out. Irthlingborough fair, but not so
good as last month. Irchester whole of clickers at one firm finished or trans-
ferred to Rushden firm. Bozeat more hopeful. At an interview with Mr. F.
Drage, of the firm of Drage & Sons, we were informed that half of the employees
would be starting in the middle of Whit-week or week after. On June 8th we
find most of the operatives have returned to work. Raunds is improved in
ordinary Army and Navy work. Stanwick number standing off. During the
month Messrs. John Cave & Sons, Rushden, provided and opened bowling greens
and tennis courts for employees of that firm. President attended as member
of Rushden U.D.C., and Secretary represented the Union. A rest-room has
also been provided for female employees. As Secretary remarked at opening
ceremony, "it is hoped that it will set an example to other employers," that
the workers must cease to be spoken of as "hands" but as human beings,


---
Here is the extracted text:
338
with minds that think, hearts that feel, and souls that can soar above the purely
mechanical tasks of the factory.
KINGSWOOD. Trade, indications of improvement.
very good. To the stereotyped query "any complaints," the reply is in the
LIVERPOOL. During the past month the Boot Repairing trade has been
negative. We note in the May Report the General President's remarks re the
Trade Board. We can hardly realise from a brief report what the specific
trouble is, but we know what it is to be fed up and feel like throwing up the
We hope he does not contemplate sacrificing "bottom dog" on the
altar of prestige and dignity. Better to worship at the shrine of Bacchus and
sponge.
acquire" that fellow feeling which makes all the world akin."
Man and His Shoes.
How much a man is like his shoes!
For instance both a sole may lose;
Both have been tanned; both are made tight
By cobblers; both get left and right;
Both need a mate to be complete,
And both are made to go with feet.
With shoes the last is first; with man
The first shall be the last; and when
The shoes wear out they're mended new;
When men wear out they're men dead, too.
They both need healing, oft are sold,
And both in time turn all to mould.
They both are trod upon and both
Will tread on others, nothing loth.
Both have their ties, and both incline
When polished, in the world to shine.
They both peg out. Now, would you choose
To be a man or be his shoes ?
-Shoe Trades Journal, 29th, May 1925.
LONDON METRO.-Trade here is still very bad and there does not
appear to be any prospect of it improving for some time to come. A joint
mass meeting of the London Metro. and London Sew-Round Branches was
held at the Lansdowne Club, on 21st May, when the General President (Mr.
T. F. Richards) presided for the purpose of putting before the members the
advantages of indoor working to both Louis heel and Sew-Round makers. It
was a poorly attended meeting, but a resolution that negotiations be opened
for the provision of indoor workshops for all Louis heel and Sew-Round makers
was carried with but four dissentients. At one time it was the foreign element
who were the sinners as regards to taking large quantities of work out and
employing several hands in their own homes, but now unfortunately our own
people are doing likewise. Mr. T. F. Richards, General President, in the May
Report, in his wisdom attacks the London Clickers' Statement. Well, when
the responsible employers themselves have agreed to a list of prices to be paid
for cutting, it seems a bad policy to tell them that they are paying too much.
All towns have cheap shops and Statements will not be worth much if they,
the cheap shops, can dictate through their cut-throat policy the line any
Statement should take.
as follows:-
The statement made by the General President in the May Report was
some means of demarcation in the difference between their present clicking
The Branch will have to act differently, and there will have to be
statement and the cheap shops.
To begin with, a " fourths" in London is twopence-halfpenny per
dozen more than Leicester best; this in itself calls for treatment.
For two years there has been a reference before the National Joint Standing
Committee from the London employers for a reconsideration of the position.
I am anxious that the members in London should not be deprived of their.


---
339
work, but should have a statement covering the common work which so success-
fully competes against better centres at a lower rate, because London only
have one statement and that is for clickers. There are NO statements for the
closing, lasting, finishing, stock or press departments. London Metro, is one
of the oldest branches of the Union, and yet only have one piecework state-
ment.-T.F.R., G.P.
LONDON SOUTH. We are very pleased to announce that we have had
very good results from the visit paid by Mr. Len. Smith, Organiser, who did
the Branch, and it is to be hoped that all members will appreciate the work
done and rally up at these meetings and keep their contributions paid.
MAYBOLE. - Trade is much improved, nearly all our members having been
restarted. We are also pleased to report sickness light. It is with extreme
sorrow and regret that we heard of the sudden death of our colleague and friend,
Chris. Bleakley. We are sure this is a blow to all members of the Union,
especially the Scottish members. Mr. Bleakley was a staunch friend of all
workers, and especially the workers in the boot and shoe trade. We shall all
miss him, but none like Mrs. Bleakley and family, to whom we tender our
heartfelt sympathy in their great loss of one who was a devoted husband and
father. A man among men.
NOTTINGHAM. - There is no improvement in trade here. Quite a num-
ber of our members are only working on alternate days. We have to report
the death of H. Mais, one of our old members. He has been a member of the
Union almost since it started, and has been in this branch over 40 years. The
Secretary and some of his old shopmates attended the funeral as a mark of
respect.
PLYMOUTH.-Trade has been bad during the month and our Out-of-Work
figures have not been so high since 1920-21. Some of our men, discontented
drawing unemployment pay and doing nothing, have commenced business on
their own account, and as a Branch we wish them good luck. We ask for a
little more consideration and forethought when discharges are contemplated,
for we do not see where employers are advantaged by forcing into the already
overcrowded market skilled men who will act as their competitors. This is
what invariably happens with an active intelligent worker; having led an active
life and formed the habit of industry, he begins to tire after a few weeks holiday.
He gets anxious for the future and looks about for a little shanty to open up
on his own account. This is not an easy task, and many a night finds him foot-
sore and despondent after a weary search, but with perseverance and a little
luck a place is found and with courage, hope, fear and uncertainty intermingled,
he pays his first week's rent, and buys a patching machine. After this every
nerve is strained and every sail is set to win the prize, success." Sometimes
a cut is made on the prevailing Price List. Be this right or wrong the man has
to live under a system of competition and get a foothold as a tradesman, but
who is responsible? We suggest a little more consideration and forethought.
Our men generally prefer to work short time rather than standing in the ranks
of the unemployed, but many employers argue that their men are members
of the Union, and with the additional State benefit no harm will be done by
discharging, but discharges in the boot repairing trade acts in the form of a
boomerang, and requires considerable dexterity in handling; sometimes the
thrower is hit, and a knock-out blow administered in this fashion does not
excite much sympathy. We hear with deep regret of the sudden death of Mr.
C. Bleakley, and join with the Council in their expressions of sorrow and appre-
ciation of his sterling value and worth.
STAFFORD. There is an improvement in this centre, and we are hoping
for a retention of same. Our members have suffered a long period of depression.
WATERFORD.-Trade continues good.
GREAT YARMOUTH.--Sorry to still have to report trade very slow.


---
Here is the extracted text:
340
HOW GREAT BRITAIN HINDERS RATIFICATION
OF THE HOURS OF CONVENTION.
At the present session of the International Labour Office, the chair was taken by
MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P., O.B.E., General Secretary of the National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives, and the workers' representative on the I.L.O., when the question of
the Ratification of the Hours of Convention was under discussion.
MR. CULLEN, a representative of the Irish Free State, said:
Perhaps the most important of the Conventions yet adopted is the Washington
Hours Convention, and, speaking from this tribune last year, my adviser ventured to
Our General Secretary, Mr. E. L. POULTON, J.P., presiding at the
League of Nations International Labour Office, Seventh Session,
Geneva, 30th May, 1925.
express the fear that the statement then made by the British Government Representative
of ratification of
by Great Britain. That fear has been realised. The other day the distinguished Repre-
sentative of the French Government suggested that the workers of the world might begin
to think that the many delays and endless discussions about ratification were only a screen
facts? The position is that ratification by Great Britain would undoubtedly result in
for a determination not to ratify. What other opinion can the workers draw from the
say that, although we have brought our list of ratifications up to a substantial number,
and our workers are determined to do their best to secure further ratifications regardless
ratification by a large number of States. Certainly, speaking for my own country, I can
of what may be done by other countries, it would nevertheless be much easier to secure
ratification by Ireland if Great Britain were known to be prepared to ratify without any
rcom for doubt. At present there is grave reason for doubting the intentions of the
British Government.


---
Two difficulties were mentioned here by the British Representative; the five-day
week and the special conditions of railwaymen. May I say frankly that I cannot under-
stand how anyone who has carefully studied the full text of the Hours Convention, and
particularly Article 5, could imagine that its stipulations would militate against the adoption
of either the five-day week or the maintenance of the railwaymen's agreement. Certainly,
we have not seen - and I do not think the Irish railwaymen, although our railway workers
belong to the same Union as their railway comrades in Great Britain have seen - any
precise statement of what the alleged difficulty really is. I do not like to seem to criticise
sincerest friendship for British workers that we venture to ask them and their Government
Great Britain: we have had occasion enough for that in the past; and it is out of the
to approach this question, not merely in a spirit of vague goodwill and of pious hopes for
the future, but with a resolute determination to secure ratification without further delay.
Much more hangs upon this than the welfare of British workers.
fundamental social reform for the benefit of millions of workers all over
Europe depends upon the British ratification, and even from the point of
view of Britain herself it is important, because it is perhaps not too
much to say that the leadership and prestige in social reform and indus-
trial progress which Great Britain undoubtedly held in the XIXth century,
and well into the XXth century, will be lost completely if the Hours
Convention is not ratified by that country.

M. SCHURCH (Switzerland) followed, and during the course of his remarks, said: -
They maintained that a reduction of working hours to eight per day would have an un-
favourable effect on Switzerland, from the point of view of international competition;
but public opinion prevailed and the results were most favourable for Swiss Industry.
Another attempt to go back on the eight-hour day in Switzerland was rejected by a decisive
majority after a referendum in February, 1924. This shows that public opinion in Switzer-
land is thoroughly favourable to the eight-hour day. The workers, however, consider
that exceptions to the present eight-hour day are granted somewhat too easily by the
Government in Switzerland, and they greatly regret the decision of that Government not
to ratify the Washington Hours Convention.

MR. ARAYA (Argentina) said :---No reproach can be levelled at the Argentine Republic
in this respect, so far as the state of her legislation is concerned. The average hours
worked are not excessive; indeed, after the establishment of the forty-eight hour week,
there has arisen a movement in favour of the forty-four hour week.

MR. O'RAHILLY (Irish Free State) said:---It is well, however, to remember that this
involves the duty on our part of attempting seriously to think internationally and a readi-
ness to adjust our national legislation in the wider interests of the workers of the world -
a standpoint which, I must say, is not always evident in the Government discourses we
have been listening to here. A medley of individual national apologies does not make
an international conference, they merely make a multi-national meeting; and I venture
to express the hope that ultimately we shall not have these prolonged proceedings here,
but that we shall have a special commission to enquire into the reasons why such and
such a country has not ratified such and such a Convention. We want an objective,
business-like examination of those reasons and of the difficulties which countries have found,
and we cannot find this in the series of eloquent discourses in a general conference here.
I hope that we shall ultimately have a commission, especially if we adopt the system of
amendment.

For instance, I cannot understand what is the difficulty about railway workers which
prevents the ratification of the Hours Convention, and I venture to express the opinion
that no one else listening here can understand either. I trust that we shall in the near
future, as I have said, have a business-like separate commission for the examination of
such national difficulties and excuses.

MR. RIDDELL (Canada) said:---British Columbia has taken a forward step and has been
the first Province in the Dominion of Canada to accept the eight-hour day and to put it
into operation. I also made a thorough study of legislation, and the legislation in our
Provinces would enable them, with practically no amendments to that legislation, to accept
more than 50 per cent. of our Draft Conventions and Recommendations.

ITALY has recently ratified the agreement: states that until Great Britain does so
they will not enforce the same.

AUSTRIA, BELGIUM, and France are in a similar position.

TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of May, 1925,
80,119. Unemployed at end of May, 1925, 3,347; percentage, 4.2. Decrease in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, o.1. Increase in percentage as
compared with a year ago, 0.6.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1925.


---
342
Mr. E. L. POULTON ON FORTY-EIGHT HOURS WEEK.
(British Empire) said: I wish to speak on the wider question of the lack of ratifica-
On Monday, 25th May, 1925, speaking at the I.L.O., Geneva, MR. E. L. POULTON,
tions of the Conventions that have been passed in the various Conferences since 1919.
I beg to express, on behalf of all the workers, their sense of keen disappointment at the
disappointment. Their hopes in 1919 were very high they kept those hopes at that
only, when there ought to be between 800 and 900. This to the workers is a very great
fact that we have to meet here this morning and can record approximately 150 ratifications
high altitude for some considerable time, but as the years pass and they find this lack of
Conventions nevertheless remain unratified by the countries assembled here, and I am
ratifications, their hopes gradually begin to go down. We learn this morning that, whilst
the Director is able to say that some advance has been made, the great majority of the
here, when they go back to their several countries, to do all that is possible to ensure
asked on behalf of my colleagues to appeal particularly to the Government Representatives
the putting into effect of these Conventions to which the workers attach so much import-
ance, having regard to the effect that they would have upon the lives of themselves, their
wives and their children.
If we refer to the Director's Report itself, we find that since 1921 there have been no
fresh Conventions passed. It cannot, therefore, be said that we are asking as workers
that we were attempting too much. We were endeavouring to make the pace so fast as
to go at an extraordinary pace in ratifying Conventions. It was said in the earlier days
I have said from the tribune in past years that one of the main reasons for the desire of
workers that neither Governments nor employers could keep up with what we desired
the workers was the lack of labour legislation during the years that are now behind us and
shall go home determined to do what we can to ensure the putting into force of the rati-
for which we have to make up the lee-way, and I do hope that from this Conference we
fications as portrayed in the Director's Report itself.
In that connection I was very delighted to hear the Bulgarian Minister state that he
hoped Governments would give all the information possible to the Office and to this Con-
ference, as the Bulgarian Government was determined to do everything possible to ratify
all Conventions. I congratulate the Bulgarian Government on arriving at that decision
and I hope that other Governments will arrive at the same decision in relation to the
ratification of Conventions. The same Minister added, however, what was to me a very
important point and one which ought to go home to all the Delegates. He said: we
cannot however remain almost alone as regards the hours question. Now that is to us,
as workers, going to the vital principle, when a country which has ratified tells us that
she desires to ratify every Convention, but nevertheless has to make in the speech of one
of its Ministers of State such an important reservation as that to which I have just referred.
I trust before we have done with the Director's Report, we shall have many statements
from Government Representatives and from Employers' Representatives that they are
going to carry out the Preamble to Part VIII. of the Treaty of Versailles. Having made
that statement in regard to the general ratifications, or lack of ratifications, I now want
to come to two in particular, because these two stand out in the eyes of the workers as the
most important of all and upon which they have set their hearts for many years past.
We have heard this morning the statements of the Belgian and British Representatives.
If I understood aright the statement of the Belgian Minister, he said Belgium was a small
country but was also very desirous of going forward. It could not go forward, however,
without the help of other countries, and therefore Belgium would ratify Conventions as fast
as other countries did so. Mr. Betterton, on behalf of the British Government, made a state-
omitted to tell the Conference. I was hoping that Mr. Betterton would have been able
ment with which personally I was very disappointed-not for what he said, but for what he
ment of the Minister of Labour made in the British House of Commons, which Mr. Betterton
to state here this morning that the British Government had gone further than the state-
which we can build up any very sure fabric. I have read in the papers since I have been
read from Hansard. That statement, while not altogether disappointing, is not one on
cannot find a way out of the difficulties with which they are surrounded, so that they may
here that the Ministers of certain countries are proposing to meet together to see if they
be enabled to ratify the Hours Convention. I hope that as a result more ratifications will
be secured.
operations in regard to trade and industry would make it difficult for the British Govern-
Mr. Betterton stated that one of the great difficulties in Great Britain was that certain
understood, that there are Articles in the Convention itself which will enable the British
ment to ratify the Convention. I wish to say, in language which I hope will not be mis-
or any other Government, if they have the necessary desire and goodwill to put the Hours
Convention into force, to deal with those difficulties. Articles 4, 5 and 6 of the Convention,
as I have told the Representatives of my own Government time after time, will enable
those difficulties to be surmounted. I trust we shall not hear in future that Governments
are refusing to carry out the Convention because of such difficulties.
---

---
Every country is bound to have some difficulty in carrying out a Convention which
has been passed here in the international spirit, but it is for each country to bring its laws
into conformity with the Conventions which are adopted here in these Conferences, and
which we believe to be in the highest interests of all.
I want to refer to one or two of the statements with regard to this matter which are
printed in the Director's Report. It states: "Belgian legislation on the eight-hour
day goes beyond what is required by the Washington Convention. As Belgium has an
eight-hour day its interest clearly requires that it should do all in its power to bring it
about that its competitors in the world markets should also accept the same system."
That was said by a Representative of the Belgian Government. At the top of another page,
the Bill "that is, a Bill which was to be brought into the French Senate" it is indicated
that the Act of 23rd April, 1919, on the eight-hour day in its main lines fits in with the
provisions of the Conventions."
I want to add to that in Great Britain we have a day of eight hours or
millions of other workers-miners and those under what we call the
Trade Boards-by law, and by what is equivalent to the law of the land,
an Order in Council, That also applies to railways.
In the case of three great countries, therefore, one has a law which it says is better
than the Convention, another a law which in its main lines fits in with the Convention,
and the case of the third I have just mentioned. Despite this, they do not ratify the
Convention. Why? Why, if in their main lines their laws conform, do they not ratify
the Convention? Why, if in some respects their laws are better, and if in another case
millions are already working a day of eight hours or less, do they not ratify? Surely
the least they can do to show their good faith is to ratify, so that the workers can see one
more of their aspirations embodied in Acts of Parliament, so that their hours of labour
may be safeguarded against any unscrupulous employer who may attempt to make them
work longer hours. That is what the workers are afraid of; that is what they fear. Such
an action on the part of unscrupulous employers would precipitate a great industrial
struggle, and I submit that at this time of day we ought not to be compelled to resort to
industrial struggles merely to maintain an eight-hour day or a forty-eight hour week.
The second question I should like specially to stress is that of white lead. Those
who have been to the Conference for a few years will know that we had a battle royal one
with the other. Day after day, in Committee, we were fighting one against the other,
but ultimately we came to an agreement. Here is an industry which is affected very seri-
ously so far as the rights of the workers are concerned, by the use of this white lead, and
yet, if you look at the Director's Report, you will find that, of the 56 nations which are
connected with us in this great International Conference only five have ratified the Hours
Convention and only seven the White Lead Convention. I submit that that is eminently
unsatisfactory. When we raise the hopes of the workers as we do here, and when the
eyes of the workers are concentrated upon this great International Conference, they
expect that when we pass resolutions after serious and long discussion, we are going to
honour our word and carry out our bond when we get back to our own countries. I there-
fore hope that our appeal as workers will not fall on deaf ears. It has been suggested
to me already that this is not a place for propaganda. I submit that it is a place for
propaganda-for the propaganda of great humanitarian views and great humanitarian
ideals as expressed in these Conventions which we pass from time to time, and it is not
an unreasonable request which we as workers make, that when we assemble in 1926 we
may be able to read with pleasure and gratification that these Conventions-particularly
the Hours and White Lead Conventions-have not only been ratified, but put into working
order in the countries which are associated with us.
I.L.O. GOVERNING BODY.
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., again Elected at Geneva.
GENEVA, Monday. -Mr. E. L. Poulton, of the British Trades Union Congress General
Council, was at the International Labour Conference again selected by the Workers'
Group as a member of the Governing Body, receiving, as on the previous occasion, the
highest number of votes.
The Convention dealing with equality of treatment for all workers in a country,
native or foreign, as regards compensation for industrial accidents, was passed by the
Conference, with 125 votes cast for and none against the measure. That such a large
number of votes should be given for a Convention without opposition is very unusual,
and Mr. Poulton is to be congratulated on the success which attended his efforts.
In the Standing Orders Committee proposals have been made from Italy which, if
carried into effect, would limit the autonomy of the Groups, especially the Workers'
Group. These proposals are strenuously opposed by Mr. Poulton and other Labour
representatives. Daily Herald, 9th June, 1925.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

345

After examining this new text, the Selection Committee has decided to submit to the
Conference the following Draft Resolution:—

Whereas the Labour part of the Treaties of Peace provides not only for the protection
of industrial workers, but also for the protection of agricultural workers, and whereas
the international Court of Justice has confirmed this intention of the Treaties;

Whereas by virtue of this decision, and of the general principles of the Labour Part,
rural workers must be accurately represented in the various bodies of the International
Labour Organisation;

And whereas the special nature of agricultural labour and the great variety of cate-
gories of agricultural workers in every country render the question of their organisation
and representation especially difficult and delicate, and whereas it is important to have
full knowledge of the facts in order to avoid possible misunderstandings or even disputes;

The Conference requests the Governing Body to instruct the International Labour
Office to prepare and submit as early as possible a report showing what are the various
categories of agricultural workers in every country, and also the principles upon which
they are organised and where necessary represented both in their national institutions
and in the International Labour Organisation.

For, 100; Against, o.

Asiatic Labour.
Draft Resolution concerning an enquiry into conditions of labour in Asiatic countries,
submitted by Mr. Joshi, Indian Workers’ Delegate.

The Selection Committee, after a preliminary examination of the Draft Resolution
concerning an enquiry into conditions of labour in Asiatic countries, submitted by Mr.
Joshi, Indian Workers’ Delegate, the text of which was published in Provisional Record
No. 1, has received a revised text, drafted in agreement with Mr. Joshi.

After examining this new text, the Selection Committee has decided to submit to the
conference the following draft resolution:—

The Seventh Session of the International Labour Conference expressed the hope that
the International Labour Office will continue to collect and publish all available informa-
tion regarding the conditions of labour in Asiatic countries; and also requests the Governing
Body of the International Labour Office, in consultation with the Governments concerned,
to undertake, as far as possible, a documentary inquiry into the conditions of labour in
those countries, more especially in China, India, Japan, Persia and Siam, and in the
colonies, protectorates and mandated territories in Asia.

For, 91; Against, o.

Mining.
The Selection Committee, after a preliminary examination of the Draft Resolution
concerning the standardisation of working conditions of miners, submitted by Mr. Mertens,
Belgian Workers’ Delegate, the text of which was published in Provisional Record No. 1,
has received a revised text, drafted in agreement with Mr. Mertens. After examining
the new text, the Selection Committee has decided to submit to the conference the following
draft resolution:—

Considering that the Committee of the International Miners’ Federation at a meeting
held in Brussels, on the 28th April, 1925, adopted the following resolution:

Whereas in certain coal-producing countries economic difficulties are such as to lead
to continually increasing unemployment among miners and the lowering of their standard
of living;

Whereas these economic difficulties arise very largely from competition and com-
mercial rivalry in the international coal market;

Whereas this competition and commercial rivalry is more acute and embittered by
reason of the differences in the working conditions existing in the principal coal-producing
countries;

The Committee decides that efforts should be made to secure the standardisation of
working conditions of miners on an international basis;

Since the Committee desires to be fully informed before it formulates definite and
concrete proposals it decides to organise, in agreement with the National Miners' Federa-
tions, an international investigation in the principal coal-producing countries. This
investigation shall deal with hours of work, annual holidays and wages paid by employers
to the various categories of working miners;

In order that the proposed investigation should be as thorough as possible and that
the enquiry may be completed with the least possible delay, the Committee also decides
to appeal to the International Labour Office for assistance and the co-operation of the
means of investigation at its disposal.

For, 87; Against, o.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
346
LABOUR WOMEN'S CONFERENCE.
DELEGATES' REPORTS.
I attended the Labour Conference of Women only, held at Birmingham, 27th and 28th May, 1925. Over eight hundred women delegates were present, from all parts, to voice their opinions and pass resolutions.
The Chairman, Miss E. Wilkinson, M.P., gave an interesting opening speech, and spoke of points in the Budget, with special interest to women.
The Conference listened with great attention and interest. Resolutions were passed on Housing, Emigration, Education, and the World's Food Supplies.
A special report by the Standing Joint Committee of Women's Organisations, on Bread and Socialism, which was meant to be instructive and educational to all women present, was very fully discussed and digested.
The Conference each year improves, both in the standard of mentality and procedure. When the Trade Union leaders of this country are as much alive to the organisation of women into our Unions as are the Labour Party in enrolling members into the Labour Party, then we may expect a Conference of Trade Union Women as large, and our trade union membership of women very much increased.
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS.
The National Conference of Labour Women, held at Birmingham, 26th and 27th May, 1925. There were 860 delegates present from all parts of the country, presided over by Miss Ellen Wilkinson, M.P.
The delegates present representing were:-Women's Sections Labour Party, 731; Trade Unions, 52; Co-operative Guilds, 17; Fabian Society, 7; Independent Labour Party, 30; Railway Women's Guild, 23.
The Conference opened with an address from Miss Wilkinson, who remarked that they had met under a rich man's Budget, and stated the injustices of the same.
Dr. Marion Phillips presented the report of the Labour Party in the women's interests at home and abroad.
Resolutions were passed demanding a non-contributory scheme for Widows' Pensions, the speeding up of building houses under the Wheatley Act, also the Labour Socialist International. To press for the institution of an annual international conference of women delegates. Other subjects considered were: Health in the Elementary Schools, Price of Bread, the Purity and Cleanliness of Food Supplies.
Mrs. Harrison Bell, the Labour representative on the Overseas Settlement, spoke on Emigration. This resolution created a lively debate.
Other resolutions passed dealt with Internationalism, Armaments and Peace, Treatment of workers under Unemployment Insurance Acts. The strengthening of Trade Union Movement amongst women workers by better organisation. Birth Control also came in for a long debate, several speaking for and against.
The Conference, I thought, was very interesting, educatively and politically.
(MRS.) L. H. GUMSLEY.
Over one thousand delegates attended the Labour Women's Conference, held in the Town Hall, Birmingham, on 27th and 28th May, 1925, and were welcomed by Mrs. Councillor Howse.
MILLIONAIRES' BUDGET.- It was reported the Budget would relieve a quite moderate millionaire to the extent of £40 a week in super-tax, some would be richer by thousands a year, but the relief to small earned incomes was counted in shillings.
Labour's idea of Mothers' Pensions was to allow the mother to make a home for her children, and to take her, if she so desired, out of the labour market. The pensions under the Budget scheme were utterly inadequate. The widow with two children would receive 18s., with three children only 21s. This, compared with the Army pensions for a widow of a Private with two children 44s., and with three children 50s.
UNEMPLOYMENT. - Referring to sneers about workers learning to qualify for insurance, Miss Wilkinson declared that was no doubt to agree to the turning down masses of unemployed on the ground that they were shirkers, and the women should make a strong stand in their own homes against such tactics.
BIRTH CONTROL. - The resolution advocated that it should be permissible for doctors employed in any public funds to give information on Birth Control to those who desire it. The debate was of a lively character. Mrs. Laski, speaking in favour, said capitalists did not want working women to have scientific information about Birth Control, as they would


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
le before
people
348
big profits. After some discussion the resolution was carried.
the people. Miss Jewson denounced building rings, putting the life and health of the
opportunity afforded them by the Wheatley Act to make progress in building houses for
Emigration to British Dominions, seconded by Miss Bondfield, to the effect that family
A great deal of discussion took place after Mrs. Harrison Bell moved a resolution of
emigration was the only satisfactory form of emigration put into operation in co-operation
with the Dominion of Canada Land Settlement Scheme. The Resolution was defeated
and an Amendment agreed to that further investigation be made by the Standing Joint
Committee and a further report be made. Many delegates denounced emigration as no
cure for umemployment, and that we should colonise our own country, and not until every
acre of land was cultivated should we think of emigration. Miss Jessie Stevens, after a
recent experience of conditions in Canada, very much condemned emigration, as she declared
things were quite as bad there with regard to unemployment as here.
Yours faithfully,
V. HOWARD,
Delegate.
The Conference opened with Miss Ellen Wilkinson, M.P., in the chair. There was
a splended attendance of delegates, and a striking feature of the Conference was the serious
manner with which the women followed the business during the whole of the time.
of women into their trade unions, and appealed to them to make the unions their Approved
Several of the speakers appealed to the gathering to push forward the organisation
Societies for Health Insurance.
for the taking over of the land for the people, and stated that she was in favour of con-
Mrs. Hooper opened a discussion upon the question of a Labour Party Programme
fiscation. Other delegates felt that we ought not to separate the Land question from
other things, and asked why we should not include property when discussing these matters
Mrs. Heagney, the fraternal delegate from Australia, was given a warm welcome br
the Conference. She stated that she brought greetings from the Labour Union of Australia,
and stirred the delegates by her account of what a Labour Government had done for the
people in Victoria. In that country, she said, women have Old Age Pensions of 17s. per
week at 60 years of age, and a Maternity allowance of five pounds on a non-contributory
basis.
Mrs. Harrison Bell moved a resolution, "That this Conference is of the opinion that
family migration is the only satisfactory form of migration, and views with sympathetic
interest the Land settlement scheme just being put into operation in co-operation with the
Dominion of Canada." She stated that ex-service men had been induced to leave this
country by misleading advertisements, and to invest their savings upon farms where there
was little hope of success, and the work of the Overseas Committee was to prevent this
happening. This was seconded by Miss Margaret Bondfield, who stated that while we agree
that it is necessary to settle our people upon the land in this country, we also ought to have
a scheme to help and protect those who were desirous of going abroad to try and make
good.
Important resolutions upon the subject of Health occupied a considerable time, and
it was during this discussion that one of the speakers urged the necessity of doctors being
permitted to give advice to married women who desired it, upon the subject of Birth
Control. One of the delegates, who evidently took strong exception to this matter being
discussed at the Conference, created quite an uproar, and it was only owing to firm handling
of the meeting by the Chairman that the discussion was able to be kept in proper order.
A very popular decision was one that Women's Sections throughout the country should
levy themselves weekly for the purpose of creating a political fund in order that working
women could be run as Parliamentary Candidates.
Resolutions dealing with War and Disarmament were carried, and an emergency
resolution protesting against the persecution of the workers in Bulgaria under the Tsankoff
press our Foreign Office to make the strongest representation to the Bulgarian Govern-
terrorist government, was carried, including one that the British Labour movement should
ment.
ference, but I feel that the interest shown and the ability with which the delegates dealt |
Space is not sufficient to deal with the whole of the matters discussed by the Con-
Women's Labour Movement, and the early return of a second Labour Government with a
with the various problems confronting the movement, speaks well for the future of the
working majority.
K. BANNARD,
Northampton.


---
DISEASE-INFECTED HOVELS OF EARL SHILTON.
But District Council Vetoes Building Scheme.
Earl Shilton, if credit is to be given to a rumoured opinion of the county health
authorities, is not in need of any more houses. This unique distinction has been conveyed
to the township by way of the Hinckley Rural District Council, whose plan for a further
colony of 37 houses has not met with the approval of officialdom on account of the "lack
of need when compared with other districts." Eighty houses have been built in the town
ship since the war, and the new scheme is for 150, 37 to be built in the boundaries of Farl
Shilton. It is understood that the county health officials' opinion is that the houses
Shilton can fill these houses on its own, abundant proof of which was given to me in a to
if built, would be occupied by natives of the district who would gladly change from the
village of their birth and upbringing for the chance of a house. That is a fact, but Part
none of them the remotest hope of getting a house for a long time to come. The 80 Cour
houses already erected could have been filled five times over, as in many other cases, and
So bad is the shortage that the many couples who were married at Whitsun ba
which is Mr. Daniel Astley, J.P., is repeatedly implored to do everything possible for the
the number of homeless naturally increases every day. The Council, the chairman
relief of the homeless, but in face of opposition from the authorities they are helpless.
These facts are similar in greater or less degree in hundreds of other cases up and
down the country. But a greater and more serious horror makes Earl Shilton distric
England. The dread disease started many years ago, and has grown to appalling pri
the more gruesome an example. Earl Shilton is the most consumptive township
to exist. In a recent inquiry, it was stated that out of 18 recent deaths only one was from
portions since the war, helped by the pitiful conditions in which the inhabitants have
a cause other than tuberculosis. Yet Earl Shilton is powerless. In my tour, I saw three
dwelling-places, two of them with the taint of the disease, and all of them in such a state
One cottage was inhabited by a one-legged South African war veteran and his wife.
Both were hollow-eyed and weak with consumption. The man was a living wreck. He
as would be incredible to anyone who did not see them.
It originally consisted of four rooms,
was living in a thatched cottage one of a row.
two up and two on the ground floor. The top-rooms are uninhabitable, and open to the
sky in patches up to a square yard in dimension. The walls are bulging, and the sur
streams in through large splits where the roof has fallen away from the walls. The roof
is now in imminent danger of total collapse. The man and his wife sleep in the bed in the
living room, but when it is raining their bed is soaking wet from water that has come
through the roof and ceiling. Even downstairs the sun and the rain can pour through
the tops of the walls. The man pays 2s. 3d. a week for this.
Next door is a shoe clicker, his wife and four children. They, too, have been driven
from their upstairs rooms, and all sleep in one room.
On the floor are tin baths to catch
the rain water. The woman told me that she would be willing to pay 6s. a week if she
could get a cottage fit for humans to live in. Here again they are living in imminent
danger of death from a total fall of the thatched roof. Not one single night in the year
are the sleeping children safe. In another cottage in the village lives an old woman who
has not been in a bed for a fortnight. There are great gaps in her roof, and in the recent
windy weather she was out in the street until one o'clock in the morning through fear of
her cottage tumbling about her ears. She cannot get the bed down the shaking stairs
and sleeps on a sofa. Her husband was consumptive.
There is no use in condemning these houses and evicting the tenants. They would
starve in the street. Until houses are built they will exist in the infected buildings while
they hold together. One of them collapsed completely a short time ago. The medical
men in the village have given up the struggle against the disease unless hope of more
houses is coming. There can be no fighting against it under present conditions. It will
remain a village of death until the District Council can start to build. They have the land
and they have the builders. Only officialdom "does not see the need." Meanwhile, the
plague spot.--Leicester Mercury, 8th June, 1925.
green fields of Leicestershire surround a
[The Council have constantly bombarded the Ministry of Health (and Insurance
Commissioners) since 1913, but very little headway has been made. - E.L.P., G.S..
GOSSIP.
will feel interested to know that I spent a pleasant time on 1st June, 1925, in the company
Old Wolverhampton trade unionists, as well as a large circle of the general public,
of four of the best known and most respected veterans of the Labour cause in this district,
of the Board of Guardians, and first Labour representative on the old Wolverhampton
on his many years' service as secretary of the Boot and Shoe Rivetters' Society, member
including Mr. Harry Moreton, who entering on his 88th year, can look back with pride
School Board. Express and Star, Wolverhampton.
---

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

351
Reprint of Union Circular 242.
National Union of Boot & Shoe Operatives.

34 GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
16th April, 1921.

FELLOW OFFICERS,

Re UNEMPLOYED MEMBERS AND
PAYMENT OF CONTRIBUTIONS.

The Resolution contained in Circular No. 241 as follows:-
“That the Members be asked at the next Branch
Meetings to authorise us on their behalf to deal with
those Members who have no income, whether from lack
of employment or no Out-of-Work pay, on the same
lines and in the same manner as was done with those
Members who joined the Forces in the late war.”
has been endorsed by the Members, and I beg to inform
you that this will operate as and from Saturday, 23rd
April, 1921.

Members must make their claim for exemption of
payment of contributions under the scheme; such exemption
must be strictly in accordance with the resolution named
above.

Yours faithfully,

E.Boulton
General Secretary.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

355
EXTRACT FROM MR. MACDONALD'S WEEKLY
LETTER TO THE "HERALD" JUNE 13th, 1925.

1,250,000 Workless.
There are now close on one and a quarter million unemployed, nearly a quarter of a
million more than at this time last year, and 60,000 more than last week.
"Our great industries are languishing: over engineering, coalmining, shipping,
there rests black depression and the threat of wage cuts.
"And what is the Government doing in the House of Commons? With its enormous
majority it is using the "relay" system to suppress effective discussion on a Budget that
protects the rich, and on fiscal proposals that will further raise the cost of living, and offers
a quack remedy for Nottingham's ills.
"Tory dominance is in the saddle. Power is being used with a callous brutality to
break us physically or to compel us to cease our critical examination of the business before
us.
"The House of Commons," said Mr. MacDonald, "can be used or abused. We used
it last year; this year the Tory Government, with its servile majority and undemocratic
mind, is abusing it. This aggravates the problem, for in any case the pressure of work is
getting too great.
"The remedy lies in Devolution-in taking a lot of work away from us. That is the
only way to give us proper business hours and to make the Parliamentary machine function
properly.
"We should devolve greater responsibility on to municipal authorities, and enable
them to do much more work on their own initiative. They cannot do this now except by
coming here and promoting private Bills.

Relieving Congestion.
"If municipalities were given such powers, we should not have to deal so much with
general legislation, because good municipalities would carry out progressive programmes of
work in their own areas, or in conjunction with other authorities-they would get on with
their own job much more expeditiously; they would save themselves money and save the
House of Commons very valuable time."
"Would it not be an advantage if the House of Commons procedure was remodelled
somewhat on municipal lines?" Mr. MacDonald was asked.
" I have always failed to understand," he replied, "how that view is practical. The
difference is one between legislation and administration. On a city or borough council you
get your reports of work done or contemplated by the committees, and these reports are
generally dealt with very expeditiously and quickly, but it is all a record of administrative
work.
"When you come to initiating legislation it is a very different thing. In Parliament
you must have discussion; you must express views; you are divided by vast differences
of principle and interest. The simple unavoidable fact, for good or ill, is that the House
of Commons can never be a made municipal administrative council.
"I'm sure," he concluded, "that the reform of the House of Commons does not lie
in that direction; but it is quite certain that the passing into law of our Local Authorities
Enabling Bill would do a great deal to relieve the congestion."

CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 2nd JUNE, 1925.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.

All Items included
Food only
..
..
..
..
..
..
72 per cent.
66
FOOD.

At 2nd June the average level of retail prices of the principal articles of food showed
a slight decline as compared with that at 1st May. This decline was mainly attributable
to reductions in the prices of butter, milk and sugar.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of July,
1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of food
included in these statistics was about 66 per cent. at 2nd June, as compared with about
67 per cent. at 1st May and 60 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1924.--The Ministry
of Labour Gazette, June, 1925.


---
Awards Northampton Workman 1d. a Week. Interesting Case.

To-day the Court of Appeal, consisting of the Master of the Rolls and Lords Justice,
Warrington and Atkin, remitted to the Northampton County Court Judge an application
by Wilson, Lovatt & Sons, builders, of Clarence Street, Wolverhampton, for review of
the weekly payments under the Workmen's Compensation Act to Tom Johnson, brick
layer, of Green Street, Northampton.
In October, 1922, Johnson injured his right leg while working for Wilson, Lovatt &
Sons, at the Northampton Electric Power Station, Hardingstone, a stone mullion which
he was erecting slipping on to his right leg.
Under a recorded agreement he was paid 35s. a week until August, 1924, then the
employers applied for a review.
The County Court Judge held that the man's incapacity had ceased and made an
order for the termination of the weekly payments. Against this the workman appealed
The Master of the Rolls, giving judgment, said the employers application was for
review and diminution. There was no application for termination, therefore the County
Court Judge was not entitled to terminate the payments, though he might well have reduced
the payments to an insignificant amount.
The case would be sent back with a direction that the right award to make in the
circumstances was one penny per week. The Lords Justices concurred. Northampton
Daily Echo, 11th June, 1925.
[This proves that it is quite legal for Compensation to be revised, and to so reduce the
amount as to keep it " alive." -E.L.P., G.S.J.

NATIONAL SUMMER SCHOOL, RUSKIN COLLEGE, OXFORD.
August 15th to 29th, 1925.

Under the auspices of the Trades Union Congress and the Labour Party, a National
Summer School will be held at Oxford during the two weeks from Saturday, 15th August,
to Saturday, 29th August.
The School will be open to men and women who are members of organisations affiliated
to the Trades Union Congress or the Labour Party, and it is hoped that Trade Unions,
Trades Councils, local Labour Parties, Women's Sections, and Co-operative Societies and
Guilds will send members.

Oxford is centrally situated and easy of access. The city is full of interest and is an
admirable centre for a Summer School. The School will be held in Ruskin College, which
has been placed fully at the disposal of the two National Executives by the College Authori-
ties. A Common Room for members of the School will be provided at Ruskin College
and the College Library will be available.

As regards the general arrangements of the School, there will be lectures and dis-
cussions each morning and shorter "group" discussions after tea. There will be lectures
on the Political Outlook, the Industrial Outlook, Trade Union Organisation, Unemploy-
ment, Labour and the Commonwealth, Labour's Foreign Policy, Socialism and Industry,
Labour and National Finance, Social Insurance, &c.

The afternoons will be free for visits to places of interest such as Colleges and University
Institutions, the Bodleian Library, Museums, Galleries, &c., and for excursions and river
trips. The members of the School will be asked to co-operate in the evening arrange-
ments, which will be of a social character.
Members will be accepted for either the first or second week of the School or for the
full fortnight.
A registration fee of 10s. per person is payable on application. This fee is for the
School, &c.
purpose of covering the expenses incurred by the Joint Research Department in organising

The cost of board and lodging will be about £2 10s. per week. The lodgings will be
lodging direct to their landladies. The weekly charges cover the period from Saturday
arranged by the Department, but the members of the School will pay for their board and
tea to the following Saturday breakfast, inclusive. A limited number of men will be
housed in Ruskin College.
It may be possible to arrange for reduced railway fares for those visiting the School.
Joint Research and Information Department, 33 Eccleston Square, London, S.W.1, and
Details of application for membership of the School may be made to The Secretary,
envelopes marked on the top left-hand corner “ Summer School.”


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

357
NOMINATIONS FOR COUNCIL MEMBER.
DISTRICT No. 9.

Name of Member.	Registered Number.	Branch Nominating.	Branch to which Member belongs
Brown, Mr. A.	3358	Dundee	Dundee
Campbell, Mr. T.	00008	Kilmarnock	Kilmarnock
Gamble, Mr. M. (retired)	5093	Glasgow	Glasgow
Noble, Mr. R.	5520	Glasgow No. 2	Glasgow No. 2
Reid, Mr. J. P.	100	Dundee	Arbroath
Sheerin, Mr. J.	4549	Glasgow	Glasgow
White, Mr. R.	4318	Aberdeen	Edinburgh

THE NEXT WAR!!

There is in Europe, as it exists to-day, almost every condition tending to war, except financial competence, and the lack of that we are supplying as far as we can by our failure to insist that the money now spent on armaments shall be applied to the satisfaction of our Continental debts. War over the Eastern frontiers, sooner or later, is not only possible but probable, and it is sheer folly to assume that it can be localised and that obligations entered into in the West will not be affected by events in the East.

Let us assume, however, that Germany does accept the French proposal, and that later she breaks her undertaking in the way provided against. France at once invades Germany, with Great Britain standing benevolently aside. France may win, in which case a grave problem would at once be created for this country, which cannot desire to see the Rhine a French river and Belgium practically a French dependency. Germany may win, and the threat is restored to get rid of which the British Empire sacrificed a million lives and ten thousand millions of treasure.

The people of this country must realise, before it is too late, that a Security Pact, whatever form it may take, is not a Pact of Peace but a Pact of War. War on the Continent may be inevitable in any case. It will be, humanly speaking, ensured if we bind ourselves in advance to participate in it.

[The above is an extract from the leading article in the London Evening Standard, 16th June, 1925, and is, in other words, a statement which we are constantly bringing to the notice of our members. Unless we are wide awake we shall find another war sprung upon us. It should be our determination to do all possible to render negative all the efforts made by the warmongers, and to strengthen and support the efforts made for peace and goodwill.—E.L.P., G.S.].

COST OF LIVING.

Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.

	1915	1916	1917	1918	1919	1920	1921	1922	1923	1924	1925
January	.. 10-15	35	65	85-90	120	125	165	92	78	77	80
February	.. 15	35	65-70	90	120	130	151	88	77	79	79
March	.. 15-20	35-40	70	90	115	130	141	86	76	78	79
April	.. 15-20	35-40	70-75	90-95	110	132	133	82	74	73	75
May	.. 20	40-45	75	95-100	105	141	128	81	70	71	73
June	.. 25	45	75-80	100	105	150	119	80	69	69	72
July	.. 25	45-50	80	100-105	105-110	152	119	84	69	70
August	.. 25	45-50	80	110	115	155	122	81	71	6 71
September	.. 25	50	80-85	110	115	161	120	79	73	72
October	.. 30	50-55	75-80	115-120	120	164	110	78	75	76
November	.. 30-35	60	85	120-125	125	176	103	80	75	80
December	.. 35	65	85	120	125	169	99	80	77	81

Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922) Agreement, and present date.


---
358
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
Branch for Dundalk.
At a meeting on Saturday to form a branch of above Union a number of men employed
by the Celt Ltd., the local boot factory, attended.
Mr. Geo. White, Belfast, was present.
Mr Clarige (Chairman) said it was most essential that they have a union. In on
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives was recognised all over the world.
place where he had been before the members joined it, the weekly output was 3,000 pair
per week, at present it was turning out 10,000 pairs. The Union helped that factory
increase its output. It would do the same for the Dundalk factory. The Union would
see that they got good wages and good working conditions as well as helping the industry
There had been talk in town about scab labour in the factory. No such thing existe
One could not expect that men would get the maximum or even a minimum wage wh
learning the trade: learners must start on a small wage and realised that. When the
became more experienced they would qualify for a better wage. In some trades men had
were very considerate, but they must always be working for better conditions, both fo
to pay a fee to learn. He did not think they had been treated badly. Their employer
themselves and for the industry.
Mr. White detailed the advantages of joining the Union.
Mr. Wall proposed that a branch be started. This was passed unanimously.
The election of officers resulted: -Chairman, Mr. Clarige, Secretary, Mr. Brett
Treasurer, Mr. Kearney Committee, E. Wall, M. Walls, L. Maguire.-Dundalk Time
13th June, 1925.
INCREASING POPULARITY OF BOOTS & SHOES.
It is estimated that in the East Lancashire district alone there are now something
like 1,250 boot and shoe makers and repairers in business, which is 25 per cent. above
the average for pre-war days. The introduction of ex-soldiers into the trade has, of
course, added to the number, but the increase is mainly due to a change
of fashion. Clogs, which were formerly in vogue, are declining in
popularity on the part of textile workers, and with the decrease in the
number of cloggers there has been an appreciable increase in boot and
shoe repairers. Clogs are now a less distinctive characteristic of Lancashire life as
are shawls. Shoe Trades Journal, 29th May, 1925.
"STICKING TO THE LAST."
Shoemaker Brothers of 91 and 80 Years.
A family of six, all over 80, and two over go, live at Cassland Road, South Hackney.
Their aggregate ages total 525 years.
The "baby" of the family, William Hews, is 80 years and five months, and he and
his elder brother John, who is 91 years and three months, are engaged in making hand-
sewn boots, at which trade they have been for over 50 years.
June, 1925.
The other nonagenarian of the family is a sister, Mrs. Curtis.—Lloyds News, 7th
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES - Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270; Total,
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 10,602; Females, 3.732; Total, 14.334
142,490. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 25th May, 1925
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 10.1; Great Britain only, 9.9. Compared with 27th
increase, 0.6; Total, decrease, o.I. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1925.
April, 1925 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, decrease, 0.5; Females,
Males, 11.5; Females, 7.4; Total,
Percentage Unemployed at 25th May, 1925:
---

---
359
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
CHILD LABOUR IN CHINA.
Child Labour in Rugmaking in China.
The shops in which rugs are made in Peking are dark and overcrowded, with no
attempt at sanitation, and the workrooms serve also as dormitories for the workers. The
working hours are approximately those of daylight; only three shops in Peking are working
less than 12 hours a day.
Almost three-fourths of the employees in this industry, according to a special supple-
ment to the Chinese Social and Political Science Review, quoted in the Industrial and
Labour Information of the International Labour Office, are apprentices, who as a rule
receive their food and clothing and very little money, but no regular wages. The boys
are brought in from the country at the age of 11 or 12, and sometimes younger, to serve
under a contract for three years. During this time they are entirely under the control
of the shopowner, living in the shops in which they work and receiving no moral or educa-
tional training and no physical care. Large numbers of them contract tuberculosis and
other diseases.
The system is practically one of indentured child labour. Moreover, the apprentice-
ship is practically a "blind alley," and for most of the boys there is no future, as, when the
apprenticeship period is completed, other boys are brought in to take their places.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR CONFERENCE, SEVENTH ANNUAL
SESSION, 1925.
Forty-six States.
The Seventh Annual Session of the International Labour Conference of the League
of Nations was held at Geneva from 19th May to 10th June, 1925, forty-six States being
represented. These included not only the important industrial countries of the world,
with the exception of the United States and Russia but including Germany, but also
many of the smaller and of the less advanced States. Among the distant countries were
Japan, China, Australia, India, South Africa, Canada, and the South American States.
Complete delegations consisting of two representatives of the Government and one each
of the employers and the workers were sent by all except ten, and these were mainly of
lesser industrial importance.
The President and Committees.
Dr. Benes, the Czecho-Slovakian statesman, was unanimously elected President
on the proposition of Mr. H. B. Betterton, M.P., Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry
of Labour and senior British Government delegate. Speaking at the close of the Session,
Dr. Benes referred to the feeling that the International Labour Conference was a per-
manent institution with a definite place in modern international life, and added "it has
become a centre for the development of a wise international spirit, moderate, but at the
same time profound."
Following its custon, the Conference appointed six committees (the members of each
Committee being selected equally from each of the groups, Government, employers' and
workers'), to study the details of the questions before it and report to the full Conference.
Three "Second-Reading" Votes.
A provisional system of a "second reading" for Conference decisions had been adopted
at the 1924 Session. It had been felt that many Governments had been unable to ratify
Draft Conventions agreed upon by earlier Sessions by reason often of quite small points,
sometimes in the wording, and that, if they were given an opportunity of suggesting
amendments which would facilitate their own ratification before a final vote was taken,
the speel of adoption of international labour legislation would be increased. Provisional
decisions were therefore taken on three subjects last year and Governments given time
to forward such amendments before the present Conference.
Accident Compensation Equality for Aliens.
The first of these questions was equality of treatment of aliens regarding workers'
and accident compensation. After discussion in committee and in full Conference a
Draft Convention was a loptel by 125 votes to none. By its provisions States who ratify
undertake to grant to the nationals of any other State which is a member of the Inter-
national Labour Organisation who suffer personal injury due to industrial accidents in
their territory the same treatment regarding workers' accident compensation as is given
to their own nationals. A Reconnen lation was also adopted by 128 votes to none on
the question of disputes arising out of the application of this system and on allied problems


---
Glass Workers' Weekly Rest.
The second question was that of guaranteeing a twenty-four hours' weekly rest
workers in glass factories where processes involving tank furnaces are used. This question
led to involved discussions both in the committee and in the full Conference, with t
result that, on the final vote, 68 votes were cast for the proposal and 37 against. T
two-thirds' majority for which the Peace Treaty stipulates in the adoption of a Dras
Convention or Recommendation by the Conference not, therefore, having been gained
the proposal was dropped.

Prohibition of Night Baking.
amendments had been submitted by Governments during the year, but a number of there
The third question was that of the prohibition of night work in bakeries. Mar
ject was adopted by 81 votes to 26, prohibiting the work of all persons engaged in taking
were defeated in the committee stage. On the final vote, a Draft Convention on the sub
during the night except in the case of the wholesale manufacture of biscuits.

Workers' Compensation.
In addition to these "second reading" votes, the Conference had before it for the
the questions of compensation against industrial accidents and industrial diseases. P
first time the question of workers' compensation which it referred to two committees :-
52 votes against 44 the Conference decided to take the final vote on the Draft Conventio
relating to industrial accidents during the present Session and not wait until that of 1926
and took the same action regarding the Draft Convention relating to occupational diseases
by 66 votes to 45.

Industrial Accidents.
On the final vote, a Draft Convention concerning compensation for industrial accidents
was adopted by 83 votes against 8. By its provisions States undertake to compensate
workmen who suffer personal injury due to or arising out of their employment, or their
dependents. No minimum scale is specified but it arranges for date and method of par-
ment, medical attention, supply of artificial limbs, and the like. Farm workers and cas
-to 24 relative to the minimum scale of compensation which should be provided by nationel
montrers are among the exceptions. A Recommendation was also adopted by 79 votes
laws and regulations as well as a Recommendation, by 85 votes to 18, regarding juris-
diction in disputes in connection with workmen's compensation.

Occupational Diseases.
The Draft Convention regarding compensation against occupational diseases was
adopted, on a final vote, by 89 votes to 6, and provides that each State shall pay com-
pensation for incapacity through diseases arising from lead poisoning, mercury poisoning
and anthrax infection. On an amendment proposed by the British Government, it was
decided that the period after which States could revise their ratification of the Convention
should be five years instead of ten. A Recommendation that each State should adopt a
simple procedure by which the list of diseases considered occupational in its national
legislation may be revised was agreed upon by 98 votes to 3.

General Problems of Social Insurance.
The Conference also held, in committee and afterwards in full sitting, a preliminary
discussion on the general problems arising out of workers' insurance. This may be regarded
as a further step in the organisation of the work of the Conference. It had been felt that
the whole subject of workers' insurance was ripe for discussion, but that it was too wide
for the taking of immediate decisions and that therefore a general discussion would clear
the ground for future Conferences which would be called upon to adopt Draft Conventions
and Recommendations on particular aspects of it. The Conference adopted a Resolution
by 88 votes to none requesting the Governing Body of the International Labour Office to
possible that of 1927, and on the Agenda of the same or succeeding Sessions the questions
place the question of general sickness insurance on the Agenda of an early Session, ii
of invalidity, old age, and widows' and orphans' insurance, and calling upon the Office
to prepare information on these questions along certain stated lines.

Hours of Work Convention.
parties of their attitude to the Washington Hours Convention. Important pronouncements
Conference on the past year's working of the Organisation, was the declarations by all
An interesting and important feature of the debate on the Directors' Report to the
Ministers of Labour of France, Belgium and Poland, and the representatives of the Italian
were, in particular, made by Mr. H. B. Betterton, on behalf of Great Britain, by the
and German Governments.
Hours of work and conditions in Japan and India were also the subject of a discussion
in which not only the Japanese Government delegate but the Indian Government, Em-
ployers' and Workers' delegates took part.


---
Here is the extracted text:
Asiatic Labour Conditions.
The Conference, on the proposition of Mr. Joshi, the Indian workers' delegate,
instructed the International Labour Office to make a documentary inquiry into the con-
ditions of labour in Asiatic countries. A further resolution was adopted requiring the
Office to assist in the collection of information regarding the hours of work, wages and
holidays in the coal-mining industry throughout the world. This arose from a demand
made recently by the International Miners' Federation.
The "Two-Reading" System.
The "two-reading" system which had been provisionally adopted in 1924, as men-
tioned above, having resulted in the rejection of any international agreement on glass-
workers, and in the decision of the Conference to take the final votes on workers' com-
pensation immediately, the Conference decided to remit a number of amendments which
had been proposed to it to the Governing Body which is to report on them to the 1926
Session.
A New Governing Body.
One of the duties of the Conference was the election of a new Governing Body of the
International Labour Office, which holds office for three years. Of the twelve Govern-
ments represented, the eight States of chief industrial importance, including Great Britain,
India and Canada, must be included. The Argentine, Spain, Norway and Poland were
elected to the other four places, the Argentine and Norway replacing Chile and Finland.
The six employers on the outgoing Governing Body were re-elected; they include Sir
James Lithgow, former president of the Shipbuilding Employers' Federation; and Mr.
W. Gemmill, of the Transvaal Chamber of Mines. The workers' group is also practically
the same and includes Mr. E. L. Poulton, Secretary of the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives, and Mr. Tom Moore, President of the Canadian Trades and Labour Congress.
Ratifications of International Labour Conventions.
During the Session, 15 formal ratifications of International Labour Conventions
were announced, bringing the total to 161; the total in May, 1924, was 96.
It is noteworthy that the 15 announced during the Conference included the first
ratifications registered by France and by Germany; and the first by a South American
State (the Argentine Republic).
The total strength of the Soviet army is 1,058,000.
*
*
*
During the year 1924 were imported £6,753,679 worth of canned fish, and £4,276,313
worth of fresh, cured, or salted fish.
*
*
*
Imports of iron and steel from France, Belgium, and Germany during the first five
months of this year were 824,000 tons. During the corresponding period of last year
the figure was 566,000 tons.
*
*
*
The number of British-made motor-cars exported during the first four months of
1924, when the industry was protected by the McKenna Duties, was 3,012. In the corres-
ponding period of this year, with the duties abolished, the number of exported cars
was 6,387.
*
*
*
During the year 1923, the proportion of the following imports which came from Empire
sources were as follows: - Unmanufactured tobacco, 7.45 per cent.; wine, 7.3 per cent.;
raisins, 24.4 per cent.; currants, 6.15 per cent.; dried and preserved plums, 5.36 per
cent.; figs and fig-cake, 0.01 per cent.
*
*
*
During the first three months of this year, the average royalty on each ton of coal
raised was 61d.
*
*
*
Imports of wheat into Great Britain during 1924 were 117¼ million cwts., as compared
with 104 million cwts. in 1914; wheat meal and flour 11 million cwts., as compared with
10 million cwts.; and barley 21½ million cwts., as compared with 16 million cwts.
-From The Labour Press Service, 18th June, 1925.


---
Here is the extracted text:
381
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
Record Number of Cases Settled.
We are pleased to record the fact that since our last Report the following
settlements have been effected through the Union's Solicitor, Mr. Evan
Barlow:-
Mr. S., Kettering No. 2, £10 and £1 1s. od. costs. In this instance
there was no liability, but our Solicitor secured the above sum as an ex
gratia payment.
Mr. M., Leicester, £30 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. K., Kettering No. 2, £50 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. I., Leicester, £40 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. J. E. D., Mansfield, £25 and £2 2s. od. costs. Here again there
was no liability, but the Solicitor secured this sum as an ex gratia payment.
Mr. C., Leicester, £100 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. N., Leicester, £75 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. R., Leicester, £65 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. K., Leicester, £75 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. S., Kettering, £350 and £15 15s. od. costs.
Mr. W., Kettering, £200 and £10 10s. od. costs.
Mr. H., Leicester, £300 and £26 5s. od. costs.
Mr. I., Leicester No. 2, £125 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. N., Kettering, £100 and £10 10s. od. costs.
In spite of this long list of settlements, we would remind members that
lump sums of money are not obtainable by law, but only by agreement,
proving, once again, what may be done for our members when the Insurance
Companies know that there is a powerful organisation at the back of them.
THE HALF-YEARLY STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS
is presented herewith. The details are given on the following pages. Despite
the heavy demands on the Sick and Unemployment Funds we are pleased to
record the fact that there is an increase in the Central Office funds. It should
be noted that the Sick and Funeral Benefits have increased from £15,740 5s. 10d.
for last half-year to £22,988 9s. 2d., or an increase of 46 per cent., whilst the
Unemployment Benefit has increased from £18,440 18s. 6d. to £24,228 Is. 3d.,
an increase of 31.5 per cent. In connection with the Benefits paid through the
State Unemployment Section, it will be observed that the increase is 37 per
cent.; this is a great advantage to the members by being enabled to receive
State Benefit through the offices of the Union, and we trust that every branch
will see the advantage in administering the same.
The loss recorded on the Political Fund is due to the Union's activities in
connection with the work carried on on local bodies, which work is of distinct
advantage, not only to one section of the community, but is of a general
character.
B


---
Here is the requested text:
382
It should always be borne in mind that the great benefits given for
small contribution are only possible on account of the system under which
work of the Union is conducted Arbitration. Further, it should be rem
are borne by the Union, which in itself is a considerable benefit to those membe
bered that the costs of the Solicitor in connection with Compensation (
who unfortunately meet with accidents.
TRADE DEPARTMENT.
For the
half-year ending
30th June, 1925.
£
s. d.
34079 8 10
32198 16 6
173187 3 10
For the
half-year ending
30th June, 1924.
£
s. d.
38525 18 I
31940 11 9
164262 10 4
Increase on the Decrease
corresponding
half-year.
£ s. d.
258 4 9.
8924 13 6.
corre
hali-y
£
444
Total Trade Income
" Expenditure
" Funds, Trade Dept.
The Detailed Items of Trade Expenditure are as follows:-
7
16
Travelling Assistance
74 18
2..
75
Investigating
3 17
6 16 7..
Loss of Tools by Fire
36 0
57 10
Victimisation
402 12
147
Dispute Benefit
284 2
186 II II
Arbitration
24228
I
22541
Out-of-Work Benefit
494 10
471 12
9 0..
8
Share of Out-of-Work Cons.
Three-fourths Share of
Organising
1196 14 3..
768 13 5
428
Three-fourths Share of
Printing and Stationery
Legal Expenses
Grants
1188 5
177 18
325 7
8
0
95 4 2
100 5 0
Gen. Fed. of Trade Unions
1147 10
777 10 3
10
Political Fund
Delegations and Conferences
British Trade Union Congress
Scottish Trade Union Congress 23 0
247
5
1088 15 11
403 11 6
26 Ο ΙΟ
271
9 10
1493
Upkeep of Central Office
254 19 10
333
Miscellaneous
Management Expenses
217 9 4
1617 11 2..
4 11
4 4
250
1647 I
8
5 3..
SICK AND FUNERAL DEPARTMENT.
Total Sick Income
" Expenditure
" Funds, Sick Dept.
32324 17 0
25094
29188 14 0
22700 15 3
157967 I 4
2393 7 8
136735 13 21231 8 2
3
0
3136
2..
The Detailed Items of Sick and Funeral Expenditure are as follows:-
Sickness Benefit
Funeral Benefit
21129 19
2
19013
Share of Out-of-Work Cons.
1858 10
0
12078 15 6
2116
3
8
320
One-fourth Share of
314 16
300 11
10
14
4 5..
Organising
One-fourth Share of
398 18
I
Major Stevens
Management Expenses
Printing and Stationery
396 I II
455 17 6
484 16
465 14 0
7..
88 14
9 10
Committee
Leicestershire Insurance
540
0
0
0
540
0..
FIDELITY DEPARTMENT.
Total Income
64 7 6
Expenditure
62
10
0.
1 17 6
" Funds, Fidelity Dept. 683 10 7
618 8
65
2
6


---
Here is the extracted text:
384
GAINS AND LOSSES ON THE HALF-YEAR.
Total Funds at Central Office, now
"
last Half-year..
s. d.
£
334175 18 4
325291 4 II
Net Increase on Half-year
..
£
8884 135
118918 2 11
11637 1 1
Total Funds at Branches, now
last Half-year
Net Increase on Half-year
7281 I IO
Total Increase
£16165 15 3
GAINS AND LOSSES (CENTRAL & BRANCH FUNDS).
Increase on Trade Fund
Sick Fund
Fidelity Fund
1880 12
7230 14
64
Less Loss on Political Fund
4
I
7 6
9175 13 II
291 0 6
Net Increase on Central Office Funds
Branch Funds
8884 13 5
7281 I IO
TOTAL INCREASE
£16165 15 3
MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNION.
Financial Members-
Males
Females..
Probationary
52548
21557
74105
6490
GRAND TOTAL
80595
Financial
Probationary
Totals
1925. 1924. 1924. 1923. 1923. 1922. 1922. 1921. 1920.
JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. DEC.
74105 72647 70494 69112 68403 68787 69174 71224 81874
6490 6098 7250 6553 6772 6310 7019 5986 6989
80595 78745 77744 75665 75175 75097 76193 77210 88850
JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCILS AND VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS.
At the forthcoming Trades Union Congress in September we have a
resolution upon the agenda dealing with the above matter, and also one on
Unemployment.
The resolutions are as follows :-
VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS.
"This Congress instructs the General Council to urge upon H.M.
Government the desirability of giving to National Agreements voluntarily
entered into and approved by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity
as awards under the Trade Board Acts, 1909 and 1918, with the object
of ensuring the observance of fair conditions of labour by all engaged in
the industry whenever requested by the parties to the agreement."
UNEMPLOYMENT.
"That this Congress views with the greatest concern the serious
volume of unemployment now existing, and deplores the lack of effective


---
measures on the part of the Government to attempt to alleviate the
situation. It further declares its emphatic opposition to the spurious
remedies of lower wages and the degradation of established working con-
ditions, and calls upon the Trade Union Movement to offer its utmost
resistance to any attempt to increase the hours of work. It asserts the
unquestionable right of the unemployed worker and his dependents to
adequate maintenance, and reiterates its demand for the establishment
of a National Employment and Development Board for the purpose of
devising and co-ordinating measures whereby the extent of unemployment
may be reduced."

We hope that both resolutions will be passed. The one dealing with
Voluntary Agreements has beer, in the past, somewhat misunderstood. We are
only asking that any Union which has a proper agreement between themselves
and the Employers' Association, should, if both sides desire the same, to
make it applicable to all engaged in the industry, and thus prevent "under-
cutting" of wages and conditions at the expense of the worker. This surely
is a sound principle, and one that will make for the elimination of those
who want to reduce the standard of living.

THE POLITICAL AND INDUSTRIAL WORLD

is, from the workers' standpoint, very unsatisfactory indeed; especially so is
this the fact if looked at from the proceedings during the past few weeks in the
House of Commons. Of talk there has been an unending stream, and appeals
for something to be done to relieve the present abnormal circumstances. When,
however, Labour puts up its case through the Labour M.P.'s, the net result
is that "Parliament can do but little to remedy the situation," and later on,
when votes are taken, the big majority by which the Conservatives were returned
shows itself in constantly voting down the Labour proposals. The attitude of
the Government upon the great and serious question of unemployment, as
portrayed by the speech of the Premier, the Rt. Hon. Stanley Baldwin, M.P.,
is indeed one of great disappointment, and ought to be a speech to satisfy the
workers that their hopes lay in a Labour Party in the House of Commons,
with a sufficient majority to make it a real power. We are being constantly
reminded of the fact that the Labour Party was in office last year and did not
solve the problem; what is omitted is the fact that the Party was in a minority
so far as the number of members making the House of Commons was concerned,
and to a very considerable extent was therefore handicapped by the limits
which were imposed upon the Party.

Further, the very people who "taunt" the Labour Party with its short-
comings conveniently forget that whilst Labour had nine months wherein to
bring into being new methods, the older parties of the State have been in power
and authority for hundreds of years, and the present condition of affairs is
due very largely to their lack of statesmanship, and certainly reflect no great
credit upon them. We appeal, therefore, to the membership to keep steadily


---
Here is the extracted text:
386
and persistently at work to build up such a Labour Party as will ensure, in the
near future, a sufficient number of members in the House of Commons who
not only insist upon drastic reforms, but will be in sufficient authority to pr
upon the Statute Book of the Realm such Acts of Parliament as will bring ira
being a system which will relieve the workers from many unjust burdens ther
at present are carrying.
OBITUARY.
It is with sincere regret that we have to record the death of another
Branch. Mr. Rawlings has for many years been an active member of
officer of the Union, MR. J. RAWLINGS, Secretary to the London South
the Branch and did yeoman work on behalf of the members in South
London. Upon the death of Mr. G. Standeven, in January, 1924, he
was elected Branch Secretary.
Mr. Rawlings was buried on Thursday, the 16th inst., at 2.30p.m.,
and we were represented at the funeral by the General President and
General Secretary.
We trust that the efforts put forth on behalf of the workers by Mr.
Rawlings will be an incentive to the younger men to carry on the work
he has been called upon to lay down.
To the relatives of the deceased officer we have tendered sympathy
for their great loss, and also appreciation of the work of our late colleague.
We hope it will be some consolation to them in this their loss to know
that Mr. Rawlings was held in esteem by his comrades.
We have further to record the very sudden death of MRS. BLEAKLEY,
the wife of Mr. C. Bleakley, who himself died as recently as May last.
It is indeed a sad blow to the family to lose both parents by sudden
deaths and especially within such a short period of time. We beg to
assure the family of the sympathy of the membership of the Union in this
their time of trouble and loss.
UNEMPLOYMENT.
A Special Conference was held on the 24th inst., called by the General
Council of the Trade Union Congress, at the Central Buildings, Westminster.
The basis for representation being different from that for the Annual Congress,
we decided that inasmuch as the membership of the Union could not be con-
sulted, we were represented thereat by the following: -Mr. T. F. Richards,
Mr. W. R. Townley, Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards, Mr. L. Smith, Mr. W. R. Smith,
and Mr. E. L. Poulton. The Conference was well attended, and after con-
siderable discussion upon the present disgraceful condition of affairs regarding
the vast army of unemployed and the attendant suffering occasioned, a series
of resolutions were passed dealing with the question of insisting upon the


---
387
Government dealing with this paramount question. A report will be found
on page 441.
We are pleased our colleague, Mr. W. R. Smith, drew attention to the
most important item in which the Labour movement believes the develop
ment of home resources, particularly in regard to the land, much of which is
derelict. Although Mr. W. R. Smith's speech was of nearly ten minutes'
duration, we regret the Daily Herald only gave him the following in their
report of the Congress :-
"Mr. W. R. Smith (Boot and Shoe Operatives) regretted that the
resolutions made no reference to the development of home resources,
especially the land, much of which was derelict."
MINERS.
At the Conference named above, a full statement was made regarding the
position of the Miners and the attempts being made to still further reduce their
standard of life, a standard already too low. There was no doubt about the
mind of the Conference as to supporting the Miners, and while it is hoped a
way may yet be found whereby a stoppage will be prevented, we want to make
quite clear to the membership that the Trade Union movement as a whole is
expected to loyally support the Miners in their resisting the onslaught if forced
upon them. Their case is quite clear; they have already been forced down
to a standard below which they are unanimous in stating they cannot go
further. Their case has been before the General Council of the Congress and
they are unanimous in declaring for doing all possible to back up the Miners.
We cannot say more at present except that the members need not be surprised
if we have to call at short notice meetings of the members to ask for further
powers than we have at present to render assistance to other Unions.
WOOLLEN TRADES.
A statement was also made at the same Conference regarding the attempts
that the Employers in such industry are making to reduce the workers' wages.
Here also the workers are determined to resist such proposed reductions, and
a number of operatives have already ceased work rather than submit to any
reduction. We hope that success will attend them in their resistance. It is
indeed ironical to find on the one hand complaints as to restricted trade, and
on the other these proposed reductions of wages which will further restrict
trade, and this on the plea of increasing trade. These cases ought to wake
the workers up to the absolute necessity of so rousing the conscience of the
nation as will ensure the withdrawal of the proposals which our comrades are
confronted with. The Trade Union movement is going through a very trying
time, and we appeal to the members to stand loyally by and help as far as
possible those who are called upon to bear the brunt of the battle.
BALANCE SHEETS.
We beg to call the attention of those Branch Secretaries who have not yet
sent in their balance sheet for the quarter ending May last. On reference to


---
Here is the extracted text:
388
Circular No. 357, it will be seen that a period of eight weeks was allowed to
clapse during which time balance sheets were to be sent to the Central Office.
Twenty-six branches have so far failed to send a copy along, and we trust
no further reminder will be necessary.
RECEIPTS FOR BENEFITS.
To save the writing of unnecessary letters Branch Secretaries should
remit ALL receipt forms to the Central Office as soon as signed, to enable the
accounts to be closed promptly.
JUBILEE HISTORY OF THE UNION.
Members who desire to secure a copy of this most interesting and valuable
record of the work of the Union for its first fifty years should place their order
immediately with the Branch Secretary, as the stock is constantly being
reduced, and we do not intend to have a reprint. They are only 6d. per
copy, and should be ordered at once.
THE “DAILY HERALD.”
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear "should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only “Union Stamped
Footwear.”
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President. THE COUNCIL.
J. WHEELER. W. WARNER.
C. BATES. W. HINDES.
E. LAW. A. J. DOBBS.
W. R. TOWNLEY. ALEX. SMITH.
L. P. POOLE. J. MANNERS.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS. E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.


---
389

GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,

TRADE.—The state of trade warrants all of us to look for the cause, and, if possible,
point to the remedies. At once let me say that all countries appear to be in the same
plight, as shown by the facts of our international relationship. Other countries have
been quoted, and we have therefore informed ourselves of the position in other countries
as here in this one. Our confrères in other lands cannot press home their industrial
demands unless the operatives are willing to be organised, and in this connection we could,
and would, like to stop home competition by getting all Operatives in the Union and all
Employers in the Federation; and owing to the self-centred interest inherent in the
unlearned, these impositions are put upon those who are conscientiously trying to do the
right thing. We have evidence of this where several manufacturers have been called upon
to abide by the National Agreement, and the pity is that some small penalty is not imposed
upon them; in fact, we here in this country appear to be imposed upon by the Non-
Unionist and Non-Associated because of our desire not to be either vindictive or unkind,
and whilst we may wish it. We are able to check bad wages and worse conditions in other
countries and we are doing it; that is more than the Employers are doing, they fully
believe in underselling each other. We don't, and our influence in the shoemaking coun-
tries, some twelve in number, only one exceeds the 48 hours, which at least is an achieve-
ment for the Unions so organised. Then we must always bear in mind that the purchasing
power of money differs in different countries and also the economic position has to be
considered. For instance, let us take Messrs. Bata Bros., Zlim, Czecho-Slovakia or
Moravia. They employ four thousand workers and are capable of turning out sixty
thousand pairs per week of women's and children's glacé kid, patent, willow, satin canvas
and leather. They manufacture everything necessary on the spot; they make their
own leather, having their own pine forest for tanning bark; make some of their machinery;
a wood-working department, paper and cardboard factories, printing works, and print
a weekly newspaper distributed among the workers. They have their own dairy farm
from which the workers are supplied with flour, milk, meat, cheese, eggs, &c. The firm
is also erecting a garden town of four hundred houses, schools, library, baths, the building
materials being supplied from the firms own brick-kilns, quarries and forests. The firm
have one hundred and eighty retail shops in Czecho-Slovakia, and one hundred and twenty
abroad, or a total of three hundred retail shops. They also manufacture felt and cloth
shoes for Bohemia and Moravia. The estimated turn-out is put at one hundred thousand
pairs per day, of which sixty thousand pairs are turned out by machinery and forty
thousand pairs by hand. Including the cottage industry it is estimated that in the country
of Czecho-Slovakia no less than forty thousand people are engaged in shoemaking, and
their output is about forty million pairs per year. If one carefully considers the above
it will be seen that such a firm can get all the wealth they need from any two or three of
the above investments, for apparently this firm is practising the Socialistic system by
having and being the overlord, but one wonders where the ordinary small private trader
can successfully compete with a system of co-ordination as this appears to be. Of one
thing I am concerned and that is we ought to know more of this firm and its conditions.

MANSFIELD.—Messrs. Faire Bros., of this town, employ some hundred and twenty
girls, and we succeeded in joining about one hundred and eighteen in January last, and
promised them as they had been members before, after improving their position, they
allowed themselves to be intimidated and left the Union, but we promised to see the
firm before Easter if they would remain loyal. We learned in a few weeks that the manage-
ment had had the girls in the Office and tried to intimidate them from belonging to the
Union. I asked for, and obtained, an interview with Sir Samuel Faire and his brother, in
Leicester, who promised me that they would have no trouble with us and that no inter-
ference with the operatives would be permitted, but further interference has taken place,
and to make sure twenty-five girls were discharged with the object of causing them to leave
the Union. Many girls stopped paying. We wrote the firm who again assured us in face
of this fact, that they were not interfering with the girls and their membership, and although
the six months has elapsed, asked for by the firm, they have not put themselves in order.
It makes one lose confidence in mankind when men of position act in this manner and allow
others to drag their name into the public gaze, when the conduct displayed by the manage-
ment at Mansfield is such that we must inform the Industry of the fact that this firm is
acting contrary to the letter and the spirit of the National Agreement, which all honourable
firms adopt, and we must ask the employers to help us to respect their own agreement,
and also respect the attitude of our members who refuse to work up materials produced
under unfair conditions. We are told that the law of libel is great: well, we are prepared
to put that to the test by making the facts known.

RUSHDEN. The firm of Chamberlain has been visited respecting the conditions we
were permitting at the auxiliary firms like the above, and also Looms', of Market Har-
borough, and other firms who cut leather and make stiffenings and heels, all of whom make
C


---
390
that will befall them should they join the Union.
were always paid. Now, if others are going to take from the factories this work, there
up materials which used to be made up in shoe factories, and for which Trade Union rate,
One wonders and marvels how in the
who like Faire Bros., Mansfield, have lectured their operatives on the terrible consequence
Federation by stiffening makers has taken place, including Looms', Market Harborough
need be no surprise for us to ask that union rates be paid. A deputation to the Employers
guilty of the grave misdemeanour of persuading the
name of common decency people can be found who can depute the Employers' Federatio
with interest and sympathy, because if we failed with one or two, our strength would
informed Mr. G. Looms that when we appeal to the employers we know they will lister
with our members and the unfair materials and their source of origin. We still prefer
that Looms' and Faire Bros. will act with us and save us having to resort to other means
and ask for help when they are
employees to think of their employers' imaginary and selfish outlook. I have already
which we can obtain our object without acting unfairly.
AMERICA. Our enquiries regarding Stiffening making in America has elicited
non-union and coloured labour is found at low rates for America, varying from 7 to 1
fact that although in some factories non-union labour is invariably the rule, yet in other
dollars per week. Boys and girls are also employed in the factories, which means in
great natural country with all its wealth has a corner in its heart, although there are ot
money from 28s. to 60s. per week, of from 48 to 60 hours per week, showing that this ver
stiffening factories whose employees are non-unionist yet earn from 15 to 25 dollars Ter
week, which is not too great for the place described by some of its countrymen as of " Di
We cannot leave this matter here, more will be heard of this later.
Origin."
TRADE BOARD. - Two more days have been spent on this work and the Boot Trad
Association had set up a repairing plant at Wembley and invited the Advisory Committe
otherwise detained, sent a substitute. The Exhibition was a very good and compact one
The Minister of Labour had consented to open the same, but bein
done. A new Rounding and Channelling machine by the Standard Machinery Co. wasa
and illustrated very fully how repairs can be made to look as good as new when proper
very distinguishable feature.
The general work of the Board was the granting of permits, the registration of appren
General, has not yet given his decision respecting the division of a repairer's duties, and
when he is working under the Act and when he is working outside the Act.
BOZEAT. A visit to all the firms in the district respecting the payment of the extra
Is. claimed by us several months ago met with favour by the employers, who felt that
the circumstances our claim was not unreasonable, but could give us no promise at presen
of anything further in the future. We could not refuse this small concession in the present
state of trade.
MANSFIELD SHOE COMPANY. - Several visits have been paid to this firm who had
Government contract, and who are not proceeding with the same. We have had several
differences with the firm, who are in an isolated district, and who feel they are too far from
a shoe centre to get the facilities afforded by such contact-hence we get at misunder-
standings because of the geographical area, and it requires some amount of trouble to ger
differences corrected. However, the firm being federated, they can always check ou
claims, and we hope to ultimately arrive at a proper understanding. It is for this reason
that when we do not hear from a firm for several months it invariably happens that a lor
has got to be done before we can get all the accumulated troubles corrected. We are
still negotiating.
BURTON-ON-TRENT MEMBERS. A visit to Earl Shilton to see the head of this firm
resulted in the firm paying time and a quarter for overtime for the future, but demurred
to pay for the past, alleging that the Rossendale Union did not press, and also intimated
to us that they are about to slightly reduce our members' wages because they are higher
than the Rossendale Statement. We have intimated to them that we cannot accept this
way of dealing with our members, and hope that no such attempt will be made, or trouble
AMALGAMATION of all Unions in the Leather Trade ought to take place, and also in
these days of kindred alliances all factory operatives ought to have an alliance for self-
preservation purposes. If a universal or a national stoppage is about to become due.
then all ought to be consulted and all could then participate.
MELTON MOWBRAY has been visited with the object of renewing, if possible, our
position in that town, where owing to the 1920 stoppage one factory closed down altogether.
and the other has made very bad time, but we hope for better times, and when one remem-
bers our benefits and the Unemployment Benefits, and our Holiday Pay, it is 75 per cent.
of those who have no income, which would have saved in the old days very many members
easier to pay contributions to-day than in the old days. We do pay now the contributions
We are also in touch with Oakham, but owing to the prolonged illness of our friend. Mr.
Wainer, of Melton, we have not been so much in touch as formerly.
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
rates
there
yers'
ough,
ences
the
tion
heir
ady
Sten
lie
efer
by-
the
ers
15
ur
y
er
e
391
SUPERANNUATION. The Sub-Committee appointed reported to a special Council
Meeting on this matter, and there appears to be only one way of dealing with this matter
at present, that is, by all future recipients to pay an additional contribution, and one
wonders how many members there are prepared to do that. Beyond this I will not divulge
at present all the other points that may appear in a Memoranda later.
ADVISORY COUNCIL OF TRADES BOARDS met at Montagu House, to consider, among
other things, the method of Inspectorship in connection with the Trade Board Acts, but
owing to the grave crisis in the coal industry and the general Council Meeting precisely
at that time, and several of our members being on that body, after carefully looking
through the Annual Report to be presented to Congress at Scarborough, we adjourned
the meeting with the Council, Todd and the Chief Lady Inspector until a later date.
LONDON SOUTH. The General Secretary and myself had the sad experience of attend-
ing the funeral of Mr. J. Rawlings, Secretary of the Branch, who passed away after a very
few days illness through pneumonia. This branch only a few months ago lost their old
Secretary, Mr. G. Standeven, and this calamity falling so soon must make the older members
feel very sad indeed.
WATERFOOT. I have also paid a visit to Waterfoot with the avowed object of trying
to prevent friction between us, but as the Secretary had had a special call, I could only
write him very fully asking for an opportunity of meeting the Executive of that Union
of 6,000 strong, and by such methods avert the friction that may arise on any question
in which both may be interested. I have told Mr. Taylor that at present all I am doing
is unofficial, but if I can get something tangible to place before the Council of the National
Union, I should be only too pleased, as we shall never get unity until units unite. Bodies
are always made up of these units, and it is necessary that these must make the first move
which, to say the least, was the recommendation of the General Council's Dispute Committee.
All members are very loyal to the Union who buy and read the Daily Herald, and act
upon its advice in Trade Union matters, especially if they wear STAMPED SHOES, or at
least be sure they have been made under Trade Union conditions.
Yours fraternally,
ihards
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, LONDON, N.W.5.
19th July, 1925.
General President.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1924 667,902 8 7
January, 1925
2,840 1 10
January, 1925
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
t s. d.
To December, 1924 358,625 13 7
3,954 7 9
..
February
3,952 4 8
February
..
..
5,226 1 9
March
4,124 16 0
March
..
3,682 10 3
April
4,054 10 6
April
..
..
3,031 5 0
May
4,023 13 8
May
..
..
3,510 14 9
June
3,993 2 6
June
..
..
4,823 1 9
2690,890 17 9
£382,853 14 10


---
Here is the extracted text:
7th Edition.
392
NATIONAL JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL
FOR THE BOOT AND SHOE MANUFACTURING TRADE AND
NATIONAL CONFERENCE AGREEMENT (SEPTEMBER), 1924.
HOLIDAY (PROVISION) SCHEME.
THE JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL FOR THE BOOT AND SHOE TRA
equal contributions from Manufacturers and Operatives, under the follow
on 27th May, 1919, adopted a Contributory Holiday Scheme, based
conditions, and the Scheme was incorporated in the National Confere-
Agreement (September), 1924:
1.- Weekly contributions after August Bank Holiday, 1925, will be:
Employer
Operative
permitting
Men (over 21)
1/2
1/2
Youths (18-21) and
Women (over 20)
8d.
8d.
Boys (16-13)2
Girls (16-2
4d.
4d.
2.- Withdrawals for the following amounts after the dates shown:
factory closed for usual holidays (3 days Easter and Whitsun; I week Christmas
and August):
-AMOUNTS-
Youths and
Men
Women
Boys and
HOLIDAY
Girls
Fri., 25th Dec., 1925
40/-
20/-
10-
Mon., 5th April, 1926
16/-
12/-
6-
Mon., 24th May, 1926
16/-
12-
6-
Mon., 2nd Aug., 1926
40/-
20/-
10-
and requiring the following credit balances
to be left :
December, 1925
Easter, 1926
Whitsun,
1926
August,
1926
subject to
4/4
...
5/4
28
21/-
12/-
6-
19/-
8/-
4-
3.-Payments being made at times to suit local arrangements, but pre-
ferably on the first pay day after the holiday.
4-Withdrawals not exceeding the amount standing to an operatives
credit, and only taking place at above dates.
5.-Operatives leaving between holidays having amounts to their credits
paid after the next holiday or, on request, transferred to their next employer.
6.-Operatives absent through sickness being allowed on resumption of
work to make up arrears for 4 weeks.
for which operatives do not contribute.
7. -No contributions being payable by employers in respect of those weeks
and signing the contribution card accordingly.
8.-Operatives agreeing to deduction of their contributions from wages
"
Holiday Pro
9.--All contributions for each factory being paid into a
vision Account" at a bank, controlled by a Management Committee of not less
than two (half representing the employer and half the operatives).
July, 1925.
(Signed) RUTH TOMLINSON,
E. L. POULTON,
}
Joint Secretaries.


---
Here is the extracted text:
393
THE AUDITOR'S REPORT.
THE CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LIMITED,
AUDIT DEPARTMENT,
99 Leman Street,
London, E. 1.
The Executive Council,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
I beg to report that I have audited the Accounts of the Union for
the Half-year ended 30th June, 1925, with the Books and Vouchers
relating thereto, and have obtained all the information and explanations
I have required, and am of the opinion that they exhibit a true and correct
view of the Union's position according to the information given, and as
shown by the books.
The Deeds of Investments have been examined, and found to be
in order.
The system of accounting is an excellent one, and the books are
exceedingly well kept.
15th July, 1925.
Yours faithfully,
A. E. NEWMAN,
Public Auditor.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
421
FUNERAL BENEFITS
For Half-Year ending 30th June, 1925.
AYR
No.
4445
Name.
Galbraith. T.
BELFAST
1931 Rice, P.
BRISTOL
988
912
709
830
111221
856
Ayles, E.
Wilkins. G.
Vincent, A.
Duckett. G.
Powell. J.
Gilbert. F.
BRISTOL No. 2-
1610 Wheeler, J. F.
71986 Peacock, W. J. (wife of)
1222 Cann, A. H. (wife of)
BROMSGROVE-
111242 Bushnell J.
111266 Warman, H. (wife of)
CHESHAM-
119976 Green, A.
CORK-
153593 O'Connor, J.
Occupation.
Maker
Repairer
Age
53
46
Cause of Death.
Heart Failure
Pulmonary Tuberculosis
Amount.
L s. d.
6 0 0
6 0 0
Totals.
L s. d.
6 0 0
6 0 0
Consol Operator
Laster
Repairer
Laster
Finisher
30
56
73
69
71
61
Phthisis
Pulmonary Tuberculosis
Morbus Cordis
Pneumonia
Hernia..
Mitral Disease of Heart
6 0 0
6 0 0
6 0 0
6 0 0
6 0 0
6 0 0
36 0 0
Clicker
34
67
48
Phthisis
Pneumonia
Broncho-Pneumonia
6 0 0
3 0 0
3 0 0
12 0 0
ST.. Edge Setter
61
39
Arterio Sclerosis
Mitral Stenosis
3 0 0
3 0 0
6 0 0
Padding
39
Heart Failure
6 0 0
6 0 0
Maker
19
Tuberculosis
3 0 0
3 0 0
DAVENTRY-
3643 Muddiman, W. (wife of)
61
Tumour
3 0 0
3 0 0
DERBY-
3802 Petty, C.
Laster
61
Rheumatism
6 0 0
6 0 0
DUNDEE-
3341 Kidd, A.
95469 Crone, J. R.
68513 Wright, P.
73827 McPherson. A.
Repairer
Benchman
Benchman
Maker
40
52
59
62
Syncope
Cystitis
Cardiac Failure
Cerebral Hæmorrhage
6 0 0
6 0 0
6 0 0
6 0 0
24 0 0
EDINBURGH-
4152 Bleakley, C.
Finisher
57
Cardiac Failure
6 0 0
6 0 0
GLASGOW-
4998 Thomson, A. (wife of)
4830 Vance, W. J. (wife of)
4894 Carroll, F.
5026 Berryman, T.
4794 Henderson, H. (wife of)
154385 Stewart, G. (wife of)
4500 Simpson, W. (wife of)
5583 Duff, S.
4680 Blyth, R. (wife of)
5124 Youill, A.
4743 Williamson, H. (wife of)
4992 Mackie, A. (wife of)
140674 McKeown, W.
Maker
Benchman
Stitcher
Rivetter
41
69
49
75
46
27
68
80
53
67
56
81
50
Cirrhosis of Liver
Carcinoma
Bronchitis
Bronchitis
Abortion
Aneurism of Aorta
Apoplexy
Carcinoma
Carcinoma
Carcinoma
Senility
Peritonitis
3 0 0
6 0 0
6 0 0
3 0 0
3 0 0
3 0 0
3 0 0
3 0 0
3 0 0
3 0 0
6 0 0
3 0 0
54 0 0
Benchman
Carried forward
168 0 0


---
```text
BRANCH REPORTS.

ARBROATH. Trade is still bad, and now the middle of the year brings
round the need for statutory holidays. Needless to say our members could
do with work and not with holidays, but they will have to accept a further
interval which will pass as a time of rest and pleasure. We have written before
of how the holiday hits the short-time worker, and again the stop will entail
a stop in benefit which is always needed. We have been awaiting in vain for
the shrieks of indignation over the new proposals of the Government re Un-
employment Insurance, and once again must we confess we cannot understand
the British worker. He seems willing always to be kicked or squeezed or
diddled or hoodwinked, and even ready to kiss the hand that hands over the
"medicine." if one can be allowed to confuse the metaphor. How insured
contributors should permit say the idle benefit being spoken of as the "dole,"
how they should tolerate further meddling with waiting period and with
ordinary rights to benefit, how they should lie down to this bare-faced project
to reduce unemployment by depriving claimants wholesale of benefits, is some-
thing which will be of enormous interest to the students of psychology of the
future, but which remains a perfect nightmare to those of the present. After
a period of approximately five years' depression, when all kinds of resources
are long since swallowed up, and when after a fitful summer we are approach-
ing a British winter season with its cruel demands for greater expenditure,
the screw will begin to turn which will leave huge numbers with no alternative
but the workhouse or the grave. The new codified instructions for the adminis-
tration of Unemployment Benefit have been issued, and several very unsatis-
factory issues appear to have been in the mind of the Ministry when this was
prepared. Throughout the period between one set of regulations and another,
the permanent officials are exerting their cuteness in finding fresh difficulties
to put in the way of those who claim, and if those restrictions fail to rouse
serious opposition, the underlying idea is then embodied in a definite instruction.
How this works can be seen from the treatment of juveniles who become
insured for the first time. When the right of "waver" was first allowed to
the 30 stamp conditions, those juveniles were admitted to benefit after their
first stamp, the view being held that if they had worked at insurable employ-
ment between the ages of 14 and 16 years, they had proved their right to be
regarded as being normally insurable, while only being eligible for stamps at
16 seemed to prove they had got all the reasonable amount of insurable employ-
ment that was possible in their case. This went on for some time, but at last
some bright brain discovered a technical flaw, and held that no employment
was insurable before a person became 16 years of age; therefore the statutory
condition was not fulfilled until a longer term of stamps was necessary to prove
"normality." Various restrictions were imposed until no one in an official
position knew what was what, but now it is laid down that three months of
insured employment must be proved before a juvenile gets benefit. And all
the time only a few kicked. If a greater volume of protest had been made
this objectionable finding would have been prevented. Many other instances
could be given to prove that very oppressive conditions have grown up gradually
which only required a united opposition from Unions to kill at their inception.
BURNLEY.-We would like to see an Organiser as promised. Our
branch is dying of apathy and indifference.
CHESHAM.-Trade here still remains slack.
CHESTERFIELD.-We have to report trade bad at the time of sending.
We have several members out of work, and our sick list is rather heavy for the
time of the year. The prospects do not look very bright for trade improving
at present.
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
430
CORK. Trade still remains good.
DERBY. Trade in Derby is of uneven character; the C.W.S. appear to
have plenty of work, but the other firms are not making half time. We hav
a few signing the Out-of-Work Book, also some that have been suspended
chance of getting back. The firms seem as if they would sooner emplo
In places like Derby when you fall out in the boot trade you do not have much
Melbourne operatives than local ones.
DUNDALK.Trade is very bad indeed, so much so that members are
started by men employed by a new factory, matters are rather unsettled
management was approached and asked to allow all to share alike as regard
being dismissed and short time is the general rule. This being a new branch
We regret to state we had trouble here this week, ending 4th July. Th
short time. This was refused, so our Branch President, an Englishman, volu
teered to stay off too. The members considered this a great sacrifice. N
and presented their local President with a very handsome pipe in case, as a
monthly meeting the members strongly resented the management's action
mark of respect and esteem for his laborious toil in connection with the Branch
at the same time wishing him every success in his future occupation. He is
he having been employed for seven years under a Waterford firm previous t
leaving Dundalk on the 6th inst. for Waterford, where his family are domiciled
his coming to Dundalk. We may mention also that the sewer and stitcher-
the only one we had-packed up on Friday evening, the 3rd inst., and returned
we understand enough stock is on hand to supply the requirements of the firm
to his home in Northampton-had enough of Dundalk management. Further.
for three or four months, and it is difficult to understand what is to happen next.
the 3rd inst., the forelady was dismissed without notice. Now we have the
In all cases the employees have been dismissed without notice. On Friday
foreman finisher's wife in her place.
EDINBURGH.-Trade in Repairing Section fairly busy during the month
We are sorry to report the death of Mrs. C. Bleakley only six weeks after her
husband and late Colleague C. Bleakley. Our sympathy goes out to the family
in their double bereavement. Up to the time of sending returns away the
response to our appeal has been very gratifying. We shall publish a full
list in next month's Report. This response goes to show that if a man has
convictions and states them, even if you don't always agree, one has to respect
the man. On looking over one of the Organisers' reports we see the statement
that operatives are always pleased to see any of the National Officials of the
Union, acting, as it does, to encourage the outlying districts. This is exactly
he position the members all over Scotland feel. A visit from any of the
ficials is ever welcome, even if some knotty questions are asked. Let
otland have a visit from one of the Organisers, it would be greatly appre-
ated. We are pleased that the firm recently organised by our late Colleague
ave now started paying to National Agreement as far as wages are concerned,
but have not adopted the Holiday Scheme. Of course we shall endeavour to
have same applied as it is part of our Agreement. Male members with this
firm are proving staunch to Union, but the females are rather a difficult pro-
position. The Branch thanks all those who have contributed towards our
appeal. Owing to the death of Mrs. Bleakley we propose putting all the
Trusting this will meet with the approval of all contributors.
banking account on behalf of the three girls left at home.
money collected into a
become worse, with the exception of Raunds, who fortunately have Govem
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. During the month trade has gradually
ment or Crown Colony contracts. Quite a number of firms state that they
hardly know how to keep going.
and in view of the industrial situation a decided improvement cannot be
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT - Trade in this centre is far from active,


---
expected immediately. The Kingswood Boot Trade has figured prominently
in the local Press during the past week, one anonymous scribe declaring that
unless the attention of the Government is called to the serious state of affairs
(in Kingswood) the industry will be wiped out entirely. Strong exception
turer, who is reputed to possess a comfortable bank balance, and who has
pointed out that when employment generally improves, Kingswood will more
than justify its existence in the great boot manufacturing industry and so
existence as a prosperous boot centre, the operative will have to be considered,
say all of us-but what of the operative? If Kingswood is to justify its future
and the time to do that is now, with special reference to the rising generation,
and we contend that what is badly needed in this District, is ample opportunity
for technical education. The day of the outworker and the backyard work-
shop is past, and instead of looking for Government assistance, the whole of
the Kingswood manufacturers should get together, cultivate the community
spirit, come down off their perches, and discuss matters with their men. This
will do more to stimulate pride in craft, which is essential in modern boot
manufacture, and help to remove that frequently expressed contempt for the
industry which is so prevalent. The members at Branch meeting moved a
sympathetic vote of condolence with the widow and family of our late friend
and colleague, Chris. Bleakley, who will be remembered in Kingswood for
sound organising work for the Union. The Branch voted the sum of £2 2s. od.
to the fund organised by the Edinburgh Branch.

LIVERPOOL.-The glorious summer weather during the past month has
been grand for holidays, sports, and making hay, but has caused a slump in
boot repairing in the majority of shops. When the weather breaks we may
expect a rush, some of our unfortunate members say let it be soon. We note
that some of our members are behind with their contributions. Eight weeks'
arrears is the limit for receiving benefits according to rule.

NORTHAMPTON.—Trade remains somewhat slack for time of the year,
causing some to be discharged and others to work short time. But of course
where men are on Supplementary Wage Basis they are able to earn a little over
standard rates whilst at the factory. Our members were very proud of the
honour attained by our General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., and passed
the following resolution :-

"To offer Mr. E. L. Poulton our heartiest congratulations on the
honoured and responsible position, he having been elected on the League
of Nations, and from personal knowledge of his abilities, feel he will carry
out those duties with credit to our Union, and the People's cause generally,
and that any action he takes, or advice given, will be a result of con-
sidered judgment."

It was with regret we heard of the death of C. Bleakley.

PLYMOUTH.—During the month we have been occupied with a claim
by one of our members for State Unemployment Insurance Benefit. The local
Labour Exchange having referred the matter to the Chief Insurance Officer,
and he disallowing the claim, we determined to present the case before a Court
of Referees. We are pleased to report that the Court recommended the pay-
ment of the claim, and the Chief Insurance Officer has now agreed with their
recommendations. Our member had been given one week's notice to terminate
his engagement as a dayworker, after nine years' service, and offered piecework
on the seat, which he refused, contending that it would be impossible to earn
a living on the seat as all the best work was done by machinery, and only the
most difficult and unremunerative remained. We stated before the Court
that our Union had a National Agreement with the Masters' Federation of
Great Britain and Ireland, which showed that it was only common justice


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**432**

before changing from day to piecework that four weeks' notice should be given
and notice in writing to the Branch Secretary; this had not been done. We
won our case. Thus we see once again the benefit of Trade Unionism and
organisation as exemplified in the National Agreement, taken as a standard
of morality and fair play for the trade, influencing the minds of impartial
authorities and establishing a precedent which must stand for all time as the
play-fair standard of our trade, and the death knell of "battledore and shuttle-
cock."

STONE. - It is with sincere regret that we have to report the death of
one of our oldest members, Albert Smith, 60307 (brother of the late Thomas
Smith, the first General Secretary of our Union). He joined our Branch at
the commencement, 17th September, 1887, and was largely instrumental in
us joining the National Union. He was President of our Branch some years
and always worked for the benefit of Branch and its members. As a Labour
member he was elected, with others, in April, 1894, to the Stone Urban District
Council, and retained his seat for 12 years, when he resigned. A good record
for a Labour member over 30 years ago. We extend our sincere sympathy
to his wife and family on their sad and sudden bereavement.

WATERFORD. - Trade still remains good.

WELLINGBOROUGH. - Trade is still very bad, the district experiencing
a shortage, which in the opinion of some of our older members is the worst for
many years.

**RESULT OF VOTING FOR COUNCIL MEMBER.**
**No. 9 District.**

| BRANCH          | BROWN, Mr. A. | CAMPBELL, Mr. T. | NOBLE, Mr. R. | REID, Mr. J. P. | SHEERIN, Mr. J. | WHITE, Mr. R. |
| :--------------- | :------------ | :--------------- | :------------ | :--------------- | :-------------- | :------------- |
| Aberdeen        | . . . . .     | . .             | . .           | . .             | . . .          | 34            |
| Arbroath        | . . . . .     | . .             | 1 .           | 303             | 1 .            | +             |
| Ayr             | . . . . .     | . .             | . .           | . .             | 3             | +             |
| Dundee          | . . . . .     | . .             | . .           | 22              | 3             | +             |
| Edinburgh       | . . . . .     | . .             | 2             | 4               | 4             | 327           |
| Glasgow         | . . . . .     | I .             | 4 .           | 6               | 52            | I             |
| Glasgow No. 2   | . . . . .     | 7 . .           | 338           | . .             | I .           | I2            |
| Kilmarnock      | . . . . .     | 216 . .         | 4             | 7 . .           | . .           | . .           |
| **TOTALS**      | 98 . .        | 227 . .         | 349           | 345 . .         | 61 . .        | 378 . .       |
|                  |               |                 |               |                 |               |               |

\* Mr. R. WHITE not securing a clear majority a second vote will be taken at
August Meeting.

No result received from Belfast, Cork, Maybole and Waterford.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
433
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
HOUSING, EARL SHILTON.
MR. PETHICK-LAWRENCE asked the Minister of Health whether his attention has been
he is aware that many of the cottages are in imminent danger of falling down, that others,
drawn to the housing conditions existing in Earl Shilton, in Leicestershire; whether
of the shortage of houses many couples, who were recently married, have no hope of getting
houses: that consumption is rife in the township; whether any efforts are being made
the upper rooms of which are open to the weather, are inhabited, and that in consequence
and whether he will take action to secure some improvement of the conditions prevailing.
to deal with the situation: what is the attitude of his Department towards the matter;
MR. N. CHAMBERLAIN: My attention has been drawn to this matter, and I am in
communication with the local authority for the district, who have submitted proposals
for the erection of houses in this and other parishes.
British Trade.
-Parliamentary Debates, 2nd July, 1925.
RUSSIA.
MR. LOOKER asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Overseas Trade Department
if he can inform the House of the total amount expended by Great Britain in the purchase
of Russian goods and products in 1924; and whether Russia, during 1924, expended in
the purchase of British goods the full amount of the credit established in her favour for
this purpose?
MR. SAMUEL: The imports of Russian goods and products into Great Britain in 1924
amounted in value to, roughly, £20,000,000, while the exports to Russia of British products
and manufactures, during the same period, amounted to nearly £4,000,000, and of re-exports
from the United Kingdom of foreign and colonial merchandise to something over £7,000,000.
There is thus an unexpended balance of trade in favour of Russia, in so far as this country
is concerned, of about £9,000,000 sterling. The full amount of the credit established in
the favour of Russia has, therefore, not been expended in the purchase of British goods.-
Extract from Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons, Monday, 6th July, 1925. Vol.
186. No. 98, p. 18.
STATUTORY MINIMUM WAGES.
COLONEL DAY asked the Minister of Labour what are the lowest minimum wages or
time rates at present in force under the Trade Boards Act for the lowest paid adult workers,
male and female, and the minimum rates of wages in force under the Corn Production Act,
1921; and will he state all trades in which there exists a legalised minimum wage, and the
amount of such wage ?
MR. BETTERTON: The following Table shows the trades in which a statutory minimum
wage is in force under the Trade Boards Acts, 1909 to 1918, together with the minimum
time rates for the lowest paid classes of adult workers (male and female) in each case.
Summary of Trade Boards Minimum Rates as on 20th June, 1925.
General Minimum Time Rates for the lowest paid class of adult workers. (Except where
otherwise shown the rates are operative at the age of 18 in the case of females and at
21 in the case of males).
Trade.
Aerated Water:
England and Wales
Scotland:
(1) Orkney and Shetlands
(2) Rest of Scotland
Boot and Floor Polish
Boot and Shoe Repairing*
Brush and Broom*
Button Making
Chain*+
Coffin Furniture and Cerement Making*:
(1) Coffin Furniture Section
(2) Cerement Making Section
Corset
Male
Workers.
Female
Workers.
Per hour.
Per hour.
s. d.
d.
I
1
6
5
I
I 2
I
I
6
I 3
I 11
I 1
I
I
2
I
7
---

---
EMPLOYMENT OF LABOUR DIRECT SAVES MONEY OF NATION
says the Postmaster-General, Sir Wm. Mitchell Thomson.
a system of
contracting. That system of contracts has been universally applied to the carriage of
certain directions to see whether under certain conditions they could not
This, however, does not
carry on a road service more economically by employing their own
vehicles, and not those of the contractors.
apply generally: it only applies under certain conditions. There is no
doubt that the work we have carried on in that way has meant that
we have been able to operate our own motor vehicles more cheaply
than by contract.
I hesitate to put an actual financial figure, but the State has affected
a saving over this work somewhere in the neighbourhood of £60,000.
In three instances, during recent times, reductions in the tenders of the
contractors have meant a saving of £50,000 yearly.
Extract from Statement of Postmaster-General in House of Commons, July 20th, 1925.
FACTORIES AND WORKSHOPS: CHIEF INSPECTOR'S ANNUAL REPORT.
The Annual Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories and Workshops for the year
1924 has been issued.
The Report states that, taking industry as a whole, trade conditions have again
been bad, though there have been particular industries and branches of industry which
have been very prosperous and where employment has been good, and there are others
where, though conditions cannot be described as good, they have certainly been better
than they were during 1923.
Reference is made in the Report to the continued development of new industrial
areas, to the steady increase in the removal of factories from the centre to the outskirts
of London, and to the continued and rapid increase in the generation and use of electricity.
The number of registered factories in Great Britain again increased during 1924,
the total being 142,494, as against 139,920 in 1923. Workshops declined from 140,850 to
133,729. Factories thus for the first time exceed workshops in number; the decline
in workshops is largely due to the introduction of electrical power, the use of which con-
verts premises from a workshop into a factory. There is, too, the tendency for the small
places to be absorbed by the big; in particular, the small dressmaker and milliner,
it is stated in the Report, can no longer compete with the large stores.
The only new legislation affecting the Department which became operative during the
year was the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923, which imposed new duties on the staff
both in regard to notices and registers required to be kept for workmen's compensation
purposes, and in regard to first-aid. Section 28 of the Act, which came into force at the
beginning of the year, abolished the dual standard of reportability of accidents (viz., one
day's absence from work in the case of machinery accidents and seven days' absence in
the case of all other accidents), and established one uniform standard, of three days'
inability to earn full wages, without any differentiation as to causation.—The Ministry
of Labour Gazette, July, 1925.
BOYS' NIGHT WORK.
Five Inspectors for 6,000 Factories.
There are only five inspectors for 6,000 factories and workshops in the large industrial
area of Bradford, Halifax, and Keighley, and a considerable amount of night work is done
by boys.
These facts were brought out by a deputation representing workers in the textile
trade which waited on the Home Secretary (Sir William Joynson-Hicks) with reference
to the dearth of factory inspectors.
The Home Secretary promised to recommend to the Cabinet that steps be taken to
remedy the shortage of inspectors,
— Westminster Gazette, 21st July, 1925.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
Since my last report I have been working in Leicestershire and Manchester.
At Sileby, on 24th, 25th and 26th June, Mr. W. R. Smith was with me, and we had three
good meetings at separate factories.
I went to Manchester on the 29th, and with Mr. Mason went to a shop at Newton
Heath in the dinner hour and evening. Several shops were visited by us during the week
and the management of same seen on questions of the non-observance of Graduated Scale
of Wages and Holiday Provision Scheme. Some new members were made.
The following week I spent at Anstey, and attended a special meeting of the Council
in London. There is a good trade union spirit at Anstey, and were it not for the short
time being worked there just now, I believe that we could induce the thoughtless ones
outside our ranks to join up at once.
From 13th July up to the present, I have been at Manchester. The employees of
Messrs. Johnson, Newton Heath, were unanimous that the Union should press for the
application of the Holiday Scheme, and the observance of the Minimum and Graduated
Scale of Wages. Mr. Mason and I had many interviews with the management on these
points. Some improvements were made in wages, but the firm would give no definite
reply on the Holiday money question.
I brought the position of this firm before the Special Council meeting on 9th July,
and it was then agreed that I should have power to deal with Messrs. Johnson, subject to
a further report to the Central Office, and getting approval to withdraw labour. On my
report this sanction was given to me, and I have given the firm notice in the name of the
whole of their employees that they shall cease work on 31st July, unless the firm settle in
the meantime on the matters in dispute.
We have made some progress on some cases where the minimum wage was not being
paid, but the position on the recognition of Holiday money is still not satisfactory. We
hope the firm may settle with us during the week, and not force the matter to a strike.
I have from time to time during the past six years suggested to the Manchester manu-
facturers that they form a local association for the purpose of establishing something like
uniformity in prices in conjunction with the Union officials, but they have failed up to now
to do so, or to join the Federation of Manufacturers and recognise in this way their obliga-
tions in recognising National Agreements. With the exception of one firm they are all
opposed to trade unionism in any form.
27th July, 1925.
D. MCCARTHY.
During the past month we have endeavoured to deal with the firm of Looms', Market
Harborough. This firm is chiefly engaged in Heel Building, and cutting stiffeners for the
trade; no Holiday Fund is in operation, and the wages generally are below the recognised
scale. We have only a few members engaged here and have made continuous attempts
to organise the operatives by frequently meeting them and endeavouring to persuade
them to become members. As a result of our efforts we were enabled to induce a number
of them to become members, and there seemed every prospect of increasing the number
the following week, but it at once became apparent to us that the firm were determined
to interfere with the liberty of the operatives. When we followed up our work the following
week we were informed that six members had been dismissed, three of whom had recently
joined the Union, with the usual excuse that it was shortness of work. This for the present
time has had a deterrent effect, though it will not interfere eventually with the determina-
tion of the men to join when trade improves. This attitude reflects very little credit
on the mentality of the firm, whose ideas of limiting the rights of how the operative should
spend his money would not be tolerated if the operative dictated to the employer what he
should do with his profit that he had produced for him. Other operatives who have
joined the Union have since been discharged.
We have also visited Desborough and found trade very bad, but we had a meeting with
the operatives at Bird's and Riley's. There were a few girls working there who were not
members, but promised to join.
We have visited Olney, and met the operatives at Hinde & Mann's, also Cowley & Sons
youths and girls not members, and there is need of further improving our membership here.
We met the officials of the Kettering Branches who asked us to visit the firm of
Whitney & Westley, at Burton Latimer. On two occasions we met the operatives, a good
number of whom were resident in the Finedon district. There were about 30 non-members,
and after canvassing them they all promised to join up. It is very pleasing to record the
very efficient method that is adopted by the two Branches with reference to the details
of organisation which enables them to keep well in touch with their members. For two
weeks we have been in Mansfield endeavouring to deal with the position at Faire Bros.


---
439
Some time ago 130 girls joined the Union, and we understand Mr. Fewkes, Director, took
upon himself the responsibility of dismissing 25 girls and has since denied the right of the
girls from joining the Union. We have frequently met the girls and tried to induce them
to again take up their cards. Despite our efforts, the girls seem terrified, because of the
action of the firm, although we understand that some small increase of wages has been
given. The conditions at this firm are far from satisfactory, and is a negation of the
National Agreement. The girls are fully conscious of the conditions that operate here,
but they are compelled to accept the same and would gladly pay their contributions if
the firm would allow them the freedom of becoming members. Thus you have the deplor-
able spectacle of the only way in which persons can successfully carry on their business
may have been a very excellent one in the seventeenth century, but we cannot allow
is to terrify the employees and then prevent them from having any rights. This idea
those ideas of that period to dominate a period where the Schoolmaster had tried to do his
work very efficiently.

We have also endeavoured to organise the girls working at Thrall's, who are chiefly
engaged on Stiffeners. The wages paid here are exceedingly poor, and there is great need
of improving the conditions. There seems every prospect that the girls will eventually
join, and though there are about only 40 engaged here, the conditions are so bad that
drastic alterations are required if this firm is to be brought up to our Agreement.

Special attempts have been made at the Mansfield Shoe Co. Continuous and system-
atic visitations have been made by canvassing the operatives. There are about 450
operatives engaged here, but we were not satisfied with our membership, and also there
is a great need of getting a better understanding amongst them. In our frequent con-
versations we discovered very little opposition to the Union, simply timidity and mis-
understanding stood in the way of them becoming members.

We made a special attempt to hold a meeting for the whole of the firms in the town,
but we did not get a very good response, only from the Mansfield Shoe Co. We are very
pleased to report that as a result of our efforts at Mansfield Shoe Co., 50 new members
have been made with fairly good prospects of increasing that number.
LEN. SMITH.
J. H. BAUM.
The early part of the month was spent in the Sileby area. At every factory in Sileby,
Mountsorrel, and Rothley, meetings have now been held and operatives canvassed outside
as to joining the Union. In each case the reception has been good, and if the results are
not so helpful as we would like, it is well to remember that the state of trade does not tend
to make the work of organising so easy as we would like, but the effort that has been
made, will, I hope, be productive of results later on when the condition of trade is better
than at present.

My strong opinion is that this district should be given all the attention possible,
from the point of view of organising. There is scope for such work, and the area is import-
ant in the sense that it borders upon our largest centre, and we should protect our position
in every way possible.

The National Labour Party made application for my services in connection with the
By-Election in the Forest of Dean, and the Central Office having agreed to same, I spent a
week in connection therewith. I was asked to make a special effort in the rural part of
the Division, and the majority of the meetings I addressed were on village greens, and they
were in every respect, most encouraging; the attendance was good, and the attention
paid to the speeches were all that could be desired. I am persuaded that the effort helped
very substantially in these rural parts, and I am glad that our Union was able to con-
tribute, through myself, towards the victory so handsomely won.

I feel I cannot leave this subject without a reference to the cause of this election,
viz., the death of Mr. J. Wignall. He was one who had won the regard and affection of all.
who knew him. Kindly disposed, generous to a fault, a man of strong conviction, who on
many occasions in the House of Commons, on such subjects as Unemployment, spoke with
such first-hand knowledge and earnestness that he commanded the respect of all. His
death is most regrettable, and I feel I have lost a close personal friend.

On Friday last I attended with my colleagues, the Special Trades Congress at the
Central Hall, Westminster, regarding Unemployment. Three resolutions had been
drafted by the General Council, which, so far as they went, could not be taken exception
to, but I feel most strongly, and in this I feel I have my colleagues with me, that in any
suggestions or proposals put forward to deal with this great depression, foreign markets,
though of great importance, do not cover the whole position. I therefore raised the
question of home resources and the proper cultivation of the land.

I do hope our movement will not lose sight of this question. In my opinion it is of
the greatest importance, and sooner or later-the sooner the better-it will have to be taken
up. The land of this country is far too vital to the interests of our people to be left as
something to be controlled by individuals as a private concern. It is a great national
asset, and must be treated accordingly. It must be brought into the service of the people.
---

---
Here's the extracted text from the image, formatted for readability:

441
UNEMPLOYMENT.

A Special Trades Union Conference on Unemployment was held in the Central Hall,
Westminster, on Friday, 24th July, 1925. Chairman: Mr. A. B. Swales, President of
the General Council.

The Chairman, in his opening statement, called attention to the gravity of the situation
with its long continued roll of such a vast army of unemployed, and the necessity of dealing
drastically with such an appalling situation, affecting as it does the lives of millions
of workers. The following resolutions were, after discussion, unanimously passed, it
being intimated by the Chairman that in view of the gravity of the situation it might be
necessary to call the Conference together again within a few days.

(1) That this Special Conference of Unions affiliated to the Trades Union
Congress regards with the utmost apprehension the appalling increase in the number
of unemployed as compared with the pre-war period, and declares that this increase
diminished. As our industries are to a large extent dependent on export trade,
can, with effective governmental legislation and administrative action, be materially
the manifest duty of the Government is to pursue a foreign policy calculated to develop
amicable diplomatic relations, and trading relations through the medium of the
Overseas Trade Acts and the Trade Facilities Acts, with all countries, including
Russia.

(2) The Conference views with the strongest resentment the declared intention
of the Government to reduce the benefits now being paid to unemployed workers
by means of a lengthening of the waiting period from three to six days and the cur-
tailing at the discretion of the Ministry of Labour of the right to extended benefit.
It declares that as unemployment is admittedly inherent in the present system, any
deprivation of the workers of adequate maintenance is inhuman in the extreme.
It asserts the right of every citizen to work or full maintenance.

(3) The Conference declares its determination to exert the utmost possible
pressure upon the Government to take such steps as are necessary for the remedying
of the present critical situation, and urges all Trade Unions and other Labour Organisa-
tions throughout the country to press these demands vigorously upon their local
Parliamentary representatives and upon the Government.

During the past six years a chronic feature of our Social life has been that one
million workers have been unemployed, which, together with their dependents, has
meant at a modest estimate that three millions of our fellow human beings have been
permanently existing on the border-line of starvation. In addition, "part-time"
employment has intensely aggravated this deplorable condition.

This Conference records its intense conviction that such a state of affairs cannot be
allowed to continue indefinitely, and that organised labour must not only protest
vigorously against the present apparent indifference towards this social injustice,
but, in addition, if redress is not speedily forthcoming, it will be compelled to take
such action as conditions and opportunity dictate.

Statements were also made regarding the present serious situation of the Miners
and the termination of their agreements and proposals of the Mine Owners to reduce
wages and lengthen working hours. Also the proposals of the Employers in the Woollen
Industry to reduce wages. In both cases it was made clear that the workers would, to the
utmost, resist these retrograde proposals. They therefore asked for the full support of
the Trade Union movement to enable them to resist successfully. We feel sure such an
appeal will not be made in vain. There must be at this time loyalty and help given to
those who have to resist the present demands of the Employers, and we feel sure it will be
given, and thereby enable a successful resistance to be put up.

Our colleague, Mr. W. R. Smith, drew attention to one of the most important items
in which the Labour movement believes the development of home resources, particularly
in regard to the land, much of which is derelict.

T. F. RICHARDS, General President.
W. R. TOWNLEY,
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS,
LEN. SMITH,
W. R. SMITH,
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
Delegates.

TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. -Membership of Unions reporting at end of June, 1925.
80,463. Unemployed at end of June, 1925, 3,682; percentage, 4.6. Increase in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.4. Increase in percentage as
compared with a year ago, 1.5.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1925.


---
447
HOW TO GET BACK TO PROSPERITY.
Mr. H. J. Bostock on Fallacy of Reducing Wages
and Importance of Developing the Home Market.
On the 14th inst., the evening prior to the business meeting of the Boot Manufac-
turers Federation, the President (Mr. John H. Marlow) and the committee of the North-
ampton Boot Manufacturers' Association received the delegates at a dinner, which was
held in the Masonic Hall, Northampton.
"To the Prosperity of the Federation" was the theme of the chairman's toast. He
expressed the great pleasure Northampton felt in welcoming the leaders of the Federation,
and referred to the importance of the shoe manufacturing industry, employing as it did
over 100,000 operatives. The Federation controlled over 90 per cent. of the
employers, and the relations between themselves and the National Union
was reflected in the fact that for 30 years there had been no official
strike or lockout, as a result of which the shoe trade was looked to with respect and
envy by the great industries of the country.
Mr. H. J. Bostock, J.P., in responding to the toast, said: "Aggregations of capital
could be justified only if the owners thereof used them to promote the public weal."
"In these days," Mr. Bostock proceeded, "everyone was asking what was ahead.
The country to-day, instead of being a land fit for heroes to live in, was one in which many
who fought for it had now to exist on the dole, and were often abused as a consequence.
The dole was sometimes abused, but if there had been no dole there would have been
revolution."
Continuing, the president said, "there was no greater fallacy than to think they were
going to get back to prosperity by reducing wages. The home market had lost purchasing
power and could recover it only by increasing production. They needed to rearrange
the balance of production. There were too many engaged in some trades-such as coal
and engineering-and not enough in other industries such as building.
No pre-conceived political notions should stand in the way of promoting better pro-
duction, in which connection he particularly mentioned food. With regard to manufac-
tures he pointed to the changed positions of the country and the rest of the world. There
was export trade to be done, but it was to be fought for. They had in the home market
a rich field, but it must be developed on new lines. Old methods would not suit present-
day conditions."
In conclusion Mr. Bostock stated that he believed in advertisement. It would pay
this country to advertise its advantages as a tourist resort for Americans. The United
States had no history. and Europe offered many attractions to the wealthy of the United
States, who came with much money, and left a considerable amount behind them. Any-
thing that increased the flow of money would have a beneficial effect not only on the hotel
industry but also upon the manufacture of antiques which was now an important trade in
this country. (Laughter.)---The Shoe and Leather Record, 17th July, 1925.

BOOT MANUFACTURERS' FEDERATION.
Annual Meeting in Northampton.
The following are extracts from the reports issued in connection with the annual
meeting-the thirty-fifth-held in Northampton on the 14th and 15th July, 1925.
In opening the proceedings Mr. H. J. Bostock, J.P., said amongst other things " that
without an increase in the purchasing power of consumers in the great industrial areas,
the home demand for shoes could not be stimulated. The time was long overdue for the
problem of unemployment to be seriously attacked at its roots."
Annual Output.
Statistics of output for the year 1923 were compiled from information at the disposal
of the Federation for the purpose of the memorandum of evidence submitted by the
president, Mr. H. J. Bostock, before Sir Arthur Balfour's Committee on Industry and
Trade on January 29th, 1925, and so useful was the information considered that it was
decided to complete the Federation records as far as possible for the years over which
statistics of the industry had been collected. The results had been checked by an outside
source, and in submitting them for the use of members, the committee desired to emphasise
that they were to be regarded as estimates of output based upon a partial survey of the
industry only.
The figures were :-Output for the year 1920, 91,136,000 pairs; 1921, 77,744,000 :
1922, 96,053,000; 1923, 100,490,000; 1924, 111,383,000.
On the 15th inst., Mr. C. W. Horrell was elected to succeed Mr. H. J. Bostock as
President of the Federation. We can only hope that the same broad outlook will be
continued under the new presidency as was the case under the presidency of Mr. Bostock,
and trust that the trade will, within the near future, emerge into more prosperous times.


---
448
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.
Its Development in Different Countries.
The time seems now to have arrived for exhaustive international examination of t
question as to whether unemployment insurance should be included in a comprehen
scheme dealing with all kinds of workers' insurance and that the possibilities of the unifica
tion of social insurance in all its branches in a State should be considered, according
the conclusions reached in a new publication of the International Labour Office of
Unemployment Insurance." (International Labour Off
development of unemployment insurance, first as a trade union enterprise and later a
insurance against unemployment. Beginning with a short account of the origina
national undertaking, it points out that such systems exist in seven States and exp
This volume contains a comparative analysis of national legislation concert
then devoted to the study of national systems from the point of view of the scope of 3
insurance; definition of unemployment the nature and duration of benefits financie
the common characteristics of present-day insurance institutions and laws. Chapters a
"The comparative analysis of national laws, undertaken in this report" states.
final chapter, "would apparently lead to the conclusion that while insurance organisati
is subject to great differences from country to country, it might be possible to lay dow
certain principles, based on practical experience, to serve as a basis for a future mo
detailed Recommendation by the International Labour Conference of the League of Nation
dealing not only with the principle of insurance, as previously, but with certain metho
League of Nations called
London Branch, 26 Buckingham Gate, S.W.r. Price 2s.).
organisation and administration.
of organisation."
UNEMPLOYMENT DOLE FRAUDS.
False Representations by Brighton Man.
At Brighton Borough Bench this morning, David Phillips, 24 Ewhurst Road, was the
defendant to two adjourned summonses for making a false representation when appivi
for unemployment benefit on 9th April and May.
Dealing first with the second summons, Mr. G. C. Pratt, who prosecuted for the
Ministry of Labour, said defendant was a machinist registered at the Brighton Emplor
ment Exchange. He made a claim on 19th December, 1924, for benefit for his wife, and
had since drawn benefit for her off and on to the extent of 5s. a week. It was alleged
by the prosecution that on 24th, 26th, 27th and 29th April the wife was working for a Miss
Ferris as a charwoman, and was paid is. 6d. a day for two days, and 3s. a day for th
remaining two.
Evidence in support of this statement was given by Miss Nellie Millie Ferris.
Pleading not guilty, defendant said he left home at nine in the morning, and did not
return until five, six or seven in the evening, and was unaware his wife was doing this werk.
The Acting Clerk (Mr. Sinden): What did you do every morning?
Defendant: I was out looking for work. I happen to be one of your genuine cases.
The Other Summons.
In the other case, Mr. Pratt said defendant drew a full week's pay for 2nd to 8th April.
It was alleged that he had work on 2nd, 3rd and 4th, and drew ₤2 18s. 6d. for it. The
department, he added, had great difficulty in discovering these frauds, and he asked the
Magistrates to take a serious view of the present case.
Fines of 20s. in the first case and 40s. in the second were imposed,
with alternatives of nine and fourteen days' imprisonment.
-Brighton Argus, 20th July, 1925
0.7 per cent.
SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.
June, 1925, 52,119; Decrease on a month ago, I. I per cent. Decrease on a year ago,
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 27th
118,580; Decrease on a month ago, 2.4 per cent.: Decrease on a year ago, 3.6 per cent.
Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 27th June, 1925
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1925.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**449**
**TUBERCULOSIS.**

**Decrease in Child Mortality. Scientists on Need of Public Education.**
Tuberculosis in childhood was discussed at the Eleventh Annual Conference of the
National Association for the Prevention of Tuberculosis, at the Hall of the Royal Society
of Medicine, Wimpole Street, W., yesterday. The Hon. Sir Arthur Stanley, chairman of
the Council, presided, and he was supported by Sir Kingsley Wood, M.P., Parliamentary
Secretary to the Ministry of Health. Public Health authorities throughout the British
Isles were represented, and members of the medical profession were present from America,
Austria, the Argentine, Australia, Denmark, Russia, Spain, and Switzerland.

SIR KINGSLEY WOOD, in opening the conference, paid a tribute to the work of the
Association. Dealing with the prevention of tuberculosis, he said its chief
birthplace and home was the sunless, ill-ventilated and overcrowded
dwelling, and it was for that reason that the Ministry of Health was
giving great attention to the housing difficulty. They were more hopeful with
regard to tuberculosis in childhood. In ten years the mortality among children from
pulmonary tuberculosis had fallen by about 46 per cent., and from non-pulmonary tuber-
culosis by about 42 per cent., while the number of new cases notified of both types of
the disease had also substantially diminished.

PROFESSOR PIRQUET, of the University of Vienna, in a paper on “The Significance
of Tuberculosis in Childhood and in Youth," referred to investigations in Vienna which
went to show that tuberculosis in children was not so dangerous as we formerly believed.
But for middle age, he added, tuberculosis represented the very worst
disease.—The Times, 7th July, 1925.

[One more testimony to what, for many years we have been preaching, viz., If the
people had good homes; where the sun could get into the rooms and overcrowding was
done away with, still further improvements would be brought about, and Consumption
still further reduced. It, further, is interesting that Sir Kingsley Wood should make the
said statement, and also add to it, "that the Ministry of Health was giving great attention
to the housing difficulty."

It is to be hoped that after such a statement the "attention" will be in a greatly
concentrated form and quickly result in such a number of houses being erected as will
fully meet the demand. Such a policy would also have another result, viz.: Find work
for a great many people, who at present are without employment.—E.L.P., G.S.]

**TUBERCULOSIS IN SHOEHANDS.**
Hinckley Medical Officer of Health on High Death-Rate.

That tuberculosis is prevalent among the boot and shoe operatives of Earl Shilton
and Barwell was the statement made by Dr. J. E. O'Connor (medical officer of health),
at this afternoon's meeting of the Hinckley R.D.C.
He said that at Earl Shilton the number of deaths had been exceptionally high.
Referring to smallpox, he observed that if contacts were vaccinated within three days
they would in all probability escape infection.
If vaccinated within four days it was very doubtful whether they would do so.
Commenting on the value of receiving medical reports, Mr. Dan Astley, chairman
of the Council, recalled that it was not so long ago when the Council refused to let the
medical officer of health read his report, because they considered it to be "all bosh."—
Leicester Mercury, 20th July, 1925.

**EMPLOYMENT OVERSEAS.**
NORWAY.—BOOT AND SHOE MAKERS: Membership, April 30th, 1925, 1,232;
31st March, 1925, 1,217; 30th April, 1924, 939. Percentage Unemployed, 30th April
1925, 3.8; 31st March, 1925, 2.4; 30th April, 1924, 5.3.—The Ministry of Labour Gazette,
July, 1925.

**GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.**

ADMIRALTY (CONTRACT AND PURCHASE DEPARTMENT).—SHOES, Brown Canvas:
John Horrell & Son Ltd., Raunds; Owen Smith, Raunds.
WAR OFFICE.— BOOTS, ANKLE: J. Horrell & Son, Raunds; W. Laurence, Raunds;
C. E. Nichols Ltd., Raunds; W. Nichols & Sons, Kettering; Owen Smith, Raunds;
Tebbutt & Hall Bros., Raunds.


---
SOME OF THE THINGS THE WORKERS WANT.
By Fred Hewitt, Editor Machinists' Monthly Journal.
The workers want employment.
The worker wants steady employment.
He wants to bring about a condition where
he will feel that cach day's work may not be his last.
He wants to work not more than 44 hours per week.
He wants his fair share of the wealth he helps to produce. He wants to be employe
in surroundings as comfortable as the nature of his employment will permit.
He wants sanitary workshops.
He wants protection against unnecessary risk.
He wants compensation laws passed for his and his family's protection
He wants to enjoy a full measure of freedom guaranteed all citizens of a free count
He wants the right to live and let live.
So far, partial success has crowned their efforts to obtain these, but a full realisa
of their desires will only come when they join in a common cause. Then and the
will the workers obtain those things they want, and to which they are entitled.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES. - Estimated number of insured perso
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270; T
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males. 10,714 Females, 3,776; Total, 14,150.
Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 22nd June, 2
142,490.
Percentage Unemployed at 22nd June, 1925: Males, 11.6; Females, 7.5;
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 10.2; Great Britain only, 10.0. Compared with 25th
May, 1925 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, increase, o.1; Female
increase, o.1; Total, increase, o.1.- The Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1925.
THE WORLD WE CREATE.
By Emma Playton Seabury.
A song for the idle who roam at will,
And a shrug for the men who shirk,
But who will sing of the prick and sting,
Of the bitter taunt and the cruel fling,
To the man who has no work
The man who will delve if he had the chance.
With saw or with plane would build.
Oh, who can tell of the bitter shame
To sink from man's estate,
And to humbly take for his children's sake
The coin that is flung! Oh, the hearts that break
In this world that we create!
For the plan of God was the same for all,
The right to be and do;
If only we would learn to see
That the world was made for you and me,
And not for a chosen few.
Oh, the saddest sight in the world to-day
Is our neighbour passing by
With a weary pace and a blanching face,
Who is out of work and out of the race.
And we make it you and I.-Justice, U.S.A.
*
*
*
Then let us make a right New World;
Where joy and peace shall be,
And work for all shall be the plan;
Based on true equity.
A world wherein real help is given;
Where men are truly free.
Where loads are light and life is bright;
For all, for you and me.--E.L.P., G.S.


---
Here is the extracted text:
451
GREAT BRITAIN STILL THE HINDRANCE TO RATIFICATION OF
HOURS OF CONVENTION.
IRISH FREE STATE. Speaking in the Dail on the 30th April last, the Minister of
immediately
Industry and Commerce stated that they did not intend to ratify the Draft Conventions
Of the Hours of Convention he said. "It seems absurd that we should ratify it while
the highly industrialised countries have not yet proceeded to do so, particularly those
which are nearest and with whom we are in competition."
Thus one more country has been added to those who will either not ratify the Hours
"Convention, or will not put it into operation until Great Britain has done so. Italy,
Austria Belgium and France are in a similar position. E.L.P., G.S.1.
WASHINGTON HOURS CONVENTION: RATIFICATIONS.
In answer to a question in the House of Commons on the 24th June, asking how many
countries had ratified the International Eight-Hour Day Labour Convention, the Parlia-
mentary Secretary to the Ministry of Labour made the following statement:-
The Washington Hours Convention has been ratified by Austria, Bulgaria
Czecho-Slovakia, Greece, India, Italy, and Roumania. The ratifications of Austria
and Italy are conditional upon ratification by other States. The Ministry of Labour
Gazette, July, 1925.
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st JULY, 1925.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included
Food only
FOOD.
73 per cent.
67
"
At 1st July the average level of retail prices of the principal articles of food showed a
slight upward movement as compared with 2nd June. This advance was mainly due to a.
rise in the average prices of eggs, butter and potatoes (old potatoes having been displaced
by new potatoes at higher prices). There was relatively little movement in the prices
of the other articles of food included in the statistics.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of
food included in these statistics was about 67 per cent. at 1st July, as compared with
about 66 per cent. at 2nd June and 62 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1924.—The
Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1925.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914: All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light.
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
January
10-15
35
65 85-90
120
125
165
92
78
77
80
February
15
35
65-70
90
120
130
151
88
77
79
79
March
15-20
35-40
70
90
115
130
141
86
76
78
79
April
15-20
35-40
70-75
90-95
110
132
133
82
74
73
75
May
20
40-45
75
95-100
105
141
128
81
70
71
73
June
25
45
75-80
100 105
150
119
80
69
69
72
July
25
45-50
80
100-105 105-110 152
119
84
69
70
73
August
25
45-50
80
110
115
161
122
81
71
71
September
25
50
80-85
110
115
164
120
79
73
72
October
30
50-55
75-80
115-120 120
176
110
78
75
76
November
30-35
60
85
120-125 125
169
103
80
75
80
December
35
65
85
120
125
169
99
80
77
81
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement. December (1922) Agreement, and present date.


---
469
LOANS FROM GUARDIANS.
The General Council of the Trades Union Congress has recently had
submitted to them the question as to whether Boards of Guardians could
recover relief granted to necessitous persons on the basis of a "loan." The
reason the matter was brought before the General Council being due to the fact
that in one County Court the Judge decided that Guardians could not recover,
whilst in another Court the Judge decided that the Guardians could recover.
The General Council have therefore taken legal advice upon the subject
and the opinion of Counsel consulted is that Guardians CAN RECOVER.
This is a most important matter and the opinion of Counsel will be found on
pages 484-485, from which it will be seen that there is no doubt about the
question, which is one of considerable importance.
INDUSTRIAL AND POLITICAL.
The past month has been a month wherein history has been made, if for
one matter only, viz.: the ferment in the industry of Mining. The position
is a notable one when the vast issues involved are considered. The threatened
reduction of wages and worsening of conditions of employment in the said
industry were only actually faced up to by the Government when it was seen
that there would be a unity in the ranks of the workers which had never on
such a scale been achieved before. The General Council of the Trade Union
Congress called together the Executives of the various Unions on the 29th
July, 1925, for consultative purposes, as also to report the actual position.
The net result of the meeting was to promise aid to our comrades who were
likely to be called upon to bear the brunt of the fighting. Had matters
developed, we should have had to follow up the circular of the 31st ultimo
authorising us to deal with the question from a financial standpoint.
The Trade Union movement will, as a result of the present-day develop-
ments, undoubtedly have to alter some of its machinery, especially on its
financial side, with a view to greater and speedier help being given to those
who have to stand off in disputes, and thereby render effective assistance to
ensure success in carrying out a policy wherein all have had opportunity in
shaping. The setting up of a commission by the Government, likewise the
subvention to the Mining Industry, has not by any means settled the differences
that exist; on the contrary it has only secured that employment goes on for
the time being while an enquiry takes place as to what are the actual conditions
obtaining in the Mining Industry.
Meantime, it is incumbent upon the whole Trade Union movement to take
such action and adopt such methods as will make our machinery work effectively
in practice as well as on paper if called upon to operate. The times, while
somewhat dark, are also full of possibility for a move forward provided that
wise methods and tactics are adopted in pursuance of the carrying out of
policy.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
470
Parliament has adjourned until roth November. The Session has not been
notable for much that will help the evorker.
THE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT (1925).
which comes into operation
01月
set out hereunder:
Employer
Employee
4th Januaгу, 1926, calls for contributions a
Men
Women
8d.
71.
Boys
41.
Girls
30.
7d.
6d.
3d.
30.
The waiting period has been increased from three days to one week a
from the 1st October, 1925, before benefit is payable.
The discretion in regard to extended (uncovenanted) benefit which the
Minister has prior to the Unemployment Insurance (No. 2) Act, 1924, is restored
so that extended benefit IS NO LONGER A RIGIIT BUT WILL BE GRANTED BY THE
MINISTER IF, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, HE CONSIDER
IT EXPEDIENT IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST TO AUTHORISE SUCH GRANT.
Under the Unemployment Insurance (No. 2) Act, 1924, the power of the
Minister to waive compliance with the first statutory condition (which requires
claimant to prove that not less than 30 contributions have been paid since
i his Benefit Year) expires on the 30th September, 1925. The new Act
e beginning of the first of the two insurance years next before the beginning
extends that power to 30th June, 1927.
WIDOWS', ORPHANS' AND OLD AGE PENSIONS ACT
becomes operative as from 4th January, 1926, inasmuch as
(a) The payment of contributions under the Act.
(b) The payment of Widows' Pensions, Children's Allowances and
Orphans' Pensions,
2nd July, 1926.
The payment of Old Age Pensions under the Old Age Pensions Act to
insured persons over 70 years of age without inquiry as to means, residence
or nationality.
2nd January, 1928.
The payment of Old Age Pensions under the new Act to insured persons
of 65 years of age and to others as and when they reach 65 years of age.
Contributions under the Health, Unemployment and Pensions Acts cease
to be payable upon attaining 65 years of age, but the employers' contribution
is still payable.
Benefits for sickness, disablement and unemployment (State schemes)
cease at 65 years of age.
The normal rates of contributions will be :-
Man
Woman
Health Insurance
Pension
Total
Employer Employee Employer Employee Employer Employe
..
4d.
4d.
4d.
4d.
4d.
2d.
2d.
4d. gd. gd.
7d.
bd.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

471
The Labour Party did its best to improve these measures from the workers' standpoint. The bald fact is, however, that what counts is the number of votes recorded in the various Divisions, and here the Labom Party is in a hopeless minority, proving once more how necessary it is to increase the number of Labour Members in the House of Commons, and thereby ensure a voting strength which will be a majority vote instead of the present minority. The lesson is plam--Work, work, work in and for the cause of Labour so that we are ready at all times for an Election.
MANCHESTER DISPUTE.
For a considerable time past we have paid attention to the boot and shoe factories in Manchester, and visits have been paid both by the General Officers and the Organisers to the district.
Quite recently the firm of Messrs. Johnson & Co. refused to honour the National Agreement, and on the 8th inst., the operatives on our instructions, left work, and were on dispute until the 19th inst., when Mr. D. McCarthy, with Mr. J. Mason, the local branch secretary, entered into an agreement with the firm, whereby a considerable advance has been made. A number of the operatives resumed work on the 20th inst., and arrangements were made for the others to commence within one week.
This proves once again our determination to bring all manufacturers in the industry up to, at least, the National conditions.
RESULT OF VOTING
for Council Member for District No. 9 is as follows, and we beg to congratulate Mr. R. WHITE upon his election, and trust his tenure of office will be helpful to the members and congenial to himself :-
BRANCH. MR. R. NOBLE. MR. R. WHITE.
Aberdeen 5 37
Arbroath 15 272
Ayr 10
Belfast 12 43
Cork 25 58
Dundee 10 335
Edinburgh 36 16
Glasgow 385 7
Glasgow No. 2 79 90
Kilmarnock 3 25
Maybole 20
Waterford
TOTALS 599 *893
*Elected.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
472
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
JUBILEE HISTORY OF THE UNION.
Members who desire to secure a copy of this most interesting and valuat
immediately with the Branch Secretary, as the stock is constantly being
record of the work of the Union for its first fifty years should place their order
reduced, and we do not intend to have a
copy, and should be ordered at once.
reprint. They are only 6d. per
THE "DAILY HERALD."
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that “Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only “Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President, W, WARNER.
J. WHEELER. W. HINDES.
C. BATES. R. WHITE.
E. LAW. A. J. DOBBS.
W. R. TOWNLEY. ALEX. SMITH.
L. P. POOLE. J. MANNERS.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS. E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.


---
473
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN,
LONDON, N.W. 5.
17th August, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
THE MINING DISPUTE. - Probably the most important happening during the past
month has been that in connection with the Miners. So serious was the outlook that the
General Council of the Trades Union Congress immediately rose to the occasion by calling
a special conference. Whilst those of us, and the whole movement generally, have been
clamouring for peace, the Miners for seven months have been endeavouring to inform the
Owners that under no circumstances could they accept a worse position than they had,
and for the time being were prepared to negotiate, so long as the position was not made
intolerable. To this the Owners paid no heed, and so within two days of the notices
expiring, the General Council called an extraordinary conference of the whole of the
executive councils of all unions affiliated to that body. As a result the Central Hall,
Westminster, was fairly full. After a very serious consideration of the position placed
before the delegates in private assembly, they, with an united voice carried an unanimous
resolution that if the lockout notices were enforced, every trade unionist in the Kingdom
would stand by the miners in their trouble. That fiat was issued and made known to the
Cabinet. They (the Cabinet) decided they would provide sufficient money for the Owners
to make up the difference they claimed would be lost if the miners refused the reduction.
This means the Owners are getting their way, and are imposing their will upon all. They
are not reducing the miners' wages, but are receiving the proposed reductions from the
taxpayer.
We need not stop to enquire what form this strike would have taken had the Owners
refused to give way by withdrawing the lockout notices. One thing is certain; the
refusal to handle coal would have brought about a stoppage in all industries - including
the boot and shoe industry. We should then have taken the members into our confidence
and advised them as to the course to pursue. We are convinced that we should have
supported the Miners, both morally and financially. It must not be forgotten that that
Trades Union Congress with its 4,328,235 members; 2,000,000 ex-members, and at least
4,000,000 sympathisers would have brought the country to a complete standstill. What
would have happened then? No one knows.
We have always been satisfied that only madmen recommend a decrease in wages,
because it is wages and wage-earners that create 80 per cent. of the trade of any country.
We are pleased to know that for the moment this matter is to be investigated - once
more - although it would be interesting to know what this stupid Government will do
when the Report is presented. Will it be shelved as was the Sankey Report? It should
be remembered that the natural tendency of every executive-trade union executives
are not exempt-is always to be loath to accept reservations of a smaller number of persons
than themselves.
We are led to understand there will be four or five persons on this new Commission.
Who can imagine the British Cabinet - all tories to the backbone, and invariably all stupid
-would agree to accept the findings of five persons, no matter how eminent they may be?
The Labour movement must not lose sight of the situation. We can only say that one
hopes those people who voted for the present Tory administration will remember they are
responsible for the position and should go in " sack-cloth and ashes."
UNEMPLOYMENT. - A special Trades Union Congress was held a week prior to the
above to deal with the question of unemployment, a report of which appears on page 441
of the July Report.
This question has been the sole subject for which some of us have tried to find a
remedy for over forty years. It is still with us. Three years ago we recommended at a
conference in the Kingsway Hall, London, that all trade unionists should stop for one
day as a protest against the treatment of the unemployed. One of the most prominent
labour leaders protested against the suggestion adding that it would be better to give the
unemployed one day's pay. No stoppage has taken place: none of the unemployed
had the pay. Another prominent labour leader said if the operatives stopped work, it
would be difficult to get them to restart. These people were reminded that we could
have two days off for a coronation, but not one for ourselves. Many felt that if a stoppage
B


---
473
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS, 60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN,
LONDON, N.W. 5.
17th August, 1925.
THE MINING DISPUTE. - Probably the most important happening during the past
month has been that in connection with the Miners. So serious was the outlook that the
General Council of the Trades Union Congress immediately rose to the occasion by calling
a special conference. Whilst those of us, and the whole movement generally, have been
clamouring for peace, the Miners for seven months have been endeavouring to inform the
Owners that under no circumstances could they accept a worse position than they had,
and for the time being were prepared to negotiate, so long as the position was not made
intolerable. To this the Owners paid no heed, and so within two days of the notices
expiring, the General Council called an extraordinary conference of the whole of the
executive councils of all unions affiliated to that body. As a result the Central Hall,
Westminster, was fairly full. After a very serious consideration of the position placed
before the delegates in private assembly, they, with an united voice carried an unanimous
resolution that if the lockout notices were enforced, every trade unionist in the Kingdom
would stand by the miners in their trouble. That fiat was issued and made known to the
Cabinet. They (the Cabinet) decided they would provide sufficient money for the Owners
to make up the difference they claimed would be lost if the miners refused the reduction.
This means the Owners are getting their way, and are imposing their will upon all. They
are not reducing the miners' wages, but are receiving the proposed reductions from the
taxpayer.
We need not stop to enquire what form this strike would have taken had the Owners
refused to give way by withdrawing the lockout notices. One thing is certain; the
refusal to handle coal would have brought about a stoppage in all industries including
the boot and shoe industry. We should then have taken the members into our confidence
and advised them as to the course to pursue. We are convinced that we should have
supported the Miners, both morally and financially. It must not be forgotten that that
Trades Union Congress with its 4,328,235 members; 2,000,000 ex-members, and at least
4,000,000 sympathisers would have brought the country to a complete standstill. What
would have happened then? No one knows.
We have always been satisfied that only madmen recommend a decrease in wages,
because it is wages and wage-earners that create 80 per cent. of the trade of any country.
We are pleased to know that for the moment this matter is to be investigated-once
more-although it would be interesting to know what this stupid Government will do
when the Report is presented. Will it be shelved as was the Sankey Report? It should
be remembered that the natural tendency of every executive-trade union executives
are not exempt-is always to be loath to accept reservations of a smaller number of persons
than themselves.
We are led to understand there will be four or five persons on this new Commission.
Who can imagine the British Cabinet-all tories to the backbone, and invariably all stupid
-would agree to accept the findings of five persons, no matter how eminent they may be ?
The Labour movement must not lose sight of the situation. We can only say that one
hopes those people who voted for the present Tory administration will remember they are
responsible for the position and should go in "sack-cloth and ashes."
UNEMPLOYMENT. - A special Trades Union Congress was held a week prior to the
above to deal with the question of unemployment, a report of which appears on page 441
of the July Report.
This question has been the sole subject for which some of us have tried to find a
Three years ago we recommended at a
remedy for over forty years. It is still with us.
conference in the Kingsway Hall, London, that all trade unionists should stop for one
day as a protest against the treatment of the unemployed. One of the most prominent
labour leaders protested against the suggestion adding that it would be better to give the
unemployed one day's pay. No stoppage has taken place: none of the unemployed
had the pay. Another prominent labour leader said if the operatives stopped work, it
would be difficult to get them to restart. These people were reminded that we could
have two days off for a coronation, but not one for ourselves. Many felt that if a stoppage
B


---
474
I agree that even in our
Union we have instances when some of our members come out on strike as a protest and
go back upon a Labour Government. To hold the Labour Party responsible for the minority
Still we are living in serious times, and the only solution is a majority of Labour
M P's with power for five years, when I forecast the workers of this country would never
WOOLLEN INDUSTRY. After the CCongress had dealt with the Miners' question, the
position of the woollen industry was explained by Alderman Ben Turner, president of the
Textile Workers' Union. Although this organisation have a Guarantee Fund similar to
our own which has been in operation for twenty-five years, the Employers brought about
A Mr. Martin corrected my statement made at our Jubilee conference
that we were the only union in the world with a monetary Guarantee against a strike or
to reduce wages at a time like the present. The sympathy of the Congress went out to
the stoppage.
Mr. Turner and his people.
the financial assistance they can.
lockout, and I shall now be able to remind him that he has broken his parole by wanting
It is to be hoped that all Unions will endeavour to give all
This dispute has been settled for the time being.
SILEBY has again been visited only to find that Mr. F. Leader, the branch secretary
is still away, and owing to bad trade an old member of ours who is doing the secretarial
work feels organising is likely to be slow for some weeks to come.
LEEDS.—I have had to intervene in a dispute at the Co-operative Wholesale Society's
Meanwood Road Works, Leeds, where, because the management could not get their prices,
for a skiving operation in the closing room, the matter was taken to the Board of Arbitration
by my colleagues in that City. Before a settlement was reached, two of the four women
operatives who had given evidence were paid off and dismissed, being given wages in
lieu of notice. The other operatives came out in sympathy and refused to return to work
at Leman Street, London, E.1, the following day. I met the Directors, not as a trade union
My presence at their meeting only had the effect of them asking me to see the Directors
official, but as an old co-operator. They refused to discuss the matter until the operatives
had returned to work.
I returned to Leeds the same evening, and advised the operatives to return to work
although I felt the Directorate through their Management had aggravated the situation
by tampering with witnesses by discharging them whilst the prices were still before the
Board of Arbitration. I appealed to the Secretary to the C.W.S.—who is a lawyer—as to
what a judge would have thought of counsel tampering with witnesses. However, we did
our best to get these girls reinstated, and strange to relate another woman had been started
girls had been promoted to fill the positions. To still further obtain benefit for their own
before these girls were discharged to take one of their places. We also learned younger
piecework, which we should say
the piecework prices. Although this information was placed before the directors four
days after resumption of work it did not seem to penetrate into their minds. My impression
is that they are determined to stand by their own Management. I have expressed to them
the opinion that we are disappointed with the settlement which was to the effect that one
of the girls would be reinstated within six weeks. The other one they would not reinstate
because she lost time—with the firm's consent. This is the most unsatisfactory dealing
I have ever had in connection with the C.W.S. factories. To prove our contention was
the correct one I have quoted the request of Sir Arthur Steel-Maitland, Minister of Labour,
to the woollen manufacturers, to allow the operatives to return to work on old conditions
pending investigation; this they did, but the C.W.S. Directors refused my suggestion :—
That old conditions should prevail and all operatives return to work pending investigation.
As stated above, they refused, and I have informed them I am not surprised that some
of my colleagues describe C.W.S. Directors and Committees as being more difficult to deal
with than private employers.
LEICESTER.—A visit has been paid to one of the large firms in Leicester, because
they had made arrangements to "stand off" their operatives for three weeks at a time.
It was evident from the examination made, that whilst no blame can be attached to our
members, the employer and management or the employer through the managers and
foremen, had been made acquainted of the fact that after twelve days "standing off"
our members are entitled to Suspension Benefit. We shall now look upon this firm with
suspicion as they did not hesitate to tell us that our members were entitled to the benefits
for which they paid. It was my duty to inform the firm that if this was the spirit in which
members of the Federation were going to deal with the Union, then our funds could very
easily be diminished by such action.
I have not given up the idea, and shall consult my colleagues in Leicester, as to whether
this question ought not to be reported to the Boot Manufacturers' Association in Leicester.
Manufacturers' Federation, because any unfriendly action by a firm against the Union will
Personally, I shall fully report the facts to Miss Ruth Tomlinson, secretary to the Boot
not make for harmonious working, but will have a contrary effect.


---
Here is the extracted text:
475
The Daily Herald still supplies the most news of the position of labour. Every
member should buy and read it daily.
Are you wearing " Stamped " Footwear? If not; why not? Buy "Stamped"
Boots and Shoes and ensure good conditions of working.
Yours fraternally,
T.
Mithand
General President.
DATES OF COUNCIL MEETINGS, 1926.
January
24th.
June
20th.
February
21st.
July
25th.
March
21st.
August
22nd.
April
25th.
September
26th.
May
16th.
October
24th.
Conference at Blackpool,
November
21st.
May 24th-29th.
December
19th.
To ensure correspondence being dealt with by Council it SHOULD
BE DISTINCTLY UNDERSTOOD that letters MUST reach the General
Secretary by WEDNESDAY MORNING prior to the above dates, otherwise
letters will be held over for the following month's sitting.
TRADE BOARD PROSECUTION.
Repairing Shop Handed Over to Employees.
On Tuesday, George Quick Latham, managing director of the St. Crispin Boot
Repairing Co. Ltd., Bristol, was summoned at the Bristol Police Court for offences under
the Trade Boards Acts.
Mr. C. L. M. Langham presecuted on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, and Mr. W. S. A.
Brown represented the defendant, who pleaded guilty.
Mr. Langham said that on 4th February an inspection was made of the defendant's
wages book, and it was found that he was employing two adult workers and one apprentice,
all of whom had been paid less than the rates fixed by the Repairing Trade Board. The
adult workers were Hart and Dunn. Hart was being paid 425. 6d. instead of 60s. for 48
hours, and Dunn 48s. instead of 60s. Hart had been underpaid £84 185. 11d. and Dunn
£56 25. 8d.
On 19th February the defendant gave an undertaking to pay the arrears before 7th
March. Subsequently receipts were sent to London alleging that the arrears had been
paid. These proved to be false, no arrears having been paid. This was the serious part
of the case.
Evidence was given by Dunn that the defendant told him he could not pay the arrears,
and if he had to the works would have to be closed. Rather than have this happen witness
signed the receipt. There was no compulsion. Similar evidence was given by Hart.
For the defence Mr. Brown referred to the financial trouble the firm had had, and said
it was well known that the boot trade was bad at present. The works had now been
handed over to the employees to carry on and make what they could out of them.
The magistrates fined the defendant £2 10s. in respect of each case and ordered him
to pay £5 costs. They adopted a lenient course because the defendant had
derived nothing from the offence. Shoe and Leather Record, 31st July, 1925.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
476
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.

In my last report I mentioned that notice to cease work had been given at Messrs.
Johnson, Newton Heath, Manchester. Up to then the firm refused to entertain the
Holiday (Provision) Scheme in any form and often offered the opinion that the Man-
facturers' Federation were wrong in recognising such a scheme. Their workers, who are
now all members of the Union, thought otherwise and, at their request, Mr. Mason and I
made a further application for Holiday Pay. Though the firm is not federated, as more
of them in this area are, they wanted us to make all pay regardless of our membership
Johnson would guarantee holiday payment for one year and put the wages right of those
not getting the rates within four weeks, we, on our side, would guarantee that the Union
would use all its powers to make the other firms pay at the end of that period. This did
not satisfy the firm. The notice expired before the holidays. The shop was picketted
and the other day in all probability would be paid, but that might depend on how the
offer to pay four days' holiday money next year (the 48 hours are worked in five days)
on 10th August, and none went into work. After eight days we settled on the definite
without contributions from the workers. The wages, with one exception, would be put
and one at Whitsuntide, and the probability of a day at August, making a week's pa
Union was dealing with other firms. This meant two days next Christmas, one at Easte-
right in four weeks. We placed the firm's offer before the members on 19th August and
and because of that we made our claim exceptional and moderate. During the month we
antee for holiday payment. It was our desire in the first instance to avoid a conflict.
they agreed to accept it as it came so near to the request made for a twelve months guar
have added about 120 members to the Manchester Branch.

D. MCCARTHY.

During the month further efforts have been made to reorganise the operatives working
at Faire Bros., Mansfield, trading as Premier Stiffener Co., where pressure has been put
upon the workpeople to break away from the Union, and a general system of terrorisation
has been put into operation by discharge and threatened discharge. Every difficulty is
put in the way by the firm, and the general position is one where methods of publicity will
have to be adopted in order to draw attention of the trade in general to firms of this character
Fear of discharge operates here, a difficulty which is surprising when the position of the
Thralls & Co. Ltd., are in the same position. About 50 girls are engaged at this firm.
district is taken into consideration, this being a large mining area and a vast majority of
these girls being daughters of men engaged in this depressed industry. Still there are
at the Mansfield Shoe Co., about 60 new members being made and good prospects for a
further increase. We hope to attain in the very near future 100 per cent. in the Union.
Statements are compiled for each department, and to assure their proper application it is
essential that both male and female operatives should belong to our organisation.
with the organisation of the
Attention has also been given to the firm of Ward & Co. All our conditions are
observed by this firm and, strange to say, this is used as an excuse by the operatives work-
ing here why they should not join the Union. It is an unusual psychology, but still, with
persistent propaganda, we hope to overcome this difficulty.

25th August, 1925.
LEN SMITH.
J. H. BAUM.
I concluded my last report with a reference to the miners' dispute, which, at that
time, looked like developing into the biggest thing in the history of the Trade Union Move-
ment of this country. The news of settlement, or shall I say postponement, came as a
surprise to many, as the attitude of the Government had been one that appeared to leave
the issue to be fought out. One cannot help thinking (and the Prime Minister's speech
in the House confirms this) that the solid front presented by the Trade Unions was responsi
ble for the change af attitude, and while the way out cannot be looked upon as a final
solution, it must be the duty of the Movement to use its forces to see that the ultimate
decision shall be on lines which will be both sound and just to the workers and the com
munity.
to say nothing about the state of trade which one has to admit is very bad. This, of course,
The work of organising during the month has been somewhat hampered by the holidays,
is one reason why the operatives should join our Union, having regard to the way our
benefits protect them in these days of trade depression. Both men and women can resist
temptation better if there is some income entering the home, and so the conditions won can
be maintained and the possibilities of further improvement brought nearer.


---
477
The places visited during the month are Whetstone, Blaby, Cosby, Sileby, Shilton,
shown was quite good, and the interest displayed was all one could desire, and we feel that
Anstey and Wigston. Meetings have been held in most of these, when the attention
it is only a question of time when we shall have the united support of the workers in these
areas,
But persistent and continued effort is needed in some of these places. The differences
between them is very great, on the one hand there is a strong robust feeling behind the
conditions in the sense that they are not good and desirable, but the impression one gets is
branch or section, on the other there is apathy and indifference. No one objects to our
that some operatives think it will all come to them as a matter of course, and that they
need not specially exert themselves to secure them.
While not desiring to pillory any employer, experience teaches that only by perfect
organisation can we get the full recognition which is essential for our purpose. The con-
being from this problem, surely a further reduction of working hours becomes an urgent
at the moment with thousands of operatives out of employment in the country, no centre
ditions of to-day are not final ones; there can be no such thing as finality in our work, and
necessity.
The average figures for this year show an increase of 16 per cent. over last year, and
industry has reached a stage when a revision of working hours has become a matter of
when to this is added the short time obtaining at many factories it is apparent that our
great urgency.
But the only way by which we can bring this about is by the workers recognising the
need through membership of the Union. It is for this and other reasons we must continue
changes are needed in our social system if justice is to be done to the workers. This few
our work of educating and instructing those who fail in their duty towards their neigh-
bours. There is also the further point: we are frequently told that wide and drastic
would deny, but I am persuaded that working-class advancement will come sooner and
better if we have working-class organisation.
22nd August, 1925.
WALTER R. SMITH.
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE OF LABOUR AND SOCIALIST WOMEN.
The Labour and Socialist International is calling a Conference of women delegates
of their affiliated organisations to meet on 21st August, the day before the full Congress
opens at Marseilles. The agenda will deal with the present state of organisation among
Socialist women in the different countries on which a report is being compiled, on informa-
tion sent by each, and of discussion on resolutions dealing with the aims and methods of
the Socialist Movement amongst women. Representation at the Conference will be on
the same basis as that of the full Congress, and the delegates will therefore be appointed
by the Labour Party and the I.L.P., their votes being allotted in the proportion of 29 to 1.
The Labour Party delegates so far appointed are Mrs. Harrison Bell, Mrs. Dollan, and
Dr. Marion Phillips. The I.L.P. have appointed Miss Bondfield, Miss Dorothy Jewson,
and Miss Pallister, and it has been arranged that any organisations represented on the
Standing Joint Committee of Industrial Women's Organisations may add to the number
and they will then be included in the delegation. Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards (Boot and Shoe
Union), and Dr. Bentham, Mrs. Tawney and Miss Rose Smith Rose (Fabian Society),
have been thus added to the delegation. The discussion will be in the main on the organisa-
tion of women politically, and a very full report of this in the different countries has been
prepared, which we propose to publish in a shortened form next month. Other questions
will be the aims and methods of Socialist Women, and the Standing Joint Committee has
prepared a resolution dealing with these subjects, which will be submitted after agreement
of the Labour Party in the name of the British Delegation. -The Labour Woman, August,
1925.
ASCENSION.
All things climb a starry stair,
By a law that no man knows:
What was yesterday a thorn
Will to-morrow be a rose.
What was once a chrysalid
Soon will soar, free fluttering:
What was yesterday a wish
Will to-morrow be a wing."
-LUIS G. URBINA (Mexico).
The World To-morrow."


---
```text
478
BRANCH REPORTS.

ARBROATH. — Trade still remains depressed in our area, and seen
likely to continue. We had hopes that something might develop out of sample
orders received here, but nothing further has been heard so far. If we fail to
hear good news of employment, the Government is determined to make us hear
bad news where unemployment benefit is concerned. All readers of the
Monthly Report will be aware of the ferocious conditions attached to re.
of extended benefit after September. The public seem fairly indifferent t
the cruelty of it all. Without excuse and simply to harass the poor
work," all the rotten conditions of past periods have been resuscitated agam
to squeeze out thousands from benefit, and so lessen unemployment. During
the past special periods each of those conditions have been tried, and ther
been abandoned after severe criticism, yet they come up again as thong
due to some flash of genius which will save the situation. Organised Labour
should not lie down to it. We have witnessed recently what a united front car
accomplish with the enemy, and this matter calls for a further display of the
same strength. The twelve millions who are working should stand by th...
who are idle, and see that they get emergency or extended benefit as it is calleri
instead of being forced to go to Parish Councils for relief. It has been free
machinery to deal with unemployment distress. They were to confine the
mooted for some time back that the Government meant to introduce oth...
Insurance scheme to rigid principles, and not make it a compassionate fund,
but instead of asking those who were rejected to go to the Poor Law, the
were to establish a scheme of "Distress Relief Grants" to meet the position
of idle workers who failed to qualify under the Insurance scheme. No one
would quarrel with that plan if it had matured, but here we are with Parlia.
ment on holiday, with winter rapidly approaching, and with no provision of
this kind brought forward. If the Labour Party had devoted their time to the
task of securing an alternative, subsidiary, and intermediate scheme for the
tightening of regulations of Unemployment Insurance, then there might have
been a useful compromise effected. The Trade Union Congress and the Labour
Party should still fight for an alternative scheme of relief, and they will get the
backing of every Parish Council and Poor Law Authority in the country.
We are looking forward to the visit of our General President, and hope we shall
get good meetings of our members to hear him. Mr. Richards has been often
enough in Scotland to understand the conditions here, and we hope great
good will come out of his visit. He will be interested in seeing our factories
again after a lapse of two years.

CHESHAM.—Pleased to report a slight improvement in trade here.
CHESTERFIELD. — There is a slight improvement in trade here, but
still we have members out of work. We must congratulate the Trade Union
Congress for bringing about solidarity in the Miners' fight. We shall want
more of it in the future, as the real fight with Capitalism has commenced,
and with solidarity we can win every time.
CORK. — Trade still continues good, the Lee Boot Co. building additional
premises.
DUNDALK. — Trade, though showing a slight improvement, is as yet far
from what might be desired. The fact that some of our shopmates are on the
dole, while others are doing labouring work speaks for itself. All our members
will be returning to work on Monday after one week's holiday minus pay.
EDINBURGH. — The members are pleased that the General President is
going to pay us a visit at the end of the month. We trust they will turn out
and give him a welcome. The firm recently organised have now given all the
```

---
479
and the Holiday Scheme to be gone into. Through time we believe these
members the Minimum Wage, but there is still the question of Boy Labour
matters will be put right. We expected to publish the amounts raised on
pairers were fairly busy after the holidays, but it has fallen away again. One
behalf of Mrs. Bleakley, but there is still some subscriptions coming in. Re-
of our factories is fairly full up with orders at present. The Scottish Employers
Federation have raised a fund for Mrs. Bleakley, with very good results, which
goes to prove that our late colleague was a great favourite in Scotland. The
Executive Council of the Union have taken the right action in backing up the
Unions give of whatever backing they have. Let the employers know that
Miners in their fight for a decent wage. Good luck to the miners. Let all
Trade Unionists all over the country are prepared to back one another when
it comes to a matter of breaking the Unions.
HIGHAM & RUSHDEN. -Trade during the month has generally been
very poor, with a few factories running on full time, most employers stating
that they have extreme difficulty in keeping on.
improvement at present. Most factories are closing for a
There seems no sign of
long holiday.
KILMARNOCK. - Trade has been fair during the last month, but unfor-
tunately our Kilmaurs members are still out from the lack of work. The
repairing trade is fairly steady, due, no doubt to the approaching holidays.
We are
pleased to report that one of our members has been selected by the
V.C.L.C. as one of six students to attend international summer schools held
abroad under the auspices of the International Federation of Trade Unions.
Our shopmate, Thomas Campbell, is the only one N.C.L.C. student selected
from Scotland, and along with the two others will attend a school at Brunnsvic,
Sweden, for fourteen days, and three other students are going to Prague,
Czecho-Slovakia. We are very sorry to hear of the death of Mrs. Bleakley, and
are sure we echo the sentiments of the members of this branch when we extend
to the now doubly bereaved family our deepest sympathy.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.-Trade is, to use a local colloquialism,
"hanging in the breeching," and a good deal of uncertainty exists as to the
prospects of a busy season in view of the serious industrial situation. Our
best wishes go out to the Miners in their great struggle for the right to live.
LEEDS No. 1. We regret to report that so far as the heavy and medium
trade here is very bad, but so far as the lighter class of work is concerned is
fairly moderate. We wish to heartily thank our General President, Mr. T. F.
Richards, for his services in the C.W.S. dispute. We would once more draw
the attention of our members who are in arrears, that if at all possible it is
hoped they will make an effort to see that should sickness or unemployment
overtake them, that they are entitled to Union benefits. We also regret to
report that our old Branch President, Mr. John Buckle, J.P., is seriously ill,
and we sympathise with him and his family during his long and serious illness.
LEICESTER No. 2. - We are sorry to report that trade in this centre is
very bad. Quite a number of manufacturers have made the holiday the
opportunity of a long suspension, which means that we are having to deal with
a good number claiming Suspension and Out-of-Work Benefit. There are times
when we feel that those working men and women who helped to return the
present Government have become awakened to the fact they have backed
the wrong "hoss." Where are the good times and full employment which
were promised? Echo answers
،،
where."
LIVERPOOL. Trade has been on the quiet side during the past month.
NORTHAMPTON.-Trade remains quiet here resulting in large numbers
discharged and suspended. Sickness normal. We regret having to record
that Jas. Gribble has been compelled to leave the town, but are pleased to know
he has got into a suitable business at Hastings-a Boarding Hotel-and when
he gets settled we feel sure he will be pleased to welcome friends. At anyrate,


---
his work in the past for the Union and in the political arena entitles him to
have a reasonably comfortable time.
NORWICH. Trade in Norwich maintained a fair average during the first
portion of the month, the last week showing a decided falling off in many
factories. As a consequence many additional out-of-work claims have been
made by our members, making a higher total for July than in any corresponding
month since the severe slump of 1920 has been passed. With a strongly
carrying a continuous surplus of labour on the out-of-work fund, even in the
organised membership such as we have in Norwich it seems impossible to avoid
months that provide the largest volume of trade. Viewing the situation at the
present time, it certainly appears plain that the industry is over-populated
with labour, and that unless and until a permanently increasing trade is secured
many of our members will be either temporarily or continuously unemploy-
shoes with ever-increasing rapidity, while additional markets seen impossib
Industrial development aided by inventive skill applied to machinery produce
and hear from the Prime Minister with grave dissatisfaction that wages in al
to secure to keep pace with production. Our members notice these signs,
bringing in its inevitable train more unemployment. We smile and go on talking
industries must be reduced, thereby still further restricting the home market
the same generalities of thirty years ago, not seeming to recognise that to deal
with the unemployment problem for our people in this generation we must find
new ways, employing fresh ideas till such time as the people desire, and with
the fundamental change that makes possible the Co-operative Commonwealth
PLYMOUTH. - We have been watching the development of the coal
crisis with interest, and wondering what would be the end if the colliers' wheels
ceased to spin and no more coal was landed on our shores. We can only see
the few remaining markets closed indefinitely, perhaps for ever, semi-starvation
for the miners, and short commons for thousands more of our fellow workers.
illions of money frittered away in the struggle, pits closed never to be opened
ain, hundreds more added to the ranks of the unemployed, and the standard
life considerably lowered throughout the land; then bloodshed and revolu-
cion such as no Englishman can contemplate without a shudder. We have no
desire to see our country reduced to chaos, but if a stoppage occurred our sym-
pathies would unreservedly be on the side of the miners, for their wages appear
to be on the borderline of starvation, and should in the name of humanity
and reason, rise and not fall. How this can be accomplished, by greater
efficiency, amalgamation, unification, nationalisation, or a fortunate turn in
the international situation, we must leave, but we must say without hesitation,
that the nation should adopt any system known to the genius of man, in order
to secure a living wage for the miners. It was Asquith, we believe, said on one
occasion, "that there was nothing higher and nothing deeper in the Liberal
faith than this: that the interest of the few must give place to the interest
of the many." Neither can we imagine a Prime Minister so dull as to think
that the miners formed a small minority on one side, while on the other stood
the community ready to protect itself at his bidding; the facts are far different
and if our Premier would only take a vote of the electorate, on the question:
Are you in favour of a living wage for the miners of Great Britain?" he
would soon find the community on the side of the miners, whatever the change
involved in the coal-mining industry. Do not let us be deceived by such
"No minority in a free country has yet coerced the
will, that is perfectly true, but has no more to do with the question than the
the community will protect itself." Of course they
the man in the moon.
statements as these:
whole community," or
The miners are asking for a living wage, only a living wage-
and this the twentieth century.
WATERFORD. - Trade continued good during the past month.
GREAT YARMOUTH. - Sorry to report Water Boot trade still very slow
in Great Yarmouth.

---
481
NORTHANTS DISTRICT COUNCIL.
Minutes of Quarterly Meeting of the Northants District Council, held in the Co-
operative Hall, Desborough, on Saturday, April 18th, 1925, commencing at 2.30 p.m.
PRESENT: Mr. W. Langley, J.P., the President, presided; a large number of delegates
also attended. There were also present, as representing the National Council, Mr. C.
Bates. Mr. Mr. Townley, Mr. L. Poole, and Mr. T. F. Richards, the General President.
The Executive Committee of the Desborough Branch also attended the meeting.
MINUTES. The report of the previous meeting having been circulated, it was resolved
that same be accepted as read and approved. Same were signed by the Chairman.
Mr. T. F. Richards, General President. then introduced a discussion on the subject
of " THE LEGALISING OF THE NATIONAL AGREEMENTS. "
At the outset Mr. Richards dealt with the unique organisation of our own industry,
Unlike most industries, the boot and shoe trade was catered for entirely by our own Union.
We covered every department in a boot and shoe factory. Comparison in this respect
was made with the Engineering industry with its 48 unions, and with other trades similarly
placed.
The growth of Trades Unionism, particularly in its relationship to the State and the
various enactments legalising trade unions, were then outlined. Mr. Richards claiming
that progress had been largely brought about by the thought, energy and farsightedness
of a few individuals.
The developments in our own Union arising out of the National Lockout of 1895
were then commented on. The advantages of arbitration, would not, Mr. Richards urged,
be successful but for our National Agreement. That was the safeguard, and very little
attempt had been made by the manufacturers to take away from us any of the advantages
contained therein. The employers know, and we know, that it would not be good for
us to have an upheaval.
The history and costs of the disputes in the trade since 1895 were then given by
Mr. Richards as follows :-
St. Cuthbert's, Edinburgh
Nantwich
C.W.S.
Melbourne..
Preston
Eyam & Stoney Middleton
Chesham
Jackson & Joseph, London
1911-13
£ s. d.
2,184 0 0
1913
281 0 0
1913
7,864 5 4
1913-14
1,230 0 0
1913-14
4,506 9 6
1918-19
8,555 19 0
1923
12,172 5 0
1925
1,488 17 0
The settlement in four of the cases were totally unsatisfactory, i.e., Nantwich, Mel-
bourne, Preston, Eyam and Stoney Middleton. Generally speaking, we have no desire
to even renew similar conflicts, as we feel that the other side has been willing for a satis-
factory settlement as well as ourselves in all these disputes. In the four cases mentioned,
it was merely the right of man to belong to a trade union that was at stake, and in these
cases the liberty of the subject was bound to be defended by us, although the members
affected had perhaps in some instances not been members of ours for more than four or
five weeks. With these facts in front of us, and then again realising that according to the
most reasonable estimate that can be given of the number of people working at the industry
being round about 120,000, and seeing that in our own Union we have 80,000 members
ely 2,000, and the Rossendale Slipper Union round about
only, the old body approximately
6,000, one feels inclined to ask why that other 32,000 of a floating population is not with
When we look at the above-mentioned four places, where we have few members,
and then consider the efforts of our organisers during the last two years in the East End
of London, we think that if the Government of the day, whoever they may be, and what-
ever party they may belong to, can be of any assistance to an industry, our Union Executive
is willing that the Resolution carried at the 1922 National Conference, moved by Mr.
H. J. Bostock and seconded by myself"That the Government should be urged to
give National Agreements voluntarily entered into, and approved by the Joint Industrial
Council, the same validity as wages under the Trade Board Acts." I want all our members
to know, and I tried to make it clear at the Conferences, the need that "National Agree-
ments voluntarily entered into" which would mean that those agreements
us.
amendment every two
their lifetime, and at the will and pleasure of both sides. To my mind this should eliminate
the fear in the minds of those anti-compulsory arbitrationists, who like ourselves, do not
look upon voluntary arbitration as compulsory arbitration. We enter the arbitration
wish to lay the foundation stone for compulsory arbitration, but at the same time do not
C
---

---
482
to with the intention of arriving at a settlement without resorting to or thro
ing chairman or I Empire to do for what we oftght to
and when there is a large boly gathered together of from 15 to 30
simsarrably find in our National Conferences with the Employer
Smp to the present to fond that among them there is alsay
reasonableness 111111111assembly of that kind, with the result that we are Tole
the fact that for 30 years there has been no general stoppage of worl
Oun disputes had done but little good.
the principle of collective bargaining.
Most of them had been fought ITI
was then instanced as to the value of legislation.
What could be done with a
equally, if not more successful in our own highly organised trade.
ment.
districts, with the very worst material and against employers who had little r٢٢٠٠
The value of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board, with its 39.0اور
enforceable agreement with a multitude of small employers, could it was claimed
Mr. Richards then again made reference to the National Resolution on the m
but as an experiment he was heartily in favour of it being tried. I want us to try..
He was not positive that legislation in the terms of the resolution would be succe
experiment rather than not try it at all. It is more for the defence of our good m
pence from a type of individual whom we could not describe as being loyal to the mom
that we should press our views in this direction, rather than with the idea of having
We should have sufficient work to do to keep them in order, even with the as
ance of the Government Officials, no matter how distasteful that may be. Seeing ...
some of the most important industries of the country have made arbitration-The Mi
assistance in various ways, mainly in their Checkwaymen and their recent attempts y
get a minimum wage fixed-it should encourage us to believe that if it is necessar
have like activity to assist the Miners, it can be helpful to the Operatives in the Boot an
MR. ATTEWELL (Northampton No. 1): I strongly oppose the recommendatio-
Mr. Richards has not made out a case on behalf of his so-called experiment. Trade Unions
the ownership of industry that is desired. It will be as well if we ask ourselves if these
agreements are agreements in the usual sense of the term ? They are not. They are
are a means to an end. It is not the mere getting of better conditions, but a change
employers care to impose. Legalise such agreements and you would make it possible
forced upon us by superior economic pressure, and we have to accept just the terms the
Our own policy of arbitration has merely placed us in the position of accepting the advar
for a man to be hauled up before the Courts on all sorts of pretexts. Legalisation wou
penalise the operative just as much as it would effect and could be evaded by the emplover
and the Agricultural Workers got Government assistance;
Shoe Industry to ask for similar assistance.
tages which other Unions had gained by fighting for them.
the Miners having had th
MR. UNDERWOOD (Rushden): I admire Attewell, but I agree with Richards. We
must seek the law of protection for ourselves and in the interests of the people emploved is
the industry.
MR. PENDERED (Northampton No. 2): Our Union should always be in the positica
to point out to the workers that they are being robbed daily. The moral of the class
struggle must be ever in view. Agreements are merely statements in which you have
agreed to be robbed, and indicate the degree to which you are going to be robbed in the
future. If you are going to make agreements legal and enforceable by law, then you
weaken the whole future position of the Union and of its members.
MR. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): I believe legalisation of agreements to be a good
thing, and I am prepared to support anything which would be to our advantage. We
have agreements which have been come to by Arbitration. The necessity of then legalising
them seems so obvious that I can never understand why it has not been adopted before,
and by many other Unions. The backward districts have the power of determining the
progress of our own industry. Legalisation would have a very large influence where the
conditions are bad. By having the legal force behind us it would help us to demand a
higher power that we can exercise at the moment. Progress is determined by the power
which exists at the moment, and the greatest progress has been made during times oi
prosperity. Legalisation would bring equality of power and advantage.
MR. TEBBUTT (Earls Barton) contrasted the present difficulty of the small places
as against the larger well organised centres, and pointed out how legalisation of agreements
would help the small centres.
MR. ROWLETT (Kettering No. 1) asked what effect the motion would be likely to
have on the membership of the Union ?
MR. TOWNLEY (Northampton No. 1): There seems to be some misunderstanding as
to what is meant by the legalising of Agreements. Whether we agree that the manu
facturers should rob us or not, we ought not to agree that some districts should continue

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
of the agreements ?
483
MR. CHESTER (Kettering No. 1) asked whether Mr. Richards was prepared mil
legal mind to interpret and decide any point of dispute arising out of interpretatiotu
MR. LANGLEY (President), then commented on the various aspects of the diges
and invited Mr. Richards to reply.
MR. RICHARDS, in reply, stated that he did not agree that we had taken
and to go on to any platform and say, that we ought not to go in for an increase in wages
and copied the gains of the militant Unions. We had gained and beld mor
until the Miners, Engineers, Agricultural Workers, &c., have been brought up to us.
policy of the Trade Boards and its relationship to membership was also commented on.
and Mr. Richards also stated he was prepared to trust the Judges to do the right thing
and
MR. I. H. JOHNSON (Vice-President) Daventry, then moved that the best thanks
of the Council be extended to Mr. Richards for his informative address
formally supported, and the motion was heartily and unanimously carried.
The President then declared the meeting closed.
MR. C. BATES
The delegates were then entertained to Tea by the Desborough Branch, to whom
thanks were extended.
BOOT & SHOE FACTORIES IN NEW ZEALAND.
The following information will doubtless be of interest to our members seeing that
Dominion of New Zealand, 1923-4-
In connection with the manufacture of boots and shoes there are 81 factories in the
Dominion, at which 1,449 males and 859 females are employed. The salaries and wages
paid during the period under review were £292,070 to males, and 92,624 to females,
giving an approximate average of 4 per week for males, and f2 2s. 6d. for females for
50 weeks each year.
The production for the year 1923-4 was: Boots and Shoes, 1,471,093 pairs; Slippers,
17,217 pairs: Shoe-ettes, £56,299; Leggings, 53 pairs.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out:-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
t
s.
d.
To December, 1924 667,902 8 7
January, 1925
2,840 1 10
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
s.
d.
To December, 1924 358,625 13 7
January, 1925
3,954 7 9
February
3,952 4 8
February
5,226 1 9
March
4,124 16 0
March
3,682 10 3
April
4,054 10 6
April
3,031 5 0
May
4,023 13 8
May
3,510 14 9
June
3,993 2 6
June
4,823
19
July
2,653 13 10
July
4,221 6 9
£693,544 11 7
£387,075 1 7
---

---
486
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
HEALTH INSURANCE-A WORLD SURVEY.
League of Nations
compulsory insurance for industrial workers in Japan in 1922.
against sickness
placing, as they do, individual initiative above all
Recording this remarkable
The absence of active intervention
contained in a new publication, now ready, from the International Labour Office of the
1 world satvey of the laws and national regulations governing health insurace is
its adoption in other countries, including Great Britain in 19, to the establishment
The rise of health insurance is described from the first German Act of 1883, from
progress in forty years, the volume states whereas in Europe, collective protection
kness is almost general, the great oversea countries still adopt a waiting attitude
on the part of the authorities is characteristic of the present position of sickness insurance
legislation in the American States, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and several
Nevertheless, in nearly all these countries, the questio cf
wider State intervention is under consideration. For this reason, it would seem particu
insurance laws are based and which involve active State collaboration in the form cities
of imposing compulsory insurance, or of giving moral and material encouragement to jor
larly appropriate at the present time to discuss the legal principles on which sickre
The volume considers the problem in detail under the following heads the soote
of sickness insurance laws, constitution and organs of insurance institutions, sickness
other industrial communities.
insurance.
insurance finance and sickness insurance benefits.
WOMEN WORKERS IN UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
A Study of Hours of Labour.
into the scheduled working hours of women employed in the industries of thirteen States
The results of an inquiry by the Women's Bureau of the U.S. Department of Labour
tion, the weekly publication of the International Labour Office of the League of Nations.
on 15th September, 1922, are quoted in the current issue of Industrial and Labour Informa-
Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, New Jersey, Ohio, Rhode Island, South
The States covered by the investigation were as follows: Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia,
Carolina and Virginia. Two cities outside these States-Philadelphia and Chicago-were
also included in the inquiry.
Information was secured on the scheduled hours of 162,792 Women, employed in
,709 plants.
Almost one-fifth of these women worked an eight-hour day or less, over one-third
a nine-hour day, and nearly one-fourth more than nine hours. In South Carolina over
foumore, while Iowa and Maryland, with one-third or more of the total number of the
women included in the inquiry, were scheduled for a day of eight hours or less. The other
States fell between these extremes.
over three-fifths, had a daily
A 50-hour week was the standard for the largest group of women, and over one-third
and Maryland took the lead, with approximately 68 per cent., 55 per cent., and 52 per
had a week of 48 hours or less. As regards the 48-hour week, Rhode Island, New Jersey
cent. respectively, of the women reported in each, showing such a schedule. An over-
whelming majority of the South Carolina women, on the other hand, regularly worked
more than 54 hours a week, while in both Georgia and Alabama practically two-thirds of
the women had a weekly schedule of more than 54 hours.
Differences were shown in the hour policies of two industries employing large numbers
of women, namely, the manufacture of textiles and clothing. While a day of between
8 and 9 hours was most common in the clothing industry, a 10-hour day was customary
for the largest group of textile workers. Only 6 per cent. of the textile workers had a week
of 14 hours or less, in contrast with one-third of the clothing workers showing such a
schedule. Practically one-half of the women in the various textile industries had a week
of 55 hours or more, as compared with less than 3 per cent. in the clothing industry.
Reduced Hours and Output.
The report gives information with regard to experiments in the reduction of the work-
day, in certain industries, to conform with the eight-hour standard.
These experiments show that businesses which have shortened their working week
have not suffered by the reduction, judging by such records as have been kept of the output
of the plant before and after the change. In certain types of industries, where the attention
of the worker is of greatest importance, reductions of one or more hours a day brought no
decrease in daily production.


---
Here is the extracted text:
487
work m most industries to nine hours, while three Alabama, Indiana and lowa place
Two of the States included in the study, Missouri and Ohio, haye Jassmitime the day's
Imitation on hours of work in any industry.
EMPLOYMENT OF SEAMEN.
Australia Ratifies International Convention.
Information has been received at the International Labour Other of the leap of
Nations at Geneva that Australia has ratified a Convention dealing with the employinent
of scamen which was adopted by the second annual session of the International Labour
Gonference, held at Genoa in 1920.
Br this Convention, the State which ratifies it agrees that
"the business of finding
employment for seamen shall not be carried on by any person, company or other agent y,
indirectly by any person, company or other agency, for finding employment for secamen
is a commercial enterprise for pecuniary gain; nor shall any fees be charged directly or
provision. Such agencies are allowed to carry on their work temporarily under Govern-
in any ship." and undertakes to provide punishment by law for any violation of this
ment licence during the period of reorganisation and the establishment of free public
exchanges for the finding of such employment for seamen.
sentatives of shipowners and seamen are to be set up to advise on questions connected
with these exchanges while seamen and shipowners are to be guaranteed freedom of
choice.
Committees of equal repre-
The Convention has already been ratified by Belgium, Bulgaria, Esthonia, Finland,
Italy, Japan, Norway, Poland and Sweden.
Labour Conference to 160.
ratifications of Conventions adopted by the International
POSTAL WORKERS IN RUSSIA.
"Considerable Unemployment."
The following summary of conditions among postal workers in Russia, as shown
by reports to the Ninth Congress of Russian Postal, Telegraph and Telephone as shown
a Union numbering 102,500 members, held at Moscow in June, is given industworkers
Labour Information, the weekly publication of the International Labour Office of the
League of Nations.
Whereas in industry wages are now on an average 78 per cent. of their figure before
the Communist revolution (60 per cent. in heavy industry), the average wage in the postal,
telegraph and telephone services is only 50 per cent. of its 1914 level, and in the provinces
it is even sometimes lower.
In view of the fact that there is no longer a deficit in the working of the postal, telegraph
and telephone services, but even a certain excess of revenue over expenditure, the delegates,
in agreement with the Central Committee, demanded that the Commissariat of Posts,
Telegraphs and Telephones should increase wages 40 per cent. The employees also
demanded that the wages of provincial employees should be brought to the same level
as those of employees in the great centres, and that there should be an end of the existing
difference in the wages of telephone operators, who were generally better paid than tele-
graphists and postmen.
The Commissary for Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones stated that he hoped to be
able to increase wages by 25 per cent. during 1925, but was unable to promise any further
increment.
The greater majority of the delegates pronounced in favour of an uninterrupted day's
work (with the exception of a break for meals), and against the "spread-over" system.
The delegates urged the necessity of supplying all employees, in accordance with the
Labour Code, with special working clothes. At the moment only employees in the big
centres benefited by this regulation. It was also stated that housing conditions were
extremely unfavourable and prejudicial to output. Employees were often compelled
to live at a considerable distance from their work and to spend several hours a day in the
train. They were thus tired when they came to work, and the work suffered.
It was also stated that many employees were living in deplorable conditions of over-
crowded and insanitary dwellings. The result was a general lowering in the average level
of health, which could not but be harmful to efficiency.
The Central Committee was accused by many delegates of paying insufficient attention
to the question, and of not bringing sufficient pressure to bear on the Commissariat of
Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones, in order to obtain the sums ear-marked for the con-
struction of dwellings for employees, which sums it would appear that the Commissariat
was unwilling to pay on its own initiative.


---
496
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914: All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922.
1923
January
10 15
35
65
85 90
120
125
165
92
78
February
15 20
35 40
70
90
115
130
151
88
77
77
March
15 20
35 40
70 75
90 95
110
132
133
82
76
79
April
20
40 45
75
95-100
105
141
128
81
74
78
May
25
45
75 80
100 105
150
119
79
73
73
June
25
45 50
80
100-105 105 110
152
84
69
69
71
July
25
45 50
80
110
115
155
122
81
71
70
71
August
25
50
80-85
110
115
161
120
79
73
71
71
September
30
50-55
75-80
115-120 120
164
110
78
75
72
73
October
30-35
60
85
120-125 125
176
103
80
75
76
73
November
30-35
65
85
120
125
169
99
80
77
76
81
December
35
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement. December (1922) Agreement, and presen
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 Ma..
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st AUGUST, 1925.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included
Food only
FOOD.
73 per cent.
68
At 1st August the average level of retail prices of the principal articles of food showed
and milk were all dearer than a month earlier, but these advances were largely counter-
a slight upward movement as compared with 1st July. Eggs, butter, margarine, chees
balanced by a seasonal decline in the prices of potatoes and by a slight reduction in the
average prices of flour and of bread. The remaining articles included in the statistics
showed no appreciable change in price.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of u
included in these statistics was about 68 per cent. at 1st August, as compared with abou
1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of co
67 per cent. at 1st July and 64 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1924.
SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.-Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 25th
July, 1925, 48,696; Decrease on a month ago, 0.8 per cent.; Decrease on a year age,
1.8 per cent. Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 25th July, 1925
£107.676; Decrease on a month ago, 3.4 per cent.; Decrease on a year ago, 7.6 per cent.
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, August, 1925.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270; Total,
142,490. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 27th July, 1925
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 12,103; Females, 4,687; Total, 16,790.
Percentage Unemployed at 27th July, 1925: Males, 13.1; Females, 9.3; Total
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 11.8; Great Britain only, 11.6. Total Percentages
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland) compared with 22nd June, 1925, increase, 1.6;
28th July, 1924, increase, 4.3; 23rd July, 1923, increase, 1.3.- The Ministry of Labor
Gazette, August 1925.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Seat of Government, 34.GUILFORD ST. LONDON, W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 246.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

MONTHLY REPORT.

21ST SEPTEMBER, 1925.

FELLOW MEMBERS,

TRADE.
We regret to have to report that trade upon the whole is worse rather than
better, and the immediate prospect from the point of view of employment is
not at all a hopeful one. The figures in the Ministry of Labour Gazette are as
follows :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment remained depressed during August. In a number of districts the
factories were closed for extended holidays, while after the resumption a very considerable
amount of short time was worked in the majority of centres. Compared with August,
1924, employment generally showed a decline.

The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 12.5 on 24th August, 1925, as compared with
11.8 on 27th July, 1925, and 8.7 on 25th August, 1924.
Returns from firms employing over 40,000 operatives in the week ended 29th August,
showed that 48 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that week, to the extent
of over 12 hours each, on an average.
Employment remained quiet in London and was generally worse than in August,
1924. At Leicester and Northampton many firms extended the holidays; and after
work was resumed employment was generally depressed, with much short-time working.
At Hinckley employment remained bad. At Rushden, where most factories closed
down for 10 days at the holiday, employment was bad, with general short-time working,
though there was a slight recovery towards the end of the month. On the other hand,
employment in the Raunds district was again good as a result of Government contract
work. The majority of the workers at Wellingborough were on short time, and employ-
ment remained bad and was worse than a year ago. At Kettering there was little change,
employment remaining poor and only a few firms working full hours.
At Leeds employment showed little change, and was poor in the heavy boot section
and fair in the light footwear section. Employment was very slack and slightly worse
than in the previous month at Stafford, short time again being largely worked. At Norwich
a number of factories were working short time, and employment was only moderate and
worse than in August, 1924. At Kingswood and Bristol employment was fair on the whole,
and better than in July; but at Street it continued poor and was much worse than a year
ago. In the slipper trade of the Rossendale Valley employment was fair on the whole.
B


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

517

Apart from the question of unemployment in our own industry the growing
volume of unemployment in the country is indeed very serious. The Govern-
ment, however, so far as outward appearances go do not appear to be looking
upon the matter in a way which the gravity of the position demands. The
fact of such a vast army of unemployed, and their dependents added, makes
it the main problem in our opinion which the Government should tackle very
seriously.

We would urge upon the members the necessity of keeping this subject
prominently to the front in their several districts, it being a matter upon
which there ought to be no division of opinion-either employment should be
found, or maintenance provided. We much prefer employment being found,
because despite statements that one reads and sometimes hears as to the
workers not wanting work, we know this is a gross libel upon them. Here and
there may be found a few (as in other grades of life) who do not want work,
but we know the great majority of the workers prefer work rather than idling
about. For ourselves, we resent the statements which are sometimes made,
reflecting as they do upon the workers as a whole.

RUSSIA.

It is generally known that a short time ago, a number of women went over
to Russia to enquire into the general conditions obtaining in that country.
During their visit they had a meeting in connection with the women employed
in the shoe industry, and Miss Loughlin, one of the members who went over.
to Russia, was entrusted with a red leather banner printed on one side in
Russian, and the translation in English on the other side, to hand over to the
Women Leather Workers and Boot Workers of Great Britain. Miss Loughlin
handed this over to the General Secretary during the Trades Union Congress
week. We highly value this banner, and shall take the necessary steps to have
it properly framed, and next month we propose having a photo of it produced
in our Monthly Report with a statement of good wishes that the Russian
Women entertain towards the Women Workers of Great Britain.

We hope in the not distant future, whatever the differences may have been
in the past, such differences will be wiped away and a proper understanding
arrived at with the workers in all parts of the world. We may not be able to
agree upon many matters and methods, but we ought to be able to agree to
come together to try and understand one another's point of view, and thus
remove differences in the struggle of the workers for a better and fuller life.

THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS
was this year held at Scarborough, under the presidency of Mr. A. B. Swales.
On the whole the Congress was a very successful one, and once more confounded
the prophets who for some time past have been telling the public of the divisions
existent between the Trade Unions and the Labour Party, and the definite
split that would take place at this Congress.


---
518
With two such vast movements there naturally is some difference, and
differences will from time to time arise from various standpoints. This is no
only inevitable, but tends to bring about more likelihood of success because of
the discussions that from time to time take place. For ourselves we should
look upon it as a backward step if there was any serious division between the
Trade Unions and the Labour Party.
The Congress represented 4,350,982 members. The President in his address
made a strong appeal after surveying the position- for a still wider outlook-
and a greater determination to resist any attempted reductions in wages or
lengthening of hours, and finally stated: "It is the duty of all members of
the working class to so solidify their movements that, come when the time may
for the last final struggle, we shall be wanting in neither machinery, nor men,
to move forward to the destruction of wage slavery and the construction of a
system of society based upon co-ordinated effort and world-wide mutual
goodwill and understanding."
As usual, a considerable number of resolutions were dealt with, and the
report of our delegates appears elsewhere. We feel bound, however, to refer
to the two resolutions standing in the name of the Union, both of which were
passed.
The one on UNEMPLOYMENT was as follows, and was carried unani-
mously :-
" That this Congress views with the greatest concern the serious
volume of unemployment now existing, and deplores the lack of effective
measures on the part of the Government to attempt to alleviate the
situation. It further declares its emphatic opposition to the spurious
remedies of lower wages and the degradation of established working con-
ditions, and calls upon the Trade Union Movement to offer its utmost
resistance to any attempt to increase the hours of work. It asserts the
unquestionable right of the unemployed worker and his dependents to
adequate maintenance, and reiterates its demand for the establishment
of a National Employment and Development Board for the purpose of
devising and co-ordinating measures whereby the extent of unemployment
may be reduced."
The second dealt with the question of VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS :-
"This Congress instructs the General Council to urge upon H.M.
Government the desirability of giving to National Agreements voluntarily
entered into and approved by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity
as awards under the Trade Board Acts, 1909 and 1918, with the object
of ensuring the observance of fair conditions of labour by all engaged in
the industry whenever requested by the parties to the agreement."
This resolution was strongly opposed by the Rt. Hon. J. H. Thomas, of
the N.U.R., Mr. J. Hill, of the Boilermakers' Society, Mr. Hallsworth, of the


---
519
V.U.D.A.W., and a representative from the Garment Workers' Union, whilst
delegates from the Weavers, General Workers and Transport Workers, spoke
in support of the resolution. Upon a card vote being taken there voted:
IN FAVOUR OF THE RESOLUTION  
AGAINST  
2,790,000
942,000
Thus the Congress has approved of a serious attempt being made for
Voluntary Agreements-when asked for by both sides being enforceable by
law. This is indeed gratifying to us, and we can only hope that ere long we
may see upon the Statute Book of this country, an Act giving such authority.
As previously stated the Congress was a very successful one, and we venture
to say is increasingly making its influence felt in all parts of the country.
POLITICAL.
Although Parliament is not sitting, many momentous matters are being
dealt with by Statesmen which might easily bring about disturbances between
nations. We would remind the membership that although THE WAR which
was to end war has ended, nevertheless there are more men under arms to-day
than was the case in 1914. Wars are still going on in various parts of the
world. Europe is still very unsettled, and it needs wise and courageous
statesmanship to deal with the situation in which the nation finds itself con-
fronted.
We are more and more convinced-and it may be even against themselves
_that Statesmen will be driven to deal with the abnormal situation largely
upon the lines which Labour has pointed out to escape from the troubles with
which mankind is beset. Meantime, a good deal can be done to bring about a
changed outlook among the people of this country to ensure labour views and
labour proposals securing ascendancy. We appeal to the membership to do
their part in accelerating the time when this state of affairs have become a
positive fact.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACT.
In March last, MR. A. T. WALTERS, of the Kingswood Branch, died from
Tetanus owing to a small wound under the left finger nail, whilst he was carrying
on in connection with his occupation of laying electric cables in the district.
We are pleased to report that the question of compensation has now been
satisfactorily settled, and the sum of £300 has now been paid into Court on
behalf of the late Mr. Walters' dependents.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
C


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

520
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off the
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We w
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month the same
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Bran
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Return
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.

TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the member
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that “Star
Footwear” should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Unio
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only “Union Stamp
Footwear.”

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cach
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooche
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.

We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
R. WHITE. -
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.

MINORITY MOVEMENT.

Conference in Battersea.
The conference was held in the Battersea Town Hall, and it is stated that some
“delegates” were present, “including 137 from the provinces.” Mr. Tom Mann preside
and had with him on the platform Mr. Saklatvala, the Communist M.P. for Batterse
and the Mayor of Battersea (Mr. C. Mason).

A Sign of Brotherly Love and Unity ??
Mr. J. Larkin, on behalf of the Irish Workers' Union, declared that the only troubl
from which they suffered was the organised "scabbery" of British trade unions
The Irish workers were determined to save themselves, and if the
British unions did not get out of Ireland the Irish workers would compel
them to go, as they compelled British troops.
-The Times, 31st August, 1925.


---
521
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN,
LONDON, N.W. 5.
16th September, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
I regret not putting before you the agreement made between our Union and the
C.W.S. Directors in 1913 in my last report, and upon which we claimed the Management
at Leeds and ultimately the Directors, on the advice of an expert in law, their Secretary.
The agreement is as follows:-
"That no strike or lockout take place before the whole of the facts in dispute
are submitted by the Union, first to the Management, and then, failing settlement,
to a Joint Meeting of the Productive Committee of the Co-operative Wholesale Society
and the Executive Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives."
(Signed) WM. LANDER, Chairman.
It will be seen that the Union ought to have had an opportunity to investigate the
cause of the victimisation of two members for acting on Trade Union instructions, which
is in strict accord with the National Agreement governing the trade, and the full support
of the Council of the Union, who claim the right to advise members to lower their quantities
when an employer reduces the earnings. The Directors have already been informed that
old conditions prevail, as in the case of the Woollen Textile dispute, and the advice given
a repetition of the C.W.S. conditions, and no orders will be given to return to work until
by the Minister of Labour, which was, that all return to work as they left off. The directors
now know the prospects for the future.
The above statement is made for the benefit of many co-operators who do not think
it reasonable that operatives in C.W.S. Factories should ever be driven to take immediate
action.
LOOM'S, MARKET HARBOROUGH. This firm has again been visited as the outcome
of some correspondence and attitude I have taken up with them, and also Faire Bros.,
of Mansfield, but of Leicester fame, and that is to ask these firms if there is any reason
why we should not appeal to their customers and point out the actual conditions, as far
as we understand them. At this firm I was shown the Wages Sheets for the week previous
to my visit, and they showed that at least sixty-six out of a total of eighty-one are in
receipt of our scale and over, and the firm is also paying the Holiday Pay that week, so
they informed me. The only two points to put them equal with any other firm is to
regulate the boy labour to its proper proportion and remove the embargo on Trade Union-
ism. I was pleased to find the firm in a much better condition than I expected, and we
hope the firm will do its best to meet us in order that we could give them a clean bill of
health.
We are bound to appeal to all Manufacturers and Merchants, as we have to the Govern-
ment, to only deal with those firms who respect and pay and work to our National Agree-
ment.
THE TRADE UNION CONGRESS by nearly two million majority, have encouraged us
to ask the Government to compel all firms connected with shoes, to work and pay to our
national conditions.
It has been my pleasure to interest myself in the competition we have from abroad,
and although I have never attended the International Conference of Boot and Shoe Opeга-
tives, my interest has not been void, and the most important place to which I wish to
direct members attention is Czecho-Slovakia. The wage in this country is about 14s. 6d.
against our 60s. for 48 hours, but they have all food at cost price, and doctors are provided.
I have also been in close association with a friend in the largest Shoe Factory in
Austria, and my visit to Brussels with attendant inquiries and ultimate results whet my
appetite to know more, and now I am in correspondence with two gentlemen who have
both worked at Bata's, Zlin, Czecho-Slovakia, who began in 1894, employ 6,000 workers,
(4,000 Machine Makers, 2,000 Hand Makers,) and work on the American system. Every
man has a set quantity to do per day, the firm provide Dinner and Supper and other food
at cost price. Hospital, Theatre, and Cinema; owns most of the houses (building more),
they also own Woods, Sawmills, Brickyards, Herds of Cattle, Butcheries, Tanneries,
Linen Factories, Paper Factories, Box Factory, Printing Press, Ships, and even Railways
are owned by the firm. This firm have just given the operatives three weeks' holiday
with pay, accepts workers' savings, and gives about 10 per cent. interest on all monies,
and all monies remain in the firm. They pay no extra for overtime, and the worker
has to do his quantity day by day even if he stays late. This firm is from America and
is subsidised by the Czecho-Slovakian Government. I am still getting more information.


---
522
I am in close touch with this firm and
FATRE Beo, IrecesTER AND MANSFIEL
expert developments this work
may wait a little longer


---
Here the two branches of our Union had been trying to organize and
improve the conditions of Messrs. A. Strachan & Co., Graham Square, where there were
Girls in the Finishing Room. As the firm which has been in existence some twenty five
have had very little attention paid to them, have now become of interest to us, as
the services of the Manager of the S.C.W.S. as Umpire, but after seeing him a second time
the time when these girls should be transferred from this Department. We tried to obtain
he begged to decline for several important reasons. We again saw the firm and agreed
date the relationship of our branches and the firm is very cordial and bids fair to be
help, as two of our old Secretaries have found employment there.

EDINBURGH.- Here I found the branch interested in the firm of which Mr. Rankin
torms a considerable and important part of the business, where the Manager, Mr. Franklin,
he hopes we will bear that factor in mind. Needless to say we are not anxious to embarrass,
assures me they have no antipathy to Trade Unionism, but as the work is mainly rubber,
construction, and can make allowances for that portion who are engaged in any other
but to help, and the Shoe Section is the part we must preserve for all engaged in shoe
members, we hope that this action of the firm will have beneficial results to all concerned.
prepared at an early date, say October, to put into operation the Holiday Scheme, which
will give immense satisfaction to the operatives, and as we have already all but a few
The meeting of the members was as usual attended by those who really feel that
Trade Unionism is a vital force in their lives, and they appear never to miss an opportunity
themselves that our visits were not frequent enough, but as explained before, they may
to try and make an official visit as pleasant and successful as possible, but they all expressed
see more of some of us if there is a real demand for our presence.
occupation.
DUNDEE. - Dundee being visited found the faithful in attendance, and good intent
that we had any further outlook than the objects of our Union, and I was reminded that
was shown in the address, and the many phrases of Union work caused much surprise
it was just thirty-three years ago since I moved and got carried the Socialist resolution
which at that time made no references to the sexes, which finds many opposed to who are
supposed to favour the same.
meetings we have had in the past, as I explained that in itself shows or denotes a content-
factor, the few employed by them have had to seek other employment. This leaves the
branch to consist now of repairers only, and here, as elsewhere, the members think that an
Organiser would do good. I had to tell them that to send an Organiser to go round to each
place where one man was employed would be too costly, and advised them to form a small
Committee, of two say, and let them try their hand during their spare time, get and keep
a detailed report, send it on to the Council after three months' work, and ask them to make
a grant towards it, they would then be able to judge of its effect.
ABERDEEN was next visited and again there was nothing approaching the size of the
ARBROATH was next visited, and I called on our old comrade and ex-Council Member,
Alex. Smith, who was busy with his Registrar work. He looks well, and appears to me
better in health than he has been for many years. I also visited Fairweather's factory
whilst there, and had an informal chat with one of the employers. Like other firms,
trade with them is flat, but as I had arranged an evening meeting at Carnoustie, we called
Fairweather's men to a meeting at five o'clock, and they turned up well. They listened
intently and did not prolong the meeting as they had not had their tea. The officers
were all pleased with the splendid attendance, as this to them was a new innovation.
CARNOUSTIE was then visited, and the night was very cold indeed, which may account
for the smallness of the meeting, coupled with a benefit night of the Pierrots. The
accustomed faithfuls were there as is their desire-come weal, come woe, they can always
be relied on. I had to leave here rather early to reach Scarborough for the Trade Union
Congress General Purposes Committee, who were warned to meet on Saturday morning
in order to arrange the business of the week, and to get as many of the composite resolutions
in the hands of the printers as soon as possible, This was our work for the Saturday, and
on Sunday ali our Union delegates met to consider what support we could give the various
resolutions, and make any other arrangements affecting us during the rest of the week.

Yours fraternally,

W. Y. Richards

General President.


---
BELFAST.
524
BRANCH REPORTS.
Trade both in the manufacturing and repairing continues to
remain in a deplorable state without any signs of an early improvement.
BURNLEY. Our members have been watching with keen interest the
negotiations concerning the miners, as we know they are literally starving here
They are working those who are working about three days a week, and are
not able to get a living. We do not know what happens anywhere else, but
coal for 1s. 11d. to 2s. 8d. per ton.
The men who retail the coal get from 10s.
we do know some miners have to go down the pit and risk their lives to get
to 15s. per ton. We can all see, whatever our political outlook may be, that
there is something wrong. If an industry cannot provide a living for the
people engaged in it, it is time it was closed down. To starve the producer.
to pay for motor cars for the investors of capital in the industry is to ask for
trouble.
CHESHAM. The slight improvement in trade reported last month has
been maintained, but we still have some members unemployed, and some
working short time.
CHESTERFIELD. There is an improvement in trade, yet we have some
of our members still out of work.
DERBY. - Trade in Derby continues very bad, many operatives only
making about three days a week. A number of clickers at Clemson's have
been suspended during the last eight weeks. Clickers at C.W.S. are also only
making about four days a week.
DESBOROUGH. - Trade with us is very bad, and very few are fully
employed. Long holidays have been the rule, whilst a great many are only
working three days per week. A few of our members have not yet restarted
since the holiday, which makes our Unemployment Pay this month rather
heavy, but it is very welcome to those who are suspended.
DUNDALK. - Trade remains uncertain, but as the all-share-alike system
is pursued to some extent, the workers are quite agreeable to the half-loat
policy. This, though a very natural attitude, deserves commending, as most
of the members are inexperienced in regard to Trade Union principles. We
feel sure the employers will find it to their advantage also, as the men seeing
they are treated equally, will give entire satisfaction when the industrial
depression rolls by. At any rate by adhering to this policy of reciprocity
they will not be incurring the risk of being looked upon in a philanthropic
sense. It is also well to remember the tree of industry will never bear fruit
unless it is watered from the well of justice, equality, and fair play. Some
members, because they receive the minimum rate of wages, consider pay
ing a sort of monotony; still, if ever they appear on the unemployed list,
the benefits to be derived from Union membership will not be above their
consideration, or what guarantee have they of even a minimum continuity?
None save the Union itself. The Union alone was responsible for the 48-hour
week and the minimum pay they receive. Ancestorial contributions gave the
Union birth. If we are to do something worthy of our posterity's appreciation,
then by being loyal members we are taking a stride in the right direction,
and when acting rightly and legitimately, fear of consequence should not
deter us from performing our moral obligations. New members should con
sider the great future the Union affords them. A living wage for an honest
week's output, out-of-work benefits, &c. Those principles should appeal to
every intelligent worker, male and female alike. Up to the time of writing
we have not heard from Emyvale. Probably they have started a branch on
their own.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

525

DUNDEE. - Trade reports are such depressing reading that we have no
desire to dilate on such a theme, as our trade barometer is very low indeed at
present. There is, however, a slender streak of the proverbial "silver lining."
A report has just reached us that there is greater activity in Blackford than
has been experienced for a considerable time. May it continue. September
1st was a "red" (not a Communist) "letter night" in our branch. We had
our genial General President with us, from whom we had an excellent discourse
on what had been achieved by our organisation during the past year. In
passing he mentioned that next to the trade of compositors, who were the
highest paid workers, our trade came second. This is very creditable to the
Council, whose duty it is to keep a watchful eye on the interests and advance
ment of the members of our Union. At the close of the meeting the hope was
expressed that Mr. T. F. Richards might consider the advisability of paying an
annual visit to Scotland. Failing his ability to do so, our General Secretary,
or some member of the Council. These visits would be highly appreciated
and good results would accrue. It would act as a stimulus, especially to the
younger members, and break down the apathy which is apt to grow without
stimulation.

EDINBURGH. - The following is the amount received for the Bleakley
Fund:-

£ s. d.
Dr. Drummond Shields 1 1 0
Branches :-
£ s. d.
0 10 0
Ο 10
6
2 0 0
0 10 0
3 0 0
0 10 6
2 0 0
I
I
5 0
1 0
2 10 0
5 0 0
I I
2 2
3 0 0
I 0
2
2 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
I 0
5 0 0
5
Kettering No. 2
Bromsgrove
Stafford
Leicester No. 1
Leicester No. 2
Leicester Women's
Desborough
Higham and Rushden
Kilmarnock
Manchester
Kingswood
Kettering No. 1
Northampton No. 1
Northampton No. 2
Chesham
Glasgow No. 1
Glasgow No. 2
London Metro.
I 0
I
I
I
2
5
5
5
Ο
5
2
5
0
I
0
0
I
0
Ο
0
Ο
3 3
1 0
5 0 0
50 0 0
20 0 0
II 5 3
21
Worcester
Daventry
Ayr
Norwich No. 2
Street
Leeds No. 1
Wolverhampton
Newcastle
Wellingborough
Arbroath
Maybole
Aberdeen
Edinburgh Trades Council
Council
Edinburgh Branch
Subscribed by Edinburgh Members
Scottish Federation of Employers
TOTAL £190
6 0

12 3

The Branch wish to thank all who have subscribed so liberally in making
this appeal so great a success. The Misses Bleakley wish to thank the Union
for their kindness.

GLASGOW. - Trade with us has slowed down since the holidays, and a
number of members have been suspended, while others are working short time.
We hope this may only be temporary. Generally the repairing section of the
trade is fair. We were glad to have a visit of the General President, Mr. T. F.
Richards, for whom we arranged a joint branch meeting, but although this was
fully announced, the attendance of members was disappointing. However,
those present appreciated the spirited and encouraging address they heard.
We are also grateful for the attention and services rendered by Mr. T. F.
Richards on Union business while here.

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - The month has been a bad one for our
Branch. Extended holidays at beginning of the month generally, in some cases
meaning 14 days away from work. The last two weeks of the month trade has
improved, Rushden being better now than prior to August holiday, Raunds
fair, Finedon poor, Irthlingborough worse than for months past. Irchester has
suffered through extended stoppage of Closing Factory (now restarted) of T.
Brown & Co., Leicester. Wollaston and Bozeat, slight improvement.


---
```text
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT Trade in this centre has improved
slightly, and generally speaking much difficulty is experienced in making full
time. There is therefore a reluctance to set on men unemployed. The apathy
and sluggishness affecting the volume of trade seems also to infect the oper-
atives, and we have to be constantly on the alert educating, agitating, organis-
ing,
LEICESTER No. 1. We are sorry to report that trade is still very bad.
amongst our members, no less than 41.608 15s. od. being paid during the
month in Out of Work Benefit, almost half of which is Suspension Benefit
Even this does not reflect the true position, as quite a good number of our
members have, unfortunately, drawn their full allowance, and are still out
We do hope to be able to give a more favourable report of trade next month.
We trust our members will not fail to notice (and REMEMBER at the proper
time) that the unemployed will shortly "enjoy" more of the "benefits" of
a Conservative Government, i.e., six days waiting instead of three, as from
the 1st October. During the month a deputation from the Branch visited
Waterfoot, Lancashire, and valuable information was obtained regarding the
conditions of working in that district. Every facility was given by our friend
Mr. Taylor (Secretary) and his Executive. We are much indebted to them,
and we hope to be able to return the compliment in the near future. We have
had Mr. W. R. Smith (Union Organiser) in this district during the last month
or so. He has worked very hard amongst the several sections in the County,
and although he has been seriously handicapped owing to the very short time
being worked, he has been successful in obtaining good results, quite a number
of new members joining.
LIVERPOOL. - The boot repairing trade has shown a marked improve-
ment since writing up our last report, which is probably due to the change in
the climatic conditions, and that the holiday season is nearly over, and also
the fact that the troubles in the Labour world are not so acute as they were,
although we are living in a critical age. We desire to draw the attention of
our members to the Council's Address in the August Report, which contains
interesting items which affect every member, on page 470. Another item of
interest is to be found on page 481, dealing with the history and cost of disputes
since 1895.
MANSFIELD. - Trade here is very fair. During the past month the
General President, Mr. Richards, with Mr. Len. Smith and Mr. J. H. Baum
have been in Mansfield endeavouring to organise the operatives at the firms
of Messrs. Royce & Co. and Faire Bros. Although they have not been able
to deal with the situation as reported at Faire Bros., quite good progress has
been made at Royce & Co., where over 60 new members have joined, and four
from Ward Bros. have joined us, and there is every prospect of further increasing
our membership.
MAYBOLE. - Trade is much better, Messrs. J. Lees & Co., R. Crawford &
Sons and J. M'Creath & Sons, all working full time. James Ramsay & Co. are
still working short time. We had a visit from Mr. Richards during the month.
We had an outside meeting in the dinner hour which was well attended, but
we were disappointed at the evening meeting, and while there were other
attractions at night it is no excuse for members not turning up. Mr. Richards
and the Secretary visited one of the firms on a small matter, and we believe
this visit will do no harm. At the evening meeting Mr. Richards agreed to
take up the question of an Arbitration Board for Scotland, and we hope he
will succeed.
NORWICH. - Trade in Norwich during August suffered a further set-back.
many additional operatives becoming unemployed; in fact, but for three leading
factories in the city which are running very well, the industry is in a very
shaky condition.
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
NOTTINGHAM. - Trade very bad in this part, many of our members
only working two and three days each week, and short days at that. Repairers
also quiet.
PLYMOUTH. - Trade is still on the dull side, and we have several of our
members on the Out-of-Work Book. Some of these men would not object to
work anywhere in the United Kingdom, and are all-rounders. If any branch
secretary would do us a good turn he could rely on the best wishes from the
land of cream and cider.
WATERFORD. - Trade continued fair during the past month.
GREAT YARMOUTH. - Sorry to report again Water Boot trade still
very slow. Fishermen still buying Rubber Boots imported from America, being
cheaper for them as they are not earning enough to buy our Water Boots.

COMPARATIVE REAL WAGES IN LONDON AND OTHER CAPITAL CITIES.

Index Numbers of Comparative Real Wages (or Comparative Purchasing
Power of Money-Wages) in London and certain Cities Abroad at
1st April, 1925.
Average for all Occupations covered by the Inquiry. (London = 100.*)
Index Numbers based on Quantities
of each Kind of Food Consumed in
Working-class Households in
CITY.

(1)	(2)	(3)	(4)	(5)	(6)	(7)	(8)
Belgium	Central	Great	Southern	Scandinavian	Overseas	General Average Index	General Average Index
and France.	European	Britain.	European	Countries and	Countries	Nos. (based on food	Nos. (with allowance
Countries.	Countries.	Netherlands.	(Canada and	only).	for rent).
U.S.A.)
London	100	100	100	100	100	100	100	100
Amsterdam	86	89	80	85	92	86	86	62
Berlin	67	72	58	59	67	67	64	60
Brussels	58	56	55	55	58	55	56	97
Copenhagen	85	107	88	86	106	94	94	..
Lisbon†	34	35	32	33	36	34	51	57
Lodz	46	58	45	49	55	52	55	..
Madrid	56	57	47	64	52	54	46	49
Milan†	44	50	41	45	48	45	83	85
Oslo	85	83	76	84	89	82	165	148
Ottawa	158	166	164	155	171	173	66	67
Paris	62	76	61	63	69	63	198	198
Philadelphia	189	190	200	190	208	211	50	54
Prague	48	53	50	48	51	49	47	50
Rome†	43	46	46	47	47	46	74	72
Stockholm	68	72	72	70	83	78	151	151
Sydney	146	135	156	151	129	186	42	46
Vienna	37	47	40	39	47	44	47	50
Warsaw	44	53	40	40	46	47	47	..
* Although London is taken arbitrarily as base (= 100), the ratios would be the same
whichever city were chosen as base.
† The figures for Lisbon, Rome and Milan are relatively low. This may be accounted
for in part by the differences in the items of food consumption in the southern countries
from those ordinarily consumed in most of the other countries included in this Table.
The budgets used in the comparisons do not make adequate allowance for the consumption
of vegetable foods in Southern European countries.
D


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
In my last report I said that we had made about 120 new members at Manchester.
I should have stated that 110 of those were females engaged in the Rubber Shoe Making
at Messrs. Frankenburg's. Since then nearly another too have joined. A good many of
them belonged to the Rubber Workers' Union a few years ago, but the firm refused to
recognise this Union only on the side where workers were engaged in the manufacturing
of rubber. This left the girls in the closing and binding of the canvas uppers, as well as
the girls who shaped the shoes and put the rubber soles on, unprotected from a trade.
Mason and myself to the General Secretary of the Rubber Workers' Union, this was
union point of view. The Council gave me permission to set about organising these female
if the other Union would agree to forfeit all claims to them. On a few visits from Mr.
agreed to. One of the directors of Messrs. Frankenburg's said that if our Union could
organise the other four firms engaged on this class of goods, that it would be a good thing
for the trade and for the workers employed in it. I followed this work up during a few
weeks of this month at Manchester and Liverpool. There is a big firm at Walton, Liver-
shoes " does not strictly define the meaning of the goods, as the bulk of the work would be
pool, engaged in the making of rubber, rubber cable and rubber shoes. The term "rubber
black, brown and white canvas uppers with rubber soles.
On 8th September I went to the Walton Rubber Works, and gave several hundred
bills to the females in the dinner hour and evening. To me it was sad to hear the com-
"Who would make a start
the piece rates which they work to. Many of the girls agreed that they needed a union
ments of many of the girls when they were comparing the wages they were getting with
our Union's scale on the leaflets I had given them. The girls have had no voice in making
badly, but the usual difficulty presented itself to them:
cable belong to the Rubber Workers' Union. It is our business now to come to the rescue
"If the others join I'll join." The men employed here in the making of rubber and rubber
of the girls, and if they will help us like their sisters at Manchester have done, by joining us,
females at Manchester on the 9th. Three Shop Presidents were elected and two from
each of the three departments were elected as a Shops Committee to assist them. It is
Walton will be made brighter for them. We had a fine meeting of the newly-joined
worth placing on record that 130 females on a cold wet night came to a trade union meeting
and gave two hours discussing matters touching their lives in the workshop.
23rd September, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
D. MCCARTHY.
During the past month I have chiefly been engaged at Mansfield, endeavouring
to follow up the work of the previous month. I have frequently met the girls working
at Messrs. Faire Bros., and despite the efforts that I have made the position has not altered.
The girls are fully conscious of the inadequate wages they receive, and are desirous of joining
the Union, with a view of obtaining substantial increase in their wages. Up to the present
time the firm is absolutely refusing to them their rights, which, if the girls wanted to interfere
with the rights of Mr. Tewkes, would no doubt soon be resented. To terrify girls by
dismissal is sometimes the only defence some persons have, and though it may appear to
be an eminently satisfactory thing to do, it sometimes has the same results upon those
types of individuals when the same methods are adopted, with regard to their business
methods. I have continued the work at the Mansfield Shoe Company; though the progress
in membership has not increased so rapid as last month, the membership is still increasing,
but there is still a further need of increasing our members. I am fairly confident
that over a period of time this firm will eventually become well organised. I have met the
girls working at Thrall's, stiffener makers; the wages paid here are exceedingly poor, and
it is almost impossible to organise them. I understand that a well-known Leicester
gentleman has financial interests in this firm, and it would be advisable for him to pay
some attention with regard to the wages paid at this firm, because out of their scanty
earnings they can hardly afford to pay a few pence towards a trade union.
I had occasion to visit the firm of Betts & Broughton, Huthwaite, a little difficulty
having arisen in one of the departments, and after meeting the operatives and the manager,
matters were adjusted satisfactorily. This is not a very large firm and we are well organised
and all our conditions are observed. The firm of Ward's has again been visited, and six
of them have joined the Union. All our conditions are adhered to, but somehow the men
don't seem to respond, but I think now that a beginning has been made and a Shop Presi-
dent appointed, no doubt others will soon follow. The firm of F. & C. Brown, repairers,
were called on, though there are only six men engaged here. After explaining to them the
work of the Union, they eventually all decided to become members at the end of
the week.


---
```text
529
the firm have adopted the Holiday Scheme, and improvements have taken place with
regard to wages. The men seemed very reluctant to talk to me, and I thought that they
I have again visited the firm of Looms', Market Harborough. Since my last visit
working very short time. But by the distribution of literature dealing with the Scheme
rather resented the stoppage of payment for holidays, in view of the fact that they wor
the men seemed more satisfied. I am not altogether satisfied with the attitude of this
firm with regard to the men joining the Union. I am fairly confident, however, that this
attitude will eventually cease, but until it does cease, there is very little prospects of in
During the month I was afforded the opportunity of speaking to the Mansfield Trades
Council. I felt that some statement was necessary in order to call their attention to the
position of the girls at Faire Bros. and Thrall's. Though Mansfield is chiefly a mining
centre, unfortunately Trade Union organisation is not very strong, which is reflected in
the organisation of girls in the town. I impressed upon the Council the need of giving
some attention to women workers, because of the information I had received. I found
result of this meeting the Trades Council have decided to convene a conference of the
there was not any factory in the town which was paying anything near our scales. As a
various unions catering for the trades, with a view of a united effort to organise the women
in Mansfield.
21st September, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
J. H. BAUM.
In the first two weeks of the past month I continued my work in the Leicestershire
Blaby, Oadby and Earl Shilton. Meetings at factories were held at three of the above,
area that is covered by the Leicester Branches. The places visited were Syston, Wigston,
where the membership is practically complete, appreciation was shown of a visit from
the results on the whole being good. Members have been made, and at the factories
a national official.
In most of the places the state of trade is a handicap to organising, but the seed thus
Looking at the position nationally one cannot help a
sewn will give a return later on.
feeling of satisfaction in the steady growth of membership in spite of bad trade, and the
propaganda work now being done will help to consolidate that membership, and one hopes,
I would like to express my thanks to the branches for the support
add to it later on.
given to me in my work in this area. The No. 1 Branch as the one most affected readily
granted assistance in the service of a member of their Committee, who is able to canvass
for members while I am speaking outside the factories.
Perhaps the most important event of the month has been the meeting of the Trade
Union Congress at Scarborough, and though the main decisions will be given in a general
report, the gathering merits a word or two of special reference.
I am afraid the general result has proved disappointing to our critics. A large section
of the Press was looking forward to a clash between contending sections, with the rout of
the one they were particularly opposed to. The disappointment lies in the fact that there
was no clash as they expected. There were some keen debates, but the tone all the way
through was mainly that of trying to find the right path to achieve the end we all have in
view, rather than to accomplish a sectional victory by dialectical skill.
True, some of the resolutions were of a nature that call for a detailed consideration
by affiliated bodies. There is always a danger that at times of a great crisis, we may in
our anxiety to find a solution of our difficulties take a line that perhaps on more mature
consideration might be different, it may not be so here, but whether or not, one can say
that if the decisions are right ones, then the sooner we give the rank and file of our members
the chance of realising their obligations and responsibilities in regard to them the better,
for it is certain that in these matters any movement or change without their intelligent
support will be fraught with danger.
One question of great importance was dealt with on lines that gives time for considera-
tion as to what is best to be done. There is a desire to give to the General Council greater
powers. There has been a steady movement in that direction for some time. The estab-
lishment of a General Council on its present basis, in place of the old Parliamentary Com-
mittee, had that object in view.
The suggestion now made seeks to give them powers in regard to all wage movements,
to render assistance to any Union on strike-evidently in a more direct form than pre-
viously-as it is suggested they should have power to levy all affiliated members, to give
them power to call upon an affiliated body to bring out all or part of their members in sup-
port of another Union who is defending a vital trade principle, and to arrange with the
C.W.S. to make provision for the distribution of food, &c., in the event of a strike or other
action calling for same. And the Unions are asked to make such alteration in their rules
as will regularise the same.
```

---
The Congress refused to come to any decision upon this matter apart from referring
the whole subject to the new General Council for them to consider and report to next
reached that would prove useless when it was sought to put them into operation. It
must not be forgotten that different unions have different policies, that what might be
to another might place in jeopardy their own position, which so far as wage arrangement
vital to one might not be so vital to another, and further that a Union in giving support
If any move is made in this direction there must be the fullest consultation with all
the main Unions, so that every consideration may be given to the difficulties that are
bound up with such a procedure. In any change that takes place I am sure our members
would wish to play their full part and for that reason I would like to see this matter
adequately discussed, if possible, at our next Conference. We might refrain from some
think of the question, there is an undoubted tendency in this direction, whether it is
of the trifling subjects and get our minds on to these bigger issues. Whatever we may
temporary or otherwise time alone can decide. It may be that the Miners' dispute has
given it an added importance, which will subside if a satisfactory way out of that problem
can be found; but if so, it may be only for a time, as undoubtedly something of that char-
acter is the logical development of trade union organisation.
The subject lost some of its importance by being brought forward by small unions,
one with less than 400 members. The thought which naturally arises in one's mind, is, that
if the time is ripe for such a step, why have we these small unions to-day? Would it not be
far better for them to link up with the larger bodies ? Could not the National Union of
Vehicle Builders find a way of joining the Transport Workers ? Is it possible for us to
operate successfully on a wide area, if there cannot be a linking up within these narrower
limits ? I would strongly urge that this must be our first step. I know a great deal has
been done in this direction, but there is room for a great deal more. It is up to every
Union to do its best in this direction. If by next Congress we had cut down the number
of unions by one-half, a not impossible thing to do, we should be much nearer to this
greater power, not merely in the passing of a resolution upon it, but in applying it with
advantage to the great problems before us.
By general consent the Congress was a great success. The attendance was splendid,
and the delegates were more seriously-minded than at any previous Congress I have
attended. It may be the Miners' dispute is responsible, or it may be that on all sides it is
recognised that we are approaching a period when our forces may have to be marshalled
to meet an attack on all fronts. The year 1926 promises to be a critical one for organised
labour. The Miners' question is not settled, but postponed. The issue next time may be
more difficult, but we must win through. To do this there must be no dissension in our
ranks, there must be no attempt to decry political action in favour of industrial. One
felt there was this tendency at the Congress. We claim they are the two arms of the
Labour movement, each to be used as occasion demands, as a means to achieving our end.
We may make mistakes, but they are not confined to one policy alone. There are as many
made on the industrial field as on the political, while each have their successes. Neither
will give us all we want at once, but both acting co-operatively will in the end get us
through.
I wish these important questions that were before Congress could be discussed at our
Branch meetings, they must be understood at the bottom as well as at the top. It is the
members who will have to act in the hour of crisis. We can but advise and lead according
to our lights, but leadership will be all the more effective if the bulk of the army under-
stand the purpose in view.
It only remains to be added that our Union was successful in its objective-Mr.
Richards was elected to the General Purposes Committee for next Congress (subject to
the enquiry as to the accuracy of the counting); Mr. Poulton was elected to the General
Council unopposed; while both our resolutions were carried, the one relating to the legalising
of voluntary agreements by an overwhelming majority.
19th September, 1925.
WALTER R. SMITH.
THE SPITALFIELDS DISPUTE.
On page 492 of the August Report a balance sheet appeared showing the amount
of money received from branches in connection with the appeal issued on behalf of the
sum of £127 12s. 6d. was remitted by the Manufacturers' Federation for disbursement
operatives concerned in the dispute at Messrs. Jackson & Joseph. In this connection the
to the dependants (under 14 years of age) of the operatives on strike.


---
TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
The Fifty-Seventh Annual Congress in connection with the Trades Congress was
held at the Central Hall, Queen Street, Scarborough, on Monday, the 7th September
and the five following days. The President this year being Mr. A. B. Swales.
His address, after reciting the sacrifices that have been made during the past year,
and on the other hand the solidarity that has been shown by the workers, dealing most
especially with the two outstanding cases of the Miners and the Textile Disputes, were
enlarged upon.
He also pointed out the necessity for a wider outlook regarding not only as may be
said to be strictly industrial, but also the economic and political side of our work, showing
those who believe that a new order of society is inevitable before we can remedy the existing
increased necessity for Trade Union unity throughout the world, pointing out finally that
that at last there are clear indications of a world movement rising in revolt and determined
wils and to which in this address I have directed attention cannot do other than rejoice
into serfdom, and out of serfdom into wagedom, so will they finally pass out of wagedom
to shake off the shackles of wage slavery. Just as our people have passed out of slavedom
into freedom."
The General Council were able to report an increase in membership over 1923-24,
the figures being 4,350,982 with a delegation of 724, the number of affiliated societies
being 200.
The report of the General Council dealt with a very considerable number of matters
and is a document of 250 pages, ranging over all phases of industrial work.
The question of new premises upon which there has been a great deal of talk and
unwarranted statements made as to differences between the Labour Party and the General
Council were finally disposed of, making it quite clear that negotiations must continue
between the two wings of the party with a view to working together on their respective
sides.
Full support was given to the General Council regarding the position they took up in
connection with the Mining and Textile disputes, and the feeling of Congress was un-
doubtedly in the direction of the General Council using its full powers to help Unions on
the one hand, and to prevent if possible serious upheavals of industry on the other.
As usual there were a great many resolutions, too many for us to tabulate here. We
are glad, however, to be able to record the fact that both of our own resolutions were
carried.
The first one on UNEMPLOYMENT reads as follows :-
"
That this Congress views with the greatest concern the serious volume of
unemployment now existing, and deplores the lack of effective measures on the part
of the Government to attempt to alleviate the situation. It further declares its
emphatic opposition to the spurious remedies of lower wages and the degradation of
established working conditions, and calls upon the Trade Union Movement to offer its
utmost resistance to any attempt to increase the hours of work. It asserts the
unquestionable right of the unemployed worker and his dependents to adequate
maintenance, and reiterates its demand for the establishment of a National Employ-
ment and Development Board for the purpose of devising and co-ordinating measures
whereby the extent of unemployment may be reduced." - Carried unanimously.
Our second resolution which created a very good discussion, was as follows:-
VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS.
This Congress instructs the General Council to urge upon H.M. Government
the desirability of giving to National Agreements voluntarily entered into and approved
by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity as awards under the Trade Board Acts,
1009 and 1918, with the object of ensuring the observance of fair conditions of labour
by all engaged in the industry whenever requested by the parties to the agreement."
This was also carried, despite the opposition of the N.U.R., Boilermakers, N.U.D.A.W.,
and Garment Workers, by a majority of 1,848,000, the voting being:-
For
Against
2,790,000
942,000
Thus we have been able, after a time to secure the concurrence of Congress that
agreements (when both sides agree) should be adhered to by those in the industry and
should have the force of law behind them.
We hope that the resolution will be put into force within the near future, and that
we may be able to record the fact that the Government has given practical effect to the
same.


---
534
which our movement has established with so much labour and sacrifice; that it wan
respect of building work, then other firms in other industries will assume that the
the workers that if Lord Weir is permitted to break down the Fair Wages Clave
far as their own particular industries are concerned.
Scheme until Lord Weir's firm agrees to observe the same rates and conditions
in Housing Schemes to do their utmost to frustrate the adoption of Weir Howe
that it call upon the working class representatives on all Public Bodies inter
ate free to do likewise as far
every other employer in the building industry."
view of the
Government to require
LAND CULTIVATION.
and
Having regard to the number of young farm workers leaving the land, and
gency of the unemployment problem, this Conference calls upon
re from the County Agricultural Committees returns of all
cultivated and under-cultivated land, and to give the Committees wide pow
financial or otherwise, given to farmers should be contingent on certificates,
control and compulsory acquisition of all such land. It demands that all assistance
produced that the land is satisfactorily cultivated."
IMPERIALISM.
by the British Government is a form of capitalist exploitation having for its objec
This Trades Union Congress believes that the domination of non-British per
the securing for British capitalists (1) of cheap sources of raw materials: (2) the
to exploit cheap and unorganised labour and to use the competition of that labour
"It declares its complete opposition to Imperialism, and resolves: (1) to support
political parties in order to further their interests, and (2) to support the right of
the workers in all parts of the British Empire to organise the Trade Unions an
peoples in the British Empire to self-determination, including the right to ch
degrade the workers' standards in Great Britain.
It will be seen from the above resolutions the wide variation of the subjects de
complete separation from the Empire."
with, and also their far-reaching possibilities.
The Congress becomes more and more in our judgment a body to which the worker
will not only look to, but owing to its increasing influence, and the attention paid to it
policy which is most likely to bring about that reformed state of society which is so essenti
Statesmen and business men, will help to mould and determine vet more and more tha
in the interests of the workers.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President. S. THOMPSON.
G. PARBURY.
G. SMITH.
G. CHESTER.
L. P. POOLE.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
W. R. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
R. DUNN.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
Delegates.
WOMEN'S LABOUR AND SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
As requested by the Council of our Union, I proceeded to the Second Women's
International Labour and Socialist Congress, held at the Chateau Des Fleurs, Marseilles,
from the 21st August, 1925. The First Women's Congress was held in Hamburg in 1923.
The præsidium of women formed having instructions to maintain relations with the women
correspondents in all countries. The International Executive of men deciding to invite
one woman delegate of the præsidium to attend its meetings, Frau Popp, of Germany,
attending at Vienna in 1924, and Dr. Marion Phillips the one in Brussels, February, 1925.
The Socialist Women's Congress this year was decided on and called by the main Inter-
national Executive. There were representative women attending from 18 countries.
The Congress decided that the chair should be taken alternatively by Marie Juchaux and
Dr. Marion Phillips (to have different chairmen is a custom of International Congresses!.
The delegates were given a hearty welcome by members of the International Executive:
For England, Mr. Cramp; for Germany, Mueller; U.S.A., Hillquit; and for Holland,
Wibaut. Bracke, of France, also spoke a few words of welcome, but regretted exceedingly
that the women of his country, with Belgium, had no vote as yet.
It was decided that this Women's Congress should not overlap by discussing the
questions of the main Congress. Our chief business this year was to convince the women
of all countries of the need for a Socialist Women's International; the object being to
arouse the interest of the great masses of women in all countries to assist in the Socialist
movement. And secondly, to form a constitution which would be accepted by the main


---
536
NORTHANTS' DISTRICT COUNCIL.
The Quarterly Meeting was held in the Foundry Place School, Daventry, on Saturday,
25th July, 1925.
Mr. W. Langley, J.P., presided, and a full complement of delegates were pre-
sent additional delegates from most Branches, as well as Mr. C. Pate
Mr. W. R. Townley, Mr. L. P. Poole, and Mr. E. L. Poulton, as representing the Nation-
Council. Altogether 62 members of the Union attended.
In introducing Mr. Poulton to the meeting, the Chairman said how proud we felt
of the new Office held by the General Secretary, and expressed the general feeling that
was a compliment not only to the personal qualities of Mr. Poulton, but also to the
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives. He then called upon Mr. Poulton to address the
meeting on :-
"THE WORK AND POLICY OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR
OFFICE OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS."
MR. POULTON said: Allow me, first of all, to thank you Mr. Chairman and fellow
members for the compliment you have just paid me. I feel that it has been a great honor
not only to myself but to the Union that we occupy such a position in the first world
Parliament that has just closed; because I look upon this as the nearest approach yet
to an International Parliament. I entertain the hope that out of it will arise a real Inter-
national Parliament, not merely to determine conditions and policy, but also to determine
political policy as well, so that men and women shall learn to know one another and under-
stand the hopes and aspirations of each other, and thus develop a spirit which will prever
them from plunging into war in the future. I hope that all members will be behind the
League of Nations, of which we form part. It will, however, only be as we ordinary
individuals press our views upon statesmen and members of Parliament from time to time
that we shall prevent war taking place, because, whatever we may say, the fact remains
that more men are under arms to-day than there were before the War, for even during the
time that a recent Conference in Geneva was discussing the limitation of the manufacture
of arms by private firms, the smaller nations were greatly opposed to it. Their advocates
in dealing with the case said that if countries like Great Britain, France, Italy, America
and Germany were allowed to manufacture arms, and they were not allowed to mann-
facture them, they would be at the mercy of the big states, and therefore they should be
allowed to contract for arms with private firms. These are amongst the difficulties we
have to deal with and to counteract in pursuance of a peace policy. Nevertheless I do
not lose heart or feel dispirited because I believe that there is a generation growing to
whom we shall be able to influence, and with the additional education they will make it
increasingly difficult for statesmen and politicians to indulge in warfare.
The International Labour Office is, I think, an Office which, at the moment, very
largely unknown. I have spoken at a great many League of Nations meetings in various
parts of the country, and many times I have been thanked for bringing before the meetings
the wide ramifications and activities of the Office, and what it has done. I must make it
quite clear that we are part and parcel of the League of Nations, and one of the few good
things that has emerged from the Versailles Treaty is the idea of the League of Nations
and the Labour Office. I hope we shall be able to accomplish the work that has been given
us to do.
Whilst the League of Nations has for its object the idea of universal peace, such a
peace can only be established by the establishment of social justice. The Labour Office
assists by dealing with such injustices and hardships. It is engaged in the regulation of
working hours all over the world and the improvement of working conditions. For
example, the regulations as to hours worked include the establishment of the maximum
working day or week; the regulation of the supply of labour and the employment of
children. It also seeks to regulate the conditions as to the employment and protection
of women and young children and the provision of certain forms of technical education,
Certain rules and regulations are laid down as to how best we can do that work, but
I will not take up your time with these. The first meeting was held at Washington in
1919, and strange to say, the Labour movement in America, who took part in the business,
has not yet seen its way clear as a country to join the League of Nations. I regret this,
especially as they are always standing at the door and giving advice, without actually
taking part in the business and being prepared to take responsibilities for the things done.
I find that the great obstacle from the point of view of America is that they have a great
ideal of a combined American League, that is, the development of those many countries
which are outside and around the United States, and which, combined, could dominate
the world. The point which they emphasise, however, as their principal objection is that
Great Britain, or the Empire-to accept the wider sphere-has an undue preponderance
of votes and influence, because Great Britain and each self-governing colony send their
representatives, and the Americans object to this, and say that only an equal number of
---

---
representatives should be at the meetings to represent the Empire. This is the real
of this world-wide League.
why America will not come into the League of Nations. It is, however, doing
work, and it has helped in moulding policy. It is to be hoped that ere long America
will take her place amongst the representatives
I look upon the question of hours as one of the most important that can be dealt
with; the provision against unemployment; women's employment and maternity;
night work for women; the employment of children of immature age; the age at which
children shall be employed at night; minimum age for employment in agriculture; white
lead; weekly rest, &c. &c. Since the Office has been established we have been working
very hard, and we have accomplished much that is vital to the welfare of the workers.
Some people grumble about the slowness with which the work proceeds, but I submit
that we have accomplished a wonderful amount of work in the six years we have been
established, having regard to the slowness with which a nation itself does its work, apart
from the question of international policy.
Representation at the Conference is as follows: Governments have two represen-
tatives; the workers of each country have one representative and the employers one.
Advisers are also allowed to act in an advisory capacity. These delegates are selected
by the government from the most representative organisations existing in the country,
and the government of this country have decided that so far as Great Britain is concerned
the Trade Union Congress is the authority, and therefore every year the Government
sends to the Council of the Trade Union Congress, which body nominates the delegates
and also the advisers. The Government also send advisers who act along with the repre-
sentatives of the Government and the whole body splits itself up into Committees. The e
were seven different Committees this year. As we sent a number of advisers there was,
with myself, a British representative on each of the Committees that was sitting. Now
these Committees have the duty of putting into words what they think should be the
method adopted regarding matters submitted to them by the Office. When they have
finished, their decisions are set out in the form of a report and presented to the full Con-
ference. The Conference then decides whether they will pass that report as a recom-
mendation or convention. You can understand that with 52 countries, with their different
outlook and development and the backwardness in industry of some of them, that progress
is necessarily slow. But we had better go slowly and surely than go fast and do nothing
but pass reports which we do not put into operation.
Each country has a questionnaire sent to them at the end of the year in the form of a
book of questions for the next year's Conference, and are asked what they consider their
on which the Committee work and upon which the Conference finally decides its policy
and the form such policy takes, either a recommendation or convention.
During the past four years we have passed Conventions and Recommendations-
which are a milder form of Convention-upon the Hours question. A number of countries
have adopted them and put them into force, but I regret to have to say that the British
Government has not yet put it into force, and that is why it is being held up in other
countries. Great Britain is the foremost industrial country in Europe, and the smaller
countries say that we in Great Britain have not adopted the Convention to put the 48-hour
week into force by law, and I have been told both in the governing body and in the Con-
ference that they will not put it into force until Great Britain does so. Our statesmen
tell us that we have already millions of our people working the 48-hour week under their
different craft agreements, or even less. We do not dispute that, but this is not the same
as if it were law, and we need something to put it into law. When you get back to your
districts ask your Member of Parliament what he proposes to do in the matter, and go on
asking him until he does something in the House of Commons, because the more questions
there are put, the greater the likelihood of Great Britain adopting it.
At Washington, Great Britain voted for this Convention, and not only voted for it,
but they sent a cablegram over here to our statesmen as to whether they should support
it or no, and the answer was " yes," and yet, strange to say, they have not yet brought it
before the House of Commons. It is something of a disgrace to this country, and the other
countries are continually using it against us.
We have also passed a Convention upon Unemployment and what help we can give
in this respect, and a number of countries have adopted these proposals, and are putting
them into operation at the present time. Regulations as to night work for women we
have passed because we believe that there should be a minimum of work not only for
women, but also for men at night, and as far as possible we should not have them working
at night. We have also dealt with the question of the minimum age at which boys and
girls should start work. We have also passed resolutions upon white lead poisoning in
paint. We had a tremendous fight to get this through, and I again regret to say that Great
Britain has not carried out her word in this matter, and again, as in the question of hours,
the other countries are playing upon this. We have passed regulations as to the age at
which boys shall go to sea, and provided for their being properly looked after whilst on
---

---
538
passed regulations regarding the weekly rest. We look upon
body, which is 13 going the ordinary thing and part and parcel of the life of the nation, and
On the On
On the
they are still working on Saturday afternoon and on Sunday, and any of you who hav
not get the equivalent of Sunday, and I was very surprised to hear fro
We have also done the equivalent of Sunday, and I was very surprised to hear fro
They are making a great fight to get the English Sunday. Quite apart f
Australian employer representatives that they were working Sunday with
one of ou
extra pay
strongly opposed to Sunday work.
I would much sooner or rather see a five-day week In any case I am
When we have done with the Conference and have gone to our respective home
governing body, which is really the Executive Committee, carry on the work i٢٢٠٢٢٢٠٢٠٠
Conference to another. That body is elected for a period of three years. There are
o workers' representatives. 6 employers
At our last Conference I believe we had 27 workers' delegates because unfortuna
them for full delegations, so that we should have ou
some of the Governments did not send complete delegations and therefore we were pre!
delegates select the workers' representatives for the ensuing three years. Our Own Trado
Union Congress select their delegates for the Conference, and it is these delegates
elect the governing body, and not any particular country, so that it does not necessar
follow because we are one of the big countries that Great Britain will be represented
the governing body. Our representation on that body is dependant on the votes, not on
of European countries, but on the votes of Australia, Canada, South Africa, Japan, China
competition for the seats on that body, and I look upon it not only as an honour, but as 3
great privilege that I have been re-elected to represent the workers, and I think I ma
and the rest of the countries represented.
on the governing body.
Therefore you can easily see that there:
fairly say that the other delegates feel that I have done something to uphold their
affect the work of the Office in all parts of the world, and there is growing up a more a
This body deals with the programme and secures information and details wh
for information on industrial matters, and it is becoming more and more a basis of research
more extensive bureau, and nations are looking towards the International Labour Office
biggest industrial library in the world, recording all matters, so far as they can be gr
work. In a period of six years we claim to have collected in our Office at Geneva the
a great part in the Socialist move.
of his nation, he would yet be Premier of France, and so you see we have a man who has
ment in France, and some think if he cared to return to play an active part in the work
been brought up in the best traditions of social justice.
The Director is a brilliant Frenchman who played
success.
We are now engaged upon another great work apart from its industrial side. There
their country in consequence of the war. Many of them belong to the unhappy countr
are wandering about the world men and women and children, who have practically lost
Labour Office to either get these unhappy people back to their own country, or to get
of Russia, and who cannot or will not go back there. We are endeavouring through the
believes that we are the body who are most likely to do this work effectively, and I thin
in they are established. The
it is a great compliment that such a young body has been entrusted with this work.
think it is an encouragement to feel that thousands of men and women are being helped
by the efforts of the International Labour Office. It is work which will also show to
people, in my opinion, that we can rise above the ordinary routine, and from the stand-
point of humanity we are doing this work at the moment with a considerable amount of
The methods adopted by the I.L.O., in relation to its work is broadly as follows.
We try to get to know the present laws of a country and by convention or recommendation
try and induce them to bring new laws into being regarding the workers and to bring
influence from the more advanced countries to bear on the backward countries. We do
not lose any opportunity with countries that are not carrying them out in trying to secure
conformity to the various proposals passed at the Conference. Last year I reported to
my colleagues (and when I got back they put the report into the form of a pamphlet).
This year I have just presented my report to the General Council of the Trade Union
Congress, and they have decided to publish it as a pamphlet and circulate it throughout
the whole country, because they feel it is well worth while that other people should know
what has been done at the Conference just ended. This year, apart from the Conventions
that were passed, we made progress in other directions. For instance, when one of the
Conventions was being discussed it was somewhat remarkable that nearly the whole of the
plaints that we workers had made earlier in the proceedings, and apologising for their
speakers were representatives of governments, and they were getting up in view of com
pountries not having yet ratified the conventions, and wanting to assure us that they had
had no opportunities in their countries, but they would at once assist to put into operation
---

---
539
equal in standing to our Chancellor of the Exchequer doing this you will see that we have
machinery which would bring these conventions into operation. When you get men
made some impression on the statesmen of a number of the countries, and that is why I
consider the Conference this year to be an advance on those previously beld.
One other example to show how we have progressed. I was surprised to learn that
Spain had sent one of her chief Officers of State, and he came all that way to deliver 11
ten minutes' speech because they wanted it recorded that they regarded favourably the
matter under discussion, and were willing to put it into operation.
I wish to speak of the wider question of Articles and Conventions that have been
passed since 1919. In my report I state: "I beg to express, on behalf of all the workers,
approximately 150 ratifications, when there should have been eight or nine hundred.
their keen disappointment at the fact that we had at this meeting this year to record
They kept this hope for some considerable time, but as the years passed and they found
This to the workers, is a very great disappointment, for their hopes in 1919 were high.
this lack of progress their hopes began to go down." I want to give this word that although
great tribute. You will easily see that if this country adopted the white lead convention
we have not gone a long way along the path, the fact that there are these ratifications is a
and the hours convention, there would be a great deal accomplished, and it would affect
ratify the hours convention you can easily see what an enormous advance would be made.
many more countries. If we could get Great Britain, France, Belgiun and Japan to
might have secured. We have made an impression, and I believe a permanent and good
We must not lose sight of proportion when we think that we have secured all that we
impression on many countries, and we will carry out these reforms if the workers will but
back up the efforts being made on their behalf and thereby raise the general standard
of life.
We is a thing that is full of hope. Some of our conventions have been adopted by the Eastern
We have put in a good deal of work among the backward nations of the world. This
countries, such as India and Japan. India is ratifying more conventions than any other
country, and to its great credit is carrying them out. They have passed the eight hours
convention, but it is a ten hours day in India. If we could get Japan and China to pass
the ten-hour working day it would make a wonderful difference. Regarding China,
despite the various reports, we must remember that in Shanghai there are 49 factories and
we have only five of them. But in these factories in China there are poor little mites of
five years of age. We are trying to create an impression upon the Chinese representatives
to deal as far as possible with the things complained of, and to appoint factory inspectores
We have now got to this stage, and you will see how necessary it is for international action.
This year the Indian employers complained of the competition of Japan. Usually it
has been the Lancashire goods which have suffered and complained of Indian competition.
You will see how intricate trading has become, and how necessary it is that these nations
should be brought up to our standard, but of course their standard would always be a
different standard to ours, largely on account of the climate. My reference to the term
standard means of course the productive standard per person.
We had workers' representatives of India and Japan at the Conference this year, and
I hope next year we shall have a Chinese representative present. We have been talking
to these men and they are very anxious to know our conditions, and they are bringing
pressure to bear that we should send representatives to these countries and see what
actually is taking place.
I come finally to the question of cost. As you have doubtless read, or been told,
that the I.L.O. is a great waste of money and that we have a palace in which to do our
work, and wherein we waste the taxpayers money of this and other countries. As regards
the palace we have a staff of about 300 people in one building and a big building is neces-
sary for all these. It is quite true that the place we meet in at present is situated in a very
nice part of Geneva, and we can look across the Lake and see the great mountains, but so
If you go into the Board Room you will find ordinary
far as furnishings are concerned, I go into many offices in this country which are furnished
much more elaborately than ours.
boards for shelving so that we can save expense. This is where we do our work, and as
economically as possible. We must have our documents translated into various languages,
and nobody should object to this translation so that other nations may use them. We
at Geneva. In bringing to
spend less than £40,000 per year, on the I.L.O., that is Great Britain, but the country is
going to spend many millions of pounds on ships of war, and yet questions are constantly
being asked about the expenditure in " our nest of luxury "
bear our intellects and knowledge and taking part in conferences with the rest of the world,
and gathering information of great value to the industrial world, we spend the sum of
£37,000. That money is better spent than on ships of war which may go to the bottom
of the sea in two or three minutes, and I am anxious that we should take up the challenge
and show what great advantages lie therein. I hope you will continue to give us your
backing. One of the foremost representatives of the workers on the Continent said to
"You have got to remember this, that you have had your legislation
many years regarding many matters affecting the lives of the workers, whilst some nations
me not long ago,


---
512
legislation recently, other countries have not yet passed legislation.
deals with you will therefore realise our task and the or
the organisation
that your representatives will not shirk the
but for the sake of humanity, until such time as we can get rid of uner
working day or week, a living wage for all, provision against
disease or injury, and for old age, and so assist in making the world better and brighter
ment, secure a maximum of toilers.
than it is now for so many millions
Discussion and Questions.
own
other?
How far does the work of the Office bear relation to t
MR CHESTER (Kettering).
Do you first have a Board to jointly discuss the matr
to come before the full body or do you go there and debate without first consulting
MR. POULTON. The usual procedure is that the governing body discusses the Agenda
The idea is that the governing body shall talk over what we consider suitable for
governing body, and if they turn it down it does not come before the Conference. Th
Conference has supreme power, however, and if they decide that something should come
government representatives, and opinions are freely expressed. A vote is taken of t
before them again, then the governing body must carry this out. The governing bod
has to get the material for the Agenda a long time in advance. We are now discussing
the Agenda for two years ahead.
MR. CAMPBELL (Kettering) desired further information as to the position of our o
Government in relation to the 48-hour working week. Why is our Government opposed
to this good work?
and was generally operative. He did not think the British Government had any need to
MR. POULTON quoted an extract from the speech of a government representative,
said that there were great difficulties in the way of the enforcement of the convention.
take action in this matter. Mr. Bettington, this Government's representative, further
I (Mr. Poulton) argued at this meeting that this should not prevent the Government from
trying it. There were bound to be difficulties, but they would be no greater than the
difficulties of other countries which were already enforcing it. We, as workers, were forced
to the conclusion that behind the refusal of the Government to enforce this hours con-
vention was the fact that many people are hoping before long to break our voluntary
hours convention could be enforced if the will was there to do it. Believe me, there is no
agreements and increase our working day. If the law was there it would stop this. The
real difficulty, but they do not want to put it into force.
MR. POOLE, (Wellingborough) stated that he thought it unfair that the Governments'
representatives should number 12, and the workers and the employers six each. Why
not have the 12 from each, which seemed a fairer proportion?
MR. POULTON. We cannot alter the basis of representation. It is embodied in the
Versailles Treaty.
MR. CROUCH (Rushden) asked for more information about the homeless people. Who
are these people who have had to leave their home country and are afraid to go back?
MR. POULTON gave figures from his reports and said that Dr. Nansen was on the work
of the attempted reestablishment of these people and was doing the work well. Many
wanted to go to America and we were endeavouring to get them settled there.
Mr. ATTEWELL (Northampton) expressed opposition to our connection with the
International Labour Office. He claimed that we ought to work through our own Inter-
national. He further stated that the League of Nations was a gathering of the ruling
classes and that the dice was loaded against the workers because their representatives
were in a minority. All the information which the Office sends out could easily be got
from our own International. He quoted the case of the British Government's failure to
enforce the hours convention after agreeing to it as an example of the futility of putting
any faith in the I.L.O. He also agreed with the American view that the Colonies were
part and parcel of the Empire and this gave this country a larger proportion and repre-
sentation compared with other countries.
MR. POULTON stated that he agreed with a good deal of what had just been said, but
national, he agreed that it should be developed, but the International could do nothing
he wished his friend would look into economic history. With regard to our own Inter
from a legislative point of view. Whilst they had accomplished hardly as much as could
in the most backward countries and legislation was needed to do that. We must try to
bringing up the
Office to be successful because it would tend to improve present conditions. The last
get these things through our own House of Commons, who appeared not to want the


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
is put in by western financiers ?
541
speaker thought that it was bolstering up present conditions, but legislation was the only
in industrial conditions could be generally effected through our own International
medium to effect what was wanted to be done, so very little international improvement
MR. LYNE (Northampton). Would it not be possible to get information through the
I.L.O. as to the amount of finance that is in these foreign enter, rises, and what proportion
MR. POULTON. - Our own department this week has issued a statement on these lines.
Out of 10 factories in Shanghai we own only five, and we own about one-sixth of the looms.
We have a good deal of information on the lines indicated, and this is supplied through the
MR. TOWNLEY (Northampton). The Government has 12 representatives, the em-
plovers six and the workers six: if the whole world had Socialist Governments would
they send along 12 socialists? I should think they would, and would join with the
workers' representatives in matters of primary importance.
Labour Magazine.
MR. TOWNLEY moved:
"That, this Council, representing 31,728 members of the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives, hereby places on record its deep and earnest appreciation
of the services rendered to the International Labour movements and to the cause of
International goodwill and peace, through the International Labour Office of the
League of Nations, by Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P. We note, with considerable pleasure,
the recent honour conferred upon Mr. Poulton, and trust the utmost facility will
continue to be afforded by the Union to enable our General Secretary to carry out the
arduous duties entailed."
I think that everybody will be satisfied with the enormous amount of work that Mr.
Poulton is doing on behalf of the workers of the world. We should all agree that Mr.
Poulton has done splendidly. It is work that calls for all the thought, energy and con-
sideration that can be given to it, and I am sure that in selecting Mr. Poulton for this work,
we shall all agree that the Trade Union Congress could not have found a better man.
have much pleasure in moving the resolution.
I
MR. I. H. JOHNSON, in seconding the resolution, expressed the hope that every
member of the Union would interest themselves in the work of the I.L.O., and give to Mr.
Poulton their whole-hearted support in the magnificent work he is doing.
MR. POULTON, in reply, expressed his thanks and said how interesting and yet how
He would rather wear out than rust, and he felt that this work was
hard the work was.
essential and helpful.
The delegates were then entertained to tea by the Daventry Branch, to whom warm
and appreciative thanks were extended.
Many of the delegates afterwards visited the new Wireless Station at Daventry,
the arrangements for which had been previously made by Mr. Johnson, the Secretary of
the Daventry Branch. The opportunity was much appreciated and the Council's thanks
were extended to the Manager of the works and also to Mr. Johnson.
APPENDIX.
EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS READ BY MR. POULTON DURING HIS SPEECH.
Organisation and Objects of Department.
Whereas the League of Nations has for its object the establishment of universal
peace, and such a peace can be established only if it is based upon social justice; and
whereas conditions of labour exist involving such injustice, hardship and privation to
large numbers of people as to produce unrest so great that the peace and harmony of the
world are imperilled; and an improvement of those conditions is urgently required;
as, for example, by the regulation of the hours of labour, including the establishment
of a maximum working day and week, the regulation of the supply of labour, the pre-
arising out of his employment, the protection
vention of unemployment, the provision of an adequate living wage, the protection of the
worker against sickness, disease and injury aris
of children, young persons and women, provision for old age and injury, protection of the
interests of the workers when employed in countries other than their own, recognition of
the principle of freedom and association, the organisation of vocational and technical
education and other measures;
Whereas also the failure of any nation to adopt humane conditions of labour is an
obstacle in the way of other nations which desire to improve the conditions in their own
countries;
The High contracting parties, &c.
1
i


---
542
Among these methods and principles, the following seem to the High Contracting
Parties to be of special and urgent importance:
1.  The guinding principle above enunciated that labour should not be regarded
merely as a commodity or article of commerce.
2. The right of association for all lawful purposes by the employed as well as by
the employers
3. The payment to the employed of a wage adequate to maintain a reasonable
standard of life as this is understood in their time and country.
4.  The adoption of an eight hours day or a 48-hours week as the standard to be
5.  The adoption of a weekly rest of at least 24 hours, which should include Sunday
aimed at where it has not already been attained.
wherever practicable.
6.  The abolition of child labour and the imposition of such limitations on the labou
of young persons as shall permit the continuation of their education and assure
their proper physical development.
7.  The principle that men and women should receive equal remuneration for wor!
of equal value.
8.  The standard set by law in each country with respect to the conditions of labo
should have due regard to the equitable economic treatment of all workers
lawfully resident therein.
9. Each State should make provision for a system of inspection in which women
should take part, in order to ensure the enforcement of the laws and regulatio
for the protection of the employed.
OFFICIAL REPORT PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
FEBRUARY 24TH, 1925.
MAJOR GLYN asked the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs what practical results
have followed recommendations or draft conventions of the I.L.O., at Geneva, by their
international application; and which, if any, have been made effective in Great Britai
or in any British Dominion ?
SIR A. STEEL-MAITLAND: I have been asked to reply. I am circulating with the
Official Report a statement showing the position in January, 1925, with regard to the
ratification of the various International Labour Conventions for all countries, including
Great Britain and the Dominions. I would remind my hon. and gallant Friend that
Australia and Canada being Federal States, whose power to enter into conventions on
labour matters is subject to limitations, are given by the Treaty of Versailles discretion.
to treat a draft convention to which such limitations apply as a recommendation only.
Recommendations do not require ratification, and a corresponding statement is, therefore
not available in regard to them. It is not possible within the limits of a question ard
answer to give any detailed account of the practical results that have followed on the
adoption of draft conventions or recommendations by the I.L.O. But apart from the
obligations involved in formal ratifications, the work of the organisation HAS STIMU-
LATED SOCIAL LEGISLATION IN A NUMBER OF DIRECTIONS.
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st SEPT., 1925.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included .. .. .. .. .. 74 per cent.
Food only .. .. .. .. .. 70
FOOD.
At Ist September the average level of retail prices of the principal articles of food
showed a further slight advance as compared with Ist August. There was an increase
of about 21d. per lb. in the average price of bacon, of about 1d. per lb. in the price of butter,
and of about d. each in the price of eggs. On the other hand, potatoes were cheaper
on the average by about 1d. per 7 lbs. The remaining articles included in the statistics
showed relatively little movement.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of July,
1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of food
included in these statistics was about 70 per cent. at 1st September, as compared with
about 68 per cent. at 1st August and 66 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1924.
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, September, 1925-


---
Here's the text extracted from the image, with some minor formatting for readability:

547

Apart from the spoilt papers it was quite evident that a considerable number of
delegates had been under misapprehension as to the number of votes they were allowed
to cast. In numerous instances unions had not used their full vote, but where there was
more than one vacancy in the group they had divided their total number of votes by the
number of vacancies, and had thus failed to exercise their full voting power. We consider
it desirable that steps should be taken to prevent this happening in the future and suggest
that the instructions printed on the ballot paper be fuller and clearer and also that the
Scrutineers be thoroughly instructed in order that enquirers on this point may be in turn
correctly advised.
The Scrutineers and Recount Committee further suggest that the General Council
should consider the advisability of making such arrangements as will secure that there is
not a complete change in the personnel of the Scrutineers each year.
The Scrutineers and Recount Committee suggest that it should not be competent for
properly nominated candidates to withdraw their nominations at a later date than, say
14 days prior to the opening of Congress. If this were done and ballot papers not printed
until after the last date for withdrawal had passed, it would obviate the possibility of the
names of persons appearing on the ballot paper who were not condidates.
(Signed)
HERBERT SMITH (Chairman).
GEO. LATHAN.
JOHN JAGGER.
W. R. SMITH.
DOROTHY EVANS.
EDWARD DUXBURY.
THOMAS CHADWICK.
J. S. BROWN.
ARTHUR JENKINS.
GEORGE ILLINGWORTH.
SIDNEY TAYLOR.

CO-PARTNERSHIP WORKSHOP.

Report of the Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Limited for the
Half-Year ended 1st August, 1925.

We have pleasure in submitting the 65th Half-Yearly Report and Balance Sheet.
The Sales for the half-year amount to £27,170 15s. 6d., a decrease of £825 15s. 1d. compared
with the corresponding period of last year. After providing for Interest on Share and Loan
Capital amounting to £1,034 11s. 11d., and depreciating Fixed Stock, Buildings, &c,
1,336 6s. 3d., there is a balance profit of £705 9s. 2¼d., which, with the balance of £237 19s.
brought forward from last half-year, gives a total of £943 8s. 2½d. for disposal.
We have added 13 new members during the half-year, I have lapsed, the present
number of Shareholders being 607.

The decrease in Sales and Profits is somewhat disappointing, but the corresponding
half-year with which the comparison is made was an exceptional one with regard to large
orders of a special character which could not be repeated. At the same time the half-year
just completed has been one of the busiest we have experienced, and in view of the general
condition of trade which is reflected in the printing industry the Committee consider
that the result is satisfactory. The London Branch is doing remarkably well and shows
a substantial increase in trade. Another valuable machine for rapid printing has been
installed there during the half-year and has already justified the rather heavy outlay.
The Kettering Branch has maintained its position fairly well and continues to render
good service.
Detailed figures for the half-year's trade are as follows -

£ s. d.
Leicester Printing Works 16,790 11 11
Box Department 5,891 8 7
London Branch 3,365 15 0
Kettering Branch 1,123 0 0

We are glad to be able to report that a definite scheme for the rehousing of the Box
Department is now in hand. The Society has purchased a freehold building site in Gravel
Street, separated only by a narrow passage from the Printing Works in Short Street.
Plans are being prepared for consideration for the erection of a three storey, well-lighted
and up-to-date factory, with provision for an additional two storeys when future needs
warrant an extension. The advantages of having this department in closer proximity to
the general offices and works, with the extra accommodation and facilities generally that
this scheme provides are obvious, and we feel sure will lead to considerable expansion
and development of this important branch of our business.
The present half-year has opened well with a considerable number of orders.


---
548
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Council do not hold themselves responsible for the views expressed by Correspondents
INTERNATIONAL SUMMER SCHOOL, SWEDEN.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
I attended an International Summer School held at Brunnsvic, Sweden,
1st to 15th August, as a student sent by the General Council of the T.U.C.
National Council of Labour Colleges.
These schools have been inaugurated in view of the ever-increasing interest
paid by the trade unions to the educational side of their work, and the I.F.T.U
schools this year, one at Brunnsvic, and the other at Prague in Czecho-Slovakia.
On our arrival in Sweden, the students to the number of about fifty were we
on the Sunday. During both these days everything possible was done to demonstra
warmth of the welcome extended to us, and in our tour of Stockholm and the m
shops of the Co-operative Societies we were shown many interesting sights, some of
I may give in more detail in a later report, as the briefness of this report makes nece
the exclusion of some valuable information as to the work of the young and mor
tion in Sweden) took us for a sail up the beautiful inland lochs, and on our arrival at Fasa
On Sunday our comrades of the L.O. (the initials denoting the general T.U.
we parted with the singing of the "Internationale." the students proceeding onwards
operative movement in this country.
rail to the school and our comrades of the L.O. returning homewards
Work commenced at the school on Monday morning with a lecture on the wor
class movement in Sweden. This lecture was particularly interesting from the p
view of a comparison with our own country. Although only a small labour m
(Sweden has only a population of 6,000,000) the workers of Sweden maintain an exter
system of Workers Education through a body known as A.B.F. This body is constit.
by representatives from all phases of the workers' movement and every shade of o
school is a permanent organisation to which trade unionists are sent for six months' trai
from Co-operators to Syndicalists is represented in the governing Council. The Brun
ducive to study, and the fact that the nearest town (Ludvika) is five miles away, also te
during the winter months. The location of the school on a lakeside among trees is
to make the school free from interruption.
Albert Falkenberg, an ex-Cabinet Minister from Germany, dealt with the trade un
movement in that country and its latest developments.
Richard Sandler, Prime Minister of Sweden, gave an extensive lecture on Socialisa
Problems in Sweden. This lecture dealt in part with the problems of the present gover
ment in Sweden, and in part with the programme of the Social Democratic Party
probable methods of application.
J. W. Bowen, a member of the General Council of the T.U.C., gave a lecture on Britis
Trade Unionism, and dealt with it effectively in the brief time at his disposal.
Z. Piotrowsky dealt with the Polish workers' movement and the educational mov
ment also. A member of the school from another post-war country, viz., Czecho-Slovakia
gave a very good lecture on the problems facing the workers in that country. Belin
lecture was one of the most interesting I have heard for some time, and he was able
explain from the point of view of a native of the country, the very complicated racial and
economic problems in that country.
C. V. Bramsnaes, Finance Minister in the present Danish Government, gave us some
information with regard to the workers' movement in that country. The S.D.P. in Per
mark have only 55 seats out of 144 total, but are the government of the country.
Englebert Graf, the noted German economist, gave lectures on "Modern Tendencia
in Capitalism," and the "Materialist Conception of History." The best parts of both
these lectures were lost in the translation, as the technical terms did not correspond and the
correct meanings were very difficult to get.
Spencer Miller, junr., M.A., who is the General Secretary of the Workers' Education
Bureau in the U.S.A., gave a series of lectures dealing with American history and the
W.E.B., of which he is secretary, has over 2,000,000 members attached to it.
American Labour and Educational movements. Miller is a very capable lecturer and the
Comrade Brown, of the I.F.T.U., who was in charge of the school, was late in coming
strike, and was unable to come earlier. As most of us had not seen an English paper hit
owing to the fact that he was a member of the committee of eight in charge of the wal
over a week, we were very keen to hear all the latest news with regard to the Coal crisis
---

---
549
Comrade Brown gave us a lecture on the crisis and was able to give us first-hand information
interested in the present trend of the British Trade Union movement, and I was questioned
and the Labour Party. I may say in passing that the Swedish Trade Unionists are very
several times about the Quadruple Alliance and the Minority Movement. Comrade Brown
on the various negotiations between the Government, the Miners, the General Council,
Migration," dealing with the emigration question over the last too years,
and another lecture was on the " International Trade Union Movement."
The discussion on the lectures was very keen and the fact that each country had
lecturers of international repute representing them made the data obtained reliable to a
During the whole of our stay everything was done to make us feel at home, and
especial thanks are due to Mr. and Mrs. Hugo, the genial Rector of Brunnsvic, and his wife,
greater degree than usual.
for their kindness during our stay.
31st August, 1925.
Yours fraternally,
THOMAS CAMPBELL (06068).
ITEMS OF INTEREST.
During the first six months of this year the Empire has taken 42.6 per cent. of our
exports of British manufactured produce and manufacture, whilst foreign countries have
taken 57-4 per cent. Of our re-exports of imported produce, the Empire has taken 17.9
per cent. and foreign countries 82.1 per cent.
*
*
*
On 13th July the price of the 4lb. loaf in London was Iod. At the same period of
last year, when the Labour Government was in office, the price was 9d.
*
*
*
The profits of brewing concerns were £9,971,000 in 1913-14; £18,400,000 in 1922-23,
and £17,840,000 in 1923-24.
*
*
*
The cost of a battleship of the latest type, inclusive of torpedoes, ammunition, &c.,
is approximately £7,000,000. The cost of a battle cruiser similar to H.M.S. "Hood"
is £6,000,000. The corresponding figures for a modern light cruiser are £2,000,000, a
modern destroyer £325,000, a modern submarine £400,000.
*
-The Labour Magazine, September, 1925.
*
*
The whole of the expenses of the
As against the above, the British contribution to the League of Nations (including
the I.L.O.) is approximately £100,000 per annum.
League of Nations (including the I.L.O.) are under £1,000,000 per annum; the work of
the League is to save life; raise the standard of working conditions, and improve the
lives of the people. WHICH IS BEST? One million pounds for the League of Nations,
or the above-named sums spent on battleships?
*
*
*
In the month of August this year, after eight months of Tory Government, the number
of registered unemployed increased by over 28,950 in one week. There was in registered
unemployed an increase of 176,085 over the number registered twelve months earlier,
when Labour was in office.
*
*
*
Instead of trade improving, the figures quoted show unemployment is again increasing.
So far from improving trade, the loss of this spending power has helped considerably to
destroy the home market. Every branch of the trades and industries supplying the home
market is necessarily affected by the loss of purchasing power by these successive cuts.
To Him That Hath-
*
*
*
Contrast the position of the wage-earner with the investor of capital. Figures show
that 1,411 companies, after payment of debenture interest, distributed profits as follows :-
In 1923, £130,759,424; in 1924. £139,362,273; an increase of £8,602,849. There was a
total return in capital invested in these 1,411 companies in a single year of more than
£110,250,000.
The average rate of net profits being about 10 per cent., the investor in these com-
panies gets his capital back in profits every ten years.
While wage-earners suffer reductions, the banking accounts of directors and employers
increase, as the following figures show:-In 1918-19 the receipts from super-tax were
£35,500,000; in 1923-24, £62,500,000; an increase of £27,000,000.
In 1918-19 the receipts from death duties were £30,750,000; in 1923-24, £59,500,000,
almost double, and being an increase of £29,250,000.- Speakers' Notes.
---

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

550
ENGLISH C.W.S. ALL-ROUND INCREASES.
Another Dividend of 2d. in the £.
ONE MILLION POUNDS OF TEA PER WEEK SOLD.
Increases of 10 per cent. in the trade, 21 per cent. in the output from
productive factories, and a net profit of £487,444, are the most
attractive features of the C.W.S. Committee's Report for the half-year
ended 27th June, which is now issued and will be considered at the forth-
coming meetings of the shareholders on 3rd and 10th October.
The total sales for the half-year were £37,160,319 an increase of £3,543,552 on the
productive works was £13,563,668, an increase of £2,362,993.
The total value of the supplies sent out from th
corresponding period of last year.
The net profit, or surplus, after providing for all expenses, interest on capital, and
depreciation of property, amounted to £487,444; to which there is added the balan
of £114,249 brought over from the previous half-year. This leaves a total sum of £601
available, from which it is proposed to pay a dividend of 2d. and of ld. in the pound
be written off buildings, fixtures, accounts, &c. and this leaves £132,548 135. Ild. to t
the purchases of members and non-members respectively; 186,936 Is. 2d. is proposed to
The society's reserve fund stands at 742,270, and the insurance fund at £1,181,14
The bank deposits and withdrawals for the half-year reached the remarkable sum o
£290,827,808, which is an increase of £26,891,538 on the corresponding period of last
year; and the bank shows a surplus of £69,342, which it is recommended should be trans-
ferred to the reserve fund. There are 19,459 current accounts, of which 5,632 are with
individuals and the rest with co-operative societies, trade unions, friendly societies, clubs
and other mutual organisations.
The sales of tea show a net increase, 1,355,535 lbs. for the half-year but Newcastle
shows a decrease of 9 per cent., and Scotland a decrease of 2 per cent. The total
sale of tea is 26,168,838 lbs.; or more than 1,000,000 lbs. per week.
Chocolate shows an increase, which amounts to the splendid figure of 61 per cent., not-
withstanding London's decrease of 20 per cent. and Scotland's 7 per cent. London's
increase is only 9 per cent.; but Manchester district romps in splendidly with
an increase of 261 per cent. in its purchases of Luton chocolate.
Manchester's increase amounted to 2,626 cwts, and the total sale was 6,526 cwts. The
same cheering tale cannot be told of cocoa. The total sale was 9,224 cwts., 540 cwts. less
than for the corresponding period, or 5 per cent. of a decrease. The whole of the
districts, including Scotland, share responsibility for the decrease; but Newcastle and
Scotland are again the heaviest.
A big increase, 42½ per cent., is shown in the trade of the flour, meal, and provender
mills. All the ten mills did well in sales, and all showed profits except the Liverpool
Provender Mill, which registered a deficit of £2,498; but the Liverpool African Oil Mills
showed an increase in trade and also earned a profit. -Co-operative News, 19th September,
1925.
S.C.W.S. PROGRESS.
Mr. Robert Stewart, J.P., presiding at the half-yearly meeting of the S.C.W.S. at
Edinburgh last Saturday, spoke of the continued progress of the society. Despite all the
critics said, they were marching on to greater triumphs. The sales for the half-year
were £8,673,158, an increase of £132,198 over the corresponding half-year, whilst the
productive departments showed an increase of £354,398, or 13.1 per cent., over the corres
ponding period of last year. A dividend of 4d. to members and 2d. in the pound to non-
members was recommended. There was a grand total of over £9,005,157 in reserves
The S.C.W.S. was one of the largest distributors of milk, and in regard to fishing, the
curing works at Aberdeen had received several good orders from Russia and Poland
Notwithstanding the smaller catches, they had been able to fulfil all the orders. He
pleaded for better support of the soap works. -Co-operative News, 19th September, 1925.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**STAFFORD TECHNICAL SCHOOL.**

THE EVENING CLASSES IN BOOT AND SHOE MANUFACTURE commenced early in septem
ber and intending Students should join at once.
CLASSES WILL BE HELD IN: Pattern Cutting (Elementary), Monday; Pattern
Cutting (Advanced), Wednesday; Hand Lasting, Monday Machine Lasting, Monday,
Blake Sewing, Tuesday; Hand Sewing, Friday; Machine Welting, Thursday; Hand
Finishing, Friday; Machine Finishing, Tuesday.
Management, Thursday: Closing Classes for Girls, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thurs-
SPECIAL CLASSES: Theory Uppers, Tuesday; Theory Bottoms, Tuesday, Theory
day and Friday.

**CORDWAINERS TECHNICAL COLLEGE.**

ST. JOHN'S LANE, FINSBURY, E.C. 1.

DAY AND EVENING CLASSES are held in the Technology of BOOT AND SHOE MANU-
FACTURE AND BOOT AND SHOE MAKING - Pattern Cutting and Designing; Clicking;
Upper Closing; Bottom Stock Cutting; Lasting (Machine Sewn, Welted and Turnshoes);
Machine Lasting (Consolidated System); Sole-Sewing and Stitching (Blake, Welted and
Turnshoes); Machine Finishing.
Hand-Sewn Making Finishing; Sewrounds Making; Last Making; Last Fitting.
For detailed Programme of Classes, No. 310 (post free), apply personally or by letter
to the Registrar, Cordwainers Technical College, St. John's Lane, Finsbury, E.C. 1.

**CITY AND COUNTY OF NORWICH EDUCATION AUTHORITY.**

BOOT AND SHOE MANUFACTURE. - Classes will be held on five mornings each week
and the instruction will cover the whole subject of Boot and Shoe Manufacture including
organisation and management. These classes will be especially suitable for "pupils"
in factories and for the most promising departmental students preparing for the higher
and responsible posts in the industry.

**BENEFITS.**

Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-

**SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.**

|            | £       | s. | d. |
| :--------- | :------ | :- | :- |
| To December, 1924 | 667,902 | 8  | 7  |
| January, 1925  | 2,840   | 1  | 10 |
| February    | 3,952   | 4  | 8  |
| March       | 4,124   | 16 | 0  |
| April       | 4,054   | 10 | 6  |
| May         | 4,023   | 13 | 8  |
| June        | 3,993   | 2  | 6  |
| July        | 2,653   | 13 | 10 |
| August      | 2,520   | 1  | 8  |
|             | 2696,064 | 13 | 3  |

**OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.**

|            | £       | s. | d. |
| :--------- | :------ | :- | :- |
| To December, 1924 | 358,625 | 13 | 7  |
| January, 1925  | 3,954   | 7  | 9  |
| February    | 5,226   | 1  | 9  |
| March       | 3,682   | 10 | 3  |
| April       | 3,031   | 5  | 0  |
| May         | 3,510   | 14 | 9  |
| June        | 4,823   | 1  | 9  |
| July        | 4,221   | 6  | 9  |
| August      | 4,914   | 8  | 0  |
|             | 2391,989 | 9  | 7  |

"The will is free :
Strong is the soul and wise and beautiful:
The seeds of God-like power are in us still:
Gods are we, bards, saints, heroes, if we will!"
- MATHEW ARNOLD.


---
554
REPAIRING TRADE BOARD.

Half-Yearly Report.
The following report on inspection and enforcement in the boot and shoe repairing
trade (Great Britain) for the six months ending 30th June, 1925, makes interesting reading
The number of firms on the Trade Board lists on 1st July, 1925, were 27,350. the
number of firms inspected for the first time during the period of six months were 933
the number of inspections made during the period were of making a total number
1,024.

No. of firms employing less than 2 workers was 534
2
5
6
10
11
20
21
-100
over 100
273
28
9
5
(Excluding 175 firms employing no workers).
The total number of workers employed by the firms inspected was 1,911 (1,530 etc.
ployed by firms inspected on routine, and 381 employed by firms inspected on complaint
the total number of complaints investigated during the period of six months was 175, and
The total number of complaints received during the period of six months was 175, and
Arrangements have been made for the investigation of 49 complaints outstanding
(including 65 outstanding from 1924); 25 of these were dealt with by correspondence
168 firms were inspected on complaint. The number of firms on whose premises current
question of records. The number of firms in which no records were kept or inadequately
The results of inspection are as follows: 856 firms were inspected on routine and
notices were not posted were 194 on routine and 49 on complaint. Dealing with the
so were 629. These refer to persons engaged on time only. The firms who were found
to be keeping no records of wages or inadequately so were 319.
The total number of firms found to be underpaying workers on inspection of routine
or complaint were 150, and the total arrears claimed from these firms was £1,879 13s. 9d.,
whilst the total amount of arrears paid was £1,221 15s. The total number of workers
underpaid under inspection of routine and complaint was 198, and the total number of
workers to whom arrears were paid was 157.
Of the total arrears outstanding £54 13s. 9d.— due from 10 firms—is being paid by
instalments. The remainder, due from 25 firms —was claimed comparatively recently.
The distribution of inspections throughout the following areas were (routine and
complaint), Scottish, 193; North-Eastern, 138; North-Western, 153; Midland, 117;
Wales, 218; South-Western, 122; and London and South-Eastern, 83.

There were 913 inspections occupying one day or less, 85 occupying 2 days, 18 occupy-
ing 3 days, 4 occupying 4 days, and 4 occupying over 4 days. There have been many visits
which have not involved inspection; 725 have been paid to establishments, whilst 154
secretaries, and others, whilst 8 visits have been paid in connection with permits of exemp-
have been paid to workers; 45 visits have been paid to Trades Union Officials, Association
tion, making the total of such visits amount to 932. The importance of the above inspec-
tions is the fact that where an inspection is made it is usually done with great thoroughness
and often involves a considerable time being spent upon the premises. The fact that during
the last six months 85 inspections have been made, occupying 2 days' time in each case,
bears out the above statement.

WAGE BOARD IN SOUTH AFRICA: NEW ACT.
The Under Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs has transmitted to the Ministry
of Labour a copy of an Act recently passed by the South African Parliament which provides
for "the determination of conditions of labour and of wages and other payments for labour,
the appointment of a wage board and investigations as to wages and conditions of labour.
Persons exempted from the application of the Act are those engaged in agriculture and
forestry, domestic servants in private households, officers of Parliament, those whose
wages are governed or regulated by any Act relative to the public service or the railways
and harbours service; workers covered by an award or agreement which has been made
binding under the Industrial Conciliation Act of 1924 and which provides for wages not
lower than those in force under the new Act; and apprentices under the Apprenticeship
Act of 1922.


---
```text
556
NORTH-AMERICA.
IMPORTATION OF FOOTWEAR TO THE UNITED STATES OF
The American Boot and Shoe Manufacturers' Association publishes statistic statome
relating to Footwear Imports to United States, The following table shows the importatie
of boots and shoes in 1924 and 1923 classified after countries, of origin, amounting to abe
go per cent. of total importation.
Boots & Shoes
Boots & Shoes Boots & Shoes
for children
for women
for men
1924
1924.
1924.
1924.
16,268
468
8.347
17,649
3,659
25.093
Total
Austria
8,091
72,112
17,810
29,999
France
36,001
Germany
8,458
100,667
125,923
2754
Switzerland
34,893
6,206
109,125
Great Britain
155,294
38,537
4,862
19,393
72
Canada
24,088
15.573
17,774
44,453
57.435
All others
Total
279,416
262,024
46,971
558.411
Total Importation of leather footwear increased by 48 per cent. in 1924 Compa
with previous year. International Correspondence, September, 1925.
SWITZERLAND.
Import of certain goods permitted.
importation into Switzerland of the goods shown below. These articles were aire
of the same date, effective as from 7th September, which grants a general licence for
The "Feuille Officielle Suisse du Commerce " for Ist September contains a Der...
permitted to be imported over the Franco-Swiss and Italo-Swiss frontiers without licenc
except in the case of those falling under Tariff No. 182.
Tariff No.
18
182
184
190
199
201
Articles.
Skins and leather for the uppers of footwear of all kinds, except
Leather for harness, belts and military equipment, black or natun.
skin and upper leather of cow or ox hide, white (natural) or wanep
colour.
Skins and leather not specified elsewhere in the Tariff.
Leather parts of shoes and slippers.
Shoes and slippers of canvas, felt, &c., with leather soles or fitted wi
leather.
Shoes not specified elsewhere in the Tariff.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light,
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915
1916
1917 1918 1919 1920
1921
1922 1923 1924 1923
January
10-15
35
65 85-90 120 125
165
92
78
77
Se
February
15
35
65-70
90
120
130 151 88
March
77 79
15-20 35-40
70
90
April
115
130
141 86
76
78 79
May
15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95
110 132
133 82
74
73 15
..
20
40-45
June
75
95-100 105
141
128 81
70
71
25
July
45
75-80
100 105
150
119 80
69 69
25
45-50
80
August
100-105 105-110 152
119
84
69
70
25
September
45-50
80
110
115
155
122 81 71 7173
October
25 50
80-85
1
ΙΙΟ
115
161
120 79 73
72
November
30
50-55 75-80 115-120 120
164 110
78 75
76
December
30-35
60
..
35 65
85
85
120-125 125
176
120 125 169
103 80 15
80
99
80
81
77
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922) Agreement, and present date
```

---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our corre: ondents
being men on whom we can rely ; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Member
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
N
NATIONAL UNION of BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Seat of Government, 34, GUILFORD ST. LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts.
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 246.
NAT TEL: MUSEUM 4438
LONDON
TEL ADDRESS NATUNISHOP
PHONE, LONDON"
General President
T. F. RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L.POULTON J.P.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
26TH OCTOBER, 1925.
TRADE
is, from the point of view of employment, very slow indeed. there being a
considerable number of members in receipt of unemployment benefit. In
fact, from the Union funds we have paid during the past month the sum of
£7,784 18s. 9d., whilst £10,857 0s. 9d. was paid on behalf of the Govern-
ment scheme, a total of £18,371 19s. 6d. for one month. This sum of
money we know helps the members to meet their obligations, but we would
remind the members that the scale of payment from the Union funds would
be quite impossible, on the present contributions, were it not for the fact of
the method by which the Industry is governed, i.e., by National Agreements,
and the local arrangements based upon the same, all of them being dealt with
and adjusted from time to time by the system of arbitration; thereby
avoiding-without giving up any principle-the spending of money upon
constant strikes. As a consequence the funds can be used from time to time
to assist members who are unfortunately unemployed, needing as they do at
such times, something to fall back upon. Moreover, the payments of these
sums is a real contribution towards reduction of local rates, saving thereby
calls upon the ratepayers.
There are, in addition to the number entirely unemployed, a very large
number working short time; it will, therefore, be seen that the outlook is not
at all promising. We would urge upon all the members, nevertheless, to pay


---
Here is the extracted text:
576
their contributions regularly, even though it may call for some abstention fr
The reason we urge this policy is because we do not want as
member to be refused benefit because of being in arrears with their contri
other spending.
tions.
The outlook generally is not a bright one. We must not, however beco
dispirited or depressed; rather let the times act as a stimulant, spurring
on to greater effort to so mould public opinion as will ensure all the quick
the putting into operation of the Labour Policy. The figures in the Ministr
of Labour Gazette are as follows: -
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment remained depressed during September, and much short time wая во
throughout the industry. There was little change, on the whole, compared with t
previous month, but employment was generally somewhat worse than in September, 19
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 13.1 on 21st September, as compared with 12:
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment کراراً
The following Table summarises the information received from those employers w
on 24th August, and with 8.6 ơn 22nd September of last year.
furnished returns for the three periods under review:—
Number of Workpeople
Inc. (+) or
Toral Wages Paid to aii
Workpeople
Week
ended
Dec. (-) on a
Week
ended
Inc. (+) or
26th Sept.,
Dec. (-) on a
26th Sept.,
1925
1925
Month ago
Year ago
Per
Per
Month ago Year ago
Per
cent.
cent.
£
cent.
Per
ENGLAND AND WALES:-
1,962 + I.I
8.5
4,278 + 2.2
cent
London
8,370
0.7
1.4
17,871
2.5
-11.3
Leicester
Leicester Country District
2,042
2.2
7.1
4,206
2.1
-6.3
6,849
0.5
5.4
15,316
Northampton
Northampton Country
5-4 -15.3
-15.-
8,141 + 0.6
+ 2.1
17,126
!
3.9
District
3,185
Ο.Ι
0.5
7,963
-+:
Kettering
3-7
Stafford and District
2,623
0.5
2.2
4,356
-25.6
4.9
Norwich and District
4,164 +0.Ι
3.8
8,616
-17.2
0.3
Bristol, Kingswood and
5.5
District
2,017
-
1.3
-
3.5
4,146
2.2
Leeds and District
1,885
1.7
2.9
-12.6
3,941 + 2.1
4.8
Lancashire (mainly
Rossendale Valley)
4,938 +0.Ι
+ 4.1
9,823
5.6
Birmingham and District
Other parts of England and
1,026
1.9
5.9
1,878 + 3.2
2.9
-II.I
Wales
1,204
Ο.Ι
3.8
2,509 +7.9
3.9
ENGLAND AND WALES
48,406
0.3
-
2.0
102,029
4.0
- 8.3
SCOTLAND
..
GREAT BRITAIN
2,471
2.8
-
5.2
4,910
4.7 -10.7
50,877
0.5
2.I 1c6,939
4.0
- 8.5
Returns from firms employing about 47,500 operatives in the week ended 26th Septem-
ber, 1925, showed that nearly 45 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that
week, to the extent of nearly 12 hours each, on an average.
Employment remained quiet in London, but showed a slight improvement in some
districts. At Leicester it was again very slack, with a very considerable proportion ef
the operatives working short time; at Northampton there was a decline, and very few
firms were on full time. At both centres employment was somewhat worse than a year
ago. In the Higham and Rushden area there was very little change, and employment
was only quiet; at Raunds it continued good on Government contract work; but at
Wellingborough, in spite of a slight upward movement, it was still poor with most firms,


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
and worse than in September, 102.4.
with
577
There was much unemployment and short time at
Bristol;
common, especially
Nettore some firms, however, were fairly well employed, and the average working
hots were reported to be about three-quarter time.
large number of boot and shoe operatives umemployed. At Stafford it was very
There was a slight improvement at Leeds, but employment remained generally poor,
wich employment was moderate, and about the same as in the previous month, but not
Jack, and there was a marked increase in short time working during the month
sogood as a year earlier: some departments were on short time, others worked some ovel
rime during the month. A further slight seasonal improvement was reported from Bu
in Kingswood there was little change, and short-time working was still common,
mth the smaller tirms. At Street there was a further decline, and employment was bad.
trade of the Rossendale Valley, though a good deal of short time was still being worked.
Employment was fair at Aberdeen, Kilmarnock, Maybole, and Ayr; quiet at Edin-
batch and Glasgow: bad at Dundee and Arbroath. On the whole it was somew
worse in the Scottish centres than in August, 1925, or in September, 1924.
The following Table shows the number of men and of women registered
for employment at Employment Exchanges at 7th September, 1925, in the principal
entres, at which approximately 81 per cent. of the total number of applicants for employ-
ment in the boot and shoe industry were registered :-
It was worse than a year ago.
Department.
Fair conditions continued to prevail in the shoe and slipper
Number of Applicants for
Employment at 7th Sept., 1925.
Men.
Women.
as
applicants
Increase (+) or Decrease (--)
Total.
Men.
as compared with
3rd Aug., 1925.
Women.
Total.
Making Department
Closing Department
Boot and Shoe Manufacture:
Preparing Department
Rough-Stuff Department
Clicking Department
207
620
1,706
44
251
17
24
644
7
24
57
-
12
23
69
1,729
28
2,189
302
+6
296
2,217
+
7
3,495
94
Clog Making
Slipper Making
Finishing Department
3,589
-303
296
+
79
2,153
815
2,968
+ 120
553
36
192
745
+ 65
2
Repairing and Hand-Sewn
38
+32+ III
+93 + 213
+77 + 142
8
I
9
Work
623
2
625
41
I
42
TOTAL
9,421
3,385
12,806
154
-116
270
The exports of boots and shoes in September, 1925, amounted to 122,068 dozen pairs,
or 3,319 dozen pairs more than in August, 1925, but 3,944 dozen pairs less than in September,
1924.
THE LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE.
During the past month the Labour Party Conference has been held at
Liverpool. The Conference was not only very largely attended, but the
spirit of the delegates was one of optimism and determination. The over-
whelming majority of votes recorded upon policy and support of the Executive
was very significant, making it quite clear that there must be on the part of
those who from time to time are nominated for positions that they must adhere
to the Party and its declared policy. Two votes especially we would call
attention to-the one dealing with the claim of the
COMMUNISTS,
and the one dealing with the question of another prospective Labour Govern-
ment. In the first case the vote against the Communists was for referring


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
579
unity may be brought about. A report of the delegates to this Congress will
be found on pages 598-601. Here again much of the time was taken upon the
Communist question instead of it being devoted to purely trade union work.
THE PASSING OF MR. FRED BRAMLEY.
It is with sincere regret we have to record the fact that Mr. FRED
BRAMLEY, Secretary to the General Council of the Trades Union Congress,
passed away very suddenly whilst attending a meeting of the Inter-
national Federation of Trade Unions in Amsterdam on the 10th inst.
It is well known that Mr. Bramley had been ill for some time he felt,
however, after a recent sea voyage, somewhat improved, and determined
to take up the work in which he had spent most of his life.
It was seen both at the Congress at Scarborough and the Labour
Party at Liverpool, that he was not at all well. His desire, however,
to help the movement was so great that he felt compelled to carry on the
work, and it may be truthfully said he died in harness. As a matter of
fact he died after attending a meeting, and passed peacefully away in
his sleep.
Mr. Bramley did yeoman service for the cause of trades unionism
generally, and it was hoped he had some years of service in front of him ;
this was not to be.
We can only hope that the loss of Mr. Bramley will be a spur and
incentive to others to continue to carry on the work of humanity in
which he spent most of his life.
To Mrs. Bramley and the family we beg to tender our sincere con-
dolences and trust the appreciation and high regard in which Mr. Bramley
was held by his colleagues will be some consolation to them in their
irreparable loss.
COSSACK OR RODEO HIGH LEG BOOT.
The Leicester Closing Joint Committee has fixed Closing prices as under for the
following method of Closing this boot :-
METHOD OF CLOSING.
Front Quarter Seam closed, silked and rubbed down.
Top Bands run on-Tape held in when doing second row.
Back Quarter Seam closed, rubbed down and back-strapped.
Sides of Vamp joined to Quarter.
Lining closed back and front.
Lining solutioned and fitted to inside of Quarter.
Front is then fitted.
Front machined through lining forming Mock Row on Golosh, one Single Row.
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS,
President of the Leicester Women's Branch of the
National Union.
T. W. SMITH,
Secretary, Leicester Boot Manufacturers' Association.


---
Closing Prices for Cossack or Rodeo High Leg Boot.
Fitting front on leg and lining all round
1/
Machining on vamp and Mock Row forming Golosh on Post Machine (lining
and front previously fitted
Machining on Backstrap (11 inches in length) on Post Machine, lay 1/3
Machining on Topbands, two rows including holding in tape
Silking front seam, two single rows, on lining strips (6/-), including cutting
strips (2/-). See 104' J.I. in Closing Statement
(If silked on Union Special Machine, twin needle, Statement price,
according to height, to be paid).
Closing front seam
Rubbing Down (Statement price according to height to be paid)
Closing back seam
Silking back seam, two single rows, on lining strips 4/- per gross pairs for
the first 7 inches (size 5), plus 10% extra for each additional inch or
fraction of an inch over 7 inches, plus 15% extra for the Post M/c.
A boot 12½ inches high would be 4/-, plus 50%=6/-, plus 15% extra
for Post M/c.
Total
(The Committee recommends that the cutting of strips on back seam should
be done on the Table).
Rubbing Down back seam by hand (if done by machinist), 1/6d. per gross
pairs for the first 7½ inches (size 5), plus 10% extra for each additional
inch or fraction of an inch over 7½ inches. A boot 12½ inches high
would be 1/6 plus 50%
Total
NOTE.-The above price is fixed on the understanding that a special stick
is provided for the Rubber Down.
Closing Toe Lining (linen or leather)
Closing back seam of linings, seam not exceeding 3¾ inches in length
For each additional inch or fraction of an inch, over 3¾ inches.
Extra
The Folding and Skiving Prices will be paid as according to Statement
plus Extras for height as given thereon.

The Lasting Joint Committee for Leicester has decided that the following Extras
shall be added to the Statement Prices for the operations mentioned below:-
Seat Sinking
Pulling Over
Consol
Knocking-Up or Pounding-Up
Sole Attaching
Getting Off
Blake Sewing
Levelling
Loose Nailing
Heel Attaching
Total Extras over the Lasting Dept.
NOTE. The above prices to come into operation and to be paid from the commencement
of the working week ending on 1st, 2nd, or 3rd October, 1925.
T. W. SMITH,
Secretary, Leicester Boot Manufacturers' Association.
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

581
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
purchasing the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
for
the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
home can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
mums reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
wins to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
ser the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same.
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
make a success.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
Returns
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear "should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
R. WHITE.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
Please Note. CHEQUES NOT "PRINTED PAPERS."
The Postmaster-General draws attention to the fact that considerable numbers of
cheques are posted in open envelopes prepaid 1/2 d. only. Cheques, whether crossed or not,
and paper money generally, are inadmissible at a lower rate of postage than that applicable
to letters, and if packets containing them are posted insufficiently prepaid they are liable
to be surcharged double the deficiency.


---
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
60 LINDSEY STREET ROAD.
KENELON TOWN,
LONDON, N.W.5.
19th October, 1924.

FELLOW MEMBERS,

Buy no boots unstamped or unbranded; the makers are usually ashamed
of them.

The work for the month calls for great comment, inasmuch as the LABOUR
CONFERENCE by overwhelming majorities decided to prevent any new organization in
disrupting the Party by personal attacks on the leading and Executive members,
has been the policy of a section calling themselves Communists and based upon the Ru
régime, most of them openly advocating the change made in that country as a legitima
although all of us, proud of the term Socialist, know full well that the communal iss
means for a similar movement to take place here; but history counts in the matter
mankind is worth striving for; also that dictatorship by any section or class is the dress
opposite to the policy advocated by the genuine Communists such as the late Willia-
Morris. When these new organizations come forward with old ideas, rehashed, and po
force put forth as a remedy, one would think that only by such means can a natio
change be brought about. Our opponents were never tired during the past twenty
in telling the public. My own experience in West Wolverhampton was mainly take-
up during the seven years of my close attachment to that constituency. We were con
stantly assailed with the statements that the advent to power of the Labour Governme
or Socialists would see a violent revolution, but Labour has been in office, although co
in power, for nine months, and left the state of the country better than they found
Communists has left a lasting impression on the movement since their attack on the
and not a single institution suffered nor been afraid. The attitude of these so-called
and their belated friendship is looked upon with suspicion. If they think they have
Chairman of the Labour Party and Leader in the House at the Woolwich By-Election
and everywhere that they have the chance. Those of us who admire their enthusias
find it difficult to distinguish between their policy and that of the Anarchists of old, an
claim on the workers for support, then let them proceed with their propaganda anywhere
the Syndicalism of a few years ago, but we only have to look at their ideal country, Russia
and we shall not be happy until the Soviets, instead of electing themselves, go to the
polling stations and take their power from the elected of the people. We are informer
ment of the Russian Social Revolutionaries is being continued, and this is because they wil
by deputation from the General Council of the Trades Union Congress that the imprison-
towards the revolutions when Kerensky was in power. Without the ballot box this
not give an undertaking from doing the very self-same thing that the present régime dii
served power when having no one to fight, they fight each other, and if war is bad, it is no
method appears in all countries where violent revolutions have taken place, that having
better having vanquished the enemy to then turn your attention to your friends. In
Italy (Mussolini), in Ireland (the deaths of Mr. Griffiths and Michael Collins remind us),
in China several would-be dictators, and in this country the Communists only believe in
Parliamentary action for a purpose, and it is for these reasons that my colleagues and myseli
voted against these attempts to be party of a party whose constitution and policy ther
were opposed to. Their motto should be " Do as we say, not as we do."

In spite of all this, I consider it a most disgraceful thing if a Minister of the Crown has
publicly gloated over any of this country's citizens being placed under arrest. There
will be time enough after the trial to express his joy, but at present one can safely say
that the Home Secretary will be greatly disappointed if he cannot bring about a conviction
in the light of his alleged hilarity. It is only those of us who have been condemned behind
our backs that can vividly feel for others so placed.

NORTHANTS BOARD OF ARBITRATION had referred the price of a Blucher to be dealt
with by the Army Board, and upon inquiry it was found that a special price allowed some
years ago, and then withdrawn, had been maintained. This was a very unusual thing,
and if permitted, once the facts were known, would have resulted in a firm being permitted
to make something in leather at a rate less than the statements provide for under the
heading of "all other leathers." That in itself provides for this particular article, and
ultimately the Army Board came to the conclusion that the statement already
provided for this boot, and the same was referred back on that understanding.
---

---
STREET.—A visit was paid to Street to confer with the Branch on a proposition
whereby bulk orders could be dealt with at rates less than the existing statements which
have been compiled on a system of small orders and sizeable lots. The details were placed
before me and after working them out, the matter will be placed before the Executive of
the Union, as there appears to be an advantage when a firm makes for the wholesaler,
compared with firms who deal only with the retailers.

MARKET HARBOROUGH has been again visited and we have had a very pleasant inter-
view bordering on our activities with the firm’s customers who had helped us to bring
about the change, and we are hopeful that as we have removed our embargo, that the
firm will do the same, because we cannot vouch for the future unless this is done in a
friendly spirit.

FAIRE BROS., MANSFIELD AND LEICESTER. Mr. A. W. Faire, Shoe Manufacturer,
of Messrs. Smith, Faire & Co., has taken this matter in hand, and we have had two inter-
views with the firm. It is well for us that a gentleman so much respected, and with whom
we have always been able to deal without friction, should have undertaken the unwelcome
task of straightening out a tangle that would never had occurred if the Management of
the Mansfield firm had made themselves acquainted with the customs of the trade. We
hope to be able to report more favourably later.

SUPERANNUATION.—The Council of the Union has been considering this matter and
have had special meetings and sub-Committees appointed for the purpose, and when they
have formulated their proposals, will place the matter before the members.

LEATHER FAIR.—Our visit to the Fair did not enlighten us much, as officers, owing
to the small amount of machinery of the newer kind being shewn. The tendency seems
to point in the direction of the coming together of buyers and manufacturers, machinery
having appeared to have made itself master of the industry. There will always be minor
improvements, but few convulsions.

TRADE BOARD. —Three more days have been spent in this work and several important
things done. The removal of anomalies has taken much time in trying to make the rates
and operations more uniform and understandable. A fall back rate for juveniles has been
recommended to the District Committees, which means that if any employer exceeds
the number of boys allowed, then he must pay from 7s. to 10s. per week more to that boy,
than any other boy, as a penalty or deterrent, as the Ministry are advised that to claim
the adult rate would fail to get any bench of magistrates to commit. The extension of
hours from 48 as govern factories to longer hours by one employer to the Shop Hours Act
limit, on the pretence that no repairing is to be done over forty-eight hours, has been
referred by the Minister of Labour to the Law Officers of the Crown.

INSPECTION. — The number of firms inspected for the first time—over nine hundred.
Number of firms inspected during the six months—over one thousand, and the claims for
back pay amount to nearly two thousand pounds. This alone is sufficient for the justifica-
tion for the existence of Trade Boards, and although some grumble at the Inspectors,
I am going to pay them this tribute that with all their shortcomings, THEY ARE DOING
SPLENDID WORK, and deserve much more praise and encouragement than they get. In
fact they are more thorough than many Trade Union Officials (whom I know), some of
their inspections taking over four days time. Take the case of the London firm who were
fined £10 each, man and wife, and £5 5s. od. costs, because their Manager caused false
records to be made and over £20 in arrears of wages ordered to be paid.

I wonder there is any man in the repairing trade mean enough not to pay his weekly
contribution to Trades Unionism, who benefits and receives the advantages obtained by
his more generous shopmates. I make this appeal to all repairers to join up, and also to
the Trade Union element: Don’t take your repairs to any shop where non-unionists are
employed.

FROME. With Mr. J. Manners we met the Executive Committee of this Parliamentary
Division respecting the appointment of an Agent, and we gave reasons the Council had
for not appointing an Agent at once, and as they were going to review the matter in six
months’ time from August, there is little doubt of the matter being favourably considered
then, should nothing occur to hurry matters in that division.

JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL.—The sub-Committee appointed by this body has met
and considered how best to help on the principle of the legalising of National Agreements.
Negotiations are proceeding with the General Council for a Deputation from our Union
to the Ministry. The resolution re joining the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives
is proposed to be strengthened, and I hope, get put up in every factory.

SHODDY.—This matter received attention and is to be dealt with, probably, by a
deputation to the Minister of Labour, Board of Trade and Minister of Health, and a cam-
paign ought to be started by the Union, and ultimately the Trade, for the elimination of
shoddy materials, and the slogan by Manufacturers, stamping on the soles of the shoes
---

---
WADDAR

and other

Pulle

pubhe

( 1711 1000

mode ander popondition

mdniemal

beware of

١٦

Buy no host unle
wan can trace their origin
they are harmed of
The Daily Herald Mill applic
member should buy and send it daily
the moof now
of hold med would equally affect the far tot atul
So far the٣٢٠٠٠٠٠٠٠
1
Thi
Monk at lead create
Portal diffeine
of the ition of
Yom
fraternally.
7.
Tilhard
General Pro

LEICESTERSHIRE COUNTY ARBITRATION BOARD
The Annual Meeting of the County Arbitration Board was held at i
Leicester, on Thursday, 22nd October, 1925.
Mr. G. &. Deginan ١٣٢٠٠٢١٢٠٠
Beil-Bariere
r. M.
were also present Messrs. H. Bott, G. Ward, W. Harvey. G. A. Burto
J. Palmer and F. Wain, representing the Employers: Mrs.
Greaves, A. Needham, W. Woodward. F. W. Burchnall, T. H. Vallance an
D. Astley, T. F. Richards, W. Warner, J. H. Osborne, G. Parbury, M
representing the Operatives; and H. A. Flavill, Secretary.
The claims of the Operatives' side for extras for cleaning heels with alumi
insertions and for lasting the Ladies' Rodeo Boot were referred to an Empire
Lasting Statement to a 7 to 8 boot upon which the Statement oint Committee nad
The question of the application of the 2-8 prices in the Nurseries' and
to reach an agreement was referred back to the Committee for reconsideration
The fixing of closing prices for the Ladies' Rodeo Boot was referred to tie ......
thanked for their past services, and Mr. T. F. Richards was elected Chairman of the B
The Chairman, Mr. G. A. Denman, and the Vice-Chairman, Mr. D. Astley
for the ensuing year, with Mr. J. H. Bott as Vice-Chairman. The Secretary, Mr. H
Joint Committee.
Flavill, was reappointed.
It was arranged that each side should send to the Secretary the names of their
sentatives on the District Enquiry Committees.
Ltd., were 37,160,319, of which 13,563,668 was from the Society's own works. Included
For the half-year ended 27th June the total sales of the Co-operative Wholesale Socier
in these totals were sales of shoes, leather, findings, &c., of £551,179 at the Manchester
headquarters, and of £309,213 at the London branch, these being increases of +50,040 and
£50,248 respectively. At the Newcastle branch the shoe and leather sales were £214,353,
C.W.S. BOOT PRODUCTION.
as compared with £227,033 in the corresponding period of 1924.
The distributive sales in the shoe and leather departments were 1,074,745, while the
supplies from the Society's own works, tanneries and fellmongeries were £1.207,809, 22
increase of over £130,000, or about 12 per cent. The value of the production in the bow
works at Leicester was £304,685, followed by the Rushden works with £228,305. Lerus
with £86,311. Heckmondwike with £63,950, Norwich £29,367, and Derby 20,191. The
supplies from the Pontefract fellmongery were £349,410, and from the tannery at Grappen-
hall £46,555.
after charging interest on capital and depreciation. At Rushden the profit was 47.580
Apart from the fellmongery at Pontefract, all the boot and shoe works made a pront
and it ranged down to the 1591 obtained at the Norwich works. Shoe and Leather News,
24th September, 1925.
---

---
585
BRANCH REPORTS.
BELFAST. - Trade continues to remain very dull in Belfast and district,
while the Derry Section sends the encouraging report that trade is good with
them. A meeting of the Trades Board (Northern Ireland) was held on the
and September. This was the first meeting of the reconstituted Board,
which is composed of thirteen members on each side. Our Union has five
seats allocated to them on the Board, all of whom we are pleased to state were
present at the meeting. The most important items on the agenda for the
sonded by Mr. Kerr, "That the Time and Piece Rates be reduced by 25 per
sidering was the motion from the employers' side, moved by Mr. Smyth and
There were two motions from the workers' side sent forward by the
Branch Secretary: one was for a 10 per cent. increase on the present Time and
Dive Rates, and the other motion was one complaining of the unsatisfactory
system of inspection, and urging upon the Government Department responsible
to increase the staff of Inspectors so that the regulations made by the Board
would be better complied with. After considerable discussion, which occupied
the whole day, it was agreed to defer further consideration pending reports
from District Committees which have been set up till the next meeting of the
Board.
CHESHAM. - We are pleased to report a further improvement in trade
for the month, and that some of our members who have been unemployed for
a long period have obtained work again.
CHESTERFIELD.-Trade is still improving; we have, however, several
members still out of work.
DERBY.-Trade in Derby has slightly improved, but it is still very bad.
We have had two of our National Organisers with us, Messrs. J. H. Baum and
Len. Smith, who are doing good work, their only difficulty in making a good
number of new members is the short time that is being worked. Mr. Baum
addressed a Special Meeting of the Branch, when we had a fair number of
non-members present. He gave us a very good address, and answered a
number of questions satisfactorily. We, in Derby, are of the opinion that if
we could have the services of our organisers more often in the district we should
not be one of the backward centres.
DUNDALK.-Trade remains very uncertain, with future prospects
nothing more than hopeful, notwithstanding the fact that this, the boot indus-
try, happens to be one of the numerous tariff protected industries which exist
in the Irish Free State. Basing one's remarks on, if not authoritative, at least
pretty authentic information, we regret to say more pairs of boots and
shoes, particularly in the better class have, and are being imported into the
Irish Free State than before Protection. Something is wrong. We wonder if
the ministerial advocates of Protection fail to see the opening Protection
affords (profiteering!) Or are there only going to be two elements which
shall derive benefit from Protection-first, the Government; second, the
capitalist. The Government, by way of revenue raised from imported con-
signments; second, the capitalist by availing himself of the opportunity of
putting an additional three shillings on every pair. Boots or shoes usually
sold for £1 may now be sold for £1 3s. od. This may suit the classes, but what
about the masses? Are they beneath consideration? Painful rumours are
afloat in regards to solely appointed agencies extracting or rather endeavouring
to extract a 90 per cent. profit. Further, it is rumoured interesting aspirants
must do likewise or go without the goods. This state of affairs, if true, is
desperate, without even waiting to get hold of the market as business concerns
do. We are heading for the precipice of catastrophe, present omens prog-
nosticate industrial and commercial stagnation. The consumer, who pays the


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
piper, should name the time. 
580
We are pleased to report that as a result of a
preliminary discussion, quite cordial relations exist between the employers and
our Union. Apparently those gentlemen consider combined organisation har
We give it as our word of honour, and in deline
so speak for all fellow members, that it is our intention to assist any woll
kindness first, and hope to demonstrate that social service is compatible wit
meaning company to conduct its business in accordance with principles of
industrial and commercial enterprise.
past month. New Workers are still quiet. Like other centres the Ministry o
EDINBURGH. Repairing Section have been fairly busy during the
refused uncovenanted benefit from Labour Exchanges. Could not the Labou
Labour working of new regulations are showing more workers who are being
unable to find useful work. We see by Unionist Conference that the present
movement organise a protest against the treatment meted out to workeT
from the tyranny of the Trade Unions. As far as our knowledge goes the
Government are asked to pass into law a Bill to protect Unionist member
Branches have had another successful meeting in connection with Advisor
are quite at liberty to contract out. Why don't they do so? The Scottish
Committee. Several items of interest were under discussion.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Trade generally remains fair, in com-
month, although certain factories have a number of operatives standing off
parison with rest of the country a general improvement on the previous
KILMARNOCK. - Trade in Kilmarnock not so good this month, but
pleased to say that our Section in Kilmaurs is improving this past month.
The repairing trade is very steady throughout the district.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. - The general volume of trade in this
of the year. The industrial situation in the coal mining areas indicate a Door
centre has improved, but lacks the briskness usually associated with this season
demand for heavy footwear, and consequent short time for om operatives.
LEICESTER. - We are sorry we cannot report any improvement in trade.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S. - The Leicester Women's Branch have to
We have our share of the Rodeo or Russian boot here in Leicester, prices of
report unemployment is still as rife as ever.
There seems no improvement.
which we immediately settled with our manufacturers. The same have proved
sent a copy of the prices to all branches where there are women members.
We hope they have been helpful. Only one branch has acknowledged the
copy. Some weeks ago we despatched from this office 80 copies of our revised
statement, and with the exception of about four, we do not know whether
they have reached their destination. The prices for treeing the Cossack boot
are:-Patent, per pair, 3d.; Glacé, per pair, 2d.; Willow, per pair, 2d.
We would like the Leicestershire County prices published for machining as
we know there are large quantities being done on piecework. Our members
at Wigston and Blaby are working to Leicester prices.
LIVERPOOL. We are pleased to report a clean bill of health and every
member employed. The boot repairing trade has been fairly good during the
past month. We have had quite exciting times and plenty of oratory, with a
divergence of ideas and views expressed by delegates to the Labour Party
Conference held in St. George's Hall, Liverpool, the last week in September,
besides all the outside meetings organised by different sections of the Labour
movement. Our Organiser, Mr. D. McCarthy, has been down here trying to
enlist a few recruits for the industrial army.
with no prospects in view. A meeting of the Board of Arbitration was held
LONDON SOUTH.-Trade in London South continues to be very bad
on the 8th of September in connection with indoor workshop question in the


---
```text
to terms.
587
Finally
see if they can come
Sow-round trade. A long discussion took place between workers' side and
emplovers. Some of the employers are in favour, others against
decided to call a full meeting of the Masters' Federation to se
The Board adjourned until the 21st. Another Board Meeting wa
held on the 21st in connection with the Sew round trade. The employers and
workmen have had this question before them several time
want a 4th quality glacé kid sew-round, our side objects. Finally it was sont
to the Umpire, who decided on a 4th quality, but the workers' side still refuse
to accept the Umpire's findings, and the meeting adjourned until the roth
October for a further report.
and likely to remain so.
T
The employer
The new members joining the branch in the early
NORWICH. Trade becomes rapidly worse and the immediate signs do
not hearten one to optimism in the future. Unemployed claims are heavy
section has slightly improved in one or two factories on the evening shoe trade,
weeks of the year are being lost in many cases through unemployment, although
we are confident of regaining them when work improves. The turnshoe
and we wait with some anxiety the coming of Spring orders.
NORWICH No. 2. Trade is not at all flourishing. With two or three
exceptions every factory is working short time as well as standing the men off.
Yet for all that it would not be surprising if the output for the City is not in
short period during the year, the trade (under our economic conditions) is
Carving more labour than it can utilise during the normal week. What was
considered a fair sized factory a few years back is only considered a standstill
affair to-dav. We believe we are holding
heavy, due no doubt to the very changeable weather and to a mild epidemic
though that is rather poor consolation. Our sick experience has been rather
excess of what it was before the war.
of influenza.
It is very apparent, excepting for a
our own with the other shoe centres,
PLYMOUTH. - September has been very slack with us, and we are re-
minded by one of our unemployed members that October has brought with it
Insurance Benefit is paid. This means two weeks' unemployment before one
the "six waiting days," instead of the three as previously, before Unemployed
penny-piece is secured to keep the home fires burning; but it must be pointed
only part of the price to be paid for placing in power the Con-
out that this is only
servative Party after a big majority of working men were made to "see red."
Now we see it was only a red illusion to attract attention while the swindlers
difference, but nine shillings to a poor unemployed man is much more than
nine thousand shillings to a rich one. Apparently the Government considered
that the unemployed benefits were too easily obtained, and encouraged working
men to be idle. They grew suspicious and could not trust the workers, there
fore they made it a little more difficult and discouraged idleness by cutting
off nine shillings from the first week of unemployment, so please allow us to
record the following:-October, 1924: The British working man entrusted
the Conservatives with the reins of government and graciously paid them four
hundred pounds per annum as a minimum only, Cabinet Ministers more accord-
ing to size of hat. October, 1925: The Conservatives show their appreciation
of the British working man by distrusting him, and recognise his kindness
by cutting off nine shillings from the first week of unemployment, then blandly
tells him it is a little pick-me-up for his moral fibre, that he is relying too much
on State assistance, that he will really be better without the nine shillings
than with it. When these platitudes are uttered at political meetings there
are some working men who actually nod their approval and bray like donkeys.
Yet there are intelligent people who say "man came from monkeys."
STAFFORD.-Trade in this centre still remains very slack.
WATERFORD.-Trade was fair during the past month.
```

---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since my last report I have been engaged mainly at Manchester and Liverpool
Liverpool Rubber Works at Walton on zoth September, and spoke in
Conference at Liverpool, were invited to the meeting. Fifty of the girls attended thi
he dinner hour and evening to the girls engaged in making rubber shoes and boots Co
tinued the work nest day and engaged a room for an indoor meeting on ist October. My
colleagues, Messrs, W. R. Smith and Len. Smith, being delegates at the Labour Part
at the firm in their particular line, There was no hesitation in giving particulars To
meeting. They were invited to give us some idea of the conditions of labour outati
say that we were surprised at the low earnings of the pieceworkers would be putting in
mildly. They unanimously agreed that it was necessary to join the Union to proters
them and improve their position. The meeting was postponed to the following evening
and they were rewarded in the fact that 121 women and girls became members of the
with the view of getting a better attendance. My colleagues again joined me at this meeting
Union. Three Shop Presidents were elected and we promised to come again and give
further help to make them strong enough to elect a full-time Secretary on their own, omng
to the peculiarity of their work and the distance from the Liverpool Branch. I have
mentioned in my last report that we had joined 200 women at Manchester engaged on thi
been there on a few occasions since and the membership is now bordering on 200. I
class of work. It would be a blessing to the women and girls at the five factories employed
in making plimsolls and rubber shoe goods generally if they would join our Union and give
North British, of Edinburgh, Stuart's, of Dunfermline, and the firm at Leith, could only be
chester, are in favour of uniformity of rates being fixed if the New Liverpool Co., The
us a chance to improve the piecework rates and weekly wages. Frankenburg's, of Man-
Members in the area of the Scottish firms named might send any
brought into line.
information they have on these shops to the headquarters in London.
of Mountsorrel, to recognise the graduated scale of wages and minimums, and the Leicester
For a considerable time efforts have been made to get the firm of Parker & Barlow
Mountsorrel on the 22nd. We are to meet again on the 29th, when we hope to make a
County Statement. With this object Mr. W. R. Smith and I met Mr. J. H. Parker at
settlement that in fairness the employees and the trade are entitled to.
26th October, 1925.
D. MCCARTHY.
During the past month I have chiefly been engaged in the Derby district, visiting the
following firms: C.W.S., Clemson's, Maden & Ireland's, and the Derby Boot Company
Unfortunately trade is not very good, and has therefore interfered with any marked
improvement in organisation. I have frequently met the operatives working at Maden
Ireland's, where our organisation is very weak, many of the operatives having ceased
membership some time ago. They have been working very short time for some months
now, but by coming in personal contact with them and explaining the work of the Union,
further interest has been added, which I think over a period of time will eventually have
beneficial results. No Holiday Fund is in operation, and the operatives consider that as
two other firms in the town are paying, the position is not fair. This appears to be an
excellent reason why they should all belong to the Union, but as I have pointed out to them,
that until they show a better appreciation of the power of organisation, the matters that
they complain about can never be adjusted. With trade improving, I think that by
consistent work the operatives' confidence can be regained, whereby negotiations could
proceed which will gradually improve their conditions. Clemson's have also been working
very short time, and a fairly good number have lapsed, but definite promises are being
made that as trade improves they will eventually commence paying. Conditions are
decidedly bad at the Derby Boot Company, the operatives are not very responsive, only a
few of the girls seem to have any spirit, the rest accept the conditions and just grumble.
Fear appears to be the usual driving force at this firm, and no doubt the employer would
be at a loss if he depended upon anything else to conduct his business, and the only way to
end this condition of affairs is for the men and women to assert their position as human
beings, and demand humane conditions of employment.
I called a meeting of the whole firms in the town, which was fairly well attended.
A good discussion took place on the work of the Union. As a result of this meeting several
matters were raised with reference to the C.W.S., which no doubt will be adjusted.
I have again visited Mansfield, and met the operatives working at the Mansfield
working at Faire Bros., but no improvement is possible until negotiations are completed
Shre Company. Our organisation is steadily improving at this firming also met the girls
with this firm. The girls resent very much the interference of the firm with their rights,
---

---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
N
ATIONAL UNION OF BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
NAT TEL: MUSEUM 4438
LONDON
TEL ADDRESS: NATUMISHOP
PHONE, LONDON"
Seat of Governmeat, 34, GUILFORD ST LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 245.
MOF BOOT & SHOE OPERATIV
UMION
Copyrighe
General President
T.F.RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L.POULTON.J.D.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
25TH JANUARY, 1926.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE.
The New Year was ushered in with a slight improvement in trade, the
amount of unemployment benefit paid to members being lower than of late.
We can only hope we shall speedily see a further improvement. The figures
in the Ministry of Labour Gazette are as follows :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment remained moderate during December, but there was a further slight
improvement in the Midland districts, and fuller time was worked; in some centres,
however, the factories closed for extended holidays at Christmas. The recent improve-
ment in this industry is largely a result of the demand for Russian boots.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 8.5 on 21st December, 1925, as compared with
9.4 on 23rd November, 1925, and with 11.8 on 22nd December, 1924.

---
The following Table shows the number of men and of women registered as applicants
for employment at Employment Exchanges at 7th December, 1925, in the principal
centres, at which approximately 80 per cent. of the total number of applicants for employ-
ment in the boot and shoe industry were registered :
Department.
Number of Applicants for
Employment at 7th Dec., 1925.
Increase (+) or Decrease (-)
Men. Women. Total.
as compared with
oth Nov, 1925.
Men.
Women.
Total.
Boot and Shoe Manufacture:
Preparing Department
Rough-Stuff Department
Clicking Department
Closing Department
Making Department
Finishing Department
Slipper Making
Clog Making
Repairing and Hand-Sewn
Work
145
32
177
19
3
22
417
12
429
80
7
87
595
137
732
301
1
302
26
1,075
1,101
522
522
2,612
90
2,702
195
18
213
1.395
376
1.771
200
-137
337
786
182
968
+ 130
+47
+177
22
22
+
3
+
2
674
2
676
+
87
+
87
TOTAL
6,672
1,906
8,578
575
-642
-1,217
The exports of boots and shoes in December, 1925, amounted to 97,719 dozen pairs,
or 9,774 dozen pairs less than in November, 1925, but 5,286 dozen pairs more than in
December, 1924.
THE NATIONAL JOINT STANDING COMMITTEE.
The National Joint Standing Committee met on the 8th inst. under the
presidency of Mr. W. Addington Willis, C.B.E., when two cases were down
for decision.
The first case was sent by the Leicester Arbitration Board regarding the
employment of female labour on heel building. After hearing evidence from
both sides the Committee decided :-
"That the Committee regret it should have been found necessary to bring this
matter before them as it seems one which should have been capable of amicable
adjustment between the parties concerned. After considering the matter, the decision
of the Committee is that the National (Conference) Agreement, 1924, like its two
predecessors, expressly recognises, in Clause 8c, the employment of women upon heel
building without any exception in so far as districts are concerned."
The second case was remitted from London to the effect that "the advance
of 130 per cent. on the first class statement of wages which has been operative
since 1919 be revised, so as to make the same conform with the present
percentage on the cost of living above pre-war rates." Here, again, the
Committee arrived at an unanimous decision as follows :-
"This case involves the same principle as that decided by the Committee on
24th November, 1925, when the Joint Committee then decided that the proposals to
alter existing statements, en bloc, by a flat rate percentage reduction or increase
would not be in accordance with the principles of existing agreements, or with the
practice hitherto recognised in the industry, but neither that decision nor this debars
either side from taking before a local Board items in any existing statements which they
contend are anomalous and require revision."


---
7
It was further agreed that a deputation from the National Union should seek
an interview as early as possible with the Minister of Labour regarding the Industrial
Councils Bill.
It was also agreed to place on record the fact that the revised resolution of the
Joint Industrial Councils of 24th November, 1925, dealing with "Organisation of
Industry," had been sent by the Federation to all known boot manufacturers, and
that the National Union has issued leaflets containing the resolution to all boot and
shoe operatives.
Mr. Horrell and Miss Tomlinson undertook to see the Chesham manufacturers
with a view to inviting them to resume membership of the Federation.
SHODDY FOOTWEAR. - On the question of Shoddy Footwear, it was agreed that
Mr. Owen Parker and Mr. T. F. Richards should jointly wait upon the Ministry of
Health in accordance with the terms of the resolution of the Joint Industrial Council
relative thereto.
THE LONDON POSITION. - The London position, arising out of a letter sent by
Mr. Poulton on 5th November, 1925, from the Executive of the Union to the Federa-
tion was next discussed. After careful consideration of the matter, Mr. Horrell
suggested that representatives of the firms named in Mr. Poulton's letter should be asked
to meet the Sub-Committee, such meeting to be held prior to the Conference with
the Factors, &c. It was further decided to try and arrange the meeting with the firms
named in the National Union's letter on 5th November, 1925, including Messrs. Jackson
& Joseph, on 27th January, 1926, at 2.15 p.m. It was suggested that Mr. G. Pocock
be asked to attend the meeting as President of the London Association.
THE HALF-YEARLY STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS.
The Half-yearly Statement of Accounts is presented herewith. It may
be taken as one more reminder of the very valuable work the Union is doing
on behalf of its members. Apart altogether from the work carried on daily by
the Union's officers regarding statements, wages and conditions of employ-
ment, a great volume of other work is constantly being undertaken in the way
of dealing with unemployment and sickness. The amount expended under
these two headings for the past half-year total £48,150 16s. 1d.
The Trade Fund shows a loss of £1,983 2s. 7d.; this is entirely
accounted for by the large increase paid under the heading of Unemploy-
ment Benefit which reached a total of £31,175 4s. 3d. from the Union
Funds.
The Sickness and Funeral Fund shows a gain of £11,578 15s. 1d.
The aggregate amount of money in these two Funds, i.e., Trade and Sick
Fund, despite these heavy payments, is £340,749 17s. 8d.
This, no doubt, seems a large sum of money; indeed it is. What has to be
taken into account is the fact that it belongs to a large number of members,
and thrown over the whole of the membership it is not a large sum.
Having regard to the very heavy calls upon the funds during the past
few years, they are in a healthy condition.
We can only hope there will be an early improvement in trade with a
consequent reduction of members claiming upon the funds of the Union for
both sick and unemployment benefit.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
10
MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNION.
Financial Members
Males
Females..
53138
22187
Probationary
75325
5993
GRAND TOTAL
81318
1925. 1925. 1924. 1924. 1923. 1923. 1922. 1922. 1921.
DEC. JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC.
Financial 75325 74105 72647 70494 69112 68403 68787 69174 71224
Probationary 5993 6490 6098 7250 6553 6772 6310 7019 5986
Totals 81318 80595 78745 77744 75665 75175 75097 76193 77210
DEATH OF MR. HARRY MORETON.
We regret the passing away of one of the stalwarts of the Union in
the person of MR. HARRY MORETON, who had reached the ripe old age
of 88 years. For many years he was secretary to our Wolverhampton
Branch, and for some time a member of the Executive Council. Mr.
Moreton rendered yeoman service in the earlier days of the Union when
it was struggling for existence, and although latterly he had been unable
to take an active part in the work, he maintained an interest in the
work of the Union to the last. We were represented at the funeral by
the General President (Mr. T. F. Richards), and Mr. Alex. Smith
(Council Member for the district).
We tender our sympathies to the relatives.
THE UNION CONFERENCE (BLACKPOOL)
will be held at the Central Library, Blackpool, during Whit-week, 1926, and
we would remind branches that suggested Amendments or Additions to the
Rules should now be submitted as early as possible to enable the preliminary
work to proceed smoothly. The latest date that resolutions can be received
is the first post on the 15th February, 1926.
The Amendments and suggested Additions will appear in our February
issue, 1926.
SUPERANNUATION.
On pages 710-711 of the December (1925) Report will be found the draft
proposals of a Superannuation Scheme for Permanent (full time) Officials and
Clerks of the Union and Branches. Copies have also been distributed to all the
branches for the consideration of members. This matter requires very serious
consideration and any amendments or suggestions should be sent by the 15th
March, 1926.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
11
This suggested date only applies to the Superannuation Scheme, and
not to proposed alteration of rules as named in the previous paragraph.
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We hope that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full eport of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only " Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
Yours fraternally,
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
R. WHITE.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
THE COUNCIL.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.


---
12
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, N.W. 5.
19th January, 1926.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
CZECHO-SLOVAKIA. You will, I am sure, remember that I have from time to
time mentioned Czecho-Slovakia. I have been supplied with a report entitled "Evolution
of Socialism," from the Secretary of the Social Democratic Workers' Party, issued from
Prague in 1924, and I recall this statement: The first Workers' Council has been introduced
in the Mines with success, at the same time as the law of Workers' Councils, a law was
passed that Miners should have a 10 per cent. share in the profits of the Mines, and at
present every concern employing continuously more than 30 workmen has its Workers'
Council, which keeps a watch on the carrying out of the collective agreements and arbitra-
tion decisions regarding wages and factory discipline. The Workers' Council also has the
right to be consulted in regard to the dismissal of workmen and participates in the adminis-
tration of Benevolent Institutions for workmen besides having the right to propose to
the employers regarding the administration of the concern's working methods in the
production of the works and so on.

THE WORKERS' COUNCIL HAS ITS REPRESENTATIVE ON THE ADMINISTRATION COM-
MITTEE OF THE CONCERN. THE EMPLOYER IS BOUND TO ASK THE OPINION OF THE WORKERS'
COUNCIL ON THE POINTS ABOVE MENTIONED, AND IN ADDITION, HE HAS TO PRESENT EVERY
SIX MONTHS A REPORT ON THE CONCERN.
OF BUSINESS CONCERNS EVERY EMPLOYER EMPLOYING MORE THAN 300 WORKERS.

WE HAVE NOT GONE SO FAR AS THIS YET !

ORGANISATION OF INDUSTRY. -The new resolution " Organisation of Industry," has
been circulated, and is probably in your hands by this time. If not, I hope you will make
enquiries from your various branch offices, and the officials will supply you with sufficient
for yourself and for any interested. To my mind this is a wonderful step forward in so
much as this combined resolution is the work of both organisations. In my humble
judgment it will allay the feeling that some of our members possess, and also the opposition
of some of the manufacturers who do not belong to the Federation. It will behove all
our members to distribute this resolution on every available occasion, especially among
the non-Unionists in organised shops, and among non-Unionists in non-federated shops.
It has been my duty to draw the attention of the membership on several occasions to the
fact that whilst we can in round figures estimate that there are not less than 120,000
people engaged in the industry, we have only 80,000 within our ranks. If we make allow-
ance for other organisations such as the Amalgamated Union and the Slipper Workers'
Union, and various small Hand-Sewn bodies throughout the country, we can only account
for 90,000 organised people, even if we are generous, and for this reason we feel that with
the help of our members on every occasion that presents itself, we ought before the end
of this year to get that other 30,000. With the resolution like the one referred to, I feel
certain that the lukewarmness of one or two employers with whom I am associated, will
find a little more warmth in supporting this policy of organisation of both sides, which I
hope will lead to a better understanding between the two bodies and thereby create a
feeling of confidence between the employer and the employee, such as we cannot expect
whilst we are living under the present industrial conditions. I am unaware that any other
industry has a resolution of a similar character, and although I have already been in
correspondence with a kindred organisation, I was surprised to receive from the Secretary
of that Union a letter stating that it was a well known fact that their organisation was
just as much opposed to the employers as the employers' organisation was opposed to
their Union. I do not share this view, although economically it is perfectly true, but
anything, always providing, as is my experience, the officials are determined to see all
that the National Agreement gives them. We have not won our present position by sheer
antagonism towards our employers, and it is very creditable to find, and for me to say,
that I cannot recall the name of a single manufacturer who has suggested to me that
there should be a diminution or a reduction in either our minima or our scales. This,
at least, is creditable to the members of the Federation, and it is this confidence that causes
us to work so much in harmony with them in many other directions.

JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL. We have just held a meeting of the Joint Industrial
Council Sub-Committee at which the meeting discussed as to what action we are likely
to take in regard to the resolution carried at the Trades Union Congress in asking for the
legislation of action to be applied to our National Agreement, as we had already promised,
---

---
13

as a Union, that we were about to approach the Board of Trade and the Minister of Health
upon this matter, and as regards the Shoddy parts of a boot, we were about to solicit the
backing of the Minister of Health by deputation. This will be done in the very near
future. This meeting appointed the President of the Union, and an ex-President of the
Federation, to also wait upon these Ministers with the object in view, pointing out, that
although we as a Union were willing separately to approach these Departments, it was
decided, as being necessary, that both organisations should be represented in making a
joint appeal. This Committee also had under consideration the East London position,
and it was decided to send out a circular inviting those gentlemen who were once members
of the London Association (which showed that they at least had some sympathy with
organised labour), with the object of pointing out to them how necessary it is that all
associates should rejoin their respective organisations, and they should assist us in making
the National Agreement the important factor for peace in the industry. We are also
asking for the help in this matter of the Chairman of the London Association, who will,
I am sure, give that assistance, seeing that he is the Vice-President of the Federation.
We also propose to meet the Factors and large Buyers regarding this subject at an early
date.

In addition to the above we have had a meeting of the JOINT STANDING COMMITTEE
presided over by Mr. W. Addington Willis, in which the Committee were invited by the
London Association of Employers to allow a reduction from the 130 per cent. which was
added to the first class statement in 1919. After some amount of consideration, it was
decided that according to the National Agreement a wholesale reduction was not per-
missible. We pointed out to the representatives of the London Employers that anomalous
items can be dealt with, but general reductions are not permissible. A similar opinion
was given on a case sent to the Committee some time ago by the Northants County Board.
We, who have spent so much time, and have so much experience with statements, would
rather deal with any anomalous operation than permit a wholesale reduction, because
if that were permitted, minimas would be reduced. Ability and power, quickness or
slowness, only permits them to, with effort, earn the minimum rate, and it would be
outraging our own agreements if we encouraged this to be done. I am convinced the
statements we have in various Departments at the present time only want alteration
and amendment as conditions require.

We also had under discussion a question respecting two of the Leicester Branches,
in which there was a difference of opinion. The Committee's resolution unanimously
agreed to was as follows:-

"That the Joint Standing Committee regret it should have been found necessary
to bring this matter before them, as it seems one which should have been capable of
amicable adjustment between the parties concerned. After considering the matter,
the decision of the Joint Standing Committee is that the National (Conference)
Agreement, 1924, like its two predecessors, expressly recognises in Clause 8, C. the
employment of women upon Heel Building without any exception, in so far as districts
are concerned."

MANSFIELD. Several visits have been paid to this town by myself respecting the
conditions of employment at the Mansfield Shoe Co.'s works. I have for a long time
been trying to get this firm to see their way to adopt the statement of prices regarding
girls on Clicking Presses, and although this firm has, some two or three years ago, promised
to bring about a change in this direction (seeing that there is not a volume of male labour
available), boys and men in most cases prefer to work in the Pits, rather than in the Shoe
Factory. We have only one alternative, which to my mind must be pressed to its logical
conclusion, i.e., that the rate for men must be paid unless piecework prices are agreed
upon, which must be the same, irrespective of sex. Upon that particular point we have
already been threatened by the firm to the extent that they should remove the girls and
bring our Union into disrepute. That I told them would be decidedly unfair; the girls
have a right to the statement price equally with men.

We have a difference with the firm in regard to the Rodeo or Top Boot prices that
can only be settled by reference to the Secretary of the Leicester Association, and I have
invited the firm to send their patterns to that gentleman who is willing to give them help.
We have also a difference with them regarding the Seat Sinking; they claim Consol
operators should sink their own seats without extra pay. Boy labour is rampant in this
particular firm, in spite of the fact that they say they cannot get boys, yet they appear
to be able to get more than the National Agreement promises. The Canvas work price is
very unsatisfactory regarding their method of cutting, which is four at a time, as compared
with two at a time in other places. Here our Organisers have been doing their very best
to organise the operatives, and I am pleased to say that at the present moment, the major
portion of the more important operatives are members of our Union, and I am hoping
when these complaints have been considered by the Mansfield, Nottingham and Derby
Board of Arbitration, they will have met with such support that our relationships will be
better in the future than they have been in the past.


---
FAIRE BROS., MANSFIELD. An effort has been made by the firm to meet in part the
claims made against them. Already I have received from the Chairman of the Directors
copies of notices to be put up showing them the scale of wages applicable to our girls
and women, to be paid as from 14th January, 1926. Two sets of prices for Skivers
and Moulders have been accepted. The one for Pasters, I am not sure of, and therefore
am making further enquiries. I have thanked them for what they have done, and I have
requested them, through a brother of the firm, to please comply with time-and-a-quarter
for overtime (if any is worked), Holiday Pay, Men's rates for the Girls on Presses, or the
Men's piecework prices for each particular operation, according to the Leicestershire
statement, I have further made a request that the firm should at least place the organisa-
tion where they disturbed it six months ago when they discharged 25 girls, causing our
110 members to cease paying. The least they can do is to put up the " Organisation of
Industry " document in a prominent place on the firm. This is all we ask, which is similar
to what is being done elsewhere, and I am hoping that the matter will soon be settled.
I am not likely to give up until it is.

LOOMS, MARKET HARBOROUGH. Mr. Looms, of Market Harborough, has not yet
replied to my recent letters. I have asked him to place in a prominent place in his factory,
the resolution " Organisation of Industry." If this is done, I think that within a very
short period we could congratulate ourselves of good feeling between Mr. Looms and us.
firm is enabled to beat other people in the same industry, which, whilst being no concern
of ours, only lends colour if Mr. Looms prevents his operatives from belonging to our
Union and from getting advice which they would be entitled to have, if they were members
of our Union.

I am still hopeful that he will yet see the wisdom of this recommendation as the above
resolution will be, I hope rigidly applied to everybody working in the industry.

KETTERING. I have had occasion to visit Kettering regarding a case at Messrs. W.
Timpson Ltd., and I should like to say that this is one of the very best firms in our industry,
and although my visit there was of minor importance, still the opportunity of meeting
the Managing Director, Mr. Timpson, and his Manager, Mr. Hawthorne, will I think
remove any doubt if they ever entertained any, but that we as a Union hold them in
the highest esteem and regard, and therefore if at times there is a difference between
ourselves and our friends the employers, such as this firm are, we get rather askance from
looking at one thing from different angles. I hope a short interview, such as we had with
the firm, will allay any probable friction that might arise.

HEEL BUILDING MANUFACTURERS (NORTHANTS.). - As reported in my last month's
report we endeavoured to hold another meeting of the gentlemen in this industry, some
thirteen in number, on the 16th December, but on that occasion only four firms put in an
appearance. I rather came to the conclusion that being so close to Xmas these gentlemen
did not feel with the festive season upon them, likely to make a new move in the direction
we had indicated on organisation. Whilst it may be strange for Trade Union Officials
to try and get together employers of labour, still, we don't hesitate, because we feel that as
a Union we are likely to benefit by getting them all to work to either day or piece, which
will ultimately allay competition between themselves, the butt being labour conditions.
At present we have no complaint to make, although there is headway still to be made.
I am pleased to say that since that last meeting, the suggestion was made that we should
call another meeting some time in February. We have been enabled to elicit the services
of a very prominent member of the Federation, who is willing to give us assistance on any
future occasion. With this object in view, we have circularised the whole of the firms,
asking them to choose one of three dates which we trust they will not hesitate to do, and
we are rather inclined to think that we may make some headway on the next occasion.
Be that as it may, the third time " might pay for all," and we hope to be successful.

TRADE BOARD. The Midland District Trade Board was held at Birmingham early
this month, and the recommendations of the Committee were considered pro and con,
the anomalies gone over, and the fall back rates for boys not registered either as learners
or apprentices were accepted unanimously, which means that a firm which starts a boy at
15 years of age without having him registered or indentured as an apprentice, will have to
pay 23s. 6d. per week to him. The Ministry of Labour argued that the magistrates of this
country without this amended clause would never have given a judgment, seeing that an
unregistered learner or apprentice was entitled to 60s. at the age of 15, and although we
only issued that according to what we understood at the time to be the law (and as we
have legal minds on our Central Committee), they rather held the view that it was not
until the Ministry of Labour on the advice of the law officers of the Crown, suggested to us
that we should give a fall back rate of probably 10s. more than the usual learners' rate
was fixed. The other rates for persons who have served twelve months or less at the
industry, only apply to ex-Soldiers, ex-Sailors, and ex-Airmen, who are leaving the service.
manship. This also we unanimously accepted.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**15**

From the workers' side of the Board, we proposed that in the repairing of the Rodeo
or Top Boot, 2d. per pair should be paid the benchman. This was agreed to, the Central
Board to discriminate as to its distribution or whether it was to apply to top-piecing a
pair of ladies' top boots, as well as soleing and heeling them.

A meeting of the LONDON DISTRICT BOARD has also been held, at which I was present,
and on this occasion an attempt was made to increase the rates for juveniles mentioned
above as a fall back rate, but this was not pressed after the chairman, Mr. Addington
Willis had informed the meeting of the many hours the Central Board had spent upon this
important part of their work, and ultimately the recommendations made were unanimously
accepted.

We again brought forward the repairing of Top Boots or Rodeo, and on this occasion
the Board unanimously supported the Birmingham recommendation, and also asked the
Board to consider what extra should be given for fastening a new heel on a ladies' top
boot from the inside. Further, a new lining for the heel. This lining, owing to the boot
having no lace or strap across the instep wear out rather quickly through chafing. This
matter we unanimously accepted and referred to the Central Board adjudication.

C.W.S., LEICESTER. - I have also visited the C.W.S., Duns Lane, regarding the rates
paid to the Consol Operators and Sole Attachers employed at the Abbey Mills, Derby.
It was pointed out that the men had an idea that they would get an increase in wage over
what he makes, and the Maanger, Mr. Clifton, assured me that this was so, but at the same
time he preferred, what we know in the trade as a set wage, and it was evident from his
figures that the men get a better condition than they would get from the statement, but
at the same time whilst he is willing to give them this advantage, he thinks by a set wage
arrangement there is a better type of work done by the operatives rather than by spas-
modical rise and fall, according to the man's ability. I am pleased to say that I am
reporting to the operatives upon this point, and hope to be able to promote a better feeling
than has hitherto prevailed.

NORTHANTS DISTRICT ADVISORY COUNCIL arranged a conference at the Rockingham
Road Schools to be addressed by Mr. J. W. Muir, Organiser of the Workers' Educational
Association, who took for his subject "The Educational Proposals of the Trades Union
Congress," &c. Mr. L. House, B.Sc., Headmaster of one of the local Schools, occupied
the chair, and said if anyone asked him what was education he would find it very difficult
to answer. Mr. Muir dealt triumphantly with Education proposals, and sought to make
it quite clear that education to him meant by hard work and study to bring out all that
was best, according to their own fitness of every human being. Personal gain was not to
be the aim, or education for oneself, although study and training make the mind more alert
and prepared to measure, weigh and sift arguments, statements and the passing phases
of life. He dealt with our great unpreparedness, if at any time the working section of the
community were called upon to act by carrying on industry altogether. The best educa-
tional address I have ever listened to for practical common sense.

FOREIGN COMPETITION. -- Respecting foreign competition and other matters in general
I have had correspondence with the Spaulding Fibre Co., of North Rochester, N.Y.,
America, in which I have asked some very important questions, and informed them that
we are anxious to be fair and just even to people in America, and that we expect the
conditions prevailing there to be no worse than the conditions prevailing in our own
country among the Stiffening Makers. Before giving publicity to their answer, I shall
have to ask them further questions, the present not meeting all we require. As an illus-
tration, there is no payemnt for holidays, night work, and Sunday work is only paid time-
and-a-half, and so on, but I am asking for further information before expressing a definite
opinion. I am also in correspondence with the Bennett Stiffening Co., Chanbley, Canton,
Quebec, Canada, and I am asking similar questions. Also I am in correspondence with
Mr. Chamberlain, Nailsworth, Glos., who believes he is a fair house, and have put a point
of interest to the operatives where they benefit under our National Agreement. If by
this means we can bring all these people to at least give conditions equal to our own, then
we shall have made some headway.

Beware of Unstamped Boots and buy the *Daily Herald.*

Yours fraternally,

M. F. Richards
General President.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

16

THE AUDITOR'S REPORT.

THE CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LIMITED,
AUDIT DEPARTMENT,
99 Leman Street,
London, E. 1.

The Executive Council,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.

Gentlemen,

I beg to report that I have examined the Accounts of the
Union for the Half-Year ended 31st December, 1925, and have obtained
all the information and explanations I have required, and am of the
opinion that they exhibit a true and correct view of the Union's position
according to the information given and as shown by the books. The
Deeds of Investments have been examined and found to be in order.

It is with pleasure that I now state that we found the whole of the
books to have been accurately and neatly kept, and a complete and
accurate Balance Sheet was presented to us for audit.

23rd January, 1926.

Yours faithfully,
A. E. NEWMAN,
Public Auditor.


---
51
BRANCH REPORTS.
BELFAST.- We regret to report that trade continues to remain in a
very bad state; the firm of Williamson Bros. has closed down the Bottoming
and Finishing end for an indefinite period. We would remind our branch
members that only by conforming to the rules can they be paid Union benefits.
We would also remind our members that the branch meetings are held on the
first Monday in each month at 8 o'clock, in the Typographical Hall, Frederick
Street. We feel that we are not making an unreasonable demand upon any
member's time when we ask them to give two hours in the month in considering
and discussing matters pertaining to their interests and welfare.
CHESHAM. - Trade here still remains very good. At the time of writing
this report our old friend, W. R. Smith, has just concluded a visit to Chesham.
He has visited some of our manufacturers and renewed old acquaintances.
An effort was made to create some enthusiasm by arranging a special meeting
for members, but the effort was most disappointing to us, only a mere handful
of members attending the meeting. We had an inspiring address from our
friend, and hope to be able to again have his services in the near future.
CHESTERFIELD. - Trade is only fair and has fell off during the month
both for repairers and men on new work.
DERBY. - Trade in Derby is a little better this month, and shows signs
of improving. We still have Mr. Baum and Mr. McCarthy coming to Derby
to consolidate the position at Maden & Ireland's, where we have over 100
members now. Since they have joined the Union this firm has formed what
they call a Thrift Fund, which is practically the same as the Holiday Fund of
our Union. Of course that is only a sop to deter them from joining the Union.
DUNDALK.- It is with pleasure we find ourselves in a position to be able
to forward for registration the names of our members who have completed
their probationary period. Furthermore we wish to congratulate the members
on their steadfast fidelity to so glorious and inspiring a cause, a cause promoted
on unselfish motives. Even more its one primary object is the emancipation of
the toiling multitudes, regardless of their racial or religious aspirations. On
reading in prehistoric annals the mighty conquests of Spartan Greece, or the
empire-building powers of Alexander the Great, few of us there are who can
restrain the throbbing heart or resist the instant impulse of wishing we were
in train. Again, in the late mediæval ages, we should like to have participated
in the almost supernatural conquests of Napoleon Bonaparte. Still, in prac-
tically all these engagements, those who were to wear the crown of laurels
were well in the background, and even on the rare occasions when leaders
formed the vanguard, what did humanity gain? Nothing save the demoralisa-
tion of its own fundamental construction, the working slave, slain by a brother
slave, in an endeavour to retain the militant ambitions of a despotic ruler.
On the other hand how few there are of us who ever commemorate the memory
of those unarmed leaders, who by constitutional means nobly fought and
bravely won for us humble working men an eight-hour day and a living wage.
Fellow workers, those of you who have fallen away, we invite you to begin the
year 1926 well by returning to the fondling and caressing embrace of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives-a Union of democratic principles, a Union
of the workers, for the workers, and by the workers.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.- We wish the General Officers and Staff
the Compliments of the Season. The holiday has been a lengthened one in
most factories. Most have now resumed work and trade is slightly better.
The monthly meetings approved of doubling the Affiliation Fees to Labour
Party for one year only.


---
KILMARNOCK. Trade in the Kilmarnock Branch is fairly good. There
is also an improvement in the repairing trade, but our Kilmaurs Section is
still very bad. We are also pleased to report one of our oldest members,
Mr. J. Campbell, celebrated his silver wedding on Hogmanay, in the Riccartion
Institute, representatives of the Branch being present. We spent a most
enjoyable evening and wished Mr. and Mrs. J. Campbell long life and happiness,
which we know will be heartily accorded amongst our members and friends
in the trade.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. 1926, with all its hopes and aspirations,
opens its vista before us, and as the years pass behind us we realise the nature
of change more vividly. Our retrospect of the year that has passed is one of
many changes friends that comforted have passed away. The year before
us is one that must have possibilities. Much work of an educational character
requires to be done. Changes in methods of manufacture will require constant
encouragement. The employers who study the desires of the public in lighter
recent Board Meeting the need for joint discussions of matters affecting the
welfare of the industry was under discussion, and it is hoped to extend the
opportunities for employers and workmen to face the facts, and by a combined
effort pull the Kingswood boot industry out of the conventional rut. The
members at Branch Meeting approved of the Educational Scheme published
in the October Report, and signed by Geo. Chester, on behalf of the Northants
Joint District Council.
LEEDS No. 1. There is little improvement (if any) in the heavy footwear,
but in reference to the medium and light class there is a slight improvement.
The result of the second ballot for Branch Secretary is as follows :-A. F. Peat,
304 votes; H. Caywood, 88 votes.
LIVERPOOL. During the past month the boot repairing trade has been
much the same as in previous years a general slump towards the end, but the
New Year has opened out with brighter prospects and increased business in
so far as our particular industry is concerned. The District Committee of the
Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board (Lancashire and Cheshire) were sum-
moned to a meeting in Manchester on 11th December, to consider the new
proposals that have been sent out recently, the principal item being the new
scale for youths or men as learners or apprentices.
LONDON SOUTH. Arbitration Board met on the 30th November, 1925.
Proposed Piece Statement for Machine Sewn Turnshoe. After a long dis-
cussion with regard to the ground work, the employers wanted the One-Bar
Shoe to be the above, but on the workmen's side we claimed the Court Shoe to
be the proper ground work to start from as on the Louis Heel Statement, as
the One-Bar Shoe is much harder to turn than the Court Shoe. After a long
discussion the workmen's side gained their point. It was then adjourned for
the employers to reconsider the prices which they offered, no workman would
make them at the price agreed. Adjourned discussion then took place upon
the reduction of the First Statement. Of course the workmen's side could
not entertain any alteration until the cost of living went down below 70 points.
The first class employers present thought it was coming off, but after a long
discussion the matter was adjourned for the employers to ask the Standing
Orders Committee if the Board has power to alter the agreement until below
70 points. Agreed.
MAYBOLE. We are sorry to report that trade has fallen off a bit and in
consequence long holidays and suspensions are very general here. We hope
this will not be for very long. We are pleased to report sickness very light,
which is something new at this season of the year.


---
PLYMOUTH.-Our members had before them at their Branch Meeting
the Council's letter concerning Education, and although this opens up a very
wide field of thought and discussion, we must admit that the subject left our
members cold. This is not because we do not believe in the best of education
being obtained for all, but the Slough of Despond in which we find ourselves,
owing to bad trade, has left us in despair of ever being able to reach the Celestial
City; that is, if we regard it as a place of comfort and plenty. It appears to
us that the general progress of education, owing to its national character,
has been far more rapid than the economic advancement of the workers.
Possibly there is little to regret in this, seeing that one is bound to follow the
other sooner or later, but the immediate necessity seems to us to be a general
advancement in the material well-being of all workers, not because we regard
the material things of this world as the end of all intellectual and moral effort.
but because the education already received at school, in the factory and our
branch meetings, makes our hearts vearn for a larger and fuller life. We know
that without the common necessities of life this is impossible. Thus, we get
back to the same old problem, "How to live." We doubt sincerely, if all the
learning of Oxford and Cambridge were made accessible to every worker,
that there must be many whose education would lag behind in the race, and the
cunning and greed of a few would endeavour to enslave their fellows, as we see
at the present moment. The conclusion is forced upon us that just a few are
greedily devouring the family cake, while the many pick up the crumbs. Could
not something be done to stop this rapacity, and all incomes over a certain
figure be utilised for replenishing the family larder? The common morality
of a well-regulated family should be made applicable to the national family,
and the familiar gospel of "Bear ye one another's burdens" given a chance.
SILEBY.-Trade is fairly well in the Sileby District. We have had the
pleasure of our Organisers, Mr. Baum and Mr. McCarthy with us. They have
been to several of the factories and addressed the operatives, who have listened
to them with interest in the splendid way they have pointed out the objects
of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives. Good results are bound
to follow.
WATERFORD.-Trade still continues good.
GREAT YARMOUTH.-Sorry to report Water Boot trade very slow
again in Great Yarmouth.
THE BIG FIVE.
Last Year's Profits of the Leading Banks.
The following table gives particulars of the 1925 profits and dividends of the "big
five" compared with those of the two preceding years :-
Net Profit.
1925.
1924.
1923.
Dividend
Barclays
..2,289,837
2,067,281
1,891,066
14%
National Provincial
2,161,580
1,974,043
1,791,287
18%*
Midland
2,522,469
2,424,993
2,210,972
18%
Lloyds
2,569,366
2,468,934
2,047,116
16%
Westminster
2,205,393
2,013,502
1,804,782
20% t
* Last year 16%. † On ₤20 shares (5 paid). 124% on £1 shares.
The directors of the Westminster Bank propose to make a bonus issue of shares
whereby holders of ₤20 shares, registered 11th February next, will receive one full-paid
₤1 share (ranking for dividend with the existing ₤1 shares as from 31st December, 1925)
in respect of every five ₤20 shares held. In the case of fractions a payment of 10s. (free
of tax) in respect of each fraction of one-fifth of a ₤1 share will be made, while the reserve
fund will receive a sum equal to the nominal capital of the shares to be allotted, say ₤268,439.
For this purpose £572,878 has been set aside.-Shoe and Leather Record, 15th January, 1926.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
54
Our position at the Mansfield Shoe Company is still being maintained, though there is
During the past month I have visited Derby, Mansfield, and the Sileby District
ditions existing, especially with regard to the prices paid for the work done. With the
still a need for an increased membership at this firm. I am not satisfied with the con-
purpose of dealing with this matter, the General President has been most persistent in
collecting evidence, in order that the firm will pay the correct price. A fairly good meeting
was held, and the General President outlined the previous negotiations that had taken
matters will be dealt with by the Board of Arbitration. The position at Faire Bros. has
place with the firm, with the result that if the firm will not honour its obligations, the
into operation the agreed scales. This has given a great deal of satisfaction to the girls
decidedly changed for the better, the firm having informed the girls that they are putting
and quite a useful
and attempte recorded. Quite naturally, after their former experience, the girls are vehe
presentat now better relationships have been established with the firm, I am quite hopeful
that they will eventually again join the Union.
At Maden & Ireland's, Derby, we have now a membership of tor, but there is stil
A meeting was held of our members
working at this firm, and I was informed that the firm had adopted an holiday scheme
which was on the same lines as our scheme. This has given a great deal of satisfaction
to the operatives, and it has unfortunately interfered with our rate of progress, though
our members are not satisfied with this attitude, and as a result of meeting them I discovere
that the right spirit is prevalent, which ought to make this a well-organised firm.
room for an increased membership at this firm.
I have endeavoured to follow up the work in the Sileby District, nearly all the
firms having been visited, and very good meetings held.
There is a great need of ar
The Secretary has rendered me every assistance
increase in our membership in this area.
and he is gradually helping to restore the confidence of the members. One of the most
deplorable incidents that one has to face, is the large number of young men who fail to
respond to our appeal. No one could describe the general conditions as being exceedingly
bad, so far as the wages are concerned, but where we are well organised it inevitably means
that more attention is generally paid to the quantities of work done for the scale of wages
eceived. According to the information that one receives, there is a great need of adjust-
ent on these matters, but until we can get a better response these difficulties cannot be
alt with. In conjunction with Mr. McCarthy we have endeavoured to follow up the
ork previously done in this area, personally canvassing the various firms. Some progress
as been made, but we are not satisfied with the rate of progress.
sistent work is very apparent if this district is to be thoroughly organised. The need of
The need of per-
stability is always an essential feature in the work of our Union, and I am pleased to report
that as a result of the work that has been done in this district, we are gradually gaining the
confidence of the operatives. When the young men begin to recognise that the first charge
on their wages is the contributions to the Union, then a decided step will be made in our
membership. But at present they have openly boasted that they want to go to Leicester;
thus pleasure seems to be their objective at the present time. So long as they receive
something near the minimum wage they are perfectly satisfied. This is an aspect of our
educational problem-how the youths and young girls can be awakened to their responsi-
bilities, and made to feel the sacrifice and devotion of those in the past, who have helped
to lay the foundation of our Union, which has enabled them to enjoy better conditions of
labour, which will demand from them some standard of honour, so that they will better
be able to assert their value as human beings.
J. H. BAUM.
The coming of the Christmas holidays, lasting in some cases longer than was con-
venient to many of our members, made a break in the work possible during the past month.
The length of the closing period is always determined by the state of trade, and in the
Kingswood area the shortness of orders resulted in a somewhat prolonged stoppage as
compared with other centres. It is perhaps true to say that the seasonal character of
trade, which was so prevalent years ago, but which fortunately has in a large degree dis-
appeared, still remain in the Kingswood area.
in the second half of the year, but with the coming of the New Year, things are flat indeed,
and this condition is not the best for organising purposes.
It is a class of trade that has its busy period
But we are not a body that permit such difficulties to prevent us from carrying on
that work which we know will ultimately bring us success, and this we are doing at the
present time. The district is one which perhaps needs the Union as much, if not more, than
any other I have knowledge of. What would happen to the Boot Operatives, or indeed
to the district, without the help which our Union is able to give to its members, I do not
know. Certain it is that through the benefits we are able to pay in sickness and out-of-
work, there is a saving of public money, which otherwise must be provided to cope with


---
55
the distress that would arise. That this is so is clearly shown in the figures of expenditure
in regard to unemployment and sickness during the past five years.
During that time there has been paid to the members of our Kingswood Branch no
less than £16,459 in out-of-work benefit, and £4,559 in sick and funeral pay. The amount
of contributions to the funds during the same period has been, to the Trade Fund £7,331,
and to the Sick £5,576, which means that the benefits paid out are £9,128 greater on the
Trade Fund than the contributions paid in, whilst on the two funds the excess of benefit
the support of the operatives, but also the employers and the general public. I do not
wish to stress this point as being the most important phase of our work. It is but a means
towards making our main effort successful, but it is a feature that should cause any worker
in our industry to pause before they conclude they can do without the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives. It is not only in time of stress that we are able to help, but at
all times, in everything that appertains to the welfare and comfort of our people, both in
played a part that warrants a confidence and support of the strongest possible character..
the factory and in the home. Our organisation, by its work and its achievements, has
ive must continue the work of education until this is recognised by those in whose interest
that put forward as a
reason why some employers should not meet our full conditions. If they were only as
resourceful in their business as they are in their excuses it might be better for all concerned.
we had spent some thousands of pounds in rectifying the mistake made there a few years
ago, we should have been spared what to our ears is so much parrot talk regarding that
It used to be Chesham that was complained of, but one would have thought that after
area. The truth is, some employers, and they may be a large body, always think if some
orders for a few pairs
petition in labour conditions. They had
cases, if not entirely, a will-o'-the-wisp.
no less than £8,111. This is a condition that should win for us, not only
our work is mainly centred.
The idea that they alone are the honest people in the industry is too Pecksniffian,
and develops a frame of mind that leads to nowhere. Complaints that are well founded
will always receive the attention they deserve, but the task of putting right what may be
wrong is not made lighter by the irresponsible statements that too often are put forward.
A visit has been made to Chesham during the month, so that our attitude might be
strengthened by the facts of the case, and one is glad to note that at the moment there is
no complaint that warrant serious attention on our part. The firms there may have had
what appears to be more than a fair share of the trade that has been going, but if firms can
achieve this by initiative and organisation, it is to be commended and not condemned.
During the month meetings have been addressed in Norwich in regard to the Parlia-
mentary position there. They are the first of a series that will extend over the winter
period. The touch of severe frost and snow did not help us, but the effort can be voted
satisfactory.
23rd January, 1926.
WALTER R. SMITH.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light,
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926
January
10-15 35 65 85-90 120 165 125
92
78
77
80
75.
February
15 35 65-70 90 120 151
130 88 77 79 79
March
15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141
86
76
78 79
April
15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133
82
74
73 75
May
20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128
81
70
71
73
June
25
45 75-80 100 105 150 119
80
69
69 72
July
25
45-50
80 100-105 105-110 152 119
84
69
70
73
August
25
45-50
80 110 115
155
122
81
71
71
73
September
25
50 80-85 110 115 120
161
120
79
73
72
74
October
25
50-55
75-80
110 164
120 110
78
75
76
76
November
30
50-55
75-80 115-120
164 120
110
78
75
76
76
December
30-35
60
85 120-125 125
176 103
80
75
80
76
35
65 85 120 125 169
99
80
77
SI
77
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
(1924) Agreement, and present date.
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922) Agreement, September


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
ORGANISATION OF INDUSTRY
HIS JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL
for the Boot Manufacturing Industry
supports Clause 6 of the Preliminary
Conference Agreement, September, 1913, viz.:

For the more effective enforcement of any
agreements, awards or decisions, as well as for
the general advantage of the Industry, the
Federation and the National Union equally
recognise the importance of their respective
organisations being as numerically strong and
as fully representative as possible of employers
and operatives in all centres of the shoe trade,

AND IS OF OPINION THAT THE BEST
INTERESTS OF THE INDUSTRY WILL
BE SERVED IF
ALL MANUFACTURERS CAN
BE ENCOURAGED TO JOIN THE BOOT
MANUFACTURERS' FEDERATION, AND
ALL OPERATIVES ENCOURAGED
TO JOIN THE NATIONAL UNION OF
BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.

November 24th, 1925.
T. F. RICHARDS, Chairman
(President of the Union).
H. J. BOSTOCK, Vice-Chairman
(Vice-President of the Federation).

---
57
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Council do not hold themselves responsible for the views expressed by Correspondents.
13 GRANGE STREET,
EDUCATIONAL SCHEME.
KILMARNOCK,
5th January, 1926.
FELLOW MEMBERS.
At the Conference of the Union to be held this year at Blackpool it is expected
that more consideration than usual will be given to the question of an Educational Scheme
for the members, and bearing this in mind I think we ought to devote a little space and
time to the consideration of this question.
At the present moment we have two bodies claiming to supply educational schemes
for trade unions, the Workers' Educational Trade Union Committee and the National
Council of Labour Colleges, both of which bodies operate under a joint scheme with the
British Trades Union Congress.
Up till the present moment the majority of unions adopting educational schemes
have placed them with the N.C.L.C., because it provides Independent Working Class
Education, and unlike the W.E.A. (of which the W.E.T.U.C. is part) the N.C.L.C. is
entirely financed and controlled by the Trade Union and Labour movement.
According to Rule 20 one of the objects of the Union is "the socialisation of the
means of production, to be controlled by a democratic state in the interests of the entire
community, and the complete emancipation of Labour from the domination of Capitalism
and Landlordism, with the establishment of a social and economic equality between the
sexes." The W.E.A. does not stand for this object, otherwise it would not receive State
support. On the other hand the N.C.L.C. does stand for this object, and it would only
be consistent with the policy of our Union as laid out in the rules, to arrange an Educational
Scheme with a body subscribing to principles similar to our own.
The following table taken from Plebs (July, 1925) shows that the great majority of
British Trade Union Educational Schemes have been placed with the National Council of
Labour Colleges and its constituent Colleges :-
Unions with N.C.L.C. Schemes
Unions with W.E.A., W.E.T.U.C., and Ruskin
College Schemes
No.
25
9
Membership.
1,689,215
621,630
Bearing these facts in mind, fellow members, I think it is clearly our duty to support
the educational body which is out along with us for "the complete emancipation of Labour
from the domination of Capitalism and Landlordism," namely, the National Council of
Labour Colleges."
Yours fraternally,
THOMAS CAMPBELL, No. 96068.
TARIFF RESULTS.
It was announced a few days ago that the Irish Free State Government, in its forthcoming Budget, would not increase the existing duty on imported boots. It was also
stated that it was not intended to add to the present list of taxed imports. The view of
the Government is that no further duties should be imposed until sufficient time has elapsed
in which to form a definite conclusion as to the effects of the present tariff. A correspondent suggests that this policy may have been adopted on account OF THE FAILURE
OF THE 15 PER CENT. DUTY ON BOOTS TO PRODUCE THE NUMEROUS ADVANTAGES PROMISED
BY ITS SUPPORTERS. The extent of the failure of the tariff has been emphasised by Major
Bryan Cooper, who is a member of the Dail. Speaking at Rathmines last week he said
that, since the duty was imposed, the number of workers in the Free State boot manufacturing INDUSTRY HAD INCREASED BY ONLY 488, WHILE THE REVENUE PRODUCED HAD
TOTALLED £225,206. ON THE OTHER HAND, THE COST OF BOOTS HAD INCREASED BY 16
PER CENT. In the circumstances it is not surprising that the Government is disinclined
to indulge in further " tariff experiments "-as they were originally described by the
Minister of Finance.
COSTLY CHRISTMAS GIFT.-A County Donegal resident had (writes our Belfast correspondent) to pay 3s. 3 d. duty on a pair of shoes costing Is. IId. which were sent to her
baby as a Christmas gift.-Shoe and Leather Record, 15th January, 1926.


---
58
LAST YEAR'S HARVEST.
Last week we printed particulars of the 1925 balance sheet of Messrs. Freeman,
Hardy and Willis Ltd. This week the reports are available of two other similar concerns
Messrs. J. Sears and Co. (True-Form Boot Co. Ltd.) and Messrs. Stead and Simpson Ltd_
and also of Messrs. L. and L. Weber and Phillips Ltd. The three first-named companies
are mainly, though not entirely, concerned with the distribution of footwear, while Messrs.
Weber and Phillips confine their operations to manufacturing. In the following table
are shown the profits made by cach of the four concerns during the past three years :-
1925.
Freeman, Hardy and Willis
£200,989
1924.
£192,799
1923.
£180,427
J. Sears and Co.
£187,099
£172,949
£169,695
Stead and Simpson
£72,502
£72,450
£70,418
Weber and Phillips
£38,553
£39,436
£46,663
The results bear out the generally held opinion that 1925 was an unusually successful
year for the retail section. They may also be regarded by some members of the traul
veestablishing the contention that present-day conditions provide greater rewards ade
distributors than they do for manufacturers. Producers, including tanners and leather
distributors, will certainly emphasise the fact that whereas Freeman's, Sears, and
Stead's each show progress, the accounts of Weber and Phillips disclose a falling off. and
the strength of this it will doubtless be alleged that retail distributors are obtaining an
undue proportion of the profits made by the industry. It is by no means certain that
und wiew is accurate. In our Shoe Distributor Section will be found an analysis of Free-
man's figures from which it will be seen that the net profit per branch represents a sum
which, given sufficient capital and modern equipment, a single shop retailer would rightly
regard as inadequate. The profit earned by the multiples is not due to the exaction of
high prices, but to keen buying, shrewd judgment in gauging the trend of public taste
and to efficient organisation. Similar ability is being displayed by private shoesellers,
and the results of their trading are, in many instances, probably, better in proportion
than those shown by their great rivals.--The Shoe and Leather Record, 22nd January, 1920.
IMPORTS AND EXPORTS IN 1925.
The Board of Trade Returns for December last, issued this week, complete the
accounts for 1925, and are, therefore, of more than usual interest. Regarded as a whole,
the results shown, in relation to the export trade of the country, are not satisfactory, but
so far as the shoe and leather industries are concerned, there is no serious cause for com-
plaint. Indeed, it can be said that in a year which was not a prosperous one for export
business generally, the shoe and leather industries have done well to hold their own in
overseas markets. In value, our exports of leather boots and shoes last year reached
£4,638,597, as compared with £5,023,875 in 1924. There was, however, a comparatively
small difference in the quantities exported which were as follows:-1924, pairs 11,973,336:
1925, pairs 11,837,196. An interesting feature of the past year's exports is that the
number of countries which increased their purchases of British-made shoes was larger
than the number which imported less freely than in 1924. The markets which showed
an improvement were-Egypt, the United States, British East Indies, Australia, New
Zealand and the British West India Islands. Those who showed decreases included the
Netherlands, France, Irish Free State, South Africa and Canada. The fluctuations were,
however, comparatively small, except in the case of the markets grouped as
Countries." Collectively, they increased their imports from 1,026,404 pairs in 1924 to
1,380,396 pairs last year. In view of the recovery of trade with the countries included in
this group it will probably be decided to show some of them separately in future. The
two most important markets are Norway and Denmark.
Other
Imports of leather footwear last year, amounted to 2,881,692 pairs valued at (1,425,055,
The figures for 1924-2,746,944 pairs, valued at £1,414,778-show that there was a small
increase in purchases of foreign-made shoes, but in view of the large excess of exports
over imports there is little cause for uneasiness on the part of shoe manufacturers. There
was a decrease in imports of footwear made of other materials than leather-chiefly
slippers-which, in value, represented £17,880, and in quantity 126,228 pairs.
year. The figures are as follows:-1924, 327,077 cwts., value £5,330,802; 1925, 316,726
Exports of British leather were approximately the same in 1925 as in the preceding
cwts., value £5.358,051. Sole leather represented 115,785 cwts., value £1,038,171, in last
year's total, against 120,405 cwts., value £1,095,416 in 1924. Imports of dressed leather
were not marked by any unusual feature. There was a small reduction in the total as
compared with the previous year, the figures being--1924, 187,387 cwts., value £7,561,647
and 1925, 174,801 cwts., value £7.319,117. The United States supplied a larger share of
these imports than any other country, except in the case of box and willow calf, which
was purchased chiefly from Germany. The Shoe and Leather Record. 15th January, 1926.


---
Here is the extracted text:
lecture on
59
LOCAL BOOT TRADE.
Relation of Technical Education to Colonial Exports.
Instruction, Northamptonshire, to the Merchant Venturers' Technical College to give
On the occasion of the visit of Mr. R. H. Brookes, superintendent of Boot and Shoe
Mr. Percy Steadman, chairman of the Boot and Shoe Advisory Committee, who pre-
sided, referred to the importance of technical education in the industry and mentionel
that from Bristol and district in pre-war days a large number of medium grade boots and
themselves. Only by making a high-grade article could they extend and increase their
shoes were sent to the Colonies, but now nearly all the Colonies made that class of goods
could produce. Therefore the need for the Mother Country at the present time was for
export trade, something with points, finish, and workmanship better than the Colonies
technical education in the boot trade to be undertaken greater than ever before. He
hoped that every manufacturer and employee in the trade of that centre would also realise
the importance of that because they wanted every young man in the trade to avail himself
fully of the opportunities given by the centre for technical instruction.
Feet, Lasts and Patterns," there was a large attendance.
The lecturer stressed the point that boots and shoes should be made to retain their
appearance and shape well into their wearing life, and said that the length of time which
they did that depended upon the manner in which they fitted the foot and then upon the
material from which they were made. There was a constant and undue strain upon
material where wrinkles occurred. The fit depended upon the shape of the last. In
give them considerable strength. There must be mobility for walking or any other form
order to bear the weight of the body the structure of boots and shoes should be such as to
of locomotion. Mr. Brookes used various diagrams and shapes in explaining the subject
of construction of sole shapes for lasts, and pointed out that one of the most important
various technical points and describing the construction and use of different portions of
features of fitting properly was to place the tread in the correct place. After explaining
the construction of standard patterns, using diagrams and samples.
the foot and its changeable nature during the years of growth, the lecturer dealt with
Mr. A. G. Randall (secretary, Kingswood and District Branch National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives) in moving a vote of thanks to the lecturer, spoke of the par-
ticuler need at the present stage of the history of the industry for technical education.
They were becoming standardised in certain particulars, and there was a tendency to
produce boots and shoes by mass production. Those must fit perfectly and by technical
education operatives could understand more clearly the several operations that went to
make up the commodity. That and other attempts should be made to get operatives
fully at work. There had been haphazard methods of production and loss of work, but
they had also suffered through trade depression.
The lecturer and also the chairman were accorded hearty thanks. Bristol Times,
15th January, 1926.
TRADE UNION CONGRESS GENERAL COUNCIL.
Land Workers and Town Workers.
We preach solidarity, but we only creep towards its practice by slow degrees. A big
move will be made when we can get land-workers and workers in towns to pull together.
There is nothing which cannot be done if such unity can be achieved.
The Trades Union Congress showed true awareness of these facts at Scarborough in
September last, and the Report on the Organisation Campaign for Agricultural Workers
was received with such strong approval that the Campaign is now being extended to fresh
areas,
Last year, it was conducted in Lincolnshire, Northampton, Notts, Norfolk, Dorset,
Anglesey, Cheshire, Hereford, Surrey, Cornwall, and in a few months' intensive work,
Over 10,000 agricultural trade unionists were enrolled, and many new branches opened.
This work cannot be carried on without funds, and though Congress voted £500
towards its continuance, an appeal is now being issued to all organisations affiliated to
the Trades Union Congress, for additional support. Every trade unionist who can offer
any help-however little-will be helping not only the agricultural worker, but the whole
movement.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
& Sons, Wellingborough; W. Lawrence Ltd., Wellingborough; Tebbutt & Hall Bros.
WAR OFFICE-BOOTS: Adams Bros. (Raunds) Ltd., Wellingborough; R. Coggins
Ltd., Wellingborough: S. Walker, Northampton. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette,
January, 1926.


---
Here's the extracted text:

**64**
**CAPITALIST ECONOMY ??**

United States.

Articles of food consumption have recently become exceedingly dear in the United States. Whereas in June, 1925, prices stood on an average at 55 per cent. above the pre war rates, by November they had reached 67 per cent. (and in Chicago even 76 per cent.).

Perhaps the most outstanding case in point is the price of bread, which the recently formed Bread Trust aims at keeping at the present high level, while at the same time it is attempting to cut costs, and so get the business and resultant profits into its own hands.

A POUND-LOAF OF BREAD IN FARGO, N.D., in the heart of the great Red River wheat country, COSTS 10 CENTS, AND YET A FOUR-POUND LOAF IN LONDON COSTS 9 PENCE, NOT QUITE 18 CENTS, OR 44 CENTS PER POUND. It will be realised just how significant this is when it is remembered that more than half the bread of London is made from wheat shipped from North America, largely from the region centring in Fargo. To get to London, this wheat must be carried to the coast by rail or lake and rail transferred to steamers and then taken across the ocean. And yet, after all these expenses, the finished product costs half as much in London as in Fargo-though we may be sure that the London bakeries don't lose in the sale of their bread, but see to it that they make their bit.

**CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st JANUARY, 1926.**

Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.

All Items included .. .. .. .. .. 75 per cent.
Food only .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 71 "

**FOOD.**

At 1st January the average level of the retail prices of the principal articles of food showed a decline as compared with 1st December. Decreases of over 2d. per lb. in the average price of butter and of about d. each in the average price of eggs more than counter-balanced increases in the prices of flour and bread, and other less important increases.

As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of food included in these statistics was about 71 per cent. at 1st January, as compared with about 74 per cent. at 1st December, and 78 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1925. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, January, 1926.

**BENEFITS.**

Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union has paid out:-

**SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.**
To December, 1924 £ 667,902 8 7
January, 1925
2,840 1 10
February 3,952 4 8
March 4,124 16 0
April 4,054 10 6
May 4,023 13 8
June 3,993 2 6
July 2,653 13 10
August 2,520 1 8
September 3,060 13 0
October 2,505 1 6
November 3,379 1 10
December 2,857 0 0
£707,866 9 7

**OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.**
To December, 1924 £ 358,625 13 7
January, 1925 3,954 7 9
February 5,226 1 9
March 3,682 10 3
April 3,031 5 0
May 3,510 14 9
June 4,823 1 9
July 4,221 6 9
August 4,914 8 0
September 7,784 18 9
October 5,657 0 9
November 5,230 3 3
December 3,367 6 9
£414,028 19 1
---

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.**

Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Seat of Gon crmment, 34. GUILFORD ST LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 245,
General President
T.F.RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L.POULTON.J.P.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.

Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

**MONTHLY REPORT.**

22ND FEBRUARY, 1926.

**FELLOW MEMBERS,**

**CIRCULARS**

REGARDING SEVERAL IMPORTANT MATTERS have been issued during the month;
the instructions contained therein must be strictly adhered to. If there is
anything the Central Office can do to render any help in connection with these
or other matters, assistance will be readily granted upon application.

Further, we would call the attention of branch officers, committee and
auditors to the obligations thrown upon them regarding the work of the
branches; especially would we call attention to Rule 129 and the absolute
necessity of seeing such rule is carried out in its entirety.

**TRADE.**

With few exceptions there is a slight improvement in trade, and we can
only hope it will speedily still further improve, not only in our industry, but
in the general trades of the country, thereby finding employment for that large
army of men and women who have been vainly looking for work for a long
time past. The figures issued by the Ministry of Labour Gazette are :-

**BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.**

Employment was moderate on the whole during January, and there was no marked
general change compared with December or with January, 1925. As has been the case
for a very considerable time, a large proportion of the operatives were on short time during
the month.

The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment
books lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 8.7 on 25th January, 1926, compared with
8.5 on 21st December, 1925, and 11.0 on 26th January, 1925.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

85
at which approximately 72.0 per cent. of the total number of applicants for employment
in the boot and shoe industry were registered :---

Number of Applicants for Employment
at 4th January, 1926,
Department.
Men.
Women.
Total.

Boot and Shoe Manufacture :
Preparing Department
Rough Stuff Department
Clicking Department
Closing Department
Making Department
Finishing Department
Slipper Making
Clog Making
Repairing and Hand-Sewn Work

110
340
440
22
1,621
1,012
478
17
616

20
9
6
467
25
271
128
3

130
349
452
489
1,646
1,283
606
17
619
Total 4,662 929 5,591

The figures in this Table are the first of a new series, and are not comparable with
those published in previous issues of this Gazette. The figures in previous Tables included
all persons on the registers of Employment Exchanges whether insured or uninsured,
with the exception of persons known to be on systematic short time. The new series will
exclude not only persons who are on systematic short time, but also those who are other-
wise temporarily stopped from the service of their employers. A fuller explanation of
the meaning and application of the term "temporary stoppage" will be found on page 54;
and it will be seen that the total number of unemployed insured persons in the boot and
shoe industry within that category on 25th January, 1926, was 4,264. Figures giving
an occupational analysis of this group are not available.

The exports of boots and shoes in January, 1926, amounted to 80,964 dozen pairs,
or 16,755 dozen pairs less than in December, 1925, and 27,424 dozen pairs less than in
January, 1925.

THE UNION'S CONFERENCE.
In accordance with the rules, the suggested amendments and additions
to rules are published in this Report on pages 110-116.

VOTING
For the various delegations must be taken at the MARCH meeting night,
all votes to be counted on the 12th prox., and the results posted to reach the
Central Office by first post on the 15th prox., otherwise the same cannot be
included in the result.

POLITICAL.
The House of Commons reassembled on the 2nd inst., and once more
the Government have presented the King's Speech to the House, which in
our judgment is very disappointing indeed looked at from the standpoint of
the nation as a whole, especially bearing in mind the fact that there is still over
one million unemployed. There is one paragraph in the Speech to which
we would call attention; after a reference to the Coal Industry the Speech
goes on to say, "but the interests of the nation are paramount." We can only
hope the "interests of the nation" will be dealt with as being paramount
above all sectional interests, and to this end, however far-reaching it may be
B


---
26
found necessary for bringing about alterations, we trust the force of public
opinion will be such as to ensure drastic treatment of not only the Coal Industry,
but other vital matters which are long overdue if the "paramount interests"
are to receive not only proper attention but an effective policy laid down.

The Labour Party has been active day by day in endeavouring to force
the pace in regard to the many matters for which the Labour Party stands.
The vote, however, from time to time is cast against them. Nevertheless,
the work continues and will continue, but it will become the more effective
if the people in the country show they are taking a live interest in the pro-
ceedings in the House of Commons from day to day. We therefore appeal
to the membership to do their part in this work so that the Labour Party,
although they may be in a minority, may see their work become increasingly
effective because of the backing of public opinion outside the House.

There are two other matters to which we wish to call special attention.

THE WASHINGTON CONVENTION-HOURS OF LABOUR.

This Convention the British Government supported, but despite all efforts
made since 1919 by the Trades Union Congress, the Labour Party and other
organisations, the Government still refuses to ratify the Convention. Amongst
the excuses made it is stated our system of jurisprudence is different from that
on the Continent. We are told there are Voluntary Agreements, and the
Railwaymen's Agreement, although it is pointed out that there are clauses in
the Convention to deal with special cases. Quite recently the Railwaymen
ed to a formula to meet the position. The utmost that has been done is
he Minister of Labour to enter into negotiation with some of the represen-
ives of the principal Continental countries. The fact of Great Britain
refusing to ratify the Convention is constantly used by other nations as a
reason why they cannot do so, they stating that Great Britain being the chief
industrial country of Europe it is essential that Great Britain should ratify,
when they will do so. Thus it is not only the non-fulfilment of an Agreement
entered into affecting Great Britain, but has a much wider effect in retarding
this beneficial reform being put into force in other countries.

THE FACTORIES BILL.

This Bill has been promised from time to time and is constantly being
shelved on the plea that there is no time to deal with it having regard to the
many matters before the House of Commons. We venture to suggest that
if the House of Commons procedure was replaced by an up-to-date system,
time could easily be found for dealing with many reforms which are long
overdue. If the proposals of the Trades Union Congress and the Labour
Party were put into practice a better state of health would be brought about.
We hope the members will keep these matters alive, because it is only by
constant pressure that reforms are brought into being. The Prime Minister


---
Here is the extracted text:
87
has been following up his Peace Speech by further appeals for goodwill and
conciliation in the industrial world. If those speeches were translated into
real reforms-as for instance the two matters named above it would tend
and the sentiment expressed therein, if they fail to go further than words the
workers become more and more dissatisfied, and rightly so when these appeals
fall short of being put into practice.
to bring about peace and goodwill. However humanitarian speeches may be,
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
During the month a member of the Chesham Branch, A.R., has obtained
475 lump sum settlement, in addition to legal expenses and part wages for a
period of three-and-a-half years.
that lump sums are not obtainable by law but only by agreement, and
branches desiring the assistance of a solicitor should notify the Central Office
at once, and so secure the necessary sanction.
We would again remind the members
REGISTRY.
In accordance with Rule 127 the attention of Branch Officers is called to
the fact that the Registry of Members' Names is due to reach the Central
Office by the 15TH MARCH, 1926.
This Return, as you may know, is to help both the Central Office and also
the Branch Officers to check the numbers that are being paid for to the Central
Office. Will you, therefore, please send, NOT later than the above-named
date, the registered number and name of EVERY Financial member in your
Branch on the 27TH FEBRUARY, so that they can be checked off with the
numbers you are paying for monthly.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We hope that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.


---
89
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, N.W. 5.
16th February, 1926.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
BRITISH GOODS. - You often meet the cry "Buy only British Goods." I have
had occasion to make inquiries, and in support of the above find that no country pays
its operatives (with the exception of America) as well as ours in the Boot and Shoe Industry,
and therefore those people who would like to help their own countrymen first-I say
first-can find no Boots or Shoes produced under more humane conditions than the British
article, unless it may be in America. In this continent I have my doubts, and wish it to
be known that the American Fibre Stiffenings cannot be recommended by us for use in
British Boots. Our evidence from one particular firm itself shows that the labour engaged
is non-Union, that the rates (considering the cost of living) are economically lower than
ours, that the National Agreement's conditions of this country are much higher than that
in the American factory. They pay no Holiday Pay, they pay no overtime rates; they
only pay time and a half for Sundays, when we demand and get (if we work), double time.
They pay time and a half for night work, for which we claim double time. I am also
informed by our friends in the American Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union that the con-
ditions in Canada are no better than the conditions in America in the Stiffening making
trade.
Further, I have obtained information respecting Gloucestershire, in this country,
which leads me to say that we cannot recommend the Stiffenings coming from that district,
and it really behoves every Manufacturer, who deals with these people, to ask himself
this question: "Having had the intimation made to me that a part of the goods I sell
have been produced under conditions worse than used to prevail when we produced our
own Stiffenings, ought I to encourage a lower standard of life for workers in the Auxiliary
Branches of the trade, when I can get these articles from British makers who produce
them, and if I don't, WHERE DOES MY PATRIOTISM COME IN?" All I ask is, every Manufac-
turer in the trade, be he Tory, Liberal, Socialist, or non-partisan, should the above continue,
with the information obtained from the source of supply (not from me) but direct. No
one would agree that our Union's Executive in these early stages should advise our members
what action they should take. We prefer to give publicity first, then allow a short respite;
then see the Federation and the various Associations, then to advise our members to
deputise their respective employers (with an officer of the Union) with the object of getting
all Auxiliary Firms to respect the National Agreement in its entirety, or to take up the
attitude that we do not patronise. The above will cause some qualms of conscience
respecting the law on libel, the most elastic word and the most uncertain in the English
Dictionary, which has caused more frights than the word "Death," but we have neither
fears nor qualms, because we wish no harm, no misrepresentation, no malice. All we
ask is, as in the spirit of the Fair Wages Contract Clause of the British House of Commons:
THAT YOUR CONDITIONS OF LABOUR ARE NOT WORSE THAN THE BEST HOUSES IN THE TRADE.

Our National Agreement is more than that, much more. It is backed by 80 per cent.
of the trade, whereas the above would prevail if only 30 per cent. of good firms practised
better conditions than the other 70 per cent. I so well remember the debate upon the
Amended Fair Wages Resolution, viz.: that the better firms, though few in number,
should really be the influence and guide.

MANSFIELD. This town is of real importance to us, if only we could so arrange affairs
in complete harmony with our National Agreement at the firm of Messrs. Faire Bros.
We have been attending to the organisation of this firm during the past twelve months.
This firm, after we had organised more than 95 per cent. of its employees, and who had
refused an appeal of the Management, had remained loyal to the Union, but upon the
discharge of 25 of the employees on the plea of shortness of work, the whole of the members
ceased paying, and for months refused the appeal of our organisers and myself. Thereby
we had to resort to other means and that was to appeal to the trade. For this purpose
we drew up a manifesto and placed the contents before the friends of the firm, who gave
such advice that has caused us to withhold our action, and we are requested to again see
the firm who have given us a promise that they will conform. Upon this we are acting,
and hope there will be no further trouble.

The SHERWOOD SHOE COMPANY, of the same town, has for some time been acting in
such a manner that has caused us to make several appeals to them to refer the several
differences between us to any of the tribunals for which the trade has provided for the
---

---
90
purpose of settling disputes. These have at last been accepted, and an attempt made to
deal with the points in dispute, but owing to a prior engagement in one case, and a mis.
understanding in another, there were only four in attendance, instead of six, and as these
four had met before, they again made an attempt to settle. On this occasion our claim
for the extras for the Top Boots or Rodeos was conceded, and we trust the claim for back
pay will be made in accord with our desire. There are still several further claims of
principle to be settled on the 25th inst., when this extended Committee of Inquiry meet.
In fact this inquiry will probably end in an appeal to the National Joint Standing Com-
mittee, and also will be likely to form some definite ruling on the points in the next National
Terms.
LEICESTERSHIRE COUNTY BOARD has held a meeting of the Clicking Section and decided
a point of difference between the Employers and Operatives respecting a matter as to
whether a One-bar shoe was of more trouble to cut on a machine than an Oxford. This
was decided in the men's favour and a price fixed accordingly.
The COUNCIL MEETING Occupied us two days and resulted in a desire to be more alert
in the way of care in the finances of the Branches. In this connection I have already
asked, and been given every assistance when visiting branches as to the system adopted,
but do not pretend to lay down a rule or plan, but just to be able to direct the source
from which all our officials may obtain help without fear, because some of the officer,
think that because they have been workers at the bench, and are elected to a position
which may call for clerical work, trouble may follow. All these imaginary troubles can
be overcome by an appeal to the Central Office and I hope none will hesitate.
SILEBY has again been visited, and is making good progress, and is better by far
than it has been for some time. The new Secretary is very interested in his work, and
intends making the branch what it ought to be. With the help of the Organisers he has
added fifty new members, and with him we visited a prominent firm in the town, and
asked the Employer if he would kindly display the "Organisation in Industry" resolution.
which he promised to do. I am informed he has been as good as his word.
The LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH has been attended and the work of the Union
dealt with regarding their future with the "Organisation in Industry" resolution,
as in this city there is still a rival organisation, who, at least, have some members.
NORTHAMPTON NO. 2 Branch was attended at the Mission Hall, Northampton, and
the position of the Branch and its relation to the Union dealt with to the apparent satis-
faction of the members so far as the Council and the Central Office are concerned.
NORTHANTS ADVISORY COUNCIL held their usual meeting, when Mr. W. R. Townley
dealt with the scheme of Superannuation for Officers and Clerks, and gave a very good
exposition, as he sees it. A goodly number of questions were asked, such as the Council
ought to draft a scheme for all members. With this I entirely agree, and think this will
be the best way to get them to consider any other scheme, because we, who are officers,
'n only escape the charge of self-interest by so doing.
C.W.S., LEICESTER AND DERBY.-Both these places have been visited, and a meeting
the Operatives held at Derby respecting the conditions of the Derby factory and the
method of payment. After presenting a deputation of the men to the Management, we
hope to be able to say that our request has ultimately been complied with, and that this
firm will be put upon a sound working basis in the near future.
HEEL MAKERS OF NORTHANTS. We have held a further meeting of the above with the
kindly assistance of Mr. C. H. Horrell, President of the Federation, in the Chair, and have,
we believe, created a little more confidence, and as one of the largest and most influential
gentlemen present has undertaken to call the next meeting, we think that our aim is
accomplished, and therefore we respectfully withdraw until such time as they may give
us an invitation to meet them.
to have trouble with us.
EMPLOYERS LEAVING THE FEDERATION. - This is sometimes the case due to firms
going out of business; in a very few others we are left wondering whether firms are likely
Federation for any different reasons than some members cease paying to the Union. We
We hope not, but one wonders why firms should leave the
distinctly prefer to deal with Federated members and hope to get the industry in a healthier
organised state.
been in conflict with the Ministry owing to the Legal Department's view being somewhat
TRADE BOARD. This work has occupied three days in London, and we have again
in conflict with the Committee on the Boy Labour question. We thought we had met
their wishes, when instead of claiming adult rates (as we had been legally advised years
back) for a boy who was employed in excess of the number allowed, we introduced a fall
back rate, somewhere about ten shillings higher thmber allowed, we introduas a per-
missible rate, rather than a rate we expected to be permanere and that the


---
91
law takes another view. Generally speaking the District Committees accepted the work
who went from forty-eight hours to sixty-three on the plea that after forty-eight hours'
although we are still without the Law Officers' opinion, on the case of a Multiple firm
of the Central Board and there is no doubt the Order will obtain the official sanction,
work they became a shopkeeping establishment for the sale of certain articles, grindery,
&c., and ceased to be a workshop within the meaning of the Act.
THE JOINT STANDING COMMITTEE has met and invited several firms to meet them to
learn the cause of their non-observance of some of our National conditions. This gathering
was not large, but we believe influential in the direction we are tending, and with the help
of some of the local members of the Federation, we still hope to influence others who are
at present outside the pale to come in.
WELLINGBOROUGH. We have had to again visit a small firm in this town who appear
cannot endorse. One wonders why men have less courage as manufacturers than they
had as workmen. We cannot as workers give better conditions than the National con-
to me to be the prey of the factors, and whose conditions of employment are such that we
ditions of the trade, and the outlook of this firm at present looks black indeed.
and buy your own paper, the Daily Herald, to my mind the best paper for Labour
May I again repeat my appeal to our membership, wear Stamped and reliable boots,
published.
Yours fraternally,
Withers
General President.
CO-PARTNERSHIP IN COAL.
Sir R. Redmayne's Suggestions.
Sir Richard Redmayne was the principal guest at the monthly lunch of the Labour
Co-partnership Association, held at the Holborn Restaurant, on 10th February, 1926,
and made suggestions for improving the present state of the coal industry. Mr. J. H.
Stobart Greenhalgh presided.
Sir Richard Redmayne said that coal and agriculture were the two greatest industries
of the kingdom, and coal-mining, as the greatest exporting industry, helped more than
any other to supply the nation with its food. The depression in the coal trade was not
confined to Great Britain, and the fact that British coals were the best and the coalfields
near the ports had combined to maintain our pre-eminence in the export trade in face of
increasing competition. We were still by far the biggest exporters of coal in the world,
and, he thought, always would be. Still, the fact remained that while there was an average
profit, taking all the mines, in 1913, of nearly 2s. 5d. a ton, there was now a loss of Is. 6d.,
or, if the subvention was allowed, a loss of about 2 d. That was a desperate position.
He would take a leaf from the German book and concentrate upon improved selling
arrangements and selling direct. He knew the middleman would shout, but if they took
a good Sheffield coal costing 23s. a ton, and added 14s., which made 37s., that should be
the price of household coal delivered in London. He wanted to know where the extra
135. a ton to-day was going to before that coal was put into their cellars. He did not
believe that the coal merchant was making exorbitant profits-he thought he was making
profits-but, either he was making exorbitant profits or something else was wrong some-
where with the distribution system. In the next 10 to 20 years, he thought, the biggest
question this country would be concerned with, after the housing question was settled,
was a simplification of distribution, on which far too much was spent, and especially
now they had motor haulage at their diaposal.
Further, he would endeavour to bring about a system of co-partnership. He was
not concerned at the moment to state how it should be done, but surely some system
was capable of being established, though before that system could be evolved the soil
on which it could grow must be different from that existing to-day. There would have
to be an end to these wild, blatant speeches made by some so-called leaders of the miners
and others. He could not believe that the coal trade, difficult as it was, was incapable
of the application of a co-partnership system, of which the South Metropolitan Gas Com-
pany was such an outstanding successful example. (Cheers.)
A vote of thanks to the speaker was moved by Sir William Chance and seconded by
Mr. Basil Peto, and Sir Richard Redmayne, in reply, reiterated that he thought in co-
partnership lay a solution of the present difficulties.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
92
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
I was in partnership with Mr.
Mountsorrel, Rothley, Mansfield, Derby and Nuneaton. I
factories. The weather was
Since my last report I have been organising and holding meetings at Sileby,
Baum most of the time. The Christmas holidays were longer than usual at many of the
exceptionally severe with frost and snow part of the time,
period-in membership, and interest taken in the Union-than was done when conditions
and it seems strange that more progress should be made in the Sileby area during this
were more favourable. I mentioned in my previous report that the new Secretary, Mr
I. Waring, had confidence that a forward move could be made by following up the efforts
of the organisers. The confidence of the members is gradually being restored, and this
feeling will spread to the non-members and help to make Sileby a live force among the
branches of the National Union in the near future. I am sorry to say that I am one of
the many unfortunates who fell and injured themselves during the frosty and snowy
dinner-hour meeting, and broke one of my ribs. I am on the mend and hope to be on the
weather. I got a bad fall on Friday, 15th January, at Mountsorrel, when going to a
road again soon.
26th January, 1926.
D. MCCARTHY.
After recovering from the accident which I met with on 15th January, I returned
to my work on 1st February. Since then Mr. Baum and I have had many meetings at
interviews with several employers on questions of the minimum wage, piecework and pay
factories at Sileby, Mountsorrel, Rothley, Shepshed, Derby and Mansfield. We had
Mr. W. Warner (Council Member) and I had a meeting of the machinists at Nuneaton.
was much needed, and in due course negotiations will follow and make for improvements.
want of thought in management. We placed the particulars before the general manager
cause to complain on irritating
of the firm at Barwell, a few days later, when a careful note was made of our complaints
and a promise that they would have attention.
Indoor meetings at Mountsorrel have been a failure for many years, and it was with
some misgivings that the Secretary of the Sileby branch, Mr. Baum and myself, considered
the holding of a meeting of the operatives of the three factories there. We billed our
General President for a meeting on 17th February, and to the surprise of us all the meeting
as a decided success, though the night was dismal and cold. The Secretary expects
any new members as a result of this meeting. The news that 60 members had lately
een added to the branch was received with applause.
At Mansfield to-day we learned that eight new members were made on Saturday
as a result of the meeting held on Friday by Mr. Baum and myself. The Consol men were
among these. At times I become impatient and almost disheartened over unscrupulous
employers, some of them members of the Federation, wilfully breaking the Agreements
in not paying the graduated scale of wages or the time and a quarter for overtime. But
the worst thing in this connection is that our members tolerate it. Even a minority of
members in any shop, if of the right metal, could make this impossible for employers to do.
I laugh at the Communist point of view about the oppressed workers rising up en masse
on a given day and setting up, hey presto, a more equitable state of society, when I can
bear witness to the sad truth that the majority of my own class will make no little sacrifice
or effort to get things within their immediate reach, which would add to the material
well-being of their families. The industrial side at the moment is the all-important side
for the wage-earners, and those lacking courage and consciousness on this point will play
a poor part in setting up a Co-operative Commonwealth.
20th February, 1926.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
D. MCCARTHY.
With Mr. McCarthy I have endeavoured to follow up the work of the previous month,
Sileby, Mountsorrel, Derby, and Mansfield being visited. At Derby our position at
Maden & Ireland's is being maintained, but further progress is necessary if this is to become
firm, and I am of the opinion that there will be no going back to the former position.
a well-organised firm. There is quite a good feeling existing amongst the men on this
It is absolutely necessary to create the right atmosphere between the operatives, in order
that the principles of Trade Unionism can be firmly established.
conditions in this area. In this thickly populated area there is not a great demand for
women's labour, consequently the wages of the girls are exceedingly poor, which is reflected
is very largely the
in our own industry. Despite this difficulty, continued pressure is being exerted to deal


---
```text
with those firms in our industry. At the Mansfield Shoe Company we still need a further
increase in our membership, which is not so rapid as one would desire. The General
President has been very closely following up the work, and at the recent negotiations that
we had with the firm, an excellent case was made out to the directors for the adjustment
of prices and conditions, according to the terms of the National Agreement. At Faire
Bros. the directors have practically conceded our demands, and efforts have been made
to again enrol the girls as members. The Shop President reports that 55 have joined,
but there are still the same number outside the Union. We made attempts to influence
these, and are fairly confident that eventually they will join. The negotiations with the
General President has covered a long period, and it is very satisfactory to report matters
have been adjusted, and now it is entirely left to the girls who have received substantial
increase in wages, to respond by honouring their obligations.

The position in the Sileby area is much more satisfactory, and distinct progress can
be recorded. Mr. Waring, the Secretary, is proving an admirable servant of the Branch,
and renders very useful service. The operatives at Bray's, Moir's. Newbold & Burton's.
School Boot, Smith's, Parker & Barlow's, and Willett's, have been met, and good meetings
held. The Secretary reports that at the School Boot 28 new members have joined during
the past month, which is a distinct sign of improvement that a change is taking place in
the mentality of the operatives. This is indeed encouraging in view of the work that has
been continually going on during the past year. The whole problem of organisation is
one of continuous effort, together with our local officers attending to details. One is
complaint was never attended to, then when inquiries are made, you discover that the
correct price for the particular operation. Where our organisation is weak, our members
are often placed at a disadvantage, and often give us information which reveal a condition
of affairs that are far from satisfactory. Consequently our efforts should be in the direction
of complete organisation on this class of firm. It is very necessary to keep on increasing
our membership, and at the same time keep our members well informed of the prices that
should be paid for the operations performed. This is the problem in the Sileby District,
though it is exceedingly slow. Our members are growing more conscious of the power of
organisation, which is being reflected in their earnest desire, that the conditions they are
employed in should be up to the standard of other districts. I am fairly confident that
three firms need our attention, and can be dealt with only in so far that our membership
is strong enough to enforce the legitimate demands of the operatives.

J. H. BAUM.

FELLOW MEMBERS,

The past month has been spent between London and Kingswood, mostly in the
former place, where there is apparently always something to be done to keep the position
of the Union before both operatives and employers, as each section has a tendency so far
as certain firms are concerned to forget or overlook the merit of the condition that has
been established.

There is, however, a tendency towards the fixing of prices for the lasting and finishing
departments in conjunction with machinery, and one cannot but think that if this could
be done there would result an improvement of conditions for the operative and a stability
in regard to labour costs that would be of some advantage to the employer.

I am fully persuaded that an uncontrolled condition of things inside the factory so
far as costs are concerned is in the long run no good to employer or employed. It produces
bad organisation in the factories, causes loose methods in the departments, develops
an attitude of mind in regard to supervision that is in the long run very bad, because it
concentrates upon methods that are penny wise and pound foolish.

This is amply borne out by what is taking place in the different centres. The growth
and development of firms is greater where the Union policy is most firmly established.
Our conditions are no bar to progress in business, while the workers gain therefrom in a
manner that permit of no doubt whatsoever. This is, I believe, the experience of all our
branches and few could be found that would wish to go back to the old state of things.
This also applies to the employers who have always been ready to accept in the right spirit
the principles upon which the machinery and policy rest.

One would like to urge that our London members should make a big effort to get into
line in this respect. There are several large factories in which quantity statements could
be established with advantage all round, and in an area, where perhaps close supervision
is not so easy as in most provincial centres. This policy is essential if labour conditions
are to be what we aim at as Trade Unionists. By this means abuses can be better checked,
and in the end lead to a recognition of our organisation by employers who are in need of
improvement in that respect. It may be of course that all this will not be accomplished
without some trouble here and there. That only proves we are right in our methods.
C
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
94
Employers do not as a rule follow a line contrary to what we stand for in the interest of
the workers, neither does lack of organisation and the application of the Trade Union spirit
lead up to a condition of things which make for further progress.
reason why a
With the fixing of prices and a greater loyalty on the part of our members, there is no
position that is in many respects bad at present, should not develop into one
that could compare favourably with the best. That at any rate must be our objective
and we must pursue it with purpose and method. The strength of the strongest chain
lies in its weakest link, and the strength of our National position can best be maintained
by the removal of the weak spots wherever they may be.
spirit when men have to meet an attitude of mind on the part of an employer that is hope-
less and impossible. Where it is sought to impose conditions upon operatives that are
There has been an incident during the month in London that displayed the right
unjust and unfair, and when the first attempt fails, other and more insidious methods
much to justify it, even though as officials we must not advise cessation of work before
members at times that can be termed critical must not be condemned, but viewed with a
investigation of the matter causing the dispute. But having said this, solidarity among our
mind broad enough to take in all the surrounding circumstances.
So far as Kingswood is concerned much of what is stated above would have application
there. But at the moment the position there is much worse because of the state of trade
As is usual at such times a certain type of employer is taking advantage, or at least making
As is attempt of their employees. Among them one regrets to find some who up till now
have carried out our conditions without question. There may be a sad time awaiting
without a struggle. But we shall choose our own time, and we shall win. We shall
these people, as certainly we shall not accept any real departure from our conditions
never permit the meanest minds in our industry to fix the conditions under which our
people shall work.
During the time spent in the area several firms were visited, and intimation given
that we expected them to carry out all that is laid down in the National Terms of Settle-
ment, coupled with the local statements arising out of them. There is among a few
employers an attitude of mind which suggests they believe that the cure for any com-
petition they may have to meet, is to sink lower and lower until trade becomes just a
scramble in the gutter. Far better would it be that they should combine together and by
their united strength seek to eliminate the unhealthy elements that may exist. We
would be pleased to co-operate in any effort in this direction, and surely our combined
efforts could bring about whatever might be desirable in the best interests of the industry.
During the month meetings have been addressed in Norwich in connection with the
Parliamentary position. They were successful from the standpoint of numbers and
interest. The situation at Norwich has become more interesting by the fact that the
sitting Liberal has left that Party, though declaring himself to be an independent. If
there is no room for a third party, what chance is there for independents? It may be a
matter of a step at a time, but the movement is all in the direction of two parties. This
is what we have asked for, and therefore these changes are welcomed by us, as bringing
that condition of things nearer.
will settle the situation in time. One can only hope we shall be equal to our responsi-
The steady growth and expansion of the Labour vote
bilities when that time arrives.
20th February, 1926.
WALTER R. SMITH.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£
s. d.
To December, 1925 707,866 9 7
January, 1926
3,238 10 0
..
£711,104 19 7
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
s. d.
To December, 1925 414,028 19 1
January, 1926
3,139 15 3
£417,168 14 4


---
95
BRANCH REPORTS.
CHESHAM. Trade here has fallen off. We are pleased to report that
during the month a claim for compensation on behalf of one of our members
has been settled for a lump sum of £75 and legal expenses; this, in addition to
part wages for three-and-a-half years, is considered satisfactory by the member
concerned.
CHESTERFIELD. Trade here has fallen off again and members are
working from 8 a.m. till 4 p.m., for men and women making new work. Repairers
are fairly well employed.
DERBY. - Trade in Derby has slightly improved which has resulted in
members bringing down their arrears and others rejoining. There is still
great dissatisfaction at the C.W.S. at Derby, where the Management seem to
think the minimum wage should be the maximum. For instance, two efficient
Consol operatives only get £3 each a week. We have had our General Presi-
dent down on their behalf, hoping things will be satisfactory speedily.
DESBOROUGH. Trade with us is moderate, but a great improvement
on the previous month, most of those in employment making fairly good time
but there seems no chance for those who are unemployed to get into work again
at present. Our sick pay during the last month has been very heavy, and we
regret there are no signs of a decrease at present.
DUNDALK. Trade continues good. During the present session of
Parliament the question of extending the tariff so as to include numerous
commodities at present exempt, and at the same time increase the tax on
articles already taxed. When the existing tariffs were proposed and sanctioned,
the Minister of Finance definitely stated that the duties were tentative and
experimental, and there was no intention of embarking on a large measure of
Protection. But, in the interval that has elapsed, various interests, in which
a selfish element is plainly discernable, have been at work, and pressure is
being systematically applied to the Government with the object of inducing
them to include many commodities which now enter free of duty. While
it is conceivable that a particular industry or a certain locality may be benefited
by the adoption of a tariff, it is, however, also demonstrable that such a policy,
if generally applied, must tend to increase the cost of living. In the column
reserved for correspondents of the January Monthly Report, Major Bryan
Cooper, Member of the Dail, is reported in part as saying, at Rathmines,
Dublin, "that the number of workers in the Free State boot manufacturing
had only increased by 488, on the other hand the cost of boots had increased
by 16 per cent. In the circumstance it is not surprising that the Government
is disinclined to indulge in further protection experiments." While readily
admitting our incapacity to experiment with his brobdignagian views, we
might, nevertheless, remind the honourable Major, that while we admire the
worthy motives which inspired his remarks, that Pittsburg, U.S.A., one of the
most flourishing cities in the world, largely owes its greatness to protection and
moderation. Of course moderate profits are essential to industrial and com-
mercial prosperity. Furthermore, we are of the opinion that at least some of
the boot manufacturers feel satisfied with a moderate profit. As regards the
workers, to the honourable Major we can definitely say, they in no way have
contributed to the increased cost of boots, in factories where employers and
workers consider their joint interest, rather than personal ones, and we are
proud as a humble branch of a broad-minded Union, to say, that we meet
broad-minded men at the helm here, and personal interests do not prevail,
only joint interests exist, solely because we examine together the divergencies


---
between us. It would be a pity if the middleman, whether an agent or not,
should endeavour to destroy by exorbitant prices the generous facilities placed
at our disposal by an infant Native Government.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. Trade still remains poor. Rushden and
Higham, no change. Irthlingborough, worse than last month. Irchester
Wollaston, Bozeat and Finedon, fair. Raunds (Army and Navy Work).
improving, and if Government and Crown Agents' contracts materialise, it
will be much better.
KILMARNOCK. Trade in the Kilmarnock Branch is fairly good, but
there is no sign of any improvement in Kilmaurs. Many of our members are
going about idle, who have been unemployed for a considerable time. I may
also say the Repairing trade is also very dull, throughout this district.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. There is no improvement to report,
the condition of trade being very depressed. Several organising meetings have
been held during the month, and a vigorous programme will be carried out
during the coming months. The services of W. R. Smith during the previous
months have been much appreciated, and his vigorous manner of address has
been commended. This tireless propaganda should bring good results to the
Union membership when trade improves, and inspire the rank and file to be
resentful of all attempts by employers to encroach on the conditions embodied
in the National Agreement.
LEICESTER No. 1. Sickness is rather heavy. We are pleased to report
a further improvement in trade.
LIVERPOOL. The boot repairing trade has been fairly busy during the
past month, we hope it will continue. With regard to the Union Conference
(Blackpool), we suggest that the rules ought to be altered or amended in the
case of a member failing to obtain work in his (or her) own district, travelling
to another town where there is a branch and finding employment which is
likely to last for a considerable time. We are of the opinion that transfers
ht to be compulsory, that is, they ought to report to the branch secretary
e town or district where they obtain employment and pay their contribu-
to that branch, and not wait till trouble comes along in the form of un-
ployment or sickness, and then claim benefits from an official they have
never met, although perhaps working in the town for years, otherwise how are
we to know whether they are getting the proper rate of wages or working
under Union conditions. The same ought to apply to Approved members.
We get arrears cards to send out to members we know nothing about. As an
illustration we quote the case of the Liverpool Rubber Co., Walton. In 1923
they closed down for reconstruction, and two members from the Northants
district claimed unemployment benefit, which after correspondence with their
respective branches, we agreed to pay on condition that they paid us con-
tributions. One member found constant work with another firm here, but he
has never paid us any further contributions. The question is, did he drop out
or revert back to his old branch. The same sort of thing is going on now the
above-named firm have practically discharged their hands, and the members
are now looking for unemployment benefit from us although they belong to
the Northampton branches. We like a fair crack of the whip.
MAYBOLE.-Trade is still very bad, the worst we have experienced for
a long time. All the works are working about half time, some less. We hope
it will not be long before we have to report an improvement.
NORWICH. Sickness in Norwich has been heavy during the month,
but I am pleased to report trade has improved considerably during the same
period, with the promise of a continuation of better trade.


---
PLYMOUTH. - Our members discussed with interest the Draft Proposals
dealing with the Rules and Regulations of Superannuation Fund, and a generous
spirit of appreciation and loyalty to all the permanent officials of our Union
was evinced. It was generally recognised that many of the Union Officers
spend their lives in the service of their fellows, with very scant appreciation
and too often, inadequate reward. Therefore satisfaction was expressed with
the endeavour to provide each and all of the full-time servants of the organisa-
tion with some little security in old age, and their dependents assistance in
time of trouble, but while expressing their approval of the scheme, our members
voiced the opinion that they hope the time is not far distant when similar
proposals will be submitted for the inclusion of every member of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, believing this would greatly help to keep
the membership stable, our policy sane, and encourage a pride of membership
much to be desired. Now Council, and Conference (Blackpool), can this be
done on 3 per cent. of our wages? If so, Plymouth is all in. We are afraid
not, but come what may the scheme is a generous one.

SHEPSHED. - The following Officers were elected at our Annual Meeting:
President, Mr. J. W. Smith; Secretary, Mr. E. Peberdy; Auditors, Messrs.
Lakin and Knight; Trustees, Messrs. A. J. Bennett and W. Wright, with a
strong Committee. We are hoping to increase our membership very soon.

SILEBY. - Trade is fairly well at present. Pleased to say that the valu-
able help our Organisers, Mr. J. H. Baum and Mr. D. McCarthy, are rendering
to our Branch is bearing fruit. We have increased our membership by forty,
although there is need for a large increase taking into consideration the numbers
that are working in the trade in and around the district.

STREET. - We are glad to report an improvement in trade and the
number of our unemployed members considerably reduced. There is still,
however, much room for further improvement as quite a number are working
short time. We have been successful in adding to the number of our repre-
sentatives on the Urban District Council of Street, as owing to the recent
death of a former member a by-election was necessary, when Mr. T. Baskerville,
a member of our Branch Committee, was put forward and was well supported
by our members, with the result that he headed the poll by 194 votes above
the next candidate. There were four aspirants for the honour and we are
naturally very proud of Mr. Baskerville's success as he is a most ardent and
active worker in the cause of Labour.

WATERFORD. - Trade still continues good.

COST OF LIVING.

Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light,
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.

           1915    1916    1917    1918     1919   1920    1921    1922   1923   1924   1925   1926
January    10-15   35     65      85-90   120    125   165   92      78     77      80   75
February   15      35     65-70   90      120    130   151   88      77     79      79   73
March      15-20   35-40  70      90      115    130   141   86      76     78      79   
April      15-20   35-40  70-75   90-95   110    132   133   82      74     73      75   
May        20      40-45  75      95-100  105    141   128   81      70     71      73   
June       25      45     75-80   100     100    150   119   80      69     69      73   
July       25      45     75-80   100-105 105-110 152   119   84      69     70      73   
August     25      45-50  80      110     115    155   122   81      71     71      73   
September  25      45-50  80      110     115    161   120   79      73     72      74   
October    25      50     80-85   110     120    164   110   78      75     76      76   
November   30      50-55  75-80   115-120 120    176   103   80      75     80      76   
December   30-35   60     85      120-125 125    169   99    80      77     81      77

Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922) Agreement, September
(1924) Agreement, and present date.


---
CO-PARTNERSHIP PRODUCTIVE SOCIETIES.
Union Co-operative Boot and Shoe Productive Society Limited.
The half-yearly meeting of the above Society was held on the 28t ult., when Mr. E
Barratt (president) took the chair.
The balance sheet showed total sales £12,529 for the half-year compared with £26,534
for the year. Receipts of share and loan capital for the half-year amounted to £243,
land and machinery, the payment of £124 as interest on capital, and the payment of £143
and the trade result for the same period, after allowing for depreciation on buildings,
Is dividend on share capital, showed an adverse balance of £58 10s.
payment of interest on capital and allowing a 5 per cent. dividend on share capital, gave a
loss on the year of £4 135. 7d.
This result, after
Mr. Potter (secretary) pointed out that despite trade depression the Society was able
on capital, which in these times was satisfactory. The report and balance sheet was
to show an increase in sales for the year and half-year and pay a dividend of 5 per cent.
adopted. The Shoe and Leather Record, 5th February, 1926.
Kettering Co-operative Boot and Shoe Manufacturing Society Limited.
facturing Society Ltd., was held in the Co-operative Hall. The president, Mr. A.
The 74th half-yearly meeting of the Kettering Co-operative Boot and Shoe Manu-
E. Marlow (secretary), Mr. T. G. Dunkley (treasurer), and a fairly large number of
Wood, occupied the chair, supported by Mr. T. Adams, J.P. (manager), Councillor
workers.
The committee's report for the period from 4th July to 31st December, 1925, stated
the net sales amounted to £50,098. After allowing for interest on share and loan capital
at five per cent. per annum, and customary depreciation, they had left the sum of £1.485
as a net divisible profit, which would be disposed of in the following manner: 4391455
workers at 6d. in the f on wages; £901 to customers at 4d. in the £ on trade; 45 to the
Committee of Management; £37 to the Educational Fund; £74 to the Provident Fund
£14 to the Productive Federation; and (21 to the Reserve Fund.
The cash account showed total receipts of £110,420, and balance in hand at the end of
the half-year of £55,385. Liabilities totalled £52,420, leaving, as stated above, a disposable
balance of £1,485. There was a balance in hand in the Educational Fund of 227.
The Chairman heartily congratulated the management on the balance sheet, which
was thoroughly satisfactory in view of trade conditions, as was also the stocktakers' report.
LIST OF PERMANENT BRANCH OFFICIALS
as at January, 1926.
Branch.
No.
Names.
Bristol No. I
I
J. T. Osborne.
Bristol No. 2
I
J. Manners.
Daventry
I
I. H. Johnson, J.P.
Desborough
I
W. Whymant.
Glasgow
I
M. Gamble.
Higham and Rushden 3
C. Bates, E. Batchelor, W. Langley, J.P.
Hinckley
I
W. Warner.
Kettering No. I
2
C. Mayes, G. Chester.
Kettering No. 2
2
J. Chapman, W. G. Coltman.
Kingswood
I
A. G. Randall, J.P.
Leeds No. I
2
A. J. Dobbs, J.P., A. F. Peat.
Leicester No. 1
6
Leicester No. 2
3
Leicester Women's
A. Hill, J.P., G. Smith, T. H. Vallance.
3
London Metro.
2
Northampton No. I
A. Mason, J. Woodward.
Wheeler, A. Worth.
Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards, Miss A. J. Muir, Miss E. Sherwin.
D. Astley, J.P., J. Greaves, G. Parbury, M. A. Parker, J.
Northampton No. 2
3
A. Birt, W. Pitts, W. R. Townley, J.P.
2
Norwich No. I
E. Law, A. Lyne, J.P.
Norwich No. 2
4
A. Bird, H. Frazer, W. Hindes, J.P., F. C. Jex.
2
Stafford
G. H. Amond, A. H. Folkard, J.P.
I
Street
R. Dunn.
Wellingborough
I
J. H. Hooper, J.P.
Wolverhampton
2
I A. Smith.
L. P. Poole, W. Wyman.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
99
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
34, GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1.
NOMINATIONS
FOR
Delegates to Conference,
WHITSUNTIDE, 1926.
Branch entitled to nominate-Leicester.
NINE required.
(Division by Arrangement.)
Name of Member.
Branch to which
Member belongs.
Branch Nominating.
LEICESTER.-Six required.
Leicester
Leicester
Briggs, Mr. J.
Brooks, Mr. G. J.
Collin, Mr. J. T.
George, Mr. A.
Kendall, Mr. W.
Knight, Mr. G.
Lygo, Mr. T. W.
Muir, Mr. A.
Skelding, Mr. A.
Williams, Mr. H.
EARL SHILTON and BARWELL SECTIONS.-One required.
*Woodward, Mr. W.
Leicester
Leicester
ANSTEY, BLABY, COSBY, ENDERBY, OADBY, SYSTON and SOUTH WIGSTON.--
SECTIONS.- One required.
Goode, Mr. C.
Pollard, Mr. J. T.
Taylor, Mr. H. W.
Walters, Mr. A. A. ...
Widdowson, Mr. H. W.
Leicester
"
"
"
"
Leicester
FEMALE.-One required for the whole of the County.
*Smalley, Mrs. A.
Leicester
Leicester
*Elected.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image, formatted for readability:

```text
115

Terms of Settlement.

NORWICH. - Delete Items A, B, C, and D of Resolution 5, as follows: -

a. No board shall require an employer to employ any particular workman,
or a workman to work for any particular employer, or shall entertain
any questions relating to such matters except for the purpose of
enabling a workman to clear his character.

b. No board shall claim jurisdiction over the conditions and terms of
employment of workpeople outside its district, provided that no actual
work shall be sent out of a district which has been the subject of an
award in that district.

c. No board shall interfere with the right of an employer to make reason-
able regulations for timekeeping, and the preservation of order in his
factory or workshop.

d. No board shall put restrictions on the introduction of machinery, or
the output therefrom, or on the adoption of day or piecework wages by
an employer in cases in which both systems have been sanctioned,
subject to the conditions prescribed in resolutions 2 and 3. No
question referred to in sub-sections a, b, c, and d shall be made a matter
of dispute by the Union.

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS.

BRISTOL NO. 1. - "This Conference instructs the Council to consider and
prepare a Voluntary Scheme for the Superannuation of all members, and
report to the next Conference."

BRISTOL NO. 2. - New Rule. - "That a Superannuation Scheme be established
for all members. The scheme be incorporated with the Sick and Funeral
Fund as this Fund is rapidly increasing. The Council to make a report
as early as possible on the extra contributions required to give members
a superannuation of 15s. per week at the age of 65. Conference to decide
what amount is to be drawn from the Sick and Funeral Fund and set aside
for this purpose. To approach the Manufacturers' Federation to see if
anything of a joint effort can be made to cover the industry."

LEICESTER NO. 1. - "That the Council prepare a Superannuation Scheme for
the members, such scheme to be submitted to the members and a ballot
be taken for their approval or otherwise."

LEICESTER NO. 1. - "That all members who are paying 1s. per week con-
tribution shall be entitled to full sick pay."

LEICESTER WOMEN'S. - "That the Executive Council of the Union, when
considering the next National Agreement, press for ONE minimum wage
for all operatives in the industry."

NORTHAMPTON. - "That instructions be given to the Council to draw up a
scheme of Pensions for members and report to a special conference."

NORWICH NO. 2. - "That the Norwich No. 2 Branch is of the opinion that
Clause 17 of the National Conference (September, 1924) Agreement should
be amended so as to include the Boy Labour restrictions in the Fitting-up
and Preparing Departments, and it be an instruction to the Executive
Council to press for same in future negotiations with the Manufacturers'
Federation. And that it be placed on the Agenda for discussion at the
next Conference.
```

---
THE 1919 SESSION (WASHINGTON) ADOPTED SIX DRAFT CONVENTIONS:-
1. Application of the principle of an eight-hour day and a forty-eight hour week.
2. Preventing or providing against unemployment.
3. Employment of women before and after childbirth.
4. Employment of women during the night.
5. Minimum age of employment of children in industry.
6. Night work of young persons employed in industry.

SIX RECOMMENDATIONS WERE ALSO ADOPTED CONCERNING:-
1. Establishment of public employment exchanges.
2. Reciprocity of treatment of foreign workers in regard to social legislation.
3. Prevention of anthrax.
4. Protection of women and children against lead poisoning.
5. Establishment of Government Health Services.
6. Application of the Berne Convention of 1906, on the prohibition of the use of white
phosphorus in the manufacture of matches.

THE 1920 SESSION (GENOA) ADOPTED THREE DRAFT CONVENTIONS:-
1. Age for admission of children to employment at sea.
2. Unemployment indemnity in case of shipwreck.
3. Facilities for finding employment for seamen.

FOUR RECOMMENDATIONS WERE ADOPTED CONCERNING --
1. Limitation of hours of work in the fishing industry.
2. Limitation of hours of work in inland navigation.
3. Establishment of national seamen's codes.
4. Unemployment insurance for seamen.

THE 1921 SESSION (GENEVA) ADOPTED SEVEN DRAFT CONVENTIONS:-
1. Right of association of agricultural workers.
2. Workmen's compensation in agriculture.
3. Minimum age of employment of children in agriculture.
4. Use of white lead in painting.
5. Minimum age of employment as trimmers and stokers at sea.
6. Medical examination of children and young persons employed at sea.
7. Weekly rest in industry.

EIGHT RECOMMENDATIONS WERE ADOPTED CONCERNING:-
1. Development of techical agricultural education.
2. Prevention of unemployment in agriculture.
3. Social insurance in agriculture.
4. Night work of children and young persons in agriculture.
5. Night work of women in agriculture.
6. Protection of women in agriculture before and after childbirth.
7. Living-in conditions of agricultural workers.
8. Weekly rest in commercial establishments.

THE 1922 SESSION (GENEVA), in addition to formulating a number of amendments
shown by experience to be necessary in the constitution of the International Labour
Organisation, ADOPTED ONE RECOMMENDATION CONCERNING:-
1. Statistical and other information regarding emigration and immigration; (each of
the States Members to communicate this to the International Labour Office every
three months, and, yearly, to inform the Office of the number of emigrants and
immigrants).

THE 1923 SESSION (GENEVA) ADOPTED ONE RECOMMENDATION CONCERNING:-
1. General principles for the organisation of systems of inspection: (a) to make
provision for an agreed standard of factory inspection in each country; (b) to secure
the enforcement of the laws and regulations for the protection of the workers.

THE 1924 SESSION (GENEVA) ADOPTED ONE RECOMMENDATION CONCERNING:-
1. Development of facilities for the utilisation of workers' spare time (i.e., provision
or improvement of educational and recreational opportunities offered to workers).

THE 1925 SESSION (GENEVA) ADOPTED FOUR DRAFT CONVENTIONS :-
1. Equality of treatment of national and foreign workers as regards workmen's
compensation for accidents.
2. Night-work in bakeries:
3. Workmen's compensation for occupational diseases.
4. Workmen's compensation for accidents.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

119
FOUR RECOMMENDATIONS WERE ADOPTED CONCERNING:—
1. Minimum scale of workmen's compensation.
2. Jurisdiction in disputes on workmen's compensation.
3. Workmen's compensation for occupational diseases.
4. Equality of treatment for national and foreign workers as regards workmen's
compensation for accidents.

THE FIRST 1926 SESSION (GENEVA) WILL CONSIDER:-
1. Simplification of the inspection of emigrants on board ship.

THE SECOND 1926 SESSION (GENEVA) WILL CONSIDER:-
1. International codification of rules relating to seamen's articles of agreement.
2. General principles for the inspection of the conditions of work of seamen.
(These two Sessions immediately follow one another, and for practical purposes form
one Conference.)

INDUSTRIAL PROGRESS IN NEW ZEALAND.
At the opening of the New Zealand and South Seas Exhibition at Dunedin, on 17th
November, 1925, the Prime Minister, the Hon. J. G. Coates, gave statistics showing the
Dominion's progress since the International Exhibition at Christchurch in 1906. The
figures for that year and 1924 are as follows:-
1906.         1924.
Manufacturing establishments          3,517         4,461
Employees          50,205         77,461
Wages and Salaries          £4,111,521         £14,573,441
Materials used          £12,772,720         £47,027,033
Total products          £22,425,000         £76,996,397

In the same period the value of production in the following industries increased as
follows:-
Industry.     Increase.
Engineering and agricultural implements          £1,613,000
Clothing          £2,091,000
Printing          £1,555,000
Biscuit-making and confectionery          £1,020,000
Furnishing          £800,000
Woollen          £1,025,000
Tanning, woolscouring and fellmongering          £1,000,000

These figures, the Prime Minister stated, were impressive, especially when it was
remembered that New Zealand was still to a large extent in the development stage. They
showed that the manufacturing industries were increasing in importance; and it was
necessary to remember the value of the industrial activities of the Dominion, because
it was erroneously considered purely as a producer of agricultural and pastoral products.
—Extract from Industrial and Labour Information, I.L.O., 1st February, 1926.

CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st FEBRUARY, 1926.
Summary : Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included          73 per cent.
Food only          68          ”

FOOD.
At 1st February the average level of retail prices of the principal articles of food showed
a decline as compared with 1st January. This downward movement was mainly due to a
further seasonal fall of about 1d. each in the average price of eggs. Butter, cheese, bacon,
fish and butchers’ meat were also slightly cheaper than a month earlier. On the other
hand, flour, bread and tea were slightly dearer.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of July,
1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of food
included in these statistics was about 68 per cent. at 1st February, as compared with
about 71 per cent. at 1st January, and 76 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1925.—
The Ministry of Labour Gazette, February, 1926.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
120
HONOUR TO UNION STALWART.
The name of MR. JAMES GRIBBLE is well known to many members of the Union and
the work he has done on behalf of trades unionism generally. Owing to ill-health, and
failure to secure employment after the winding up of the Pioneer Boot Works, Northamp-
ton, Mr. Gribble now resides at Hastings. It was felt that he could not be allowed to
leave Northampton without some recognition of his very valuable work, and on the 26th
January, 1926, he was presented with an illuminated address and a cheque for £32 by the
members of the Northampton Labour Party.
For Mrs. Gribble there were a flower bowl and a pair of flower vases in beaten English
pewter but, unfortunately, she was unable to be present to receive them.
The address, framed in oak, and bearing Mr. Gribble's monogram and the Labour
Party's badge, was worded as follows: -
Northampton Labour Party
to
Mr. James Gribble, J.P.
On your departure from Northampton we desire to express our great appreciation of
the splendid services you have given to the Labour Party and the Trades Union movement
over a long series of years.
We gratefully recognise that it is largely due to your courageous efforts as a pioneer
and your self-sacrificing zeal in many directions that our cause occupies its present high
position.
To the merits of your work on the Town Council testimony has been borne by a
parties, whilst the immense value of the Gribble scheme of hospital contributions has
already been the subject of public recognition.
We trust that you and Mrs. Gribble will have a happy and prosperous future, and that
it will be long before your powers for usefulness know any diminution.
Signed, W. F. BELSON, President.
G. D. SIMPSON, Vice-President.
B. T. SPENCER, Secretary.
The ceremony took place in the Council Chamber, and the chair was occupied by
Mr. W. F. Belson (president of the Party).
The Chairman said the Party naturally regretted they would be losing the services
of Mr. Gribble, but they felt they could not persuade him to stay in the town in view of
the circumstances, which made his departure inevitable, and also that they could not let
him go without some expression of appreciation and goodwill from the comrades amongst
whom he had worked for so many years. The desire to make that expression was a spon-
taneous one within the Party.
Mr. Gribble was the builder of the Party. They knew he had to adopt methods ar
which some people looked askance, but there were often times when drastic measures
were necessary to call public attention to matters which were of vital importance to the
people.
No reference to Mr. Gribble's work would be complete without mention of the famous
march from Raunds to London, and his subsequent unauthorised speech in the House
of Commons. He undertook much hardship in working on behalf of those men, in marching
with them, and suffering exactly as they did, and it was because he felt their need was
great that he was prepared to suffer with them.
Mr. W. Pitts (secretary of the Northampton No. 1 Branch of the Boot and Shoe
Operatives' Union) referred to Mr. Gribble's early work in the movement.
Mr. E. Law (president of the No. 2 Branch of the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union)
referred to the services which Mr. Gribble had rendered to that Union. "His advice to
me once," said Mr. Law, "was 'Keep a straight line, never turn, be fair, be firm, be solid,
and I am sure in the end you will make success.' "
The Chairman then handed the address and cheque and Mrs. Gribble's gifts to Mr.
Gribble, who, when he rose to speak, was greeted with loud and prolonged applause.
Mr. Gribble returned thanks and was much affected by the warmth of his reception.
said that everything he had been able to do had been a pleasure to him.
"I have certainly had a rather remarkable career," he continued, "as a Trade Unionist
and a Socialist. You all know I was a soldier at one time, and served my Queen and
country for seven and a half years with the Colours and some time with the Reserve.
I ceased to be a soldier on 10th January, 1893, and on 4th March of the same year joined
the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, and have been a member ever since.
On 4th November of the same year I joined the S.D.F., and have been connected with that
ever since. As a Trade Unionist I have done all I possibly could to help on the great


---
121
ideals of the movement, and I have in my possession letters of thanks from most of the
local branches of the various unions and from some of the national organisations for the
work I have been able to do for them."
Mr. Gribble mentioned that he was the first National Organiser of the Boot Operatives'
Union, and started in adverse circumstances.
Speaking of the historic dispute at Raunds, which was concerned with the recognition
of a statement which had been formally agreed to, and which culminated in the march to
London, Mr. Gribble said the outcome of it was that the basis of the present fair wages
clause in all Government contracts was established. He had written to Government
officials in connection with the trouble and they kept asking for more information, and at
last the march was decided upon.
Continuing to speak of his trade union work, Mr. Gribble said he wanted the Union to
establish an educational college for training officials.
Mr. Gribble informed the company that he was forced to leave Northampton because,
although he did everything he possibly could, he could not get a job, "If I could have
got one," he said, " I should have stayed in Northampton, but fate was against me.
I love
Northampton. (Hear, hear.) Hastings is a beautiful place, but so is Northampton.
I can never understand, however, why my old town has been so long holding back from
its proper place in the councils of the country. It should have sent a Social Democratic
representative to Parliament years and years ago, but I believe you have a great future
before you.
I regret very much having to leave you, I shall always watch North-
ampton, and anything I can do to help the movement I shall be only too ready and pleased
to do." (Loud applause.)
"He's true to God who's true to man :
Wherever wrong is done,
To the humblest and the weakest,
'Neath an all-beholding sun.
That wrong is also done to us;
And they are slaves most base
Whose love of right is for themselves,
And not for all the race."
-LOWELL.
CONDITIONS IN CHINA.
Changsha Shoemakers.
Shoemakers in Changsha, Hunan province, are divided into three classes: (1) makers
of foreign-style footwear, (2) makers of Chinese shoes, and (3) cobblers. The last-named
do not make shoes, but mend old ones. By custom they are also considered as members
of the shoemakers' fraternity.
These three classes of artisans recognise the same patron saint, Sun Chu, but maintain
separate guild headquarters and separate places of worship. The foreign-style footwear
makers have a temple dedicated to Sun Chu at Lu Hsin Hang, which also serves as the
office of their guild. Each shoemaker's shop is required to pay a membership fee of 12
dollars on admission to the guild, this contribution being used chiefly for the maintenance
of the guild.
Some of the shoemakers are also tailors or dealers in ready-made clothing. On
admission to the guild, the master shoemakers must pay a membership fee of 20 dollars
if their establishment is engaged exclusively in making shoes, and 10 dollars if it also
deals in clothing. The worker in a shoemaker's shop is also required to pay an admission
fee of 4 dollars, and an apprentice, 2 dollars.
The cobblers keep no establishment, but ply their trade in the streets with portable stands.
They also worship Sun Chu, but have a guild of their own. Owing to the large number
of workers, the cobblers' guild always finds it difficult to enforce the guild regulations
on its members, whose ranks are constantly swollen by immigrants from the country
districts or by the unemployed from the shoemakers' shops.
According to the regulations of the cobblers' guild, any fresh immigrant from the
country districts or non-member of the guild must pay four strings of cash before being
allowed to do business in the city. Formerly, an effort was made to extract fees from
shoemakers turned itinerant cobblers; but they objected, arguing that as shoemakers
they had already been initiated into the shoemakers' guild. The dispute was carried
on for several years in the Changsha local courts, and was finally settled by a compromise
whereby the unsuccessful shoemaker undertaking cobbling work was required to pay
only one-half of the sum required of an ordinary newcomer. Cobblers of this class now
distinguish themselves from the rest by a red stick on their portable stands. - Extract
from Industrial and Labour Information, I.L.O., 1st February, 1926.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
124
DERMATITIS IN THE BOOT AND SHOE TRADE
(STOCK ROOMS).
A recent inquiry into the occurrence of dermatitis (inflammation of the skin, eczema)
among the workers in the stock rooms of the Boot and Shoe Trade has been made by the
Factory Department.
This inquiry has disclosed the fact that there is a small incidence of dermatitis among
those workers applying "cleaning" solutions in stock rooms. The usual ingredients for
in these solutions varies, and evidence is strong that the higher the percentage of ammonia,
these solutions are ammonia, methylated spirit, and benzine. The strength of ammonia
the greater is the incidence of dermatitis. A cleaning solution containing the lowest
proportion of ammonia compatible with the requirements of the work, therefore,
desirable.
Methylated spirit is responsible for some cases of dermatitis.
Dermatitis- the prevention of which is so much easier than the permanent cure
may be avoided by adopting the following precautions for those workers applying " cleaning"
solutions" to boots and shoes in stock rooms :-
(1) by providing the workers with gloves, for which the only satisfactory materia
(2) by the provision and use of good washing accommodation; and
(3) by the recognition and treatment at first aid boxes of all minor injuries whic
would be leather;
destroy the natural protection afforded by the unbroken skin.
FACTORY DEPARTMENT,
HOME OFFICE,
December, 1925.
MORE BALANCE SHEETS.
Last week we announced that the balance sheets of Lotus Ltd., and John Loveys and
Co. Ltd., were received too late for detailed reference in our editorial columns. This week
the net profits shown by the two companies are included in the following table, together
with those of George Angus and Co. Ltd., Lennards Ltd., and Wyles Bros. Ltd. :-
1925 1924 1923
£ £ £
Lotus -49,131 88,211 143,162
Geo. Angus and Co. 32,814 52,398 29,104
John Loveys and Co. 11,689 9,090 6,706
Wyles Bros. 11,510 10,512 11,645
Lennards 35,171 43,557 28,397
-The Shoe and Leather Record, 29th January 1926.
In common with most of the large multiple concerns, the Public Benefit Boot Co.
Ltd. (Leeds), has had another good year. For 1925 the directors announce that the net
profit is £46,703, which compares with £46,076 for the previous twelve months. The
increase is only £627, but it has to be remembered that the 1924 profit represented an
increase of nearly £10,000 over that of the preceding year. The steady progress made is
shown in the following table :-
Net Profit. Dividends. Carried forward.
1925 £46,703 12 1 per cent. £44,821
1924 £46,076 12 1 £42,062
1923 £36,702 10 £39,162
1922 £36,431 8 £37,841
1921 £21,669 8 £40,370
It is proposed to place £8,000 to reserve, bringing that fund from £114,000 up to
£122,000, and again to add £4,000 to the benevolent fund, which will then stand at £8,000.
The carry forward is, it will be noted, also increased-from £42,062 to £44,821. It should
be added that the progress made by the company is actually better than is shown in the
above figures, for the net profit of 1922 included £12,019 refunded in respect to Excess
Profits Duty.-The Shoe and Leather Record, 5th February, 1926.
---

---
MEETINGS. 126
Four quarterly meetings have been held. These have taken place
successively at Rushden, Desborough, Daventry and Northampton. The first constituted
the Annual Meeting of the Council at which the Officers for the year were appointed, and
the ordinary annual general business transacted. The discussion, somewhat protracted,
centred round the Secretary's report, and admirably displayed the very real keenness
with which the affairs of the Council are viewed. The second meeting, devoted to a
discussion on " The Legalisation of National Agreements," was very admirably introduced
by the General President, Mr. T. F. Richards. Many new viewpoints were introduced,
and a number of misconceptions cleared up, with the result that, with one or two notable
exceptions, the proposals were unanimously approved. The third meeting gave members
the opportunity of knowing more of the work of the International Labour Bureau of the
League of Nations. Mr. E. L. Poulton was the speaker, who, by virtue of his honourable
position in the bureau and the responsibilities he bears in connection therewith, was able
to authoritatively comment on the value of the work performed.
Three important aspects of the meeting are worthy of record :—(a) a resolution
appreciation to Mr. Poulton for his unique work in connection with the Bureau was passed;
(b) a verbatim report of his speech was circulated; (c) the meeting was held in the historic
borough of Daventry. The fourth meeting enabled the Northamptonshire delegate
who attended the Trade Union Congress to report on the principal resolutions and matters
which were brought before the Congress. Mr. W. Townley dealt with the Industrial
side of the Congress resolutions; Mr. L. Poole summarised the purely Political, and Mr
G. Chester dealt with the Educational proposals. The chief factors arising from these
reports were (a) the fundamental changes proposed in respect to trade union structure
and function, and (b) the comprehensive scheme of education adopted for the Trade Union
movement. Altogether, the meetings were of a relatively high standard, and most of the
discussions were of a keen and analytical character. It should, however, be borne in mind
that, whilst those attending gain most from the meetings of the Council, the resultant
delegate reports to branch meetings constitute a basis of educational propaganda of
extreme value to the members in general.
Our appreciation to the General President and General Secretary are very cordially
expressed for their valuable assistance and interest during the year.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS.—The Executive have met on four occasions. They have
been faced with many difficulties, but loyalty to the Union and to the Council, and the
desire for efficient service, have enabled them to materially assist in the success of the
Council's work.
EDUCATIONAL.—Branch work in this respect has not been quite as definite as in former
years. Northampton continue to send members to a Tutorial Class; Rushden completed
a third year study-group in the early part of the year, but were unsuccessful in reforming
the Class in the autumn owing to the retirement of the Tutor; Kettering has been unable
to reform previously successful Classes, but has done good educational work at frequent
meetings of Shop Presidents; Wellingborough successfully continued in the early part
of the year the experiment of a special speaker at Branch meetings. Altogether the
direct educational work of Branches, though limited in character, has been decidedly
valuable and of practical advantage to the Union.
The Executive Committee, consequent on the Educational proposals of the Trade
Union Congress, formulated a number of suggestions which had for their basis an Educa-
tional scheme for the Union. These were submitted to the National Council, and were
also published in the Monthly journal. An inquiry has been addressed to branches by the
National Council, the result of which will, it is hoped, be the submission of a scheme by
the National Council to the next Conference of the Union.
Consequence on the Trade Union Congress proposals a Conference was organised
and held at Kettering on 5th December. Over 80 delegates attended to hear Mr. J. W.
Muir, of the Workers' Educational Association, lecture on “ The T.U.C. proposals in relation
to the Trade Union Movement." In a brilliant and racy speech Mr. Muir showed the
absolute necessity for Education in the Trade Union Movement, and described how schemes
of education could be arranged between Unions and the Workers' Educational Trade
Union Committee. This was the only Conference of its kind held during the year, but
another to be addressed by the Secretary of the National Council of Labour Colleges will
take place in February at Wellingborough.
SPECIAL.—Following the precedent established by Resolution the previous year,
the Council, in conformity with the desire to obtain first-hand knowledge of industries
contributory to our own, visited, by the courtesy of the Directors, the Nene Valley Chrome
Tanning Company, Irthlingborough. About 50 delegates attended, and under the super-
vision of representatives of the firm an intensely informative visit ensued. Many of the
processes of tannage were quite new to most of the delegates, and the experience clearly
proved how desirable it was to know more of the industries assisting in but outside the
actual production of boots and shoes. The visit also proved our very close kinship with the
employees in the leather trades and how valuable would be the amalgamation of the two
Unions concerned.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
127
Indeed, it is probable that few Unions,
striking testimony to the way
This not only
FINANCES.- The expenses of the Council have been approximately equal to those of
former years, and in view of the value of the services rendered to the Union, they may
be considered as money very well expended.
THANKS. I should like to place on record our appreciation of the services rendered
members of the National Council whose attendance at our meetings has been most helpful.
to the Council by Mr. W. Langley, J.P., as President during the past year, and to those
MEMBERSHIP. - It is pleasing to record a further substantial increase in membership
previous year, it is exceedingly satisfactory during this very difficult period of trade union
of the Branches represented on the Council. Although the increase of 894 is less than the
history, that we are more than holding our own.
and possibly fewer centres, have a higher percentage of membership.
reflects credit on the individual Branches, but constitutes a
numbers employed took place. The same remark still holds good, but, strong as we are,
1024 could not be reasonably expected during 1925, unless a considerable increase in the
in which the Union's affairs are conducted. I stated last year that the high figures of
it is imperative that non-unionism should be eliminated. When this is achieved, the
maintenance and improvement of our conditions is assured.
UNEMPLOYMENT. It is with regret that one still has to record the continuance of
excessive unemployment in our trade. Those totally out of work continue to wend their
likely to much improve for the majority of these unfortunates when trade revives. For
way from door to door in the apparently hopeless search for work. Neither is the position
hand-craft as their unwanted contribution to our highly mechanical industry, and young
the most part they constitute the siftings of our trade. Elderly members with wonderful
men with only a limited and narrow experience of an employerly-conceived juvenile
operation. The latter problem still harrows us with its complexity, and time does not
problem, has been general. All centres at some period during the year have experienced
seem to minimise the evil. Short time, which is an essential phase of the unemployed
and in round figures must have amounted to tens of thousands of pounds during the course
the evil very acutely. The loss in wages-spending power-from this cause is enormous,
of the year. The solution, it is greatly feared, cannot be found under the present system
of the organisation of industry.
CONCLUSIONS. The many other features and problems affecting our well-being which
might have been commented on in this report, must be left. Brevity is essential, and com-
ment brings not solution. The path to glory is paved with good intentions and reports.
Let us continue to show by our reasoned actions that the past is the "other peoples,
the future "ours."
16th January, 1926.
Yours fraternally,
GEO. CHESTER,
Secretary.
ANALYSIS OF MEMBERSHIP
FROM 29TH NOVEMBER, 1924, ΤΟ 28TH NOVEMBER, 1925.
Males
Probationary Females
Totals
In- De-
1924 1925 1924 1925
1924 1925 1924 1925 crease crease
Higham & Rushden 5326 5455 2508
2563
216 232 8050
8250
200
Northampton No. I 5541 5719
365 344 5906 6063
157
Kettering No. I
Northampton No. 2 2494 2534 4403
4682
480
409 7377
7625
248
2962 3003
13
II
140
130 3115 3144
29
Kettering No. 2
Desborough
Wellingborough
1024 1098
1705
1794
171
150 2900
3042
142
17721841
927
952
130
110
2829 2903
74
Daventry
548 617
159
191
78
16
785
824
39
Chesham
277 279
159
159
7
16
443 454
II
6
263
256
55
57
5
4
323
317
20207 20802 9929 10409 1592 1411 31728 32622
900
6
Increase
Decrease
894
595
480
181
1925
Increase
Total membership of Union
1924
1486
78745
894
81313


---
```text
value of which is difficult to estimate.
129
railway sleepers, 625,000 bricks, 39,226 cubic metres of firewood, and large quantities of
From the Guenich-Ada forest were produced, among many commodities, 151,200
charcoal, lime, &c. Work was also done on draining marshes, farming and the like, the
M. G. Stoinoff, Chief of the General Directorate of Compulsory Labour Service,
without it the railways could not complete their new programme,"
To suppress it would be equivalent to stopping the development of the national economy;
speaking on the reform, said:
NEXT INTERNATIONAL LABOUR CONFERENCE.
Emigration and Seamen's Questions.
this year.
Replies are being received by the International Labour Office of the League of Nations
considered at the next International Labour Conference, to be held in May and June
from Governments to a series of questions sent out in connection with the subjects to be
upon the other. Hitherto only one Session has been held each year and the second, which
two Sessions of the Conference should be held in 1926, the one following immediately
In view of a decision to discuss maritime questions this year, it was decided that
took place at Genoa in 1920, was devoted exclusively to maritime matters but the growth
specialists on maritime questions to deal with all the general problems which come before it.
of the work of the Conference has made it difficult to ask a Session, consisting mainly of
It was therefore agreed that the first 1926 Session (which will be the eighth to be held
vear's work presented by M. Albert Thomas, the Director of the Office, the Session will
of Versailles) should open on 25th May. In addition to discussing the report on the
since the foundation of the International Labour Organisation by the terms of the Treaty
study the question of the simplification of the inspection of emigrants on board ship.
The second 1926 Session is expected to open on 7th June, and this is the Session which
will be devoted exclusively to maritime affairs. The particular questions to be studied
will be :-
ment;
(1) the international codification of rules relating to seamen's articles of agree-
(2) general principles for the inspection of the conditions of work of seamen.
This Session will also have to re-elect the Joint Maritime Commission, first elected
at the Genoa Conference in 1920 to advise the Office on all maritime matters, and con
sisting of five representatives each of the shipowners and seamen and two Members of the
Governing Body.
FINDING WORK FOR SEAΜΕΝ.
End of Private Agencies in Japan.
Following a conference between the Government, shipowners and seamen, states
Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly publication of the International Labour
Office of the League of Nations, held last November, the Japanese Government announced
that it proposed to abolish private employment agencies by the end of 1925. It was also
proposed that the employment exchange work should be transferred from the Japanese
Association for the relief of Seamen (representatives of which were present at the con-
ference) to the joint control of shipowners and seamen.
These arrangements carry out the obligations which were undertaken by Japan by
her ratification of a Convention on the subject of finding employment for seamen adopted
by the second Session of the International Labour Conference, held at Genoa in 1920.
Progress is also reported regarding the measures taken by Japan to put into operation
the Convention on unemployment (which includes the establishment of free public employ-
ment exchanges for industrial workers) adopted by the first Session of the Conference at
Washington in 1919. Under the Employment Exchanges Act of 1921, over 170 employ-
ment exchanges were set up throughout Japan. Many fee-charging agencies, however,
it was not easy to abolish them. In the meantime, in accordance with the principle laid
continued to exist. So long as the public employment exchanges system was not perfected,
down by the Unemployment Convention and by the Employment Exchanges Act, the
authorities have endeavoured to place the fee-charging agencies under a strict and uniform
national control. They were already subject to control by the prefectual authorities, but
this control was not provided for in any legislation. In order to regularise this position,
the Department of provided for in reported to have drafted an Order containing the
following provisions -
(1) The establishment of a fee-charging employment agency is subject to the
strict control of the Prefectural Governor. No agency-charging fees may be started
to the
Governor.
```

---
SHELVED FACTORIES BILL.

Boot Operatives' Union Dissatisfied: Health of the Workers.
Deep regret at the decision of the Home Secretary not to proceed for at least twelve
months with the Factories Bill, is expressed by Mr. E. L. Poulton, General Secretary of the
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, who for a long time has been in communica-
tion with different Government departments on the question of conditions in factories and
workshops.
In a message to the Mercury he says:
In relation to the Factories Bill not being presented for at least another year,
feels in considerable difficulty at the refusal of the Home Office to take steps to bring
the Factories Act up-to-date, especially when one remembers the appeal of the Prime
Minister for ' Peace in our Time."

"There can be no peace when such an outstanding example obtains of refusal to
and that, on the ground that it will add to the burden of industry."

Ensuring Good Health.
"We are reminded by the Minister of Health of the necessity to do everything pos-
to ensure the good health of the people, and are told of the millions of days lost each year
by sickness. A good deal of this could be avoided if healthy, light workshops and better
conditions for the carrying out of industry are enforced, yet the Home Office is constantly
putting off the very thing that would bring about better health, so necessary in the interests
of the nation.

"That any Minister should make the question of unity of hours an additional excuse
for delay in bringing about reform is surprising, and it is to be hoped that public opinion,
without regard to party, will bring pressure to bear upon the Government to ensure its
reconsideration of the matter as will result in a bona-fide determination to bring the
up-to-date Factories Bill.

Washington Obligation.
"So far as the meeting of the nations is concerned in relation to the hours of labour,
although I feel very strongly that the Government should have honoured the obligation
entered into at Washington in 1919, I believe a step has been taken towards the ratifica-
of the Convention.
"One can only hope that the result of such an enquiry will be the bringing about
speedily of an understanding as will ensure a rapid passing of an Act of Parliament em-
bodying the Washington Convention proposals for a 48-hours week." -The Leicester
Mercury, 4th February, 1926.

48-HOUR WEEK IN DANGER.

During its period of office, and again last year, the Labour Party introduced a 48-
Hours Bill for the purpose of ratifying the Washington Convention of the League of
Nations.

So far the Tories have done nothing in this direction, nor does the King's Speech
state that they intend to introduce such a Bill during the coming year.
They are, however, arranging a Conference with the Governments of Belgium, France,
Germany, and Italy in order to consider the possibility of securing an international agree-
ment.

Judged by the statement of the Prime Minister, however, there is a grave danger that
the Washington 48-Hours Convention may be sabotaged, and that some other agreement
less favourable to the workers may be arrived at in substitution.
The qualification in Mr. Baldwin's speech which gives rise to suspicion is as follows -
"Even if we do not come to a definite agreement, or an agreement so definite,
yet I have every hope that we may usefully come to SOME agreement.
(House of Commons, 2nd February, 1926).

48-Hour Week.
This shows that Mr. Baldwin is prepared to ratify something that falls short of the

-T.U.C. Speakers' Notes, 11th February, 1926.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NATIONAL UNION of BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES

NAT TEL: MUSEUM 4438
LONDON
TEL ADDRESS MATUNISHOP
PHONE, LONDON

Seat of Government, 34.GUILFORD ST LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 245.

General President
T.F.RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L.POULTON.J.P.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.

Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
22ND MARCH, 1926.
TRADE.
Trade has slightly improved during the month, although a large
number of our members are still unemployed or working short time. The
figures in the Gazette of the Ministry of Labour are as follows :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment showed a slight improvement in almost all centres of the boot and shoe
industry during February, but was still only moderate on the whole; short time was
still prevalent in many centres. There was also a slight improvement as compared with
February of last year; though a few districts showed no improvement, or even in some
cases a decline.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 7.7 on 22nd February, as compared with 8.7 on
25th January and with 9.5 on 23rd February, 1925.
There was a further slight improvement in London, and employment in general was
fairly good. A seasonal improvement was reported in the Leicester and Northampton
districts; at Leicester employment was good, and better than a year ago; most operatives
were working full time, some being on overtime. Employment was still only moderately
good at Northampton. At Hinckley employment remained quiet, with short time general.
In the Higham and Rushden area less short time was worked and employment improved
to fair. At Wellingborough there was a slight improvement, but employment was still
quiet, and short time rather prevalent. At Kettering there was an improvement, and
employment was fair; but there was still a good deal of under-employment and (among
men workers) unemployment.
Employment remained moderate at Leeds, with much short time; it was better,
however, than in January, and than in February, 1925. At Stafford it was good with
most firms, and better than in January or than a year earlier; some hundreds of work-
people, however, were suspended for varying periods during the month. Employment in
the turn-shoe department at Norwich was still slack; but in other departments there
was an improvement, and employment was fair; overtime was occasionally worked.
There was a slight improvement at Bristol and Kingswood; but employment, especially
at Kingswood, was still poor, and decidedly worse than a year ago. At Street employ-
ment continued fair. It remained only moderate in the Rossendale Valley.
Employment was moderately good at Glasgow, and showed an improvement at Ayr;
elsewhere in Scotland employment remained poor, with a good deal of short time.
B


---
Here is the extracted text:
157
UNEMPLOYMENT AND UNPAID CONTRIBUTIONS.
It will be seen from the following question and answer given in the House
that it is very important to see that the cards are stamped weekly, unless a
special arrangement is in force in any particular factory.
Wednesday, 3rd March, 1926, relating to "Unstamped Cards,"
of Commons on
UNEMPLOYMENT.
Employers' Contributions (Bankruptcy).
MR. T. THOMSON asked the Minister of Labour whether, in the case
of the bankruptcy of an employer who has previously deducted from
wages an employee's contributions towards the Unemployment Insurance
Fund but omitted to stamp the card, the insured workman is treated as
having lost the benefit towards which deductions have been made from
his wages owing to the subsequent bankruptcy of the employer?
"SIR A. STEEL-MAITLAND: In the circumstances described in the
question contributions have not been paid and cannot be credited. The
Department would, wherever practicable, make a claim in the bank-
ruptcy proceedings, and under the Unemployment Insurance Acts such a
claim would have priority in respect of contributions for four months. I
should add that the employer making deductions without first stamping
the unemployment books infringes the law, unless he has made a special
arrangement with the Department for postponed stamping and has paid a
deposit to cover the period of postponement."
BENEFITS AND PROBATIONARY PERIODS.
We beg once again to call the special attention of officers to the circular
letter of 13th November, 1925, relating to the payment of benefits before the
probationary periods have been served. It is NOT enough, and does not
comply with the rule, because a person has been in the Union 52 weeks to say
they are entitled to benefit for sick pay, unemployment pay, and out-of-work
contributions. Rule 38 makes the matter very clear that from the date of
registration with the Council, members must serve a further 26 weeks' pro-
bation, and also pay a further 26 weeks' contributions from the date of regis-
tration.
Unless the rule is complied with it MUST BE CLEARLY UNDERSTOOD
that payment of benefit to members CANNOT be allowed. If any such
claims are paid there is NO alternative but for the General Secretary to strike
out the claims as not being in accordance with the rules.
VOTING
results will be found on pages 170-183. Neither of the candidates having
secured a clear majority for the position of Parliamentary Agent, a second vote
is necessary which must be taken at the April meeting nights and the result
posted to reach the Central Office by 15th prox.


---
158
EDUCATION.
Increasing importance is being given by the Labour Movement to Educa-
tion, both of children and adults. For many years the Trades Union Congress
have passed resolutions upon the subject and in many ways increased facilities
have been placed at the disposal of the workers whereby knowledge can be
placed at the disposal of the movement by the splendid gift of Lady Warwick
acquired. Another, and in many ways a unique opportunity, has now been
in handing over to the General Council of the Trades Union Congress, Easton
Lodge and 900 acres of ground for the purpose. In Lady Warwick's own
words :-
"To-day I am handing over to the Trades Union Congress my old
house as a gift in perpetuity for the purpose of a college for the use and
benefit of the organised workers.
"Easton Lodge has been my home from childhood, and it is very
dear to me as the home of my family for 300 years. But I feel no sadness
in making the gift, because I sympathise so deeply with the purpose to
which it is to be put, and because I believe that those who come here from
working-class homes will learn to love it for its beauty and will carry away
from here an inspiration for their work."
The Trade Union Movement is indeed fortunate in having such a building
placed at its disposal.
The General Council in accepting the property for and on behalf of the
movement, through its Chairman, Mr. A. Pugh, expressed the thanks of the
workers. The General Council will proceed to develop its schemes for Education
upon a broader basis than was formerly contemplated. There may have to
be a call for some money to start the College. We feel confident, however,
that the movement will rise to the occasion and thereby give the General
Council full power to go ahead with the scheme which means so much to the
workers.
Further references to the matter will be found on pages 188 and 189.
POLITICAL.
The struggle in the House of Commons is indeed an interesting one at the
present time. It is true, as we have repeatedly pointed out, and shall continue
to point out, that the Labour Party is in a big minority. Nevertheless the
members of the Labour Party are continually putting up the case for Labour
and putting the Government on its defence. The opposition is not merely
to oppose, but to show how, on the one hand the Government is remiss in its
duty to the Nation, and on the other what a vast amount of leeway is to be
made up before legislation which will really help the people and give them
greater security so far as an income is concerned. We cannot go into details
of the work day by day, but would impress upon the members to read day by


---
Here is the extracted text:
159
day the Herald. They will see within its pages the record of the Party, a
record which we feel sure is building up such a position as to place in authority
the Labour Party in this country when the next appeal is made to the country.
The outlook industrially is not a bright one; the position of the country
in relation to one big subject, viz.:- the Coal situation-is indeed a serious one
and calling for Statesmanship of a high order to deal with the same. We cannot
say what the outcome will be. We would, however, warn the members that
as one of the Unions affiliated to the Trades Union Congress, it will be our duty
to fall into line with decisions that may be arrived at. We hope that reason
will prevail and that not only will there be a settlement, but one that will
inflict no injustice upon the Miners whose position is one which must call for
full consideration, especially when one remembers the dangerous and unpleasant
occupation that Mining is.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We hope that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President. W. WARNER.
J. WHEELER. W. HINDES.
C. BATES. R. WHITE.
E. LAW. A. J. DOBBS.
W. R. TOWNLEY. ALEX. SMITH.
L. P. POOLE. J. MANNERS.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS. E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.


---
160
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, N.W. 5.
17th March, 1926.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
SHODDY. We are again faced with the subject of Shoddy and have had occasion
to deputise the Board of Trade, but although we are not in a position to say what trans-
pired, they were certainly very sympathetic and appeared to us to have the object in
view that articles sold should be properly described, but as we have other spheres of
influence to endeavour to organise, we should leave the matter where it is for the moment
and other organisations in such a way as to present a united front. Then we feel sure
until we have the whole of the industry, including Manufacturers, Retail Dealers, Factors
that the Government of the day, whoever they may be, will give us that help we deserve.
I am still of the opinion that the best way is to describe the component parts of boots, and
to also ask the public to please be aware in future when talking of leather that they mean
solid leather. An all-leather boot is not sufficient. " All Leather " does not describe
and leather, but when we say solid leather we all know what we mean by that, that the
and need not include good leather at all, as most men and boys know there is leather
the trade sufficiently to form a strong deputation and to place some tangible proof and
evidence before the Minister concerned.
MANSFIELD. During the past month I have on several occasions had to see the firm
of Messrs. Faire Bros., regarding the organisation there, the Directors having alread
signified their intention (as reported on previous occasions) of meeting our wants and
requirements and putting themselves on a level with the industry. The item respecting
the women who are working on presses is of vital importance, because as these women
were in these situations before we organised the factory, we cannot very well ask for their
removal, but on the other hand we must insist upon one of the two courses that the
must either be paid the same piecework rates as men, or they must receive the men
graduated scale or minimum according to age. From those two points we cannot depart.
The holiday payment is being put into operation, and I have a definite promise from the
firm that our "Organisation of Industry" resolution will be exposed in the building.

Respecting the other firm in the same town, The Mansfield Shoe Company, we held a
Committee of Inquiry there, and the firm agreed that in all future "cut-outs," and in all
future Rodeos, the statement prices paid in Leicestershire shall be rigidly observed. The
one difference that is yet unsolved between us is what is a Ward Shoe? In this respect
may I ask our members in all centres to please bear in mind the evidence given to us is
that in such unorganised districts as the East End of London they are sending out boots
called Ward Shoes with a two-inch heel. This we refuse to accept, and ask our members
to make it clear, and to the employers generally, that if they are making one-bar shoes on
a last that will carry a two-inch heel, it is very evident that is outside the category of a
Ward Shoe. There are several other matters in connection with this firm which are not
yet straightened out, but with the constant and continued attention of my colleagues
(the organisers in this particular town), I think we shall get the firm at last working within
the ambit of our Union.
NOTTINGHAM.—I am very sorry to have to report that the firm of Messrs. Seymour &
Harding, of Nottingham, gave our men and women notice last week to close down, as they
had come to the conclusion that owing to one of the principals retiring from business, the
other one could not see his way clear to continue. This means that 30 or 40 people will be
thrown out of employment, although I believe that the major portion of them will be
found employment at Mansfield, who have already taken a goodly number. This will be
to our advantage I hope.

WELLINGBOROUGH. We have again had to visit the firm of Messrs. Craddock Bros.,
who have made up their minds on this occasion to put in machinery. This firm has had
our attention during the last eighteen months or two years, and as they are now working
day labour, and paying the minimum, we have given them until the first week after Easter
to meet all our conditions. We think there is no doubt that this will be done, although
one has to be very sympathetic towards businesses of this character who are struggling,
and it would not give us ar.y pleasure to have the responsibility thrown on our shoulders
are over that the firm are likely to bring themselves into compliance with our desire.
---

---
DERBY - I have had occasion again to visit the C.W.S. firm respecting their position
and here we have a very peculiar state of affairs in the town of Derby. Although
our organisers have been there on several occasions, there are only two firms whom we can
describe as being fair firms, that is the C.W.S. Abbey Road Works, and Messrs. Clemson &
Sons, although at one of these firms we are still in a quandary, as we learn that Clemson's
are working to some kind of a bonus. Up to the present neither the Organisers or myself
have been able to fathom what this bonus actually means.
Up to the
impre in the Lasting and Finishing Departments. As the firm denies that such is the
case, then of course we shall have to resort to finding out to what it is they do work. It is
most strange that firms like this, who have given us no trouble, and we have given them
no trouble for years, when we call a meeting of our members they fail to turn up. At the
present moment I am asking the Executive of the Branch to please undertake the responsi-
bility of supplying me with the information regarding the method of working at this place.

LEICESTER. - I have had occasion to visit Messrs. Gipson Clarke & Co., of Leicester.
for the sole purpose of finding out (as some firms have charged this firm with making a
Ward Shoe with a two-inch heel) the real position. I have been to the firm and seen
their samples, and such a statement as named above is absolutely contrary to the truth.
Officials, some of whom have not the time or inclination to make further enquiries, would
It would be well if manufacturers who make so many loose statements to Trade Union
be more careful, because not in one case out of ten do we find that employers who make
these statements regarding other firms in the country are conversant with the facts, and
persuading the Government to legalise our National Agreement, and thereby protecting
therefore, their sympathy ought to go out to us in the work we are endeavouring to do in
them and their organisation.

LEICESTERSHIRE COUNTY BOARD. - We have had during the past month two meetings
bone of contention for a long time, but I think we have at last arrived at a conclusion
of this Board, and I may say that the difference between Nurseries and sizes has been a
that is likely to be of benefit elsewhere. First of all we are prepared to describe a Nursery
as per statement sizes from 2 to 8, but we learn that 2-3 are rarely ever made. That
the edge shall not exceed a tens iron, and the heel shall not exceed a split-lift lift and
frolsed us many petty disputes, and we hope in a very short time to be able to give more
from the seat and done with it. The description and division of boys and girls has also
Consideration to this, as we have given to the question of nurseries and 7-10, and to draw
up something in writing as well as having a standard to work to.

Organisation of
We have had one firm in Leicestershire who has refused to post our
Industry resolution, giving as an excuse that they have never had anything of the kind
and are not likely to in the future. This is a matter we are bringing before the County
Association, that is if the Directors of this particular firm do not put themselves in order.
I think it is very unfortunate that the good relations that exist between our Union and the
trade generally should be marred by one or two firms, whilst in this connection I am bound
to report that the Mountsorrel School Boot Co., who have had quite a run of luck for this
last two or three years, and where my colleagues have been able to organise a goodly
number of their operatives, have taken the bull by the horns, discharged our Shops Presi-
dent and eleven others. The chief has expressed his willingness to put up the "Organisa-
tion of Industry" resolution, if others are doing the same, although this Managing Director
promised me three years ago that he would put up such a resolution, and which I believe
has been put up already, but being typewritten is hardly discernable. Since we have
organised the men the firm and the Manager do not appear to have as much regard for my
colleagues as they used to do, and it is a bit irritating when we find that a federated firm
should discharge twelve operatives at one time, or in other words, suspended them; but
I am not content with the suspension which was indefinite, but asked for something more
tangible, and they have got out of the difficulty at present by sending two weeks' wages
to each of the operatives at their homes. We are taking this matter before the Committee
of Inquiry and I presume, the full Board. I well remember Lord Buckmaster's recent
remark in which he said he felt that employers ought to bring themselves more into contact
with their operatives, and by so doing avoid any of these unnecessary frictions. This
firm could have done what other firms are doing in the City of Leicester and the County
too; it could have given these men a share of the work, be it much or little, but I am
convinced in my own mind that this is a deliberate hostile act and the firm may take it
for granted that we shall do our best to defend our membership.

It is pleasing to report the Federation President for North Leicestershire, Mr. Burton,
of Messrs. Newbold & Burton, very willingly put up our Agreement in the only Department
that was unorganised, viz., the Girls, as soon as we made the request.

NATIONAL INSTITUTION OF THE BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY. -We have been invited
to attend this meeting, which I did, and found Sir Edward Penton in the chair, with Mr.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

162
Owen Parker and Mr. Clarke, representing the Employers' Federation, the object being
to promote the General Advancement of Technical Knowledge, Education in the Boot
and Shoe Industry, and to encourage and foster any and every means the higher forms
of study and research, the granting of diplomas for theory and practice, to collect and
distribute any records of importance, and to assist students where necessary with the
(b) Honorary members chosen by the Council for their knowledge and live interest; (c)
Membership consists of (a) Members who hold prominent positions in the industry;
(e) Student Associates elected after passing Student Associate tests, but cannot remain
Fellows elected after passing the tests; (d) Associates elected after passing Associate tests;
a Student Associate for more than four years.
ros. 6d. per annum, and Student Associates 5s. per annum.
Members pay I Is. entrance fee and £ 1 Is. annually. Fellows pay ditto. Associates
The Principals of several of our Technical Schools were present and expressed great
satisfaction with the aims and objects of this institution, and as the Articles of Association
being drawn up and submitted to a competent draftsman at considerable expense,
tive to say to what extent, if any, shall we commit ourselves or the membership, as we are
all of which is being undertaken by the Employers' Federation, it is for the Union Execu-
already connected with all the Technical Classes in the Industry, such as Leicester, North-
ampton, Norwich, Wellingborough, Kettering, &c., &c.
are
any of their respective districts to acquaint us with information that might be of benefit
respecting either Heel Building, Stiffening Makers, or Sock Cutting Manufacturers, in
to the Union.
Beware of Shoddy Boots; warn your neighbours against them, and deal only with
the houses of repute who sell Stamped Goods. Unstamped goods mean something hidden.
Yours fraternally,
General President.
THE BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.
Extracts from Speech by Mr. J. H. Marlow at Annual Meeting of
Northampton Boot Manufacturers' Association, 5th March, 1926.
A Greater Output.
Concerning the state of trade generally, he thought there had been a greater output
in 1925 than in the previous year. It was a big strain on the manufacturers to keep
up with the demand for fashion shoes, for they meant new patterns, lasts, and leathers,
and a considerable amount of capital and brain work. He was inclined to think that
fashion shoes had helped and created increased trade, but like most good things it got
overdone.
The industry gave employment to over 120,000 workers, it produced an estimated
output of 130,000,000 pairs of footwear yearly, and had a value of over 40 million sterling.
Mr. Marlow pointed to the machinery existing in the boot trade for dealing with
disputes, and asked why that system could not be adopted by the other industries. The
boot trade had a record to be proud of in that there had been no serious trouble for over
thirty years, and in the threatened crisis he called the attention of the coal and engineering
industries to that record. They all knew that terms eventually must be agreed upon in
conference, why not now rather than later?
Last year, Mr. Marlow recalled, he suggested a five years' truce, and he would now
go further and suggest that national agreements should be legalised.
Collective Bargaining.
"My final message," he continued, " is a plea for peace and unity, and I urge every
member to do his utmost towards this end. Personally I am a strong individualist, and
nation it is to-day, but as things are to-day, I think it is imperative that we accept the
complete organisation in industry. With manufacturers and operatives belonging to
principle of collective bargaining. I would, therefore, emphasise the importance of more
their respective organisations, there is some hope that unified conditions of employment
will obtain and unfair competition be reduced to a minimum."
had enjoyed for so many years would continue. - Northampton Echo, 6th March, 1926.
In conclusion, Mr. Marlow expressed the hope that the peace which the boot trade


---
```text
163
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since my last report I attended the Council Meeting on the 21st, 22nd and 23rd
of February. The Council agreed that Mr. Baum and myself should continue our efforts
to strengthen the Sileby Branch at Mountsorrel, Rothley and Sileby, as well as paying
attention to Derby and Mansfield. Also that I was to visit Liverpool and Manchester.
When the Labour Party Conference was held at Liverpool last October, Mr. Walter Smith,
Mr. Len. Smith and I took advantage of the opportunity and went to the Works of the
New Liverpool Rubber Co., at Walton, and joined a good number of young women in the
Rubber Shoe Department in the Union. Since then trade has fallen off and the earnings
have been small-at best they are small, it is a sweated industry-and the people who
wear this class of goods are unconsciously patrons of the sweater. The Dunlop Company
have taken over the Works at Walton. I visited the place on 3rd March and learned that
the girls had ceased paying solely through poverty of income. They are getting busy now,
and about 400 fresh girls have been started. Dunlops have given an increase on one bad
line to the pieceworkers. Some of the shareholders in those rubber shoe works are big
men if we take money as the test of their standing. The Irwell Rubber Co., Green Gate,
Salford, make plimsolls and canvas shoes with crepe soles. The management claim that
they pay better weekly wages and piecework prices than the firm at Liverpool, or the four
companies in Scotland. Mr. Mason (Secretary, Manchester Branch) and I waited on the
manager of this firm over the piecework prices for lasting canvas shoes. The prices were
per 10 pairs, children's 1½d., maids' 2d., women's 2½d. The girls doing this work would
be from 16 to 18. The uppers are ready solutioned at the edges. The upper is pulled
to the last, the insole slipped in and the upper is then worked in with the fingers at the toe,
and smoothed over at the sides to the seat, where the full pressure of the fingers are needed
as at the toe. A small hand roller is then run over the toes and seat. Fourteen of the
girls were called in to prove that we were wrong in regards to the time taken to do 10 pairs.
One said she could do them in 15 minutes, another said 20 and another 30 minutes. This
was contradictory evidence for our case, but I am convinced from the time it took a fore-
woman to do one shoe that it would take an exceptionally smart girl to last 15 pairs in
one hour. In the Lawn Tennis Department of this firm we have no cause to complain.
All belonging to the Union and we negotiate matters without friction. The weakness on the
other side is that the piecework prices were fixed by the management without the workers
of a Union having a voice in them. If the girls at this firm would only stick to the Union,
their conditions, by persistent appeals and action, would be soon improved. Some of
them got impatient because we could not get everyone in the shop to join at the same time,
and get immediate improvements, unmindful of the fact that they were unorganised before
and allowed the management a free hand in regulating their conditions.
Mr. W. Warner and I had to visit a closing factory at Nuneaton on two occasions over
a little friction there. Mr. T. Vallance and I went to Barwell, when an outstanding grievance
of the clickers was satisfactorily settled.
At Derby Mr. Baum and I took note of the conditions of the lasting and finishing
departments of one factory and of the clicking in another. Twenty new and lapsed
members have recently joined from one of these shops. At Mansfield we got particulars
from the pressmen which will be beneficial in negotiating improvements. One firm at
Mountsorrel evidently got alarmed over the number of young men who lately joined the
Union, and were talking of demanding piecework instead of weekly wages.
them were suspended, presumably because of slackness, but as they were told to take
their Health Insurance cards with them, we interpreted the so-called suspension to be the
"sack" in order to create confusion and disorder in our ranks. The General President
(Mr. Richards) took the matter up at once, and the twelve were sent two weeks' wages in
lieu of notice in registered letters. The firm is federated and Mr. Richards has called the
Enquiry Committee of the Leicestershire Board to deal with the matter. Personally,
I wish that the other fifty odd members in the shop had taken action on their own at the
time. We have done our best since to prevent a stampede at the shop. The Sileby
Secretary is doing good work by his constant visits to Mountsorrel.
20th March, 1926. D. MCCARTHY.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
During the past month I have again been engaged with Mr. McCarthy in Leicestershire,
Derby, and Mansfield. Our position in the Sileby District is improving, and the local
Secretary has rendered us every assistance. Nearly the whole of the factories in this
area have been visited, and good meetings held. One would like to see a quicker response
to our efforts, but as in many country districts, timidity and fear seems to be the guiding
instincts that predominate. To overcome this we try and gain the confidence of the
operative, who must be awakened to a sense of consciousness, to demand fair treatment
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
164

from the employer. Thus the work which had previously been done at the School Boot,
Mountsorrel, and which, during the past two months had resulted in a rapid increase in
sary, so short time was the plea put forward, which reminds me that I have heard of that
including the Shop President. As usual, under these circumstances, some excuse is neces-
our membership, has suddenly been cut short by the dismissal of twelve of our members.
such incidents have in a district where our organisation is weak, it ought to be made
excuse before. However, the matter is being dealt with, and in view of the moral effect
suddenly realised their position, and were determined to assert their rights which the
impossible for a federated firm to treat with such scant respect the principles underlying
the National Agreement, which they have been so skilfully hiding behind, until the men
Agreement provides for. There is another factory in this area, Parker & Barlow's, where
our membership is weak, though some slight improvement has taken place during the
past twelve months, though we are not satisfied with the position. The only effective
way we can deal with this form is to increase our organisation. There seems to have
grown up in some areas, that if a firm cuts a certain class of shoe another price should te
This is one of those firms, and we have given
our answer, “No, nothing outside the Statement," and it will be a serious matter for our
members when we begin to classify certain classes of work, which are already provided for
fixed outside the ordinary Statement.
in the Statement.
finishers at Clemson's. This firm has been working very short time, but better time is
Several visits have been made to Derby, where we held a meeting of the lasters and
have joined. It is most unfortunate that when trade is bad, that members cease paying
now being worked, consequently the Secretary reports that twenty new and lapsed members
to find that they omitted to pay their contributions, and then find they are out of benefit
The clickers were anxious to know the Statement prices of their work, and after going very
adhered to, but that the firm was paying considerably below. Our visits to Mansfield
thoroughly into the matter, we discovered that on no class of work was the Statement being
have increased the interest of the operatives. Some progress has been made at the Mans-
field Shoe Company, and the operatives are more responsive. The recent negotiations
with this firm has had an effect upon the men; all the Consol operators are now members
but there are still a large number of young girls and youths outside the Union, and we
have made special efforts to enrol them as members. I am firmly convinced that it will
only be the strength of our organisation that will increase our pressure on this firm. At
Faire Bros. our position has decidedly changed, though there are still outstanding differences
which will need adjusting. The firm has posted the Organisation of Industry resolution
and the Holiday Fund regulations. Our organisation is gradually growing, and the girls
are beginning to appreciate the value of Trade Unionism.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
J. H. BAUM.
Once again the month has been divided between London and Kingswood, but in
neither place is the state of trade sufficiently good to help in the work of interviewing
and organising. At the latter place it is very bad even for this time of year. The heavy
list of unemployed, and the partial time worked by those who are in, being evidence in
that direction. One wonders sometimes whether the shoddy stuff that is made in the
district is responsible in anyway for this state of things, as some very doubtful goods are
produced there by some of the smaller firms. But perhaps the chief reason is the depressed
condition of South Wales, it being obvious that when Miners are out of work by the
thousands, and pits closed down, there cannot be the demand for boots as is needed to
keep the factories running. The firms with a good class of production are little better
off than the others, and with the foreign trade almost gone, it leaves the district in a most
distressed state. A further reduction in working hours appear to be due, and must be
stressed when we enter into negotiations with the employers for a fresh agreement.
In spite of these adverse conditions we keep pegging away, and interviews with firms
have taken place where necessary, and reminders given that the Union intend to stand
by its agreements and insist upon their observance. In one case during the month a step
has been taken to prevent orders going from the Co-operative Movement to firms that
fail in their obligation to those engaged in the industry. It is pleasing to report upon the
readiness of the C.W.S. and the S.C.W.S. to take up any complaint we may make in that
employer, that the goods they purchase should be free from the charge of being produced
direction, and as they are very large buyers, it is a great help to us, and to the decent
under unfair conditions. It would be better still if the other charms were to adopt
they would use some discretion in that direction. They could serve their customers just
as well, perhaps better, as the class of goods produced by any firm that seek to evade our
in industry we
that are all right from our point of view. Anyway, if the talk about goodwill was backed
conditions are, generally speaking, of a lower order than those produced in the factories


---
165
to-day. I wonder if all is being done in that direction that might be done by the Fed era-
up by sound practice, goodwill, even in the boot industry, would be greater than it is
tion and ourselves? A strong combined effort is needed, it is most important to all
concerned. In the meantime we should welcome further information as to any firm not
carrying out our conditions, who might be supplying the Co-operative Movement.
During the month meetings of the branches have been attended, and advantage
the branch officers. The slightest change in working conditions should be known by the
officials. They can better judge the significance of same, and anything that may be, or
taken to impress those present on the need for close co-operation between members and
which may have a tendency to lead up to, a violation can be better checked at the beginning
point of grievance that it has been going on for some time, and that the workpeople had
not objected. There is nothing in our conditions that we can afford to part with, if they
are to be changed it should be for the better and not made worse.
than later on.
has been persisted in.
The efforts made in London during the month also have been somewhat handicapped
br the state of trade, but notwithstanding that the work of getting more women members
way they do here. It is not easy to get in touch with them as one can do in other places.
Many of them live so far away from the factory that there is little chance of conversation
with them, while dinner-hour meetings are out of the question, the traffic making it in
most cases quite impossible. But I suppose we must continue to work and hope, believing
It is difficult to understand why the women keep outside in the
that in the end we shall win.
20th March, 1926,
WALTER R. SMITH.
AN ENLIGHTENED BRITISH TRADE UNION.
There is one trade in Great Britain, however, which stands out as a notable exception
to the general attitude. The boot and shoe operatives, guided by far-seeing trade union
leaders, have for many years past pursued an enlightened policy of co-operation with the
employers, who, in turn, have admitted certain obligations and responsibilities which
some other groups of employers are loath to recognise. The initiation of the policy dates
back to the beginning of last century, when the British boot trade was threatened with
ruin by the swift development of the use of new labour-saving machinery in America.
The manufacturers decided to scrap the old plant and to operate American machines
under license. The workers, under the stress of necessity, acquiesced in the new policy
and made the best of the difficulties of the transition period. Trade was recaptured,
and since that time the leaders of the industry have quickly adapted it to each mechanical
change that offered advantages. One outstanding result is the maintenance of fairly good
conditions in the industry during the trying period of general trade depression since 1920.
Along with short hours and relatively good wages there has been high productivity, and
boot prices in England to-day are more favourable than those of most of the necessaries
of life. The wages agreement provides for a base rate and a cost of living bonus, and the
base rate, if it is ever reached, will insure the workers a substantially higher real wage
than the pre-war earnings.
A policy of "settlement of all disputes without stoppages if possible," has been
adopted by the Union, and through the Joint Industrial Council both sides strive to make
this policy successful.
More recent developments of this co-operation have an economic and social importance
extending beyond the sphere of the industry itself. The Joint Industrial Council has just
declared for a policy of the most complete organisation possible on each side in industry,
as the best means of eliminating strife, improving the general conditions of the industry,
and promoting the highest degree of efficiency. Following this it has drafted a Parlia-
mentary Bill which would make it obligatory on every firm and all workers in an industry
to carry out the provisions of agreements entered into by a joint industrial council. After
much opposition the Boot and Shoe Trade Operatives' Union has now gained the acceptance
of this basic idea by the Trades Union Congress.
Another highly interesting development is the decision of leading boot and shoe
manufacturers to co-operate with the Union in a campaign to eliminate from the industry
the production of shoddy boots, made with soles of substitute materials which afford no
protection against wet and cold. It is suggested that by legal enactment it should be
made obligatory on all manufacturers to stamp the soles with the name of the firm and a
description of the material used. The success of this form of co-operation is so great
that it is bound to be developed in other ways for the mutual advantage of the workers,
the general public, and the employers. The Christian Science Monitor, 25th February,
1926.


---
Here is the extracted text:
166
BRANCH REPORTS.
CHESHAM. Trade here remains quiet.
CHESTERFIELD. Trade remains about the same as last month.
DERBY. Trade is only moderate in Derby. We still continue having
new members joining from Maden & Ireland's, also from the other firms re-
joining.
DUNDALK. Trade remains good. Recognising as we do our moral
obligation to contribute to the support of the Labour Party, furthermore,
realising the absolute necessity of keeping its financial position in a practical
working manner, so as to enable it to carry on and contest bye or general
elections, consistent with the views of the general community. Nevertheless
considering the amount of boot operatives unemployed, and the increasing
tendency in same during spring and summer, will inevitably present, not over-
looking the fact that those operatives are to no small extent responsible for the
sound position our General Council find themselves in. Consequently and
logically, we consider it would to a large extent be impregnating the integrity of
our tribunal; such action might lead to mental and physical deterioration.
EDINBURGH. - Sickness with us is fairly heavy at present. Trade in
the new work if anything a little better in this District. The Yuot are very
busy at present making up Canvas Shoes for the summer trade. The Branch
have forwarded one of our member's name for a nominee to contest the next
Town Council election. This will allow of some propaganda being done
previous to the rush of election time. We wish every member success in his
venture. There is a feeling of pleasure that some of the branches have for-
warded resolutions for a general scheme of superannuation, suggested for the
whole membership, but some doubts exist as to the amount of contribution
which would cover the expenditure.
GLASGOW. - Trade is but moderate here, in fact it is worse than last
month. Our unemployed list is heavy; when members fall out of a job there
is little prospect of getting a start in the factories. Repairers have been
making better time during the month.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Trade has improved in the district during
the month. Another meeting has been held with the Heel and Stiffener
Manufacturers, under the Chairmanship of Ald. C. W. Horrell, J.P., President
of the Federation. The Union was represented by the General President
(Mr. T. F. Richards), the Branch President (Mr. C. Bates) and Secretary (Mr.
W. Langley). Not much progress was made, but it was decided that a meeting
of Heel and Stiffener Manufacturers be called by Mr. W. W. Chamberlain
without the Trade Union representatives being present, in view of forming
an association. Superannuation Scheme. Seven meetings have been called
to discuss the scheme, and all agree with the principle of Superannuation, but
the majority are in favour of a scheme being drawn up for the whole of the
Union, and not for the officials and staff only.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. - Trade in this centre remains much the
same as last report. Some are inclined to the opinion that the trade for heavy
work is finished. The question can be reasonably asked, if the mining and
shipbuilding industries are stagnant, can it be expected that the demand for
heavy boots would be normal. There will always be a market for strong
boots, provided that the workers of this country are able to command a reason-
able purchasing power. Until this is assured trade can never be satisfactory.
The employer who thinks he can succeed in business by evading conditions


---
and wage standards, is a menace to the fair employer, and the best interests of
the community, and we trust that Council will press for legislation on the lines
proposed by the Industrial Councils Bill.
LEICESTER No. 1. - There is again a slight improvement in trade.
Sickness is still rather heavy. We have to report with very sincere regret the
death of Mr. Charles Harris at the age of 77 years. He was Caretaker of the
Trades Hall from the time of opening in 1900 until he retired about twelve
months ago. He did yeoman service for the Union and suffered for his principles.
He also served on the Local Board of Guardians for 16 years and will be much
missed in the Wyggeston Ward which he represented. The Union, the Leicester
No. 1 and 2 Branches and Leicester Women's Branch, were represented at the
funeral, and wreaths were sent as a mark of respect to our late colleague. We
tender to the widow our sincere sympathy, and hope it may be some consolation
to know that her husband was held in such high esteem by all who knew him.
LIVERPOOL. - The boot repairing trade has been much the same as the
previous month. We have paid out more in benefits this month-out-of-work
and sick pay-than what we have done for some considerable time.
LONDON SOUTH. - Trade in London South is improving, most firms
are working full time. We are also pleased to report that the joint letter in
the January Report from the Masters' Association and from the Union is
beginning to make the won't-pay members feel very uncomfortable. In one
large firm in London South the men and women are beginning to come back
and take their place as members of the Union. Last week we joined up five
full members and three women members, with a promise of 20 more this week.
It was not bad business. A little organising with the above letter will do the
Branch a good turn. We believe we shall get a large number of members
from other firms, and hope to give a better report next month.
NORWICH. - Trade busy, bright prospects, increased membership.
NOTTINGHAM. - It is with great regret we have to report the closing
down of our only manufacturing firm in this City. For some time past this
firm has been on short time, the operatives having to make the best of it for
over twelve months, and now to come to a finish is a matter of deep concern
to all of them.
PLYMOUTH. - During the month one of our members has been dis-
charged because he was found to be working for two firms. Finding work
and money somewhat short he found another employer only too willing to
give him a little work after he had cleared up each day, therefore he proceeded
to do the best he could for himself, his wife and kiddies. This information
was soon wirelessed to his first employer, with the result, as stated above,
he received his marching orders. We would point out that the question had
been discussed sometime previously, and the practice of working beyond the
normal number of hours was wholeheartedly condemned by our members at
their branch meeting, seeing that we had several men signing the Out-of-Work
Book. Yet the action of the employer in dismissing the man, without con-
sulting the Branch, seems to us to be harsh and unreasoning; further, it is a
dangerous interference with the rights of the individual. The workers are oft-
times accused of restricting output, or ca'canny, but here is a horse of another
colour, and we would put it to the employers in a very courteous manner,
whether or not they had at any time, either before or after they had a bank
balance, done work for two, or even more firms, and do they always knock
off when the bell rings and refuse to take another dollar? If they did, possibly
their association meetings would be a little better attended, and there would
be very little opportunity left for a worker to put in a bit of overtime.
SILEBY. - Trade on the whole is fair. We are still having the valuable
services of our Organisers, Mr. J. H. Baum and Mr. D. McCarthy, who are


---
```text
168
putting forth a vigorous programme in our district. We have also had the
pleasure of our General President at a mass meeting held at Mountsorrel, on
17th February, when he addressed the operatives working at the different
factories, along with Mr. Baum and Mr. McCarthy. They were listened to
with splendid attention, but to make things better amongst the rank and file
we must have unity, that grand co-operative motto, "Unity is Strength",
then we shall be able to march to better and saner ideals.
STAFFORD, We are pleased to report an improvement in trade in this
centre.
WATERFORD. Pleased to report trade continues good.
LEGAL CASES AFFECTING LABOUR.
Trade Boards Acts, 1909-1918.
MINIMUM RATES OF WAGES - UNDERPAYMENTS - CLAIM FOR PAYMENT OF ARREARS -
FALSE RECEIPTS.
The Trade Boards Acts of 1909 and 1918 were passed to secure minimum rates of wages
to workers in certain trades, the rates being fixed by a body known as a Trade Board and
consisting of an equal number of representatives of employers and workers in the trade,
with a certain number of independent members of whom one is the chairman. The Act
of 1909 applied at the outset to four trades only, set out in the Schedule to that Act, being
trades in which the wages then being paid were exceptionally low. Power was given to
the Board of Trade, and later to the Minister of Labour, to apply the Acts to other trades,
and in 1919 the Acts were applied by the Minister of Labour to the paper bag trade. The
Acts require every employer in a trade to which the Acts have been applied to pay wages
to his workers at not less than the minimum rate that has been fixed by the Trade Board
and any agreement for the payment of wages in contravention of this provision is declared
by the Acts to be void.

A case was heard before Mr. Justice Talbot and a jury at the Devon Assizes recently:
when S. C. F. Clarke, paper bag manufacturer, and J. W. Hunkin, clerk, both of Plymouth,
pleaded "not guilty" to 17 counts charging them with conspiring to utter forged receipts
for arrears of wages amounting in all to £65 due to certain workers in the paper bag trade,
and with forging and uttering the same receipts. In common expression, the defendants
were charged with attempting to conceal the non-payment by them of arrears of wages
that had been found to be due to their workers, and which they sought to prove they had
paid by producing to the Ministry documents purporting to be receipts from these workers,
but which documents were, in fact, forgeries.

In June, 1924, a Trade Board Inspector of the Ministry visited the defendants and
inspected their books and wages sheets, and found that the defendants had in their employ-
ment many young girls who had not been paid the proper minimum wage. Correspondence
ensued, and a claim was made by the Ministry for payment of the arrears. The defendants
at first admitted they had not paid these workers the proper amounts, but later suggested
that the workers were not enaaged in the paper bag trade at all. This they did by getting
the girls to swear affidavits which were intended to prove that no arrears were due. After
making further enquiries the Ministry said that the affidavits could not be accepted, that
the arrears must be paid, and that proceedings would be taken if they were not paid.
The Ministry asked that the arrears should be sent to them for distribution amongst the
workers, or that the defendants should pay the workers and forward the receipts to the
Ministry for inspection and record. The defendants replied that they would prefer to
make payment direct to the workers and would send receipts. The defendants were
pressed to settle the matter, and ultimately on 4th June, 1925, "receipts" were forwarded
to the Ministry, which the prosecution alleged were forgeries, and which it was said the
two defendants had conspired to produce. The signatures on the receipts were authentic,
but it was shown that when the girls signed the "receipts" the papers which they signed
were blank, or else something was held over the top, so that they did not know what
they were signing. Later, after the facts had been discovered by the Ministry, each of
the girls received a cheque for the amount of her back wages. The cheques were each
dated 4th June, 1925, which was the date that the "receipts" had been forwarded to the
Ministry. For the defendants it was stated that the cheques were actually drawn on 4th
June, but were put into a drawer and forgotten, whereas the case for the prosecution
was that they were hastily written on 23rd July, when the facts had been discovered,
and were antedated to 4th June. The jury found both men guilty. Clarke was sentenced
to 12 months in the Second Division and Hunkin to 3 months in the Second Division.
Rex v. Hunkin and Clarke. - Devon Assizes. - 10th and 11th February, 1926. - The Ministry
of Labour Gazette, March, 1926.
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
188
EASTON LODGE AND ITS OPPORTUNITIES.
A New Chapter in the History of Working-class Education.
Mr. Arthur Pugh, Chairman of the Trades Union Congress, broadcast the following
message on Wednesday, 24th February, from Easton Lodge, on the occasion of the formal
handing over of the building by Lady Warwick to the Trades Union Congress as a Trade
Union College.
I feel this is a moment of historic importance in the annals of adult working-class
education.
Throughout its history the Trades Union Congress has strongly urged the need for
greater educational opportunities for the people it represents, and the Trade Unions have
for many years taken an active interest in the development of education for adult workers.
More than seventy years ago, when the leaders of the Christian Socialist Movement
turned their thoughts to educational work, the Trade Union leaders joined with the late
Rev. Frederick Denison Maurice and Thomas Hughes to establish the first Working-men's
College in London in 1854.
For more than a quarter of a century the Trade Unions have been actively associated
with the work of Ruskin College, established at Oxford by three Americans- Mr. and
Mrs. Walter Vrooman and Charles Beard. Later important Trade Unions associated
themselves with the establishment of the Labour College, London, and in the course of
years hundreds of young Trade Unionists have benefited by residence at those institutions,
and thousands more have taken advantage of the facilities offered by correspondence
courses and teaching in history, economics, political science and other subjects.
Specialisation.
Trade Unionists joined with representatives of the Co-operative Movement and a
group of University men to establish over twenty years ago the Workers' Educational
Association, and as a development of the Labour College, London, the National Council
of Labour Colleges finds its support from Trade Unions.
These bodies last year enrolled over 48,000 students in classes, resident week-end
and Summer Schools, study circles and so on, and including the Education Department
of the Co-operative Movement-year by year means are provided to bring educational
facilities within the reach of many thousands of working people which otherwise would
not be available.
The fundamental aim of all these educational activities is to enable the workers to
develop their capacity for effective service, and the means whereby those taking up respons-
ible leadership in Trade Union, Co-operative, and other similar organisations, or as repre-
sentatives on public bodies, can be better equipped for the duties thus undertaken.
Trade Unionism to-day calls for a mature and highly specialised form of ability and
experience in the administration of Union affairs, in negotiations on questions of wages
and working conditions which often involve prolonged and exhaustive discussion of
intricate industrial and economic facts.
Many people who read in the newspapers of industrial disputes, negotiations and
inquiries in which the Trade Unions are involved, can form only a vague conception of the
immense amount of detailed work they entail, of the complexity of the interests which
have to be considered, and of the care and patience that have to be exercised in dealing
with industrial affairs.
By far the larger proportion of questions affecting working people that are made the
subject of negotiation, never come to the knowledge of the public: they are settled after
full consideration by representatives of the Trade Unions and the Employers concerned
in joint meetings without the public hearing anything about them. Still less can the
average person realise the vast administrative work connected with the control of the great
modern Trade Union organisations.
Realising the need for adult educational work in the Trade Unions, the General Council
of the T.U.C. has given much thought to the best methods of developing the work of the
various educational bodies, such as those I have named, and to frame a co-ordinated
policy for carrying on all these educational activities, and the creation of a central educa-
tional fund, to which the General Council itself contributes an annual sum of £2,000.
The munificent gift of Easton Lodge to the Trades Union Congress gives our General
Council an opportunity to realise the project of centralising the residential educational
work of the Trade Unions. Through the generosity of Lady Warwick we can now see
our way to establish and equip a real Trade Union College under almost ideal conditions,
with every prospect of success.


---
```text
190
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES.
(Trade Union Ballots).
LIEUT-COLONEL MOORE asked the Prime Minister whether, in deference to the wide-
spread feeling amongst many sections of the community, he will consider the desirability
of introducing, at an early date, a Measure which will enable all members of trade unions
to register their votes in cases of industrial disputes according to the accepted Parlia.-
mentary method?
THE PRIME MINISTER (Mr. Baldwin): There is no statutory restriction, except in
respect of a political levy, on the freedom of trade unions to determine their own procedure
for ascertaining the views of their members on particular questions. As at present advised
I am not satisfied that it is necessary to interfere with this freedom.
LIEUT-COLONEL MOORE: Will the right hon. Gentleman consider the fact that this
request emanates from the people most concerned, that is, trade union members and their
wives and will he also consider that these people are among the most loyal and staunch
supporters of the Government ?
MR. LUNN: Has the Prime Minister received representations for this reform from any
of the trade unions in the country?
THE PRIME MINISTER: I have had no representations, but they would not necessaril;
come to me. - Extract from Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons. Wednesday, 10th
March, 1926.
TRADE FACILITIES BILL.
Discussion in the House of Commons on 11th March, 1926,
MR. PURCELL Said I want to approach this question in a rather different way from
that in which so far most members have approached it. I think it is important that we
should face the position. It is not a question, to my mind, of political considerations at
all. You have a new country in which a terrific change has taken place.
I think that even if you recognised, for example, the Czarist debt and what is known
as the War debt for materials and munitions supplied during the War, it does not seem to
me that you would find work for the people unemployed at present in this country. So
that brings us to the third and most important bar in the way, that is, the payment for
things supplied. It has been put to me in this way that if you purchase a pair of boots
and you do not pay for them it is very difficult to get your boot supplier to let you have
another pair of boots until you have paid for the first pair. I want to face the case of hon.
Members opposite. If material for railways and material for factories and for the equip-
ment of factories had been supplied and so many traders had been at the present time
nationalised by you, the very least you ought to do is to settle the account due for former
supplies. That is what is said. There is another point almost as important as that one.
I understand it to be that there are no Courts in Russia comparable to the Courts that
exist in this country in which a Russian or a Britisher can recover a debt. Apart altogether
from political considerations, we have to see if these difficulties can be met. To ask us
to get over these two hurdles by merely seeing that education is developed, that industry
is developed, that the organisation of the country is developed, and all this kind of thing,
does not appear to me to be sufficient to enable us to get over these great difficulties.
If those two difficulties could be surmounted the path could be very easy. We have
to keep in mind that as Russia develops, as it will certainly develop, and as it will rebuild
and reorganise, it is a totally different Russia from the pre-War thing.
We ought to see whether something could not be done to show them from the industrial
point of view a kinder feeling, whether by way of treaty, agreement or any other sort of
negotiation so long as you get there. That seems to me the thing to do. We want this
mass of work. I want to see Russia develop. We ought never to talk about other people's
mistakes. We have a few to our record and what I desire to urge is this. So important
is this question that I believe it is the duty of both Liberals and Conservaties together
with the Labour Party-if they could do that-to sit down and find out just how this
question of supplying the requirements of Russia and upon what basis and conditions
and how the difficulties can be surmounted, can be met. It would be helpful to us. I am
an Internationalist, but I am also a Nationalist. Many of our highly skilled men in this
country are already unemployed, and some of us fear that unless they get work soon
much of their skill will be lost; those fine shipbuilders on the great rivers of this country,
my opinion, for want of a better word, are rotting away.
It seems to me that that calls for us to get ahead if we want to restore and get back
to the old position of something approaching the workshop of the world. Trust Russia,
not because they are Russians or Bolsheviks. but because they have trade to give, and our
business is to get business for this country.
```

---
192

INTERNATIONAL INFORMATION.

WHITE LEAD PROHIBITION IN FRANCE.

International Convention Ratified.
According to information received from Geneva, France has formally ratified the
Convention concerning the use of white lead in painting, adopted by the third annual
Session of the International Labour Conference of the League of Nations, held at Geneva
in 1921. This ratification follows the unanimous adoption of the French Senate, earlier
in the year, of two Bills, one providing for ratification and the other for the modification
of the Labour Code in accordance with the terms of the Convention.
The Convention provides that the use of white lead shall be prohibited in the interior
painting of buildings and shall be strictly regulated in all other classes of painting. It
also provides that no woman or youths under eighteen shall be employed in any painting
work of an industrial character involving the use of white lead.
The Convention has already been ratified by Austria, Bulgaria, Chile, Czecho-Slovakia,
Esthonia, Latvia, Poland, Spain and Sweden.

WORLD LAWS FOR SEAMEN.

International Code Discussions at I.L. Conference.
The question of an international code for seamen will be discussed at the annual
meeting of the International Labour Conference of the League of Nations this year, the
second Session of which, opening on 7th June, will be devoted to maritime questions.
The particular problem to be studied will be the codification of the rules relating to
seamen's articles of agreement, a subject which has been continually studied by the Inter-
national Labour Office and by the Joint Maritime Commission, a body of shipowners
and seamen's representatives set up to advise the Office on such questions, since a previous
Session devoted exclusively to maritime problems in 1920.
The study of the possibility of a seamen's international code goes back to the dis-
cussions of the work in front of the International Labour Organisation at the Peace Con-
ference in Paris in 1919, and took definite shape when a committee was set up by the
1920 Session of the International Labour Conference, mentioned above, to survey the
question in all its aspects.
Drawing attention to the advantages of such a code, this Committee said :-
"Unlike most other workers, seamen must often follow their calling in various
countries, in each of which it may be necessary for them to know something of the
law as to their relations with their employers and their fellows. Even when not in
foreign countries, much of the seamen's work must be done on the high seas, outside
the usual reach of public authorities. Moreover, on board ships of most countries
the crew frequently comprise many nationalities. It is not unusual for seamen on
a ship neither to speak the language of the country to which the ship belongs nor to
understand its laws. Seamen form what is indeed an international community, and
as such there are many circumstances in which it would be advantageous to have
applied to them a uniform law, whatever flag be flown by the vessel on which they
serve. Such a law can only be secured through common international action."

CARE OF THE EMIGRANT.

Success of Examination at Departure Port.
The plan of inspecting emigrants from Great Britain and the Irish Free State to the
United States before departure is believed to be a complete success, according to an announce-
ment of the United States State Department, quoted in the Monthly Record of Migration
published by the International Labour Office of the League of Nations. The Department
is prepared to extend the plan to other countries whose Governments request similar
facilities as rapidly as funds and staff are available.
Definite requests for the installation of a similar system have been received from the
Governments of the Netherlands and Belgium, and these requests will be complied with.
Public health surgeons and immigration officers will be sent to Rotterdam and Antwerp
to act as technical advisers to the United States consuls there. No other European
Governments have yet made similar requests, but enquiries indicating keen interest in
the plan have been received from several quarters.
The present policy has developed from a Conference which was held in April, 1925,
between high officials of the Departments of State, the Treasury, and Labour, and aims at
remedying a state of affairs in which many immigrants sold their possessions abroad and


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

193

made the long and expensive journey to the United States, only to learn that for one
that the Immigration Act, 1924, afforded an opportunity of examining immigrants before
reason or another they were not admissible. The Conference came to the conclusion
departure from their home countries, and the plan was put into operation in the first
if those countries, with the result that the number of rejections of British and Irish
immigrants in the United States ports has been reduced to a minimum and the number
place in Great Britain and the Irish Free State, in co-operation with the Governments
ot refusals, on legal grounds, to issue consular immigration visas has greatly increased.

CARE OF WOMEN EMIGRANTS.

International Discussions.

question of simplifying the inspection of emigrants on board ship.
The care of the woman emigrant will be one of the subjects to be studied by the
will open at Geneva on 25th May, and will discuss an international agreement on the whole
eighth Session of the International Labour Conference of the League of Nations, which

In a preliminary survey of the question issued by the International Labour Office,
for example, frequently have on board steamship conductresses appointed by semi-
women and children in emigrant ships. Ships carrying British emigrants to the Dominions,
it is stated that important steps have already been taken nationally for the protection of
Britain to Canada carry conductresses appointed by the Canadian authorities, whose duty
ial or private organisations. In particular, ships transporting emigrants from Great
provide for liaison between the inspectresses in the ports of embarkation and those in the
it is to protect the interests of women and girls travelling alone during the voyage, and to
ports of destination.

as
opinions
to whether the international agreement should include a clause relating to women super-
supervisor should be obligatory on board any emigrant ship carrying more than a certain
visors, and whether it might perhaps be necessary to state that the presence of a woman
number of women and young persons.

HOLIDAYS WITH PAY IN BRAZIL.

A Decree of 24th December, 1925, sanctioned by the President of the United States
of Brazil, on 26th December, brought into force an Act instituting paid holidays for
employees in commerce, bank clerks, workers in industrial undertakings, and salaried
employees in all kinds of journalistic undertakings.

The Act guarantees to such workers an annual holiday of fifteen days, either in a single
period or in separate days, without prejudice to any salary, wage or remuneration to which
may be entitled.
they

Heavy fines are provided for in the event of infringement.-Extract from Industrial
and Labour Information, 15th March, 1926.

APPEAL FOR MR. F. LEADER.

fs. d.
fs. d.
Grant, General Council
20 0 0
Norwich No. 2
I 0 0
Leicester No. I
2 10 0
Kettering No. I
2 0 0
Derby
I 0 0
Edinburgh
Ο 10 0
Worcester
Ο 10 0
Norwich No. 1
2 0 0
London Metro.
5 0 0
Leeds No. I
5 0 0
Leicester Women's
I 0 0
London Sew-Round
Ο 10 0
Ο 10 0
Leicester No. 2
5 0 0
Arbroath
Kettering No. 2
I 0 0
Bristol No. 2
I 0 0
Stafford
I 0 0
Leeds No. 2
I 0 0
Rushden
I I 0
Wellingborough
I 0 0
Street
Chesham
Ο 10 6
Bristol (Kingswood)
I I 0
Daventry
Ο 10 0
I I 0
Bromsgrove
Hinckley
Ο 10 0
Glasgow No. 2
I 0 0
Manchester
Ο 10 0
Maybole
Desborough
59 15 6
I 0 0

The Committee of the Sileby Branch wish to thank the Council and all branches for
their generous support.

J. WARING, Secretary.


---
Here is the extracted text:
194
UNION CONFERENCE, WHITSUNTIDE, 1926.
RULES AND REGULATIONS OF SUPERANNUATION FUND.
THE COUNCIL.
1. The Fund shall be held in Trust by the Management Committee (Execu-
tive Council of the Union) for Superannuation purposes, and shall be adminis-
tered in accordance with the following rules:
The objects of this Fund are to provide a Superannuation allowance to
permanent (full time) officials and clerks of the Union or branches, and a
payment to the dependents or representatives of a deceased official or clerk,
according to the scale set forth in these rules.
The Fund shall be used for no other purpose.
Those eligible to participate in its benefits shall be permanent officials and
clerks of the Union and branches of 21 years of age and upwards.
Contributions to the Fund shall be compulsory by all permanent officials
and clerks over 21 years of age.
Retirement Conditions.
2. Where an official or clerk over 21 years of age with over ten years'
service has retired from service on account of inability to efficiently perform
his duties owing to infirmity or ill-health, and under 60 years of age, he shall
receive pay on the scale of Superannuation named in these Rules subject to
the discretion of the Management Committee, who shall have power to review
such cases from time to time. An official or clerk shall not be entitled to
claim Superannuation on the grounds of age alone until he has attained the age
of 60 years, but he must compulsorily retire at 65 years of age.
No superannuated official or clerk shall accept office with a rival organisa-
tion.
Scale and Basis of Payment.
3. Superannuation benefit shall be paid to a permanent official or clerk
on the undermentioned salary basis :-
Years of Service. Fixed Benefits.
10 years 35 per cent.
plus I per cent. for each additional year's completed service, the salary at the
time of retirement being the determining factor for the amount of pension.
Contributions and Refund of Same.
4. The rate of contribution shall be 3 per cent. of wages received from
National officers and Central office clerks, and 3 per cent. from Central Funds;
3 per cent. from Branch officials and Branch clerks, and 3 per cent. from Branch
funds. When an official or clerk has been superannuated he shall cease to
contribute to the Fund.
5. An official or clerk upon resigning, or his services being dispensed with,
or failing to secure re-election, shall (in cases where there is no title to a pension)
have refunded to him all contributions paid by him to the Fund plus 4 per cent.
on the total amount due to him when leaving the service of the Union. A
similar refund shall be made to the dependents or legal representatives of any
official or clerk who dies before completing ten years' service.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
195
Inasmuch as under Regulation 8 of the Rules made by the Commissioners
the Commissioners for Income Tax at one-third the standard rate in force at
Act, 1921, the Trustees of the Superannuation Fund are liable to account to
of Inland Revenue pursuant to their powers under Section 32 (4) of the Finance
returned to members of the Fund during the life-time of the members, a
deduction shall be made from contributions returned to a member during his
life-time, and such deduction shall be at the rate of one-third the standard
rate of Income Tax in force for the year in which the repayment is made.
Any official or clerk dismissed for dishonesty shall have no claim on the
the time of refund on all contributions (with any interest additions thereto)
Fund whatever.
Payment on Death.
Superannuation Fund, provided that he has from 10 to 15 years' service, the
6. In the case of death of an official or clerk before participating in the
annuation allowance where his services exceed 15 years and under 20 years,
dependents or family of such an official shall be entitled to ONE YEAR'S super-
18 months' allowance shall be paid, and where the service exceeds 20 years,
the dependents shall be paid TWO YEARS' allowance in accordance with the
scale, or a refund may be made as named in clause 5. whichever sum is the
greater.
receiving
two years' allowance, the Management Committee shall grant the dependents
the balance of two years'
scale.
This shall be considered a final payment in such cases.
An official or clerk entitled to benefit from the Fund can nominate any
person to receive such sum as may be granted in the case of death. In the
event of there being no dependents, the Management Committee shall grant
such sum as will cover all necessary funeral expenses.
General.
7. The Union shall guarantee the benefits of the scheme.
Retirement for the purposes of claiming superannuation benefit shall be
suspended until 1st January, 1930, but in the case of those 65 years of age
and over at the commencement of the scheme, it shall be optional for them to
retire on 1st January, 1927. In such cases they shall be deemed to have
completed not less than ten years' service with the Union.
Payment of contributions to the scheme shall be payable from 4th Septem-
ber, 1926.
8. In the event of a permanent officer being returned to Parliament he
shall continue to pay contributions at the same rate as were paid before being
returned to Parliament.
9. The Fund shall be controlled by a Management Committee consisting
of the Executive Council of the Union.
Io. If the Union shall be dissolved or amalgamated with any other Union,
the Trusts constituted by these presents may, subject as hereinafter provided,
thereupon determine. Otherwise the said Trusts shall continue during the
life of the survivor of the issue now living of her late Majesty Queen Victoria,
and 21 years after the death of such survivor and such further period, if any,
thereof shall be wound up, and subject to the payment of all costs, charges
and expenses which may then be owing and to provision so far as the Fund


---
196
then payable, the balance of the Fund, if any, shall be applied at the discretion
will admit being made for the continued payment of any pensions which are
the Union, and to whom the Superannuation Scheme is, or may be, applicable
any of the permanent officials or clerks who are then in the active service of
of the Trustees in making provision for pensions or gratuities amongst all or
The Executive Council shall create a Fund to meet the liabilities involved,
a sum equal to one year's interest (for 1925) on Union's funds, and invested
for the purpose of a Superannuation Fund.
Suggested Amendments to Proposed Superannuation
Scheme.
BRISTOL No. 2.-Rule 2, Paragraph 2, Line 1. - Delete the words "A rival,"
and insert "Any."
BRISTOL NO. 2.-Rule 3.-Add: "But in no case shall the retiring pension
of any Officer or Clerk exceed £4 per week, nor shall it be less than £2 per
week."
BRISTOL NO. 2. - Rule 7, Paragraph 2, Line 3. - After "1930," add: "But in
the intervening period the age for voluntary retirement shall be 65, and
for compulsory retirement 70 years of age, commencing from January 1st,
1927. Then follow on to the end as printed."
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Suggestion. -" That a Superannuation Scheme for
the whole membership of the Union be drawn up by the Council, at once,
as an alternative to the scheme at present proposed."
KINGSWOOD. - Retirement Conditions. -" Any superannuated officer or clerk
accepting office after retirement, for salary or wages, shall be liable to
reduction of Superannuation Benefit as the Executive may deem fit."
KINGSWOOD.-"That this meeting of the Kingswood and District Branch of
the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, instructs its delegates
including the permanent official, attending the Conference to be held at
Whitsuntide, 1926, to vote against the endorsement of the Superannuation
Fund submitted by Council on the grounds that it is not expedient or in
the best interests of the members of the Union to do so."
LEICESTER NO. 2.-Retirement Conditions. - Rule 2, Section 1. - Delete "But
he must compulsorily retire at 65 years of age."
NORWICH. Rule 2. Second paragraph to read : "No superannuated official
or clerk shall accept office for payment with any trade organisation."
NORWICH. Rule 3, Line 4.-Delete all after word "Plus," and insert: “Half
per cent. for each additional year of non-contributory service and 1 per
cent. for each additional completed year of contributory service."
NORWICH.-Rule 3.-To add: "The salary at date of retirement shall provide
the basis upon which the pension is calculated, it being always understood
that no superannuated member shall receive more than £208 per annum.
and that no superannuated member shall receive less than £104 per
annum."
NORWICH. - Rule 5, Paragraph 1. To read: "Any official or clerk ceasing to
hold office shall (in cases where no title to a pension is established), have
refunded to him all contributions paid by him into the fund plus 4 per cent.
compound interest on the total amount due to him when leaving the
service of the Union. A similar refund shall be made to the dependents
or legal representatives of any official or clerk who dies before completing
ten years' service."


---
NORWICH. - Rule 5, Paragraph 3. - "Any official or clerk dismissed for dis-
honesty in connection with the Union shall have no claim on the fund
whatever."
NORWICH. - Rule 6, Paragraph 1 to read: "In the case of death of an official
or clerk before participating in the superannuation fund, the dependents
or family shall receive a sum equal to six months' superannuation allow-
ance where less than ten years' service has been rendered, ten years and
not exceeding fifteen years a sum not exceeding one year's superannuation
allowance, over fifteen and not exceeding twenty years a sum not exceeding
eighteen months' superannuation allowance, and where the service exceeds
twenty years the dependents shall be paid two years' superannuation
allowance, or a refund may be made as named in Rule 5, whichever sum
is the greater."
NORWICH. - Rule 6, Paragraph 2, Line 3. - After word "Balance," to read :
"In accordance with preceding paragraph in Rule 6."
NORWICH. - Rule 7, Paragraph 2, Line 4.-To read: "On or after 1st January,
1927."
NORWICH. - Rule 8. - To add : "And while remaining a member of Parliament
shall not be eligible to receive superannuation benefit."
WOLVERHAMPTON. - " Delete from all parts of the Scheme the words Clerks
of the Union or Branches."
WOLVERHAMPTON. - Rule 4, Paragraph 1. - Delete "Branch Funds," and
substitute "Union Funds."
WELLINGBOROUGH. - "That this Branch, after giving very careful consideration
to the Superannuation Scheme for full time Officials and Clerks as sub-
mitted by the Council, rejects the same as being too narrow in its scope.
It further asks that a scheme be drawn up that will include all members
and that it be submitted to a ballot vote of the Union for their approval
or rejection."

SUPERANNUATION FUND.

National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives' Scheme.

At an ordinary meeting of the Kingswood Branch of the National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives, held at the Moravian Schools last evening, a proposed scheme to form
a fund to provide a superannuation allowance for permanent (full time) officials and
clerks of the Union or branches, and a payment to the dependants or representatives of
a deceased official or clerk, came up for discussion.

Councillor S. Iles presided, and was supported by Mr. W. E. A. Payne (Branch Vice-
President), Mr. A. G. Randall (Local Secretary), and Mr. J. Manners (National Executive).

Mr. W. R. Smith (National Organiser), ex-M.P. and former Parliamentary Secretary
to the Board of Agriculture under the Labour Government, made an appeal for more
support and interest in the Union and its affairs, which was merited by the achievements
of the past. During the past five years they had paid out, in out-of-work benefit, £300,000,
ample testimony to what the organisation had done for its members in the difficult times
that had been experienced. He wanted members to realise the importance of the task
of maintaining the obligations and responsibilities of keeping intact this force which had
been so helpful in the past. The new step in regard to the proposed establishment of a
superannuation scheme was an important one and a step forward. Criticisms had been
levelled against the scheme, but it was for the members to take an interest in it and to make
their desires known, so that the organisation might consider them.

In view of the poor attendance it was decided that the meeting should be adjourned
for a week.

Unemployed Deputation.

Before an adjournment was made, the Chairman moved the following resolution :-
"That this meeting urges the Warmley Board of Guardians to allow the deputa-
tion, as appointed by the Kingswood Unemployed Association, to make representations
to the Board on behalf of the destitute unemployed."

This was carried. - Western Press, 5th March, 1926.


---
```text
C
199
THE ECONOMY BILL.
Protest by National Union Approved Society.
At a meeting of the Executive Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Oрега-
tives Approved Society, held in London, under the presidency of Mr. T. F. Richards,
a resolution was passed emphatically protesting against the proposal embodied in the
Chancellor of the Exchequer's Economy (Miscellaneous Provisions) Bill, under which it
is proposed to reduce the State grant towards benefits paid to insured persons, thus relieving
the taxpayer at the expense of the wage-earner.
Whilst believing that the insured population was willing to make every reasonable
effort to assist the nation in its financial difficulties, it was submitted:-
(1) That the Royal Commission unanimously recommended that money within the
scheme should be devoted to extending services, and
(2) That the proposed reduction of the State grant was not real economy, inasmuch
as it prevented the provision of allowances for the dependents of insured persons, and
restricted other developments in the services for the prevention and cure of sickness.
The resolution passed demanded, in the interest of the nation as a whole, and of insured
persons and their dependents in particular, the withdrawal of that section of the Bill
respecting health insurance.
The manager, Mr. R. D. Mayes, was instructed to send copies of the resolution to the
Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, and the leaders of all parties in the House of
Commons.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE ACT.
Approved Societies' Surpluses.
SIR F. HALL asked the Minister of Health whether, seeing that approved societies
under the National Health Insurance Act are required, after disbursing fixed benefits,
to devote any surplus in the grant of additional benefits, he will state what is now the
amount of the undistributed surpluses of approved societies?
SIR K. WOOD: On the closest estimate of which the conditions permit, the aggregate
amount of the surpluses at 31st December, 1925, is computed to be about £65,000,000.
I may point out that a society is only allowed to apply to the provision of additional
benefits such part of its surplus as is certified by the valuer to be disposable.-Extract
from Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons, Monday, 22nd March, 1926.
PAPER INSOLES BLAMED FOR FAILURE.
Boot Dealer "Couldn't Fight Millionaire Firm."
Percy Fowler, boot dealer, Loughborough, whose deficiency was £777 9s. 3d., stated
at Leicester Bankruptcy Court, that his failure was due to a wholesale firm supplying
him with inferior shoes containing paper insoles, instead of leather. HE GAVE 15s. 3d.
PER PAIR FOR THE SHOES, WHICH HE COULD HAVE BOUGHT ELSEWHERE FOR 8s. 6d. A
PAIR. His customers complained, and his trade went down so badly that he might as
well have shut up shop.
The Registrar: Why didn't you sue the firm for damages?
Debtor: I couldn't fight a millionaire firm in a court of justice.
The Registrar: Why not?
Debtor: Well, I hadn't got the money.
The examination was adjourned for a statement of certain receipts and payments
to be furnished.-Nottingham Guardian.
```

---
200
HOLIDAY PROVISION SCHEME.
East End Manufacturers Successfully Sued by Member of
National Union.
At the Old Street Police Court on Tuesday, Jackson & Joseph, Shoe Manufacturers,
22 Princelet Street, E., were summoned by E. Rowe, operative, who claimed 7s. under
a contract of service in respect to a period between 16th November and 26th December,
1925.
Mr. W. II. Thompson appeared for the complainant, and Mr. R. T. Sharpe for the
defence.
Rowe said he was a member of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
and had been employed by the defendants at different times. He knew there was a dispute
between the Union and the firm in May, 1924. After the dispute he started work at the
firm's factory on 2nd March, 1925. Apart from insurance, there was a deduction from
wages for a holiday scheme. The men were paid on Fridays, and they paid IS. 2d. on
Saturdays towards the scheme. After 2nd March that sum was deducted each week.
and on the Saturday after Easter, 1924, he received 14S.; and at Whitsuntide he drew
14s. on the Saturday after the holiday. About two weeks afterwards he went in the
ordinary way to pay his 1s. 2d., when the foreman said, " I am not taking it." He asked
why, and the foreman said, "The guv'nor has promised to pay the 1s. 2d., and you should
not pay yours on account of the clerical work."
He (witness) reported the matter to the Union. From that date he received his full
wages, and on the Saturday after the Bank Holiday he was paid gs. 4d. He worked on
10th August, and was stopped on 11th August. He worked again on 16th November,
and continued from then until 26th December. He asked Mr. Jackson about his holiday
pay on 2nd January. He and a good many more men went together. Mr. Jackson
said, "Hullo, what are you round here for?" and they said, "Our holiday fund." Mr.
Jackson said, "Let it stand over." He (witness) again went to the Union. Mr. Jackson
did not say they were not entitled to it, but "Let it stand over."
Later he (witness) heard that a number of men had been paid out, and he saw Mr.
Jackson again. Mr. Jackson said, "You were not here in August." He replied, "I was
here in August, but I was discharged in August." Mr. Jackson said, "You will have to
start in the New Year." Witness went on working until 17th February. He had not had
the Is. 2d. per week in respect to Christmas, nor had he had anything for the time since
Christmas.
Cross-examined by Mr. Sharpe, the witness said he knew a number of men started
work between holidays, but he did not know that many did not get the holiday pay.
Mr. Sharpe: An announcement was made by the foreman to all of you that there
was a change? Witness: Only when we went up on the Saturday.
Mr. Thompson (re-examining): Did they tell you that if a workman started in the
middle of a holiday period he would not get any holiday pay? Witness: No.
Mr. Albert Mason, president of the Metropolitan Branch of the Union, said there
was a dispute with Jackson & Joseph, which was settled in 1925. Immediately a man
started work he came within the holiday scheme, and would be entitled to Is. 2d. for each
week of his service. Several men reported that they had not received the money, and the
defendants said something about other firms who had not carried out the agreement.
It had never been suggested until that day that the complainant was not entitled to the
Is. 2d. because he started after a holiday.
Cross-examined, the witness said he had not heard of Jackson & Joseph having said
that the Union having failed to get in all firms, they had altered the scheme to suit their
case. Owing to clerical work a number of manufacturers preferred to pay their holiday
fund quota and not stop the men.
Mr. Sharpe said that following negotiations between the defendants and the Union,
they accepted a scheme if the Union would do their best to get all the employers who were
in the Manufacturers' Federation to fall into line. Following that arrangement the
defendants, from February to Whitsun, carried out the letter of the scheme. Then they
said the Union had not got the other employers in and they thought a change ought to be
made. They then inaugurated a new scheme of their own.
Mr. Clarke Hall (magistrate): The contract was to do their best to get the others in.
Mr. Sharpe (continuing) said that after Whitsun the defendants instituted their
variation of the scheme. The position was that Rowe drew out all his money in June,
and carried on until August. At the August holiday he was paid his money under the
new scheme, so that he had accepted the alteration. All the men were paid on that basis
and not under the National Agreement scheme. Rowe then left their service, and came
back in November, and must have come back on the terms that were ruling at the time
he left.


---
201
Mr. Arthur Isadore Jackson (partner in the firm) said a variation of the scheme was
decided upon in June last, and he gave instructions to his foreman.
William Bailey (foreman) said he told the men they would not pay their Is. 2d.,
but that Mr. Jackson would pay his Is. 2d. if they worked full time.
Mr. Clarke Hall said the case turned mainly on a question of fact. Bailey gave his
evidence very well indeed, but he (Mr. Clarke Hall) could not refrain from thinking that
his recollection of what happened in June was very vague. He thought Rowe's recollection
the trouble in the bookkeeping involved in paying the Is. 2d. per week.
was clearly right, and that he understood that the alteration had been made by reason of
He believed
Rowe when he said that he did not hear Bailey say anything about any further alteration.
He found for the complainant for 7s. and 10s. costs. -The Shoe and Leather Record, 26th
March, 1926.

WHOLESALE BALANCE SHEET.
1925 Sales show increase of £5,000,000. Review of Productive Activities.
Details of the half-year's trading are contained in the balance sheet now published.
These show that the society's sales for the half-year were £39.425,445, an increase of
1478712 or 35 per cent. on the corresponding period of the previous year. For the
whole year the sales were £76,585,704, an increase of £5,022,264, or 7 per cent. on the
previous year.
The supplies from the society's productive works for the half-year were £13,337,197,
an increase of £191,597, or 1½ per cent., but the return for the year works out at a remark-
le total of £20,900,865, an increase of £2,554,590, or no less than 103 per cent. on the
previous year.
The net surplus in the trading department, after providing for all expenses, interest,
depreciation, &c., amounts to £566,059 19S. 3d., which, with the addition of £132,548
13s. 11d. brought forward from the previous half-year, gives a total disposable surplus of
£468,008 13s. 2d.
The banking department forges ahead. Its deposits and withdrawals for the half-
year amounted to £297,885,465, which is £18,318,302- or 6½ per cent. more than for
the corresponding half-year of 1924; but the transactions for the whole year amounted
to £45,713,273- or an increase of 8½ per cent. which amounted to £45,209,840. That
is an enormous business arising out of the accounts of co-operative societies, trade unions,
friendly societies, clubs, other mutual organisations, and individuals, which give a total
20,184 current accounts and 26,249 deposit accounts. It is worthy of note that only
thirty-one co-operative societies do not bank with the C.W.S.
The tea, coffee, and cocoa departments show increases of ½ per cent. in tea, 26% per
cent. in coffee, 1½ per cent. of cocoa, and 6½ per cent. on chocolate. These rates are based
on the weights sold, not upon the money value; and it is noteworthy that the tea sales
represented 28,500,754 lbs. for the half-year. -The Co-operative News, 20th March, 1926.

SECURITY.
The total assets of the Co-operative Wholesale Society Limited are £56,000,000.
The Share Capital is £6,000,000, while Reserve, Depreciation, and Insurance funds amount
to over £7,000,000.
If the Banking Department is taken separately, of the total liabilities to our depositors,
viz., £31,000,000, the sum of £10,500,000 is invested in Treasury Bills and Municipal
Loans at short notice, £15,000,000 in British, Colonial, and Guaranteed Railway Stock,
&c., Cash in hand and at banks represents £1,900,000, and advances to customers £3,780,000.
All the Share Capital and Reserves of the Society stand behind the Banking Department,
and from the standpoint of security, therefore, the Bank is undoubted.

LEEDS ARBITRATION BOARD.
The annual meeting of the Leeds Boot Trade Arbitration Board, which had been
adjourned for a fortnight, was held on Monday, when the following were elected officers:
President, Councillor A. J. Dobbs; vice-president, Mr. F. Wardle; arbitrators, Coun-
cillors W. L. Ingle and T. Rushton; and investigation committee, Messrs. G. Winterbottom,
F. Wardle and R. L. Yeomans (employers) and Messrs. Dobbs, A. F. Peat and C. Pratt
(operatives). Major Alan Fillingham was reappointed acting secretary. Shoe and
Leather Record, 19th March, 1926.
---

---
MONEY FOR HEALTH IS WISELY SPENT.
That the provision of an efficient health service by Local Authorities is a sound
investment is shown by the reduced death rates of recent years.
LOWER DEATH RATE
For the period 1871-1880 the death rate was .. .. .. 21.4
For the period 1901-1910 it had been reduced to .. .. 15.4
For the year 1924 it was reduced to .. .. 12.2
THUS, WITHIN FIFTY YEARS, THE DEATH RATE HAS BEEN
PRACTICALLY REDUCED BY HALF.
FEWER BABIES DIE.
The rate of mortality amongst infants has also fallen.
Number of deaths under
one year of age in every
1,000 children born.
For the period 1871-1880 the death rate was .. .. .. 149
For the period 1901-1910 it had been reduced to.. .. .. 128
For the year 1924 it was reduced to .. .. .. 75
THUS, WHERE FIFTY YEARS AGO TWO BABIES DIED, ONLY ONE
DIES NOW.
WHAT IS THE REASON ?
Such startling improvements as these do not occur accidentally.
They are due to the improved Public Health Service of the last half century, including
the provision of :-
MORE HOSPITALS.
BETTER SANITATION.
HEALTHIER HOUSES.
MATERNITY AND CHILD WELFARE CENTRES.
MUCH MORE NEEDS TO BE DONE.
Much more remains to be done if the progress of the last fifty years is to be maintained.
At present, according to official reports :-
OVER 100,000 MORE HOSPITAL BEDS ARE REQUIRED.
70,000 NEW CASES OF TUBERCULOSIS ARE NOTIFIED EACH YEAR.
40,000 PEOPLE DIE FROM TUBERCULOSIS EACH YEAR.
370,000 OF THE CHILDREN EXAMINED IN SCHOOLS DURING 1924 NEEDED MEDICAL
OR DENTAL TREATMENT.
12,000 OF THE CHILDREN EXAMINED WERE UNDERFED.
200,000 NEW HOUSES ARE WANTED EVERY YEAR.
BETTER EDUCATION FACILITIES.
Much can be done by Local Authorities to improve educational facilities.
MANY SCHOOLS ARE INSANITARY. The Chief Medical Officer of the Board of
Education, in his report for 1924-25, said: "Official reports include with
almost wearisome repetition a record of the sanitary defects of school pre-
mises."
MANY CHILDREN GO TO SCHOOL HUNGRY. Local Authorities have power to
provide meals for school children, where they are so underfed that they cannot
obtain full benefit from the instruction afforded.
Only 10 million meals were provided last year, however, as compared
with 14 million in 1913-14. This looks as though Local Authorities
may not be fully availing themselves of the facilities.
MORE SECONDARY EDUCATION NEEDED. Experts compute that 1,000,000,
children are intellectually capable of profiting by secondary education,
but only 360,000 secondary school places are available for scholarship and
paying pupils combined.
-Speakers' Notes, 25th February, 1926.


---
Here is the extracted text:
204
TORIES SPEND MORE ON ARMAMENTS.
For months past the Tories have been boasting of their plans for reducing the national
expenditure.
WHERE THE TORIES HAVE ECONOMISED.
They have already effected Economies in several directions, including:
SMALLER EXCHEQUER GRANTS FOR EDUCATION,
LESS MONEY FOR UNEMPLOYMENT RELIEF WORK.
"CUTS" IN UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT.
WHERE THEY HAVE NOT ECONOMISED.
In accordance with their traditional reputation for Big Fighting Forces, however,
THEY ARE INCREASING THE EXPENDITURE ON THE NAVY AND
AIR FORCE BY NEARLY £4 MILLION AS COMPARED WITH THE
BUDGET OF THE LABOUR GOVERNMENT.
Only the Estimates for the Navy and the Air Force have yet been issued. These
compare with the Estimates presented in the Labour Government's Budget, as follow:--
NAVY
£2,310,000 INCREASE.
AIR FORCE..
1,489,000 INCREASE.
MAKING A TOTAL INCREASE FOR THE TWO SERVICES OF NEARLY
£4 MILLION.
WHERE THE MONEY GOES.
If the Tory Government is really sincere in its quest for Economy, the following table
furnished by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the House of Commons recently, will
show that there is far more scope for reductions in War Expenditure than in Peace
Expenditure.
EXPENDITURE PER HEAD OF THE POPULATION (BASED ON 1925-26 BUDGET
ESTIMATES).
PEACE PURPOSES.
£ s. d.
EDUCATION GRANTS
I I 4
PUBLIC HEALTH, UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE AND HOUSING
0 14 8
OLD AGE PENSIONS
0 12 2
CIVIL SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
0 5 10
TOTAL ON PEACE SERVICES
WAR PURPOSES.
ARMY
NAVY
AIR FORCE
WAR PENSIONS
NATIONAL DEBT
2 14 1
£ s. d.
I 0 2½
I 7 6
0 7 0½
I 8 11
8 0 0
TOTAL ON WAR SERVICES
£12 3 8
THE EXPENDITURE ON PEACE SERVICES OUGHT TO BE INCREASED AND THAT ON
WAR SERVICES REDUCED.
THE PRESENT TORY GOVERNMENT IS DOING EXACTLY THE REVERSE.
IT IS CUTTING DOWN EXPENDITURE ON THE PEACE SERVICES, AND INCREASING
EXPENDITURE ON THE WAR SERVICES.
-Notes for Speakers, No. 47, 11th March, 1920.
SCOTTISH CO-OPERATIVE BOOT PRODUCTION.
The sales of the boot and shoe department of the Scottish Co-operative Wholesale
Society for the half-year ending 26th December were £425,551, making a total of £872,927
for the whole year. These figures compare with £415,670 in the last half of 1924 and
£850,060 for the whole of that year. In the boot and shoe factory of the society the pro-
duction was £206,766 for the last six months of 1925 as compared with £201,099 in the
corresponding half of 1924. For the whole year the boot and shoe production was £430,827.
an increase of £3,546.--Shoe and Leather News, 4th March, 1926.


---
```text
205
WHERE THE MONEY GOES.
How manifestly unfair it is for the Government to continue economising at the expense
of the social services whilst increasing expenditure on fighting services, is shown by an
analysis of the various categories of our national expenditure, which the Chancellor of the
Exchequer was unwillingly compelled to give to the House the other day.
This showed that for every £1 spent on peaceable social services, nearly £5 went towards
paving past, present, and future wars.
So far as the expenditure on peace is concerned, the cost per head of the population,
based on the original estimates embodied in this year's Budget, is as follows:
Education grants-£1 IS. 4d.
Public Health, Unemployment, Insurance and Housing-14s. 81d.
Old Age Pensions-125. 21d.
Civil Service Administration-5s. rod.
Total on peace services-£2 14S. Id.
NO ECONOMY HERE.
For war purposes the figures are on a much more colossal scale, as follow :-
Army-£1 os. 21d.
Navy-£1 75. 6d.
Air Force-75. old.
War Pensions-£1 8s. IId.
National Debt-£8.
Total on war services-£12 35. 81d.
Any sensible person confronted with the necessity for effecting economies, would,
in the face of such figures as these, immediately turn towards the war items as affording
the most fruitful field for his efforts.
1020.
Perhaps that is why the Tories turn the other way.- Labour Press Service, 4th March,
TRADE BOARD EVASION.
Underpaid Employees.
At Rhyl on 11th March, Arthur Langley, bootmaker, Caradock Terrace, Prestatyn,
was summoned by the Ministry of Labour under the Trade Boards Act for paying lesser
wages than fixed by the Board to two of his employees. Mr. St. Vincent Coules, who
appeared for the Ministry of Labour, said that defendant had been warned for months
and months, and he would neither keep a wages book nor pay the proper rate of wages
to his pieceworkers. He had underpaid one man as much as 35. 5d. in one week, and in
another case to the extent of 6s. 22d. Evan Evans, one of the employees, admitted that
he learnt all he knew about the bootmaking trade whilst he had been with defendant,
and added that other men had been paid proper wages, and that he, himself, was satisfied
with what he was paid. An inspector of the Ministry of Labour said that if defendant
paid another employee named Parry, whom he said was an apprentice, time wages, he
would have to pay him 1s. 3d. per hour, and that would mean that Parry would have had
£os. per week instead of £I IIS. rod., the sum paid. Witness added that he understood
that Langley did not do boot repairing, but was a commission agent. Langley: I am a
boot repairer, and I taught these men all they knew. The Bench imposed a fine of £2 in
each case, and ordered defendant to pay arrears of wages amounting to £4 11s. 9d. and
£2 15s. 2d., together with £4 5s. 6d. costs. - The Shoe and Leather News, 18th March, 1926.
MEETING OF THE TRADE BOARD
(Northern Ireland).
At a meeting of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board (Northern Ireland), held
in Belfast on the 11th inst., it was decided to vary the general minimum piece rates and
general overtime rates for male indentured apprentices, and certain general minimum
piscerates and overtime rates for male and female workers in certain districts.
rates, as varied, if confirmed by the Ministry of Labour, will become effective as from the
12th April, 1926, and due notice will be sent to all employers in the trade who are known
to the Board.
It was also decided to issue a notice of proposal to fix piecework basis time rates of
Is. 3d. per hour for male workers and 10d. per hour for female workers in the trade.
These rates will not come into operation unless and until fixed by the Trade Board and
duly confirmed by the Ministry of Labour. - Belfast News Letter, 13th March, 1926.
```

---
Here is the extracted text:

206
A LONG, HAPPY LIFE.
Sir George Newman, K.C.B., on How to Attain it.
I believe it is absolutely true to say that the principal asset of the nation is its
health, and the principal liability of the nation is disease.
Sir George Newman, K.C.B., M.D., F.R.C.P., Chief Medical Officer to the Ministry
of Health, thus opened a forceful address at a special meeting of the Leicester Personal
Health Association, in the Art Gallery, Museum Buildings, last night.
"If," he continued, "that is true, we ought to be engaged in doing the utmost we
can to establish and maintain the health of this country. Unless you have health you do
not have a surviving race. Unless you fully meet the liability to disease you cannot
have health. Of all the problems the nation has to face the greatest is its health."
Turning to National Health Insurance, Sir George said we had in this country a
method by which 14,000,000 people were insured and received the medical service of
between 13,000 and 14,000 doctors. Under that scheme the doctor made a note of the
causes which brought an insured person to him as a patient. A little more than half of
the 14,000,000 became patients every year. So they had returns of 7,000,000 people in
1924 with regard to the causes which took them to their doctor. They also had 500,000
death certificates and 750,000 births.
Twenty per cent. went to the doctor because they had bronchial catarrh, or a common
cold; 10 per cent. because they had something in the nature of influenza; 12 per cent.
because they had dyspepsia; 10 per cent, because they were injured 14 per cent. with
various complaints described as rheumatism, neuralgia or lumbago; and 7 per cent. with
local septic conditions. That accounted for 73 per cent. But missing from the
list were all the great mortality diseases of the human family.

Healthiest Age.
Those trifling, mild diseases, though they did not kill the people, wasted 23,000,000
weeks of time in 1924; and £13,000,000 had been paid in benefit by the State. Those
diseases laid the foundation of the other diseases which ended life. Yet they were nearly
all personal in origin. Why should there be 12 per cent. of dyspepsia? Because people
did not know how to live. This was the healthiest age ever recorded in England. But
40 per cent. of the population that died were under the age of 50. Robert Browning had
said: "Ignorance is the great human curse."-Leicester Mail, 27th February, 1926.

FARMERS ADVISED TO SABOTAGE CROPS.
WASHINGTON, 13TH FEBRUARY.-In a statement issued by the department of agri-
culture, farmers are advised to reduce production.
"Any general expansion in production this year would tend to place farmers in a less
favourable economic position than at present," the statement says.
The department discusses wheat, corn, live stock and other production, and makes
this direct appeal to sabotage the potato crop:
"There is danger that potato growing in the late producing states may plant too
heavily. Increased acreage of more than 10 per cent. is inadvisable."
Anti-unionists who continually lecture labour on "failing to produce" have ignored
this statement by the department. Labour has never adopted a "go-slow" policy,
but the anti-unionists refuse to be convinced. -American Federation of Labour, Weekly
News Service, 13th February, 1926.
[One more instance of the need for alteration of laws, whereby the needs of the whole
will be considered rather than the profits of the few.-E.L.P., G.S.1.

NORWEGIAN SHOE TRADE.
A correspondent of the Federation of British Industries, writing from Oslo, says the
conditions of the boot and shoe trade are abnormal at present. Of a total of 38 Norwegian
factories, 18 have closed down, 17 are working part time and only three factories are
quantities are being imported at low prices from Continental firms, who are sending large
Footwear is being sold in comparison. The National Association of Norwegian Footwear
stocks on consignment, and granting long credits. Unfortunately, very little British
Manufacturers has applied to the Government for an increase of the import duty on
foreign footwear.-Shoe and Leather News, 25th February, 1926.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however. any errors creep into them, upon the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

N
NAT TEL: MUSEUM 4438
LONDON
TEL ADDRESS NATUMISHOP
PHONE, LONDON
ATIONAL UNION of BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Seat of Government, 34.GUILFORD ST. LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses && National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 245.
MOR BOOT & SHOE O
NATIONAL UP
UNION
Copyright
3
General President
T.F.RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L.POULTON.J.P.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE.
26TH APRIL, 1926.
There is some improvement in trade but not such as to absorb any very
considerable number of our unemployed members. The figures in the Gazette
are as follows:-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
There was a further slight improvement in March in some of the principal centres ;
and towards the end of the month many firms were busy getting out orders before the
Easter holiday. Employment was also better than a year ago in most districts.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 7.4 on the 22nd March, as compared with 7.7
on the 22nd February, and with 9.2 on the 23rd March, 1925.
Employment remained fairly good in London. At Leicester it was good, better than
in February or than in March of last year; most factories were on full time, and some
overtime was worked to complete deliveries before the holiday; a little difficulty was
found in filling vacancies for skilled workers. At Northampton there was a further
improvement, and employment was fairly good, though some short time was still worked ;
the Employment Exchange register was lower than it has been for five years past. In the
Higham and Rushden district employment showed a further improvement, and was fair.
At Wellingborough there was a further increase in short-time working, and employment
was generally very poor. At Finedon employment was slack; at Earl's Barton it remained
fair. At Kettering employment showed a further improvement.
Employment at Leeds remained slack at factories producing heavy boots, but at
those producing sports goods and other light footwear it remained fair. At Stafford
employment was fair, and better than for some months past. At Norwich employment
in the turn-shoe trade was still slack, but in other sections there was a decided improve-
ment, and employment was good, with a little overtime in some factories. Employment
improved at factories in Bristol producing light footwear; but in the heavy boot factories
at Bristol and at Kingswood employment remained very poor, and was worse than a year
ago. At Street employment continued fair. There was a slight improvement in the
Rossendale Valley.
Employment was fairly good at Glasgow and at Kilmarnock; at Arbroath an im-
provement was reported; at most of the other Scottish centres employment was quiet,
with much short time.
B


---
Here is the extracted text:
226
possible, the reactionary proposals of the Government, especially some of those
proposed to be dealt with in the "Economy Bill." The proposed raid on the
Health Insurance Funds alone calls for strenuous opposition, and we commend
to the members the fight that was put up just before the adjournment of the
House. It is true they were defeated, nevertheless the fight has been
renewed now the House has reassembled. Several all-night sittings have
occurred, and the fight sustained to put not only specially a Labour point of
view, but also from the National standpoint. Members have been suspended
still the struggle goes on, proving clearer and clearer the price we are paying
for a Conservative Government. Activity in the country will give assistance
to the members in the House. We trust, therefore, as occasion arises, it will
be made plain what is the feeling of the people upon these great and important
questions.
Read the Daily Herald for reports from day to day and see how the struggle
is going on, what the Members are doing, and thus acquaint yourselves with the
facts of the situation, which is constantly changing.
Further references to the matter will be found on pages 248.
POLITICAL AGENT.
The result of the voting for a Political Agent rendered vacant by the
death of Mr. J. Buckle, is as follows :-
*Dobbs, Mr. A. J. (Leeds)
Poole, Mr. L. P. (Wellingborough)
* Elected. The detailed voting will be found on page 240.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We hope that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```
227
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
R. WHITE.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
Rights and Duties of a Member of the League of Nations.
Brazil.
During the negotiations at Geneva concerning Germany's admission to the League
of Nations, Brazil showed that she insisted upon its full rights as a member of the League.
If this country had a true conception of what may reasonably be expected of a member
of the League, little would remain to be said on the matter. This is, however, far from
being the case. Brazil emphatically stated at Geneva that she was determined to assert
her rights and not to be placed at any disadvantage. Before adopting such an attitude
abroad however, the Brazilian Government would do well to examine how the rights of
the citizens are respected at home.
Notwithstanding her membership of the League of Nations and the International
Labour Office, the Constitution has been tampered with in the last few years by the passing
of certain new acts which practically make it a dead letter. The measures adopted by
the authorities in respect of foreigners, political refugees or otherwise, are extremely
rigorous. Ambiguous clauses in the regulations enable the Government to deport anyone
whose presence they consider for some reason to be undesirable. Participation in a
strike by an immigrant renders him liable to instant deportation. Any Socialistic pro-
paganda is made virtually impossible. The Act passed in 1923 to restrict the freedom of
the Press, empowers the authorities to arrest anyone openly criticising the actions of the
Government. For three years Central Brazil has constantly been under martial law.
Although, according to the Brazilian Constitution, the right to hold meetings or to form
trade unions is guaranteed, employers may have any meeting of workers which "might
possibly" declare a strike, broken up by the police.
The authorities show exceptional activity in regard to censorship. All overseas
correspondence is opened and the right to privacy is violated in the most outrageous
manner. Attention has been previously drawn to this unendurable state of affairs, though
with little effect. For that reason the secretariat of the I.F.T.U. recently sent in a letter
to the Brazilian Home Office, in which it stated, inter alia, "On several occasions it has
come to our notice that letters addressed to befriended organisations in Brazil have not
been delivered.
Needless to say that this fact has occasioned the greatest surprise, as this attitude
does not in any way correspond with the spirit of Chapter XIII. of the Treaty of Peace.
We feel confident that your Government will take steps to see that our correspondence is
not subjected to further delays or detention." It is to be hoped that in this direction the
Brazilian Government will in the future also give more evidence of " its great interest in
the League of Nations and its aims."
C
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
228
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, N.W.5.
20th April, 1926,
FELLOW MEMBERS,
MINING SITUATION. - The outstanding feature during the past month is the
very grave situation created by the Mine Owners and the Government who appear to find
the rates, both requests being unreasonable and devoid of humane treatment of one's
as yet no reasonable way out of the Owners' desire to either lengthen the hours or decrease
fellows. As has been said many times, the Miners have as much right to a living wage
know that the Miners will have the backing of the whole Labour Movement, which they
deserve, and its moral and financial support to stem the attacks on all other workers.
The figures given by the Miners themselves show 170,000,000 tons of coal were produced
at a profit; 84,000,000 tons were produced at a loss, although an aggregate profit for the
year over the whole 3,000 pits, is no less than 14 MILLIONS for 1924. The pre-war
period of 1913 shows £13 millions only, so that whilst we have the Owners improving
their position to the tune of one and a half millions, they ask the Miners to either work
longer hours or accept a reduction, an impossible position, and one that in my judgment
the Government appear to consent by the stoppage of the subsidy without making any
arrangement for the natural co-operation of the industry that is bound to come if we
have to be controlled by the Nation in a National sense irrespective of the trembling at
the knees of Liberal and Tory Statesmen when the word “Nationalisation” is mentioned.
the War when £440 millions was saved the country on Shipping. In the light of
this experience my contention is let us have more and more Nationalisation. The failure
of the Mine Owners, who, like Lord Tredegar gets £30,000 per year for the use of a five
chain mile of road through Tredegar Park subscribes not a copper to the upkeep of the
railway line; this, and many other taxes upon the Mining Industry, make the same a
reason why the Miners cannot possibly act as the Owners wish. My own view is that
the Owners and their class, ever anxious to live at the expense of the Nation, want a
continuation of the subsidy. I think the subsidy should be transferred into Government
control; under a Labour Government that would have been the case. Why have the
Government subsidised their pals in the spending of the many millions without any voice
of protest from the manufacturing or business community? We are all proud of the
statesmanlike answers of the Miners to all the points raised by the Commission, but one
cannot expect experts to think in terms of equality among men, irrespective of birth,
consequently they have not been humane and commercially-minded enough to support
whole-heartedly the findings of the Sankey Commission. Therefore, come weal, come woe,
we must and will stand by the Miners, who with the rest of us, suffered a reduction in
1922 of twelve million pounds per week in wages.
NATIONAL BURGLARY BY THE TORY GOVERNMENT. - The next item of public interest,
and which affects all our members, is the mean and contemptible robbery of the Insurance
Funds. What are the facts? Short of the Nationalisation of Industry, the Government
of the day introduced a scheme of Insurance during sickness and this fund has been
described contemptuously by its opponents and other ne’er-do-wells as the DOLE, and so
successful has the enemy been with this word that even some Labour people (save the
mark !) repeat it. What are the facts ? The latest published figures are for the last
four years :-
Workers' Contributions £62,015,000
Employers' 71,527,000
State 46,080,000
So that in round figures the State contribution is less than 4d. in the shilling. In other
words the workers and the industry find the overwhelming portion of the money, and the
Government have the impudence to control the methods by which it is spent. To cap
it all they have now decided (this Minority Government who represent the smaller portion
of the Nation), to use their marionette majority in the House of Commons to steal from
the Insurance Fund no less than eleven hundred thousand pounds, whilst at the same
paying super taxes as before. Is there any wonder that a portion of the public become
eruptive ?
SUPERANNUATION. - This has become an alluring question with the Union, and a
scheme has already been sent to the Branches. The Council have also given, and are still
giving, attention to a scheme for the whole of the membership, but even with the experience
---

---
229
noted at branch meetings and the apparent lack of interest taken, there appears to be very
scheme is produced the members are bound to make some kind of contribution towards
je hurry in arranging a scheme. One thing is very apparent, and that is that whatever
it, but that ought to be no great difficulty for the very reason that with the Holiday Pay
provision for a pension at an age when members feel that the active part of their live
obtained by the Union from the employers, surely there ought to be no grounds for making
has become unwelcome. For many years the Sick Fund has been subsidised by the
directions. We certainly owe the thirty, forty and fifty years' member something of
interest on Investments, and there is no reason why this should not be used in other
sterling value, and if we could get our members to take as much interest in this grave and
serious matter, as they do in the recreations of life, we could think out and debate a success-
ful scheme, but they will not face the knotty problems of life, and I say, fellow members.
whilst many of you fail to attend your Branch Meetings, don't deny my statement that
FOU ARE NOT BRAVE.
JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL. We have attended a further meeting of the Sub-Com-
mittee appointed to bring about the re-affiliation of the London Employers who left the
Federation because we demanded they should pay the Holiday Fund, but up to the time
of writing this report they have not accepted the invitation. This then appears to be
the position that we shall have to press for the passing of a Bill making the National
Agreement, or some portions of it, legal, and have the force of law behind it.
SILEBY-Here we have a federated firm, Messrs. Walker & Kempson Ltd., of Leicester,
whose branch factory has few members of the Union working there, and although one of
have refused to post the notice, "Organisation of Industry," in the factory, and I am
the Directors was at one time Chairman of the Employers' Federation, their directors
the firm and warned them that theirs is an hostile act, and that I am bound to inform
reporting them to the local Association and National Federation. I have already visited
all the officers of the Leicester Branches, the local Association, the County Association,
and the National Federation of the same.
This firm a few months ago sent for me to
bemoan their troubles with foreign competition; they have also broken the National
by putting two
Ammediately demanded, which was done. I have to-day unearthed another case of
women being employed at this non-Union firm in the Lasting Room.
MANSFIELD. Owing to ill-health the matter is still in a parlous state. We called a
meeting of the girls, and about thirty or more arrived, part of them Cutters, or girls on
the Press, who said we had done nothing for them; this I indignantly denied and quoted
the fact that only three of the sixteen were getting the minimum and more, and that
one had 3s. per week rise; five got 6s. per week more, one ros. more, three IIS. more,
one 13s. more, three 145. more, and one 16s. more, and Holiday Pay for the whole firm.
It is my intention to attend this firm during the dinner hour, read out these increases,
and if need be all the others, which range from 5s. to 20s.
The rise of 5s. for girls at 15
vears of age who had been started at 8s. prior to our advent, in itself warranted not less
than the truth from these few girls, and two married women, whose non-Union propensities
were very apparent, and my feelings were such that I informed them that my colleagues
would be requested to advise our members not to work with non-Unionists.
MARKET HARBOROUGH.-Here again the firm has not played the game, they having
informed a prominent member of the Federation that they would put up the "Organisation
of Industry" resolution, and we can get no evidence to the effect that they have done so.
MOUNTSORREL SCHOOL BOOT Со.-This firm has been summoned by me before the
Committee of Inquiry for discharging twelve of our members whom we had instructed
to work to Statement in accordance with Clause 2 of the Terms of Settlement, and the
Committee were in a quandary as to the action of the firm in dispensing with the services
of twelve operatives at a time. The employers said the seriousness of the position was
that the firm worked Day Labour and refused to allow the men to work to Statement.
The meeting has done much good, but oh for the lack of stomach amongst the operatives!
NOTTINGHAM. On two occasions I have had to visit Nottingham owing to their
asking for one of our Parliamentary Candidates, Mr. J. H. Baum, to allow himself to be
nominated for the Eastern Division of Nottingham, that portion of the town in which
Mr. A. Hayday, M.P., resides, and the district upon which he hesitated to fight.
Having toured the Constituency with Mr. Baum, at the kindly request and assistance of
the Chairman of the Party, Mr. Ashworth, we witnessed the worst conditions of houses
and homes it has ever been my lot to witness, and recalls Bobbie Burns' couplet:
inhumanity to man makes countless thousands mourn." Our money will be well spent
in the effort to rescue our fellow creatures from these horrid and sordid surroundings.
"Man's
KETTERING. I attended their Social and a splendid company of young men and
women were present, marred only by the absence of Mr. Chester owing to illness, but the
meeting was buoyed up by the Chairman, our old Secretary, Mr. Leonard Bradley, who
had been in retirement eleven years, as he retired when 60 years of age. We must con-
gratulate Leonard on his 71st year, a wonderful record for a very active man.


---
Here is the extracted text:
230
very fully that no news is bad news.
there is something they don't want you to know.
our work would be lessened.
STAFFORD commanded my attention and interest in two firms, Messrs. Mason &
we find that there is room for improvement which was really a surprise to me, showing
Marston and Lotus Ltd. (or Bostock's). The former firm I am bound to visit again because
When you don't hear from your friends remember
With the latter firm, Lotus Ltd., it is
and acted upon even if a few weeks may elapse in between. If all our officials would
always a pleasure to call upon them; any intimation of ours is always kindly considered
only follow up any work they commence and see the finish of it to their satisfaction, then
GENERAL COUNCIL AND INDUSTRIAL COUNCILS BILL. With the General Secretary.
by the Movement to advise on such questions as affect the Unions, with the result that they
I attended a meeting of this body who had an opinion from the two Barristers employed
are sceptical of the Clause in the Industrial Councils Bill involving the fining or imprison-
ment of the operatives as well as the employer. This Bill had a second reading of the
House of Commons, and whilst we do not want to penalise anybody, how can we say all
responsibility must weigh with the employer, and the workman can do as he likes. No!
standard of employment from the employer as couched in the terms of the above Acts.
I want equity in this matter, as we say in the Trade Board Acts. Our claim is for a certain
We do not wish to make the punishment too great, but we certainly want to be as fair to
although I fail to see where the movement cannot draft a Bill having for its object the
employers as we are to our own Agreement, where we are both kept in order by penalties:
Minimum and Wage Scale Rates, without a criminal clause. This of course will mean
that we shall have to get a Bill drafted on lines suitable to all concerned.
LOUIS HEEL WORK. - At a Leicestershire County Board we have this matter under
consideration and for the purpose of fixing prices, but the deputation having visited
Barwell, Anstey and Sileby, found all the firms doing the work differently from each other.
which causes a variety of prices, and as there are already that class of employer who would
set and make the seventy-five shillings the maximum, this we must watch.
Mr.
NORTHANTS DISTRICT COUNCIL. - We met for the second time without the Secretary,
is 'similar to that which recently affected two of our officers. We wish him a speedy
is tsim to good health. The business of the meeting was the ventilation of the items of
interest on the Agenda for the Conference. These meetings are always well attended,
the Wellingborough Branch providing tea afterwards.
BLACKPOOL CONFERENCE. - Let us hope that the Shoemakers' delegates will show the
natives of Blackpool that they are proud of the trade to which they belong, and can sport
some of the best footwear made.
MAY DAY. I sincerely hope that all the Branch Executives will have by this time
made the necessary arrangements. I personally asked them last year to allow the Officers
and Staff to celebrate May Day by the closing of the offices for that day. There can be no
excuse by those willing to undertake the same, and to feel that we ought on this one day
in the year, set an example to all others that we really and commonly believe in a Labour
Day for all workers.
The Daily Herald contains more good news and information than any two morning
papers, and wants more readers. When are we going to get that half million-we are
entitled to four million readers ?
Boots. Buy no Unstamped Boots as they are always suspect when they hide their
origin.
Yours fraternally,
4.4 ihards
General President.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
81,779. Unemployed at end of March, 1926, 2,611; percentage, 3.2.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of March, 1926,
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.5: Decrease as compared with
a year ago, 0.5.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, April, 1926.
Decrease in


---
```text
231

BRANCH REPORTS.

CHESHAM. - Trade here remains quiet. In order to try and create some
enthusiasm in our members a Tea and Social Evening was held on the 8th
March. Seventy-three members sat down to the tea, after which a very
inspiring address was given by our friend, W. R. Smith, and we are hopeful
of good results. We are pleased to report the success of one of our members
at the local U.D.C. election. Three Labour candidates were nominated, two
returned, one being a Labour gain.

DESBOROUGH. - Trade with us is rather slack at present, and whilst
the majority of our members are on full time, others are very short indeed.
We have had Mr. L. Smith, Organiser, here for a week. Meetings have been
held each day outside the factories and a few members have been gained,
but owing to the Easter holiday intervening we have not been so successful
as we hoped to be. We intend, however, to follow up Mr. Smith's good work
by house to house visits, and expect to increase our membership considerably.

DUNDALK. - Trade continues good. Through the kindness of the
management we have obtained an athletic ground convenient to the factory.
Needless to say this should be looked upon as of vital importance to the workers,
as it is intended to provide them with suitable accommodation for indulging
in healthy outdoor exercises. In this, as in all enterprises, some outstanding
figures manifest themselves. We find the controlling valve-the firm's
mainspring-assisting physically, mentally and financially-financially, only
rivalled by his honourable contemporaries, without even exclusion.

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Trade is fairly good in the District in
comparison with rest of the country. The Army district is fortunate in securing
several big Government contracts.

LEICESTER WOMEN'S. - We have no women out of work in this
Branch. New patterns are still coming in to be priced. There seems no
ending to the fantastic designs which at times we find great difficulty in dealing
with. We wonder how fancy shoes in our other branches are being dealt
with if as much time is given to the valuing of operations as is necessary in
this Branch. The officials are finding plenty of work to do apart from their
many other duties. A Conference is being held on Saturday, 17th April,
for the purpose of discussing the better organisation of women in trade unions.
We are sending four delegates, although we do not agree that a women's
conference should (as we believe will be the case in this instance) have a larger
proportion of men delegates than women. However, we shall await events.
The Leicester Labour Party are sending six men and four women to this
Conference.

LIVERPOOL. - Trade is much the same as the previous month. The
burning question of the hour is Coal, and what is going to happen at the end
of the month. Will it be war or peace?

NORWICH. - Trade good, unemployment less.

PLYMOUTH. - During the month we have protested against the attempt
of the Government to economise at the expense of the insured workers, who
were promised a definite contribution towards their Health Insurance when
the Act was passed in 1911. Indeed, many of us remember the much advertised
"Ninepence for fourpence," which many working men were backing, but like
the "Three acres and a cow," and the "Land fit for heroes to live in," they can
all be written down in the Stop Press as "also ran." However, at the time,
they made the political race rather exciting as they were ridden by the two
leading jockeys of the day, but whether the horse threw the rider or the rider
```

---
seriously we cannot tell.
232
threw the horse we do not know, or whether it was really intended to be taken
We do know that many working men thought it a
good thing, and certainly thought there was something in it. Possibly there
would have been if we had kept the Liberals and Tories out of the way, and
not allowed them the key of the cupboard, for as long as we allow them to hold
the key of the cupboard, we shall find it in the same state as Old Mother
Hubbard found it. "bare" Possibly there were Liberals and Tories in the
days of poor Old Mother Hubbard, Be that as it may, we do know" the poor
dog had none," and the poor dog still has none.
having the valuable services of our Organisers, Mr. J. H. Baum and Mr. I
SILEBY. Trade is very good at most of the factories. We are still
also had our General President, Mr. T. F. Richards, with us to inquire into th
methods of working at the School Boot Co., Mountsorrel. We are pleased to
McCarthy, who are working the factories in the district splendidly. We have
say that through our efforts a number of operatives have got an increase in
their wages, although they are still not working to our agreements. whic
shows the timidity of the operatives. In the appeal result for Mr. F. Leader
we should have said Leeds No. 1, ₤I; Leeds No. 2, nil; Northampton No. I
£5. These alterations do not affect the total amount received, i.e., £.59 155. bd
pleased to report a further improvement in trade
STAFFORD.--We are
in this centre.
WATERFORD.-Trade continued good during the past month.
G
I.F.T.U SUMMER SCHOOL AT BRUSSELS.
I have been requested by the Secretary of the International Federation of Trade
Unions to inform you that a Summer School will be held at the Uccle Labour College
near Brussels, Belgium, from 18th-31st July, 1926.
The fees for the school will be three pounds fifteen shillings (£3 155. od.) for the fort-
night, inclusive of board, lodging and tuition and excursions. Lectures will be given in
French, English, and German, and translations will be provided in each case.
I should be glad if you would place this notice before your Executive Committee
and the members of your Union. If any members desire to attend this school, or wish
for further information, application may be made direct to the Secretary, International
Federation of Trade Unions, 31 Tesselschadestraat, Amsterdam, from whom printed
application forms and programmes of the Summer School can be obtained, or
W. M. CITRINE,
Acting Secretary, Trades Union Congress,
32 Eccleston Square, London, S.W.1.
COMMITTEE ON INDUSTRY AND TRADE.
The volume entitled "Survey of Industrial Relations" which is being published for
the Committee on 26th March, by His Majesty's Stationery Office, price 5s., deals with
such matters as the growth and distribution of the industrial population, rates of wages
and systems of wage payment, hours and other conditions of labour, unemployment,
and machinery for dealing with industrial disputes. Not only are the present position
and tendencies under these headings dealt with, but information is given as to the main
changes which have taken place since the years immediately preceding the war.
siderable amount of information is also given about the position in other countries as regards
some of the subjects mentioned, e.g., hours of labour and negotiating machinery. The
contents of the volume are mainly derived from official sources and the Committee have
prefixed an introduction calling attention to certain important considerations arising
from the Survey.
A con-
last year, the "Survey of Industrial Relations" will prove of practical interest and value
to all those engaged in industry and trade, and to all persons interested in industrial
The Committee are confident that, like their "Survey of Overseas Markets" issued
questions.
directly from the depots of that department or through any bookseller.
either


---
```text
233
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
My last report to you was on 20th March. After the Council meeting on the 22nd
I went to Leicester on Arbitration work. The Leicester No. 1 Branch made a claim
for extras on the finishing of Rodeo Boots. The Leicester Arbitration Board has a sub-
committee of employers and branch officers for dealing with matters like this before send-
ing them to the Arbitrators. I am sorry, for the sake of the principle of arbitration, that
the employers' side on the Finishing Sub-Committee treated lightly, almost jokingly, the
bulk of this work at once, and pressed the manufacturers accordingly. The men responded
to the limit of their speed and skill. Figures got out by the employers' side showed where
the finishers were mainly engaged on this work for a number of weeks that their earnings
went down by nearly 7 per cent. In the several houses that I discussed this case with the
employers, there was not the slightest admission on the employers' side that the men had
worked out of the rate to oblige them and their customers. There isn't much gratitude in
business any more than in politics. This claim has gone to the Umpire now.
From 22nd to 27th March, Mr. Baum and I went to a number of shops in Sileby and
Ireland's workers. On the 30th we went to Atherstone to see if we could stir the non-
district. On the 29th we went to Derby and had a satisfactory meeting of Maden &
unionists at the one factory there. From time to time different lovers of cheap labour
among the manufacturers have tried to make money here, but failed. The present owners
do not seem to be making it a merry-go-round, as we found the place nearly at a standstill.
From then up to the Easter Holidays we worked round Leicestershire. With the
exception of three days spent at Liverpool and Manchester, I have spent the remainder of
the time with Mr. Baum trying to strengthen the position of the Sileby Branch. The
New Liverpool Rubber Co., at Walton, Liverpool, where Plimsolls and similar goods are
made, has changed hands to Dunlops. Some of the directors of this great concern are men
who have held high positions in the State. We had a meeting of the young women at
these works on 22nd April, and the particulars of earnings and conditions given by them
would shame the owners of hell. Fancy making a dozen pairs of Plimsolls for Is., and a
dozen pairs of canvas uppers with crepe soles complete for Is. 6d. The Wellington Rubber
boots, which fetch a good price in the shops, only yield a wage to the women who make
them, which limits them to a "bun and tea" dinner.
26th April, 1926.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
D. MCCARTHY.
During the past month I have been engaged in Northampton and Northamptonshire,
visiting Earls Barton, Wellingborough, Kettering, Burton Latimer, Desborough, Olney, and
Kempston. In the majority of these places the organisation, so far as numbers are concerned,
is good; and it is difficult to understand the apparent disinterestedness that exists. Opera-
tives, both male and female, must realise that the question of organisation and a lively interest
in the Union's activities are very essential: it is a bread-and-butter question to them, and
should engage their most serious attention. It is not good enough that any official should
have to follow up "Dame Rumour" and dig out complaints; it is the duty of all members
to report to their local officials any diversion from the National Terms that is taking place,
and get the matters dealt with at once. To grumble in an hostelry over the cup that
cheers doesn't get the complaints put right. I have held a number of meetings at Des-
borough and find the organisation good, but there are still an obstinate minority who are
prepared to receive the benefits derived from and obtained by the Union without con-
tributing to the Society. These people are being dealt with by the Local Executive, and
pressure will be brought to bear, if necessary, to make them see the folly of their ways.
Meetings have been held at Kettering, where the organisation is very good. There are
still a few factories where the daywork system is being worked, and although the local
officials have done all in their power to keep the operatives to quantities, which would
earn their day wage, according to statement prices, the tendency is that by continual
pressure from the management such quantities are exceeded. All the meetings were well
attended and a great interest taken, whilst the exact position has been explained both by
speech and handbill. The position at Burton Latimer is somewhat similar. On the
whole a good organisation is in existence, the local section Secretary collecting the mem-
bers' contributions at their homes. This system creates a difficulty, owing to the large
number of operatives who come in from outlying villages. The solution lies in adopting
an efficient Shops President System. My work in the Wellingborough, Earls Barton
and Olney district was hampered by slackness of trade, short time being almost general.
I held meetings of operatives in Northampton with a view to tightening up organisation,
which were very successful. Attendance at the meetings was satisfactory, lapsed members
```

---
```text
234
made. In my opinion, with trade becoming more steady, a distinct advance can be made
rejoining, and a large amount of arrears were paid off, and a fair number of new members
in the whole area which I have covered.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
LEN SMITH
We have found it necessary to devote some attention to the School Boot Company, Mount.
During the past month, with Mr. McCarthy I have again been engaged in Leicestershire.
dismissed who have displayed some activity in the Union's interest, it has the effect of
sorrel. It invariably happens, especially in a country district when a number of men are
weakening our position. In view of this position we have held a number of meetings with
a certain amount of success, and, as a result, we have maintained our position though there
is still a need for improved membership and conditions at this firm. Though this is a
federated firm, they seem to disregard any obligations they have to the Federation, which
was fully brought out by the Committee of Inquiry. But this difficulty could be overcome
providing that the operatives would display more spirit and determination in working t
the recognised statement of the district. Meetings have also been held at the following
firms there is a need of increasing our membership. The conditions may be described as
firms: - Walker & Kempson's, Bray's, Willet's (Sileby), Willett's (Rothley). At all these
these are matters that would require some improvement. This is evident when men refuse
fair, but I am confident that with an increased membership we should soon discover that
to give you any information as to rates and prices, the latter of which is the main factor
and in view of the large quantities done for the wages received, reveal working conditions
which can only be effectively dealt with when the operatives are well organised. The
men are fully aware of general conditions which govern their position, and at every meeting
the Sileby Branch is now in a more healthy condition, and a greater confidence exists in this
we have pointed out to them their foolish position. It is very gratifying to report that
district which should eventually lead to a better understanding between the operatives,
which is the basis of all sound organisation.
our rapid as one would desire. As a
to this firm, there is a marked change in the mentality of the operatives. This is maint
the improved conditions at Faire Bros., some of the girls still remain obstinate and refuse
due to the changed working conditions, which has resulted in increased earnings. Despite
them again discovered that the opposition was confined to two women, but the others
to join the Union, and we had quite a lively experience at one meeting, but when meeting
resented their conduct with the result that I am convinced that in this department, which
has caused the trouble, a good response will follow.
We have paid visits to Mansfield. Our position is still improving at Royce's, though
We visited Derby to meet the operatives again at Maden & Ireland's. There are still
a good number at this firm outside the Union, and the conditions are so bad that some of
the girls seem convinced that improvement is almost impossible. We have about half the
of firm organised, and knowing full well the intentions of the Union to deal with the firm,
have thoroughly made up their minds to remain loyal members of the Union. Our visit to
Liverpool revealed a sad position of affairs. Some months ago a good number of the girls
at the Rubber Works, Walton, joined the Union. No doubt many of these girls would
make very good members, but owing to the extremely low wages they receive, when short
time came round it was almost impossible for them to pay their contributions, consequently
when we met them they had all ceased paying. It was pitiable to hear them talk about
their wages and conditions, and it was evident by those who attended the meeting that there
was an intense desire for radical change in the general working conditions. This firm:
is now under the control of Dunlops, and as it is the intention of the girls to again resume
membership I am hopeful that negotiations may be entered into with the directors with
view of getting some improvement in their conditions. We called at Manchester and met
the girls at Frankenburg's. The conditions here are a little better than at Liverpool, but
a number of girls have ceased paying. The tennis department are well organised, and we
made an attempt to try and induce the large number of girls to again rejoin. It seems
that the whole standard of making Plimsolls is exceeding low. There is no other way in
dealing with the general condition under which this class of goods are produced until the
operatives are convinced of the power of organisation. It is another case of where the
demand for girl labour is exceedingly small, the employers take full advantage of exploiting
the position by driving down their wages to the position of sweated workers.
J. H. BAUM.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
holidays."
The work during the past month has been somewhat disturbed by the Easter Holidays
Neither employers nor operatives are in the mind to take so seriously the question with
which, by cutting into two weeks, limits the opportunity for organising work in any area.
which we have to deal, the tendency being to suggest "that it stand over until after the
```

---
235
During the Easter week, however, I was able to pay a visit to Chesham, where the
Branch had arranged a tea and social. This procedure was adopted as a method of getting
into touch with those who rarely come to the ordinary meeting, whether for Branch business.
or if called for organising purposes. The venture in this case can be voted a success, as
the majority of those present were not the ones usually met at purely organising meetings.
The branch officers took no risks, as I was called upon to speak before those present left the
great interest, and the various points made in relation to the value of the work done by the
tables following tea. An address lasting threequarters of an hour was listened to with
Union were much appreciated. This is not surprising, as a comparison of conditions to-day
with those that existed when I formed the Branch in 1913, gives a contrast that I am
certain no one would have thought possible, and is practical evidence that only by sound
organisation and loyalty can the workers obtain that which is best in their industrial life.
Chesham is a case where evidence exists to show that the earlier fears have not been
justified by results. It used to be a stock argument that Union conditions would make
trade impossible, and many operatives viewing the situation perhaps too much from a
selfish point of view, have been influenced by that specious cry, and kept outside our
organisation. Having regard to all this, it is indeed pleasing to know that last year Chesham
had more than their share of the trade that was going, some firms even working overtime.
pelling greater efficiency our agreements lead to improvement of the industry, better wages
This is, in my judgment, conclusive evidence that instead of hampering firms by com-
consuming public, or even increasing the price they are called upon to pay.
and conditions for the workers, without extracting anything unfair or unreasonable from the
This should er courage us in our work and justify our claims for further improvement,
a reduction in working hours not being the least important among the changes that one hopes
aread. Before leaving Chesham I would like to add that the one grievance that existed
has been put right following my visit to the factory; this means that so far as present
information goes everything is satisfactory in regard to our National Agreements in that
town. This is, I am sure, gratifying to both the employers and ourselves after the stoppage
of 1922. It means that all concerned can feel the effort and the expenditure was not in
vain.
Part of my time has been spent in Norwich, where I have resumed the effort made last
year to get a statement fixed for the Press department. Up to the present such does not
exist in any factory, but I have always felt that it was inevitable sooner or later, and as one
of the largest firms is pressing the matter, and the situation not being so free from diffi-
culties as might be, my services have been sought to help in getting what we hope will be
a satisfactory set of prices when completed. I am glad to report that greater progress has
been made than was possible a year ago.
Some time has been spent in London where the work that has been in hand so long
has been followed up, but here the great difference between operatives in the Union and
the operatives outside is shown by the way firms are willing to listen or otherwise to what
we have to say. In areas where so much is urged on behalf of so-called extreme ideas and
opinions the absence of Trade Union organisation is remarkable, or perhaps would be
if we did understand the hopelessness of much that is put forward purporting to be what
labour stands for. All this shows what has been so often urged, viz., that the basic test
of real effort leading to improvement in working-class life is membership of a Trade Union,
with that as a basis, and the power accruing therefrom, properly and intelligently applied,
other things will follow, but there must first be organisation, carrying with it individual
responsibility. To the boot operative in the East of London we say: Come into your
Union and give us the opportunity of dealing with the many grievances that now exist.
Further meetings have been held in connection with the Parliamentary position at
Norwich. Our people are asking for another chance of testing the electorate. The record
of the present Government up to date is surely a guarantee of our success if intelligence
exists in the minds of the average elector. The description given in the House of Commons
by Labour members when dealing with the so-called " Economy Bill" are fully justified.
No Labour Government could hope to excel the present one in class legislation, and no
government could possibly sink so low in punishing the poor in an effort to help the rich as
is contained in this so-called economy stunt. The more helpless the people, the greater
the punishment. The down-and-out unemployed, the helpless sick, and the innocent
child are those picked out to carry the burden of the nation's so-called economy, and all
that the wealthy may have less taxes to pay. No wonder our people feel and declare for
an election as soon as possible.
At the time of writing the Coal Crisis seems to overshadow everything. The outlook is
black. None can blame the miners. There is not a section of the great working-class
movement in this country, who, if placed in the position the miners are at this moment,
could do other than refuse to accept the cuts the mineowners are seeking to impose upon
them. I am sure we all desire to see peace reigning in this great industry, but it must be
peace resting upon justice. In their efforts to obtain this we must be wholeheartedly
behind the miners.
24th April, 1926.
WALTER R. SMITH.
D


---
237

Weekly Rest Day.—It is agreed that any hours over and above the weekly limit of
48 which are required by the nature of the services rendered to be worked on the weekly
rest day other than hours covered by Articles II. (c), III., IV. and V., shall be treated
either as hours to be dealt with under the provisions of national legislation relating to the
weekly rest day or as hours to be dealt with under the provisions of Article VI.
Railways. It is agreed that railways are covered by the Convention. In so far as
Article V. and Article VI. (a) are not sufficient for the needs of the railways, the necessary
overtime is permissible under Article VI. (b).

Time lost by Holidays.—It is agreed that in cases where a State allows hours to be
worked in excess of 48 per week in order to make up time lost by reason of holidays (other
than national holidays or holidays with pay), such hours must be included in the maximum
number of hours' overtime fixed in virtue of Article VI., and must be paid for at the over-
time rates laid down in the said Article.

Article XIV.—(1) It is agreed that each Government will insert Article XIV. in their
legislation to carry out the Convention.

(2) It is agreed* that use can only be made of Article XIV. in case of a crisis which
affects the national economy to such an extent that it threatens the existence of the life
of the people. An economic or commercial crisis, however, which concerns only special
branches of industry cannot be regarded as endangering the national safety within the
meaning of Article XIV., so that in this case the suspension of the Convention would not
be justified.

It is agreed that the English, French, German and Italian texts shall be equally
authoritative.
It is further agreed by the representatives of the Governments participating in the
Conference that they will report to their respective Governments the conclusions, as set
out above, which the Conference has been able to reach, so that those Governments who
have not ratified the Convention may, taking account of the agreements reached, be in a
position to proceed with their consideration of the question of the ratification of the
Washington Convention.
The conclusions of the Conference will also be reported formally to the International
Labour Office by the British Government, which took the initiative in summoning the
Conference.—The Ministry of Labour Gazette, April, 1926.
* Provisionally on the part of Great Britain.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.—(Great Britain and Northern Ireland):
Wholly Unemployed (including Casuals)—Males, 5,857; Females, 1,264; Total, 7,121.
Temporary Stoppages—Males, 2,389; Females, 1,225; Total, 3,614. Total—Males, 8,246;
Females, 2,489; Total, 10,735. (Great Britain only): Wholly Unemployed, Temporary
Stoppages, and Casuals—Males, 7,945; Females, 2,474; Total, 10,419.—The Ministry of
Labour Gazette, April, 1926.

EMPLOYMENT OVERSEAS.
GERMANY.—BOOT AND SHOE: Membership reported at end of February, 1926,
76,615. Percentage Unemployed at end of February, 1926, 40.3; January, 1926,
37.7; February, 1925, 6.6.
On 15th March 2,017,461 persons were in receipt of unemployment relief (apart from
members of their families), a total which shows a slight decline from the 2,056,179 for
1st March and the 2,058,412 for 15th February.
POLAND.—LEATHER, &C.: Working hours per week 42.7.—The Ministry of
Labour Gazette, April, 1926.

SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.—Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 27th
March, 1926, 51,289. Increase on a month ago, 0.2 per cent. Decrease on a year ago,
0.5 per cent. Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 27th March, 1926, £124,357.
Increase on a month ago, 1.5 per cent.; Increase on a year ago, 2.6 per cent.—The Ministry
of Labour Gazette, April, 1926.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
238
34 GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
7 TAVISTOCK SQUARE,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
19th April, 1926.
NATIONAL CONFERENCE AGREEMENT.
COST OF LIVING.
Dear Sir,
We beg to draw your attention to Clause 8 of the September (1924)
National Agreement, wherein provision is made for a readjustment in the
wages of operatives when the index figure of the cost of living as
recorded in the April or September issues of the Ministry of Labour
Gazette falls to 70 full points above that of July, 1914. The figure as
published in the April issue of the Ministry of Labour Gazette shows
that the cost of living figure has now dropped to 68.
The change will become effective on the first clear pay day in June,
that is to say, on JUNE 9th, 10th or 11th.
We would further point out the arrangement under B. of Clause S.
whereby provision is made for MALE OPERATIVES EMPLOYED IN
HEEL BUILDING DEPARTMENTS OR IN THE STOCK OR SHOE
ROOMS, and would direct special attention to the wages detailed under
column 3 of Schedule A. headed "After the Index Figure falls to 70."
It should be particularly noted that the rates set out in Table A.
will now apply to male operatives in all departments, whether the index
figure is over or under 70.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary to Operatives' Union.
RUTH TOMLINSON,
Secretary to Boot Manufacturers' Federation.

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

ORGANISATION OF INDUSTRY

THIS JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL
for the Boot Manufacturing Industry
supports Clause 6 of the Preliminary
Conference Agreement, September, 1913, viz.:

For the more effective enforcement of any
agreements, awards or decisions, as well as for
the general advantage of the Industry, the
Federation and the National Union equally
recognise the importance of their respective
organisations being as numerically strong and
as fully representative as possible of employers
and operatives in all centres of the shoe trade,

AND IS OF OPINION THAT THE BEST
INTERESTS OF THE INDUSTRY WILL
BE SERVED IF

ALL MANUFACTURERS CAN BE
ENCOURAGED TO JOIN THE BOOT
MANUFACTURERS' FEDERATION, AND

ALL OPERATIVES ENCOURAGED
TO JOIN THE NATIONAL UNION OF
BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.

November 24th, 1925.
T. F. RICHARDS, Chairman
(President of the Union).
H. J. BOSTOCK, Vice-Chairman
(Vice-President of the Federation).


---
```text
241
WHY THE WORKERS NEED PROTECTING.
New Factory Act Long Overdue.
There are countless reasons why improved protection should be given to the workers
without delay.
THE CASUALTIES OF INDUSTRY.
For the year 1924, according to the report of the Chief Factory Inspector :-
169,723 WORKERS WERE INJURED SUFFICIENTLY SERIOUSLY TO
NECESSITATE ABSENCE FROM WORK.
956 WORKERS WERE KILLED.
These figures are exclusive of the
1,294 killed and 203,522 injured in the Mines, and
263 killed and 21,198 injured on the Railways.
PREVENTIBLE SICKNESS.
The Industrial Fatigue Research Board, an official body, in its fifth annual report,
said:-
"LOSS OF TIME DUE TO SICKNESS, MOST OF IT PREVENTIBLE
COST THE COUNTRY TEN TIMES MORE THAN THAT WHICH
IT LOST OWING TO STRIKES AND LABOUR DISPUTES."
EMPLOYERS NOT ALL TRUSTWORTHY.
According to Chief Factory Inspector's Report for 1924, during that year :-
213,970 notices had to be served on employers who were contravening the Factory
Act.
1,351 employers had to be prosecuted and convicted.
The proposals for the protection of women are important-AND NECESSARY.
WORKING DAY AND NIGHT.
Cases from 1924 report of Chief Factory Inspector :-
Mantle and Dressmaking-women worked 9 a.m. till midnight for six consecutive
days, and then given work to do on Sunday. After a fortnight stocks had accu-
mulated, and they were dismissed.
Women and young persons of 14 years of age employed 6 a.m. till 11.30 p.m.
during week, and then had to work on Sunday.
Women employed in pork pie factory 8 a.m. till after midnight, starting again
at 8 a.m. next day.
Four women and girls employed continuously in bleach-works for 36 hours.
EXAMPLES OF HEAVY WEIGHT LIFTING.
From Chief Factory Inspector's Report, 1924:-
Women in woollen mill lifting pieces of cloth 200 lb.
14-year-old boy in woollen mill carrying 36 lb. up two flights of stairs.
Girls under 18 at brickworks carrying 60 lb. of clay.
Despite pressure the Government keep putting off to a future day any Factory Legis-
lation. The Home Secretary has now promised a Factory Act Bill for next year.
Meantime delay is dangerous.
The year's delay demanded by the Tory Government, even if they act then, gives
an extra year's immunity to bad employers, and keeps the good employers at a disadvan-
tage.-Speakers' Notes, 1st April, 1926.
SHODDY FOOTWEAR.
At the Annual Dinner of Managers and Foremen of Leicestershire
Sir Johnathan North said:
"They heard a great deal about shoddy footwear, and he thought the
Union was doing a good thing by throwing a strong light upon the
question. It was a matter which was worthy of the attention of everyone
in the trade. The production of shoes of high quality was good not only
for buyers, but for sellers and makers, and for the good name of the
trade as a whole."
```

---
MANAGERS AND FOREMEN SUPPORT JOINT
INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL RESOLUTION.
At the twelfth Annual Conference of the Federation of Managers and Foremen's
(Shoe Trade) Registered Associations held at Easter at the Bell Hotel, Leicester, when
matters of importance to the administrative and managerial side of the industry were
considered, Mr. Geary (Bristol) moved: "That this conference considers the advisability
of sending to the Manufacturers' Federation and also to the National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives, the following resolution: "That in the best interest of the trade,
all findings of Arbitration Boards which have been agreed to be made
binding by law." He said that two years ago, owing possibly to their feeling the
effects of the evasion by local manufacturers of Arbitration Board findings, Bristol
thought something must be done.
No reasonable arguments had been used against the proposal. It was not a contentious
matter and they were only ranging themselves alongside the best members in the trade
operatives also who evaded them. For the latter they felt nothing but pity. If the
Federation was to be of any benfit to the trade it was time they made their opinions felt on
such matters and established themselves on the side of all that was best in the industry
Mr. Britton, who seconded, remarked that the question had been threshed out in the
past.
Mr. Billington suggested that they ought to add to the resolution the words: "Upon
the whole industry." Evasion of the findings of Arbitration Boards prevented the lifting
up of the trade. His Association felt that they wanted no competition in the matter of
wages. They could have as much competition as they liked in styles and materials, but
not in wages. Competition in wages did not mean any increase in the production or the
consumption of footwear.
Mr. Gook said he felt that they should not interefere with what he called the politics
of the trade. His instructions from the Norwich Association were to remain neutral.
Mr. Wilson said it was not a question of taking sides. Those who visited Bristol a
few weeks ago saw something of the conditions prevailing there and they were astonished.
It was time something was done to wipe out the bad conditions prevailing in the Kingswood
district.
Mr. Merricks said that a year ago he was opposed to the idea, but since then he had
been to Bristol, and he was astounded at the conditions prevailing there.
Mr. Billington urged that the words he suggested should be added, as they would
have the effect of making findings of Arbitration Boards legally binding on the whole
trade whether a manufacturer seceded from the Federation or not. The resolution was
carried with the addition referred to.
SOME BOOTS.
Mr. Blackwell (Gloucester) regretted to see a deficit on the boots department. He
knew some makers made boots to sleep in, but the C.W.S. manufactured boots to walk in.
"I had a pair of boots forty-five years ago
(Laughter.)
The Chairman: Were they made in Leicester ?
Mr. Blackwell: You may catch me there because I don't know the date Leicester
was established. They were made under the auspices of the C.W.S., and were spring-side
elastic sides. I wore them for twenty years, and could not wear them out, and then I cut
them down and made them into a pair of Oxfords. Can't we get some of those kind of
boots now?
The Chairman: It would be very nice to have that pair photographed.
Mr. Oliver said it would be no use for the boot factories if boots wore for forty-five
years. Explaining why there was a deficit, he said they were experiencing difficulties
with the continual change of fashions, and it was well-nigh impossible to keep up with
the changes.
[Extract from Quarterly Meeting proceedings of Co-operative Society at Cardiff-
Co-operative News, 17th April, 1926.]

WHAT IS A WARD SHOE?
A ward shoe is generally regarded as a simple one-bar with a low square heel-less
than an inch high, including the rubber top-piece, if any. So far as we know, the question
has never been raised before, but if a detailed specification is required there should be no
difficulty in drafting one. The Shoe and Leather Record, 9th April, 1926.

---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

**245**

**COST OF LIVING.**

Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914: All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light,
etc.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926

January 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78 77 75
February 15 35 65-70 90 115 130 151 88 77 79 73
March 15-20 35-40 70 90-95 110 132 133 81 73 75 72
April 15-20 35-40 70-75 95-100 105 141 128 80 70 71 68
May 20 40-45 75 100 105 150 119 80 69 73 73
June 25 45-50 80 100-105 105-110 152 122 81 73 73 74
July 25 45-50 80-85 110 115 161 110 79 76 76
August 25 50 75-80 115-120 120 164 103 80 75 77
September 30 50-55 85 120-125 125 169 99 80 77 77
October 30-35 60 85
November 35 65
December

Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement. 1922 February Interim Agreement. December (1922) Agreement, September
(1024) Agreement, and present date.

**CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st APRIL, 1926.**

Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included .. .. 68 per cent.
Food only .. .. 59 "

**FOOD.**
At 1st April the average level of retail prices of the principal articles of food was
appreciably lower than at 1st March. This was mainly due to seasonal reductions of
nearly d. each in the average price of eggs, and d. a quart in that of milk, but there
were also slight reductions in the average prices of most of the other articles of food included
in the statistics.

As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of
food included in these statistics was about 59 per cent. at 1st April, as compared with
about 65 per cent. at 1st March, and 70 per cent. at 1st April, 1925. The fall in the per-
centage as compared with a year ago is accounted for chiefly by reductions in the prices
of flour and bread, potatoes, sugar, meat and butter. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette,
April, 1926.

**BENEFITS.**
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out:-

**SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.**
£ s. d.
To December, 1925 707,866 9 7
January, 1926 .. 3,238 10 0
February .. 4,179 7 6
March .. 3,755 1 6

**OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.**
£ s. d.
To December, 1925 414,028 19 1
January, 1926 3,139 15 3
February .. 4,204 17 3
March .. 2,866 9 6
£424,240 1 1
£719,039 8 7


---
LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE
(SCOTTISH COUNCIL).

Owing to the regrettable death of Mr. C. Bleakley, I was able to attend the above
Conference in Glasgow on the 13th March. Mr. T. E. M'Donald, Chairman of the Execu
tive, presided over a large attendance of delegates. The platform was a strong one, too
strong for a one-day Conference, as the time taken up with speeches from fraternal delegates
encroaches seriously on the time for ordinary business. The opening address lost much
of its effectiveness through the Chairman having a weak voice, although of course, good
matter should be valued at its true worth, apart from sound or length. Mr. C. T. Cramp
(National Executive), Mr. A. Walsh (Co-operative Delegate), Mr. Elger (Scottish Trades
Union Congress), Mr. Neil McLean (Parliamentary Labour Party), and others, spoke very
well, but the one address which was outstanding in its matter and spirit came from Mr.
Arthur Henderson, Secretary of the National Party. While paying a tribute to Scotland
for its excellent response to the political appeal of Labour, he thought still that points of
organisation required emphasis, and therefore detailed forms of development which he
was of opinion should engage the attention of the movement in this country. He urged
the desirability of securing individual members as one of the first steps, and gave many
practical reasons for that belief. Next was the matter of collecting small contributions
from sympathisers in every constituency. He maintained this method was the most
important and the most successful when carried out properly. By means of such system-
co-operation with the Party, the work of fighting an election was made ever so much
atic contact with an ever extending body of electors, and by bringing them into financial
easier, and more effective. The great secret, he believed, was to seek small weekly sums,
which were easily paid, and yet gave the giver a sense of attachment to the Party, which
last of all, was the question of
Figures were submitted to show that this important work was most highly developer
where success was greatest or vice-versa. In this, Scotland was far behind England,
and Mr. Henderson argued that much as Scotland had done, greater and more enduring
success would follow upon a more extensive campaign amongst the women electors. Point
after point was closely followed, and when Mr. Henderson concluded with a fighting appeal
to supporters, it was felt that the best speech of the day had been made. And so it proved
to be.

The business part of the Conference was disappointing. The Chairman was nearly
inaudible, and this had a disturbing effect on delegates. Only seven items appeared on
the Agenda, but other resolutions had been sent in — two or three by Glasgow Trades
Council—which were not included. This led to a wordy duel, the defence being that the
excluded resolutions were not competent, as they infringed the rights of the National
Party. As the Scottish Council acts as an advisory body it should not be competent to
submit or discuss matters which the National Party has the authority to settle. The
Secretary, Mr. B. Shaw, had sent the offending resolutions to headquarters for a ruling,
and the decision was to keep them off the Agenda.

After the Secretary had explained, Mr. Egerton Wake (National Executive), put up
the case for headquarters, but still a substantial doubt existed in the minds of delegates
as to rightness of the procedure. I must confess that I do not accept the defence as
adequate, and many others agree with me on the point. More will be heard of it, as the
Glasgow men can be trusted to see the whole thing tested fully before giving in to this
decision.

The first resolution, "Improvement of Labour Party Organisation," suffered un-
intentionally by Mr. Henderson's speech, although the supporters attempted to say again
what had been so well said before. It was agreed finally to leave it to the Council to act
upon. The resolution on "The 48-Hours Bill" met a similar fate, and was referred to the
Executive. The "previous question" was successful against two proposals relating to
"Alternative Methods of Housing" and "Employment of Civil and Corporation Servants-
Pensioners in Ordinary Avocations," while "Education Authority Elections" was turned
down, and "Date of Local Government Elections" and "Payment of Local Government
Representatives" were accepted.

That, in brief, is the practical result of the Conference. The Executive Report was
an admirable document, carefully written in Mr. Ben Shaw's best style. Here you get
an orderly presentation of the year's work, and if anyone thinks such executives to be of
doubtful advantage, they should get a copy to read. By-elections in the area; Com-
munist difficulties; Education Authorities Election; Co-operative Joint Committee;
Housing and Rents question; Local Government Elections; Finance of Parliamentary
Elections; Women's Conferences; and reports of Deputations are some of the interesting
maintain an intelligent interest in the needs of the hour. If the Conference itself was tame,
yet the work of
the work with the best wishes of all friends of the Labour Movement.

JAMES P. REID, Delegate.


---
247
INTERNATIONAL INFORMATION.
YOUNG PERSONS AT SEA.
Great Britain Ratifies Two World Conventions.
It is announced from Geneva that Great Britain has formally notified its ratification
of two Conventions, dealing with the welfare of young persons at sea, which were adopted
at the third annual Session of the International Labour Conference of the League of
Nations, held in Geneva in 1921.
The first Convention provides that no young person under the age of eighteen years
shall be employed or work in vessels as trimmers or stokers. This has already been
ratified by Bulgaria, Denmark, Esthonia, Finland, India, Italy, Latvia, Poland, Roumania,
Spain and Sweden.
The second Convention provides that any child or young person under the age of
eighteen shall only be employed in a vessel on production of a medical certificate of fitness
for the work and shall be medically examined each year until reaching that age. This
has already been ratified by Bulgaria, Esthonia, Finland, India, Italy, Japan, Latvia,
Poland, Roumania, Spain and Sweden.
Great Britain has now ratified nine out of the sixteen Conventions adopted at the
various Sessions of the International Labour Conference between 1919 and 1924.
WORLD LABOUR INFORMATION.
Growing Work of the I.L.O.
The steady growth of the International Labour Office of the League of Nations in
answering requests from all parts of the world for information on industrial and labour
matters is shown in the report of the Director of the Office, M. Albert Thomas, for the last
year, which will be presented to the eighth Session of the International Labour Conference,
opening in Geneva on 26th May.
The report states that 687 requests for information were received in 1925, as against
505 in 1924 and 402 in 1923. The list is headed by Great Britain with 120 requests,
followed by Germany with 94, France with 78 and Switzerland with 68.
It is interesting to note the subjects which particularly appealed to Governments,
employers' and workers' organisations (each of whom sends representatives to the annual
Conference). The Governments asked mainly about workers' insurance against accidents
and disease, health questions and safety, and unemployment; the employers about
comparative wages in different countries; health questions and safety, and weekly rest
day and holidays with pay; the workers about general working conditions; weekly rest
and holidays with pay, and workers' insurance.
It is also stated that the value of the library of the "I.L.O." is being increasingly
appreciated, many visitors come to Geneva specially to consult it. As the different States
are acquiring the habit of sending all their publications to it, the Library is becoming the
official world depository of all publications connected with labour legislation. Last year
10,485 additions were made to it as against 8,691 in 1924.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE: LONDON.
The two sides of the Standing Committee for the London Wholesale Hand-Sew
Louis XV. Heel Trade, also the two sides of the Board of Conciliation for the Boot and
Shoe Trade of London. Difference. --Motions by the Workers' Side of the Committee and
the Board and amendments by the Employers' Sides in connection with the provision of
Factory Workshops for the Operatives. Being unable to agree, the respective parties
made application in accordance with their Rules for the appointment of an Umpire under
the Industrial Courts Act, 1919. The Minister appointed Mr. W. Addington Willis,
C.B.E., to act in this capacity. Award. The Umpire was of opinion that the Workers
had established a case for at least an effort to be made towards effecting the change and
laid down conditions to be satisfied before such change should become effective. Dated
13th March, 1926. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, April, 1926.
TRADE BOARDS ACTS.
Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board (Northern Ireland).
Order N.I.B.S. (12), dated the 22nd March, 1926, confirming minimum rates of wages
as varied for male and female workers in the boot and shoe repairing trade in Northern
Ireland, and specifying the 12th April, 1926, as the date from which these rates become
effective. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, April, 1926.


---
248
ECONOMY.
Miscellaneous Provisions-Money.
Amongst other things MR. RAMSAY MACDONALD said: The £1,100,000 that it is
proposed to take by the second resolution is not their's, and those who are going to support
them are doing precisely the same kind of act as if they were assisting them to pass legis-
lation empowering Parliament to take the surpluses at the Banks of every hon. Member
here. I can see the tremendous support which hon. Members to-day are going to give to
the most extreme Communists in this country. Let them make no doubt about it; they
are the Communists' greatest supporters. The Government have started it, the Govern-
ment are pressing it, and the Government are going to put on their Whips to compel the
majority of hon. Members this afternoon to say: " We are going to confiscate; we are
going to lay our hands upon £1,100,000 which does not belong to us."
MR. LLOYD GEORGE said: I remember during the War there was a legend at the
front that the soldiers never got anything but plum and apple jam, and that somebody
at the base took away the strawberry jam. The gentleman who is intercepting the straw-
berry jam is not here, and he has left it to a War Office " Dug-out" to defend his action
Now I am to point out, not merely for the benefit of this hon. Gentleman who is so amused
but for the benefit of others, that the proposition laid down by the Chancellor of the
Exchequer is that all this money is in the nature of an investment. This is what he said
about it last year :-
" In the new Pensions Bill now before Parliament, they had one method of multiplying
the small property-holder, for, after all, insurance on the contributory system was a very
direct and obvious form of thrift and saving."
That is the proposition. The three halfpennies is thrift and saving; it is the creation
of a small property, and all the money which has been put in and accumulated to the
extent of £1,100,000 is a property which has been saved by those soldiers and sailors, and
no one has any right to rob them of their little property."
It is one of the most discreditable transactions in the history of any Government,
and I do hope that the appeal will not be made in vain to many hon. Members and right
hon. Members on the other side of the House. I cannot believe that my right hon. Friend
the Secretary of State for War, really has his heart in this transaction.
LADY ASTOR declared that the ex-service men under this Bill would get that which
had been promised them. They would get all that they would obtain under the
approved societies. (Opposition cries of " No.") She was not there to commend the
Government for their proposals, because she was desperately against any economy which
had to do with the health and welfare of the people. But she thought that Mr. Hore
Belisha's speech was a little misleading. They knew perfectly well what proposals of
the other parties were so far as the Army and Navy were concerned. Many of the sup-
porters of the Government regretted the Bill. (Opposition Cheers). She thought it a
very unwise Bill, and she could not sit in the House without saying so. They could not
expect the Government to drop the Bill, so long as they had the present Chancellor of the
Exchequer, who, after all, was an inheritance from the Liberal Party. (Loud laughter
and cheers.) Heaven knew what they would get if they obtained a Chancellor of the
Exchequer from the Labour Party! (Renewed laughter.) But she begged the Govern-
ment, before they finished with the Bill, to give some assurance that if, in a year or two,
things got better, they would reverse the whole of these economies. The Government
should realise that, though they had not spoken, many of their supporters felt just as
keenly on this matter as any member of the Opposition. (Opposition cheers.)-Extract
from Debates, House of Commons, 13th, 14th and 15th April, 1926.

MR. GEO. CHESTER, J.P.
We have much pleasure in recording the fact that Mr. G. Chester (Assistant Secretary
of the Kettering Branch) has been elected Chairman (Mayor) of the Kettering Urban
Council, and tender to Mr. Chester our heartiest congratulations on his appointment.--
THE COUNCIL.

LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE.
The result of Voting for Delegates recorded on pages 178 and 179 of the Manch
Report for the three members elected should read: Mr. W. R. Smith, 2883; Mr. Len.
Smith, 1968; Mrs. Mary J. Bell-Richards, 1506.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
268
Movement. Every effort was made to secure an honourable agreement for the
miners, but without results, therefore, on Thursday, 29th April, the General
Council called together at the Memorial Hall, London, all the Executive
Councils of the Unions affiliated to Congress to hear the report of the Negotia-
ting Committee this conference was in constant session until Saturday, May
1st, which will indeed be ever remembered as the most momentous May Day
Labour has ever celebrated in this country because on that day a vital decision
was taken and the following resolutions unanimously adopted by the special
sitting of the Congress.

THE MINING SITUATION

PROPOSALS FOR CO-ORDINATED ACTION OF TRADE UNIONS.
[It should be understood that memoranda giving detailed
instructions will be issued as required.]

1. SCOPE.

The Trades Union Congress General Council and the Miners' Federation of Grea-
Britain having been unable to obtain a satisfactory settlement of the matters in dispute in
the coalmining industry, and the Government and the mineowners having forced a lock-on
the General Council, in view of the need for co-ordinated action on the part of affiliated
unions in defence of the policy laid down by the General Council of the Trades Unice
Congress, directs as follows:-

TRADES AND UNDERTAKINGS TO CEASE WORK.

Except as hereinafter provided, the following trades and undertakings shall cease wor-
as and when required by the General Council:-

Transport, including all affiliated unions connected with transport, i.e., railways, sea
transport, docks, wharves, harbours, canals, road transport, railway repair shops and
contractors for railways, and all unions connected with the maintenance of, or equipment,
manufacturing, repairs, and groundsmen employed in connection with air transport.
Printing Trades, including the Press.

Productive Industries.
(a) Iron and Steel.

(b) Metal and Heavy Chemicals Group. Including all metal workers and other
workers who are engaged, or may be engaged, in installing alternative plant to take the
place of coal.

Building Trade.-All workers engaged on building, except such as are employed
definitely on housing and hospital work, together with all workers engaged in the supply of
equipment to the building industry, shall cease work.

Electricity and Gas. The General Council recommend that the Trade Unions
connected with the supply of electricity and Gas shall co-operate with the object of ceasing
to supply power. The Council request that the Executives of the Trades Unions concerned
shall meet at once with a view to formulating common policy.

Sanitary Services. -The General Council direct that sanitary services be continued.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
270
statement issued by Mr. A. Pugh, Chairman of the General Council, on behalf
of the Congress, it was stated that :--

"The Initial cause of the deadlock was the mine owners' arbitrary attitude
in refusing to conduct national negotiations as recommended in the Commis-
sion's report, and their action in giving notices to enforce a general reduction
in wages. From the moment the mineowners issued lock-out notices to their
workpeople, the question at issue, so far as the General Council was concerned,
was the withdrawal of those notices as a condition preliminary to the conduct
of negotiations. From that we have never receded. The Government rep-
resentatives insisted that the miners must first declare themselves definitely
as willing to accept a reduction in wages. In these circumstances, and in view
of the inevitability that there would be a stoppage throughout the coalfields on
May 1st if the notices and demands of the mineowners were pressed, the General
Council decided to call a conference of the responsible Executives of the unions
affiliated to Congress to take their decision upon the course to be adopted in
supporting the miners to resist the demands made upon them. The decision
of the conference held on Thursday, April 29th, was one of supporting the
miners and instructing the General Council to proceed with negotiations with a
view to an amicable settlement, but subject to the condition that the threat of a
lock-out must be removed so that negotiations could be carried on under proper
conditions. It was under these instructions that the Negotiating Committee of
the Council proceeded with its efforts on the Thursday evening, and continued
during the following day. It is significant that the General Council Committee
persisted in its efforts until nearly midnight on Friday, April 30th despite the
fact that while this was proceeding, scores of thousands of men throughout the
coalfields had already been locked out. The Committee failed to induce the
Government to get the notices withdrawn, or to depart from their attitude of
demanding, as a preliminary condition to negotiations, that the miners must
definitely agree to a wages reduction.

Despite the request that had been made by the miners in their earliest
discussions with the Mineowners' Association that they should be informed of
what was proposed in the form of reductions, it was not until the afternoon of
Friday, April 30th when the lock-out was actually operating, that proposals
were received through the Prime Minister, which involved a substantial all-round
reduction of wages and an increase of hours to eight per shift.

REFUSAL TO WITHDRAW NOTICES.
Our Conference of Trade Union Executives was kept waiting hour after
hour during the whole of Friday. At midnight we had to report that, notwith-
standing all our efforts, it had been found impossible to give effect to their
resolution to get the lock-out notices withdrawn. Negotiations had completely
broken down, and as the majority of the men had already been locked out,
nothing remained but to give the fullest support to the miners in resisting the


---
Here is the extracted text:
271
atrocious demands which had been made upon them under the pressure of the
lock-out. The conference on the following day decided on a course of definite
action in support of the miners. At the same time the General Council intimated
to the Prime minister that, even at that stage, they were ready to make a further
effort at negotiations. The result was a meeting of our Committee with repre-
sentatives of the Government on Saturday night, and in the early hours of
Sunday morning the Government representatives submitted the following
formular for our consideration:-
"The Prime Minister has satisfied himself as a result of the conversations he had
had with the representatives of the Trades Union Congress that, if negotiations are
continued (it being understood that the notices cease to be operative) the representatives
of the Trades Union Congress are confident that a settlement can be reached on the
lines of the report within a fortnight."
The Trade Union representatives agreed to arrange to discuss the situation
with their full body as well as with the Miners Executive. Owing to the latter
having left London to be present in their districts to advise their members in
consequence of the lock-out having come into operation, not expecting anything
to transpire that would require their presence during the Sunday, our Committee
found that the Miners Executive were not available, but immediately tele-
graphed to them to return to London.
SUNDAY NIGHT'S ULTIMATUM.
Meanwhile, the discussions with the Government representatives were
reported to the General Council, and consideration given to the formula referred
to. This having been done, an intimation was sent to the Government that our
Committee desired a further meeting to discuss the situation. The meeting
took place on Sunday evening, and we intimated that while we could accept the
formula in principle, there were certain of its terms which our General Council
required should be further considered. Arising from this, many exchanges of
opinion took place as to a suitable formula. As the miners' representatives
were now present in the building we left the Government representatives so
that we could consult the miners, and were actually making an arrangement
when, without warning, we received the ultimatum of the Government that in
consequence of what had transpired with the "Daily Mail" newspaper, and
that, as certain of the Unions had advised their members with regard to a strike,
negotiations were broken off.
I desire to make special reference to the statement by Sir Douglas Hogg,
which reads as follows :-
"In the course of a two hours' discussion, the Trade Union Leaders dictated what
they stated to be the utmost they were prepared to submit to the miners. It was in
these words:-
" "We will urge the miners to authorise us to enter on a discussion with the
understanding that they and we accept the Report as a basis of settlement, and we
approach it with the knowledge that it may involve some reduction of wages. With
this resolution in their pockets the Congress representatives went off to consult with
the miners, who by this time had got back to town, and the Ministers on their side
returned to report to the Cabinet." "
C


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
272
The foregoing statement, we have no hesitation in saying, is a gross mis-
representation of the facts. While, as we have indicated, the matter was
explored by the meeting, no such formula was ever dictated by the Trade Union
representatives, nor assented to by them or in their possession. The only
formula was that written by the Government representatives, quoted above
and handed to us in the early hours of Sunday morning. It was this which
we proceeded to discuss with the miners, and upon which we were making
progress towards an arrangement when the Government's ultimatum put a stop
to the proceedings.
We repeat, and defy cantradiction, (1) that the breakdown of the negotia-
tions was, in the first instance, due to the failure of the Government to obtain
a withdrawal of the lock-out notices, and its insistance upon a prior agreement
by the miners to accept a reduction in wages as a preliminary to giving effect
to the terms of the Commission's Report by negotiations; (2) that the second
attempt on the part of the General Council to get negotiations on foot was
defeated by the action of the Government in closing the door to negotiations
while we were actually discussing arrangements with the Miners' Executive-
and this because of the action taken by the Printers in regard to the "Dail
Mail," an action which was quite unknown to our representatives while we were
in the Government Building, and which was promptly repudiated as soon as the
facts were brought to our notice."
However, every effort was made to keep the door open, and on Tuesday
evening the 11th inst. a hurried meeting of the Trades Union Congress Genera
Council was again called, the meeeting lasting until nearly 3 a.m. on the 12th.
The Congress was again in session at an early hour that day, and later issued
the following report to all Unions :-
The General Council, through the magnificent support and solidarity of
the Trade Union Movement, has obtained assurances that a settlement of the
Mining problem can be secured which justifies them in bringing the general
stoppage to an end.
Conversations have been proceeding between the General Council repre-
sentatives and Sir Herbert Samuel, Chairman of the Coal Commission, who
returned from Italy for the express purpose of offering his services to try to
effect a settlement of the differences in the Coal Mining Industry.
The Government had declared that under no circumstances could
negotiations take place until the general strike had been terminated, but the
General Council feel, as a result of the conversations with Sir Herbert Samuel
and the proposals which are embodied in the correspondence and documents,
that sufficient assurances had been obtained as to the lines upon which a
settlement could be reached to justify them in terminating the General Strike.


---
The General Council accordingly decided at their meeting to-day to
terminate the general stoppage, in order that negotiations could be resumed to
secure a settlement in the coal mining industry, free and unfettered from
either strike or lock-out.

The General Council considered the practicability of securing a resump-
tion of work by the members in dispute at a uniform time and date, but it was
felt, having regard to the varied circumstances and practices in each industry,
that it would be better for each Executive Council itself to make arrangements
for the resumption of work of its own members. The following telegram was
despatched to you to-day :-

"General Council, T.U.C., have to-day declared General Strike terminated.
Please instruct your members as to resuming work as soon as
arrangements can be made. Letter follows.

PUGH, CITRINE."

Throughout the negotiations and during the whole of the stoppage, the
General Council have declared that they have been fighting to protect the
Miners against ar intolerable degradation of their standard of life and working
conditions. It was with this object, and this object alone, that the General
Council assumed the grave responsibility of calling upon its affiliated organisa-
tions to unite in strike action to enforce the cancellation of the lock-out notices
and the withdrawal of the new wages scale posted in the mining districts. No
attack was at any time contemplated upon the established political institutions
of the country, and it is a testimony to the loyalty and discipline of the Move-
ment that disorders have been practically unknown.

The Unions that have maintained so resolutely and unitedly their generous
and ungrudging support of the Miners can be satisfied that an honourable
understanding has been reached.

The General Council accept the consequences of their decision with a full
sense of their responsibility not only to their own membership but to the Nation
at large. They have endeavoured throughout the crisis to conduct their case
as industrial disputes have always been conducted by the British Trades
Unions, without violence or aggression. The General Council feel in taking
the last steps in bringing the crisis to an end that the Trade Union Movement
has given a demonstration to the World of discipline, unity and loyalty without
parallel in the history of industrial disputes.

Yours fraternally,
ARTHUR PUGH, Chairman :
WALTER M. CITRINE, Acting Secretary.


---
MANUFACTURERS' FEDERATION.
The unofficial understanding which is existing between the Manufacturers'
Federation and ourselves was again brought into being during this dispute, and
at a meeting of the Federation held at Leicester on the 5th inst., under the
chairmanship of Mr. C. W. Horrell, the following important resolution was
passed :---
THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE of the FEDERATION, fully realising the
disastrous effect the General Strike will have upon industry throughout the country,
recommends its members in the best interests of the industry, to adopt forthwith
universal half-time before the entire closing down of their factories becomes inevitable.
and so prolong employment as long as possible. This recommendation is based upon
the Emergency Orders of the Government, relative to the reduction of power and light
to 50% of their usual period.
The COMMITTEE would point out that the grave dispute is not one between boot
and shoe manufacturers and their operatives, who will equally suffer therefrom, and
trusts the goodwill so long existing in our industry will not be disturbed by the serious
industrial conditions now prevailing.
FINANCE.
At the Memorial Hall Conference held on the 1st May, referred to on
page 269, paragraph 6 (b), Unions that were not called out were asked to
render financial assistance, and has always been our custom, we pledged the
members of the Union to subscribe our quota to the General Fund. Although
the stoppage has ended it will be some time before we are in a position before
all the workers resume full work, and naturally great expense has been incurred
on account of Dispatch Riders and the Organisation which had to be put into
being, and also in assisting those who answered the call. In this connection
we feel we are carrying out your wishes by making a subscription of £20,000
to the General Fund, and feel confident we have your full support in so doing.
To meet the position created by the stoppage of our members owing to lack of
transport, we also decided that
"Members thrown out of employment owing to the Coal Dispute, who may
be out of work entirely, i.e., either dismissed or suspended for the time being,
week by week, and not merely on short time, shall be treated under the special
powers of the Council conferred by Rule, and
Payment may be made at the rate of Out-of-Work Pay and under the
same conditions as to probationary periods for Unemployment Benefit. Under
this special method payment shall count for the purposes of payment to the
member as Out-of-Work Benefit; if, therefore, a member has already drawn
the ten weeks' benefit he will NOT be entitled to any pay under the circum-
stances. Odd days must NOT be paid for when operatives work one day and
stand off another.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

275

No Benefit will be payable until members have been out
of employment for six days. Members standing off for Whitsun
Holidays will not be entitled to benefit, and in all instances the unemployment
book must be signed daily.
On behalf of the Council,
T. F. RICHARDS, General President;
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary."

Thus proving once again what a great assistance the Union has been to
our members.
Further. to help to financially assist the miners we decided to ask for a
levy, and in this connection issued the following circular:-
To all Members of the Union.
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
3rd May, 1926.
Please read at, and get the support of Your Branch
Meeting and Members.
FELLOW MEMBERS,

THE MINING DISPUTE.
The Council have given serious consideration to the above-named matter,
and having regard to the whole of the circumstances it has been decided to
throw in our lot with the general movement, i.e., we shall be prepared to pay
our quota to the General Funds.
Meantime, the Council decided on Saturday evening last, 1st May, 1926,
to ask all Branches to support them in imposing a general Levy on the
membership as follows:-
One Shilling per week for full Male and Trade Members;
Sixpence per week for full Female Members and Half
Members.

It is earnestly hoped in the interests of the movement that every
endeavour will be made to see that members pay this small sum to a great and
human movement, it being understood that the levy should be imposed
on all members who are at present in employment; the
unemployed members being exempt.
On behalf of the Council,
T. F. RICHARDS,
General President;
E. L. POULTON,
Generat Secretary.


---
Here is the extracted text:
276
Later, the General Council of the T.U.C. asked for a levy of 5 per cent. on
wages, and we hope all members will make an endeavour to remit their con-
tributions as early as possible, the levy to continue during May.
17th May, 1926.
THE GENERAL STOPPAGE.
The Council at their meeting to-day considered the above matter, and after
discussion it was unanimously agreed that all members-working at othe
industries who were WITHDRAWN OFFICIALLY (ON STRIKE, will be
entitled to strike benefit from the first day in accordance with Rule 191.
It was also decided that the instructions contained in the Circular of the
1st inst. regarding the special six days' waiting period should cease to operate
on the 28th May, 1926; i.e., the Rule 216 will come into full operation o
Saturday, 29th May, 1926, for members making fresh claims.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
THE STRUGGLE
has been the greatest in the history of the industrial movement, and one
which will have very far reaching effects in the years to come, the result of
which no one can foresee. The question may be asked as to the wisdom o
efficacy of a general strike. It should be borne in mind that the position was
that the trade union movement promised their help to the miners in resisting a
method of attack by the mine-owners to accept a considerable reduction in
wages without the opportunity of discussing the same. Having decided, there-
fore, upon this vital point, loyalty called for that support being given which had
been promised. It is true one cannot always see the results which will follow
one's pledged word. The movement could do no other than having once given
its word to honour it. Hence the tremendous upheaval through which we have
passed, an upheaval which must leave to all sections of the community who had
the well-being of the country at heart to determine-if we are to be worthy of
humane civilisation-and see that better methods are adopted to secure the
primary rights of the people being assured.
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.


---
Here is the extracted text:
277
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We hope that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.

TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only " Union Stamped
Footwear."

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.

We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President. W. WARNER.
J. WHEELER. W. HINDES.
C. BATES. R. WHITE.
E. LAW. A. J. DOBBS.
W. R. TOWNLEY. ALEX. SMITH.
L. P. POOLE. J. MANNERS.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS. E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.


---
278
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, N.W. 5.
18th May, 1920,

FELLOW MEMBERS,
THE GREATEST STRIKE in the history of the world has ended by saving the
situation of imposing a reduction in wages and a lengthening of hours. The paralysis
of industry for a few days only has had the desired effect, which is to show that the wage
earners are big enough to stand by the Miners, who already receive too little for the
strenuous work in which they are engaged. Their average earnings for full weeks worked
comes out at 48s., and if we compare this amount with the latest statement adequate
to keep himself, wife, and the average family of three, the amount required would be
61s., or 13s. per week more than the average Miner receives at present. The position
of the Miner is such as to make him very desperate, and if as Cardinal Manning once said,
" A starving man has a natural right to his neighbour's bread," then read in its full sense
we have no right to refuse to share with the man who is a creature of circumstances
which he has no control, and as the art of government is the welfare of the people, then
is no party other than the Labour Party who would begin at the bottom first, and attend
to those in most natural need, and then raise up by steps to as high as the economic force
of the people can give.

All the above trouble could have been avoided had the Government told Northumber-
land and Londonderry that there must be no wage cuts, no increase in hours until
terms set out by the British Ministers of the Churches had been carried out. Instead
that the business was allowed to stop until such time as the Government realised th
their threats availed nothing. That lesson will, I feel very hopeful, prove at the ner
land. This stoppage was similar to the one-day stoppage we advocated in 1921, at the
election that the feasting of the rich by the robbery of the poor has killed Toryism in ou
self-same unanimity, the powers that be would not have risked the effort. The Miner
Kingsway Hall, for the benefit of the Unemployed. Had that taken place with this
are said to be dissatisfied, so were some of us in 1895, but we have made good, and the
Miners can do the same on the conditions offered by the Trades Union Congress
they give it a trial. At the the same time attend on Boards trying to improve the
ditions would produce more and better results than attacking the enemy first and when
you want a divergence attack colleagues and friends. When this kind of propaganda is
muzzled the better for the mine-worker.

SILEBY.- As mentioned on previous occasions, the firm had refused to post our notice
on the Organisation of Industry, and I complained to the County Association and sent the
case to the Committee of Inquiry as an hostile act, complaining too of the firm deliberatel
starting women to work in the Finishing room, as defined in the National Agreement
and also to object to interference with a girl who had left them after working several years
in the Lasting room to go to another firm owing to statements made distasteful to the gir
We were pleased to learn the firm had posted the notice, and they had every reason t
believe that poaching had been done by the firm mentioned, to some extent at least. As
we could not prove or interfere with the acts of employers towards each other we could
express no opinion. Let us hope that Unionism will again be triumphant at this firm.

During the Great Strike we visited this town again and held a very good meeting :
those not working, which was the day after the settlement, and had arranged for a meeting
later in the day at Mountsorrel, where we would have held an open-air meeting had the
weather been fine, but we had no opportunity as it rained unceasingly until nine o'cloc
at night.

RUSHDEN. A small firm here with a number of Hand Lasters have refused to pay our
rates according to Statement, with the result we shall have to press our full claims after
Whitsuntide, and hope the firm will not try to build up a business on a 20 per cent. less
wage than that which prevails elsewhere. In fact, had we got all robust men in our midst
whose unionism and manliness was bound up in their price, we should not have to forgive
these few aged and weak ones from taking work at any price so long as they got some work.

SUPERANNUATION. A further special meeting of the Council has been held to consider
the lines of a scheme of superannuation for our members. This can only be done by an
additional contribution, and the present position is threepence or sixpence extra. The same
will be submitted to the Conference and ultimately to the members, who I think, after
hearing the matter explained, will in meeting assembled vote by ballot "Yes," or "No."

MANSFIELD. Faire Bros. Owing to illness of several of the gentlemen concerned
causing delay, we have been compelled to see the document agreed to by the Council, which informs all and sundry that the firms named within


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
279
over a series of months,) did not meet with any success, and I have been promised the
were not carrying out the conditions and (after repeated attempts of conciliation spreading
assistance of a very good friend of our Union to intercede with us. This meets most
heartily with our wishes.
SHODDY. We have also had an adjourned meeting on this subject and met some very
prominent distributors in the trade, and we discussed many aspects such as what is an
All-Leather Boot, and would the term be suitable. A Warranted All Solid Leather, one
gentleman remarked, they do not describe, but give a new pair to the dissatisfied. I am
for asking how many returns they have at that price. So many, especially the poor,
suffer in silence. My own view is, either stamp the component parts on the bottom or
standards for 20 years at a time, then let the Government boot be the standard. As 90
warrant them equal to the War-Time Boot standard, and as the Government have the
per cent. of these boots are sold to the poor, such a course may be helpful.
STAFFORD. - A visit here was due to the firm there affected who argued they were
On the
making stuff similar to Leicester, and could not and did not expect to pay more.
other hand the quality of the work does not permit them to pay less, and if the pair of
shoes shown us was, as said to be. Leicester work. I could not defend such, and the Stafford
men felt their's was much better, but I am bound to admit that such work was not good,
but I do not accept it as equal to Leicester's work.
The rest of our time has been spent with our members and others during the Big
Strike, and as Leicester had organised a big march and demonstration for the Thursday,
the day after the strike was called off, the three Branches held a demonstration of quite
2,000, and a meeting of close upon 4,000, who unanimously voted the £10,000 to the
Miners, and as the Council on Sunday last recommend another £10,000, owing to the strike
ending so quickly, we hope the members will endorse this.
The British Worker kept the interest up of the doings of the Labour movement, and
the Herald has just appeared. Let us hope with all our hearts and souls that all will take
the Daily Herald regularly at all costs, and work and agitate and advocate the right of all
men to live by National and humane service, and keep our powder dry for the enter
Election at the ballot box.
Yours fraternally,
General President.
LEICESTER BRANCHES AND THE STOPPAGE.
A Mass Meeting of the Leicester No. 1, Leicester No. 2, and Leicester Women's
Branches of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, held in the De Montfort
Hall, on Thursday evening, 13th May, 1926, in support of the Miners; over 4,000 attended.
The Meeting was preceded by a procession with Band and Banner of the Leicester
No. 1 Branch, starting from Humberstone Gate, proceeding through the centre of the
City; 2,000 in the procession.
The meeting commenced by the singing of the "Red Flag."
Ald. Hill, J.P., Chairman, supported by Mr. T. F. Richards (General President of the
Union), Messrs. D. McCarthy and J. H. Baum (Union Organisers), Mr. J. Wheeler and
Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards (Council Members), Messrs. M. A. Parker, J. Greaves, G. Parbury,
A. Worth, G. Smith, C. Wade, Miss Muir and Miss Sherwin, and Local Executive members.
Ald. Hill said we had met in consequence of one of the greatest fights in the history
of Trade Unionism in this country. The response and loyalty of the workers had exceeded
all expectations, and has proved the solidarity of the working-class movement. (Cheers.)
Mr. T. F. Richards outlined how the negotiations broke down, and recalled the year
1895, when a Lockout occurred in the Boot and Shoe Industry, after which Arbitration
Boards were adopted. We have asked our members for a levy and I hope this will be
unanimously responded to. (Cheers.) He appealed to the meeting to try to visualise
the deplorable conditions under which the miner had to work, and the utterly inefficient
wages he received.
Messrs. D. McCarthy and J. H. Baum also addressed the meeting.
The Chairman then moved that £10,000 be granted to the Miners. This was carried
without opposition.
D


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,

280
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.

with reference to posting the Organisation of Industry notice, and all the firms visited
meetings have been held, and some progress made. We visited all the factories in Sileby
With Mr. McCarthy I have again been engaged in the Sileby District. Excellent
request, Providing that they carry out their promises, it certainly should
agreed to our
have some effect in assuring to the operatives that no obstacles are placed in the way of
them joining the Union.

I attended the Special Conference, called by the Trades Union Congress, in conjunction
with the Council, with reference to the Miners' Dispute. It was fairly evident that
complete unanimity existed amongst the executives of the Unions, that the propos
of the Mineowners could not be excepted. Thus the negotiating Committee were fac
determined to force a lockout. Judging by the report given by the Committee, when th
with a difficulty, in view of the Mineowners posting notices, which meant that they wer
cent. reduction in wages, and one hour increase in the hours of labour, should be accepte
notices should be withdrawn, but suggested that the Mineowners' terms, namely, 13 p-
negotiations broke down, the Government were not inclined to insist that the locke
Commission's report, which included the variation of the wages, nothing could move th
Despite the urgent pleadings of the Committee and the Miners' willingness to accept t
there was a feeling that under such conditions, the Conference would be called upon t
Government from this position. When this decision was announced to the Conferen
make one of the most momentous decisions in the history of trade unionism in this countr
When the delegates assembled on the Saturday morning, and each Union pledged itself..
place control in the hands of the General Council, together with financial assistance
Negotiations were still pursued until late on Sunday evening, when with dramatic sudde
everyone present felt the gravity of the position, and the responsibility of the occas
ness, the negotiations collapsed on the paltry plea that the printers had refused to set the
type of the leading article in the Daily Mail, entitled "For King and Country." Thu
obeyed the call. I immediately placed my services at the disposal of the Unions affected.
speaking to the various Unions. There was no mistake about the unity amongst the
members, and the splendid discipline that was maintained is a remarkable testimony
and demonstration at the De Montfort Hall, Leicester, was indeed very inspiring, and the
the capacity of Trades Unionists in the midst of a great industrial crisis. Our proces
unanimous approval of the resolution of financial support to the Miners proved beyond
a doubt that our members thoroughly understood the position. Now that the General
Strike has been declared off, on the grounds that the Government were prepared to adopt
certain suggestions of the Royal Commission, one can view the position much more clearly
and apportion the responsibility.
of a General Strike.
Personally I am of the opinion that had the Prime Minister asserted his responsibility
and thrown over his showman friends, the country would have been spared the consequences
different in substance than were the formula presented by the Negotiating Committee
It is very clear that the proposals of the Government now are no
before negotiations were broken off. It remains now for the Miners to carefully consider
those proposals, as to how far the suggested recommendations will lead to that reorganisa-
tion of the industry, which is so vital, whereby a progressive increase of wages will follow.
Certainly the strike did demonstrate that the Trade Union movement were convinced
that the Miners had suffered quite enough reductions, so if Trade Unionists will only
display the same courage when a General Election comes, a Labour Government would
at once bring about a more fundamental change in the organisation of the mines, which
at least would give a higher standard of living to the Miners, more in keeping with the
requirements of a civilised community.
I had the pleasure of speaking at Nottingham in connection with the May Day Demon-
strations. It was a very fine procession, and reflected very great credit on the organisers.
and judging by the large audiences that attended the meetings, the Nottingham Labour
Party are making distinct progress.
J. H. BAUM

EMPLOYERS AND MEN FRIENDLIER.
Statements by Officialo-Making Peace.
SIR MAX MUSPRATT, President of the F.B.I. :-The continuation and resumption ei
work seems on the whole to be proceeding satisfactorily, and to be taking place on conditions
approximate to those prevailing before the strike.
MR. E. L. POULTON, spokesman for the T.U.C. : - If employers' associations and
effective
individual employers act as the Prime Minister urged them to act there is hope that an
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
281
BRANCH REPORTS.

CHESHAM. —Trade here at the time of writing this report is very disturbed
owing to the Coal dispute. Five factories are working part time, others have
closed down until the dispute is ended. We were glad to know the Council
had decided to help the Miners in their struggle against a reduction in wages,
and hope the whole Trade Union movement will stand firm until at least this
condition is assured.

DAVENTRY. —Trade with us has been very slack for the past two
months and much short time has been worked. It has been decided here to
run the factories half time only during the present crisis. This will make it
very difficult for many members to pay the proposed levy in addition to their
contributions. A Mass Meeting of the Branch was held on the 5th inst., when
there was a crowded attendance, who listened attentively to the Council
Member for the District, W. R. Townley, J.P., and Mr. Len. Smith (National
Organiser), who dealt with the events leading up to the Mining lockout, and the
steps taken on behalf of the Union by our Executive Council in regard to it.
The meeting was a most successful one, and the number present was easily a
record for our Branch.

DERBY. —Trade in Derby is very bad at the C.W.S. and Clemson's,
some of the operatives having been suspended now for about a month with no
prospects of better times.

DESBOROUGH. —Trade with us is still very quiet, and part of our
members are on short time. Our sick payments continue to be very heavy.
We have had Mr. L. Smith, Organiser, with us during the month. A public
meeting was held, Mr. Smith's subject being "The Coal Crisis and its effect on
the Boot Trade." An excellent address was given and our only regret was the
attendance, still we hope the good work he has done will help us in the future.
A few have joined and no doubt others will soon follow. We regret that during
the last few months so many members have left us, but nearly all of these have
either left the town or gone into some other occupation.

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.—Trade remains fair. Our new Heel-making
Works (Messrs. J. White, Boot Manufacturers) are about to open in a factory
formerly used by the late Advance Boot Co. Raunds is busy; Bozeat, Wollaston
and Finedon, poor; Higham, Rushden and Irthlingborough, fair to good.

KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. —The condition of trade in this centre
maintains the same character as last reported, with the prospect arising from
the industrial crisis of a still larger number standing off. Great sacrifices will
be demanded in this great protest from the workers, and we sincerely trust
that the reward will justify the hopes of the workers in this supreme effort
to defend the standard of life which twentieth century ideals demand.

LEEDS.—At a large gathering of our members on 4th May, at the Leeds
Trades Hall, a presentation was made to our ex-Secretary, Mr. J. Wescoe, by
Shopmate Abbott, who deputised for the General Secretary, who was unable
to be present owing to the National Dispute. Our President, Councillor A. J.
Dobbs, took the opportunity of explaining the dispute at some length. Mr.
Wright, the Solicitor for the Branch, in a few well-chosen words, supported
Shopmate Abbott in the presentation.

LONDON SOUTH. -Trade in London South is bad, several firms having
closed down owing to the National Strike, with others to follow, which will


---
make it very bad for the levy. Messrs. Upson Bros. are going to keep open
we had one of the largest Branch Meetings London South ever had, the hall
as long as possible if the power is not shut off. On Wednesday night, the 5th.
was packed and a large number could not get in things are looking up. It
who took an interest in the branch business. A vote of confidence in the Council
surprised the Committee and Secretary the large number of females attending
for the way they put the Miners' Strike before the members of the Union and
with cheers. Very little business was done at the Arbitration Board on the
the help that will be given to them to fight this terrible lockout, was carried
joint meeting with the Louis Heel Com-
a general agreement in connec-
tion with the drawing up of the Sew-Round Statement, the meeting to take
26th ult. It was decided to have a
mittee and the Board, for the purpose of having
place as early as possible.
Miners' Lockout, and consequent general strike. We all deplore that such an
MAYBOLE. Nearly all our members are out of work as a result of the
action is necessary at this time of day, but the Government have decreed that
the workers' living was to be attacked, and the workers have taken up the
challenge in no half-hearted fashion, and we wish thern strength to carry on
as we believe if they are defeated this time it will be the beginning of the end
We had hoped that our Council could have seen their way to pay out-of-work
pay from the first day instead of from the seventh day, but appreciate that
it is a week earlier than the suspension rule.
men
NORWICH. The month of April saw a decided improvement in trade in
Norwich. More pleasing was the fact that the fillip in trade was general in
the city, being spread over large and small manufacturers alike. It is, of
course, needless to say the Turnshoe section was exempt from the improvement
shown, in fact our turnshoe trade appeared further depressed, many additional
becoming unemployed during the month. The Branch has reached a
membership higher than at any previous period of the Branch's history, due
mainly to the organising efforts of the officials and the loyal co-operation of
the members. In the midst of this success we see the coming of the crash
between the Miners supported by the British Trade Union Movement, and the
mineowners supported by the Government of private capitalists. Come what
may, the Miners must win, and when next we write from Norwich we hope to
record the greatest victory by organised labour since the commencement of
the industrial era.
PLYMOUTH. Our Branch has decided with a unanimous vote to support
the Council in acting in conjunction with other organisations affiliated to
Trades Union Congress, in their endeavour to secure fair wages and conditions
for those employed in the Mining industry, and to the proposal to impose a
levy upon all members of the Union in order to provide necessaries of life for
the dependants of those actually engaged in the struggle. Our special meeting
was one of the best we remember. All who attended were determined to resist
any attempt to lower the present standard of life, and secure fair terms for the
Miners. While we write there appears a basis for negotiations and agreement
in the latest message broadcast by the Prime Minister, Mr. Baldwin, as follows:
No honest person can doubt that my whole desire is to maintain the standard
of living of every worker." What a tragedy it is that the Prime Minister
should have broken off negotiations when a settlement was in sight, and what a
mystery it is that he did not give the Trade Union leaders a guarantee that the
present standard of living of every worker should be maintained. We hope
that in this latest message of the Prime Minister the spirit of peace may be
"
found.
SILEBY.-Trade is good in our district, but the most vital question at
the moment is the Miners' Lockout-how is it going to affect us all. We must
back up the Miners for their's is a just and proper cause.
Mr. Baum and Mr.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
283
McCarthy put the Miners' case splendidly before the operatives working at
Parker & Barlow's, Mountsorrel, and strongly urged everyone to become mem-
bers of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, and thereby strengthen
their own position, which is very weak.
STREET. There was a considerable increase in trade during the month.
Another matter upon which we are proud to report is that our Branch has now
secured headquarters of its own by having purchased a plot of land in a fairly
central position in Vestry Road, and erecting a building which will meet our
requirements as an office and meeting room. It will also be possible to extend
the building if the necessity arises at some future time. The new building
was formally opened at our May meeting by our Branch President, Mr. E.
Hansford.
WATERFORD.-Trade shows a falling off during the past month.

COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914: All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light.
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926
January 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78 77 80 75
February 15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88 77 79 79 73
March 15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 86 76 78 79 72
April 15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 82 74 73 75 68
20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 81 70 71 73 67
Mav 25 45 75-80 100 105 150 119 80 69 69 72
June 25 45-50 80 100-105 105-110 152 119 84 69 70 73
July 25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 71 71 73
August 25 50 80-85 110 115 161 120 79 73 72 74
September 30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 110 78 75 76 76
October 30-35 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 80 80 75 76
November 35 65 120 125 169 99 80 77 81 77
December
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922) Agreement, September
(1924) Agreement. and present date.

BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-

SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1925 707,866 9 7
January, 1926 .. 3,238 10 0
February 4,179 7 6
March 3,755 1 6
April 3,534 18 0
£722,574 6 7

OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1925 414,028 19 1
January, 1926 3,139 15 3
February 4,204 17 3
March 2,866 9 6
April 2,621 10 6
£426,861 11 7


---
284
PREMIER'S COAL PROPOSALS.
Scheme Subject to Both Parties Accepting.
£3,000,000 SUBSIDY.
Suggested Temporary Wage Reductions.
The Prime Minister last night sent to the miners and to the owners proposals which
in his opinion form a reasonable and fair basis for a settlement of the mining dispute.
The proposals are as follow:
(1) In accordance with the recommendations of the Royal Commission, all practical
means for improving the organisation of the industry and increasing its efficiency shall in
adopted.
(2) The Government shall take the following immediate action :-
posals of the Commission regarding amalgamations, to provide for a welfare levy a
(a) Introduce and endeavour to pass this session Bills to give effect to the pr
royalty owners and to further the establishment of pit-head baths, to restrict recruitiva
in mines, to set up for the coal-mining industry a National Wages Board on the lines
the Railway Wages Board.
(b) Set up the proposed National Fuel and Power Council, which will cortar
representatives of Labour.
(c) Set up the proposed Wagon Committee.
(d) Appoint a committee to investigate the question of selling syndicate,
(e) Appoint a committee to examine the profit-sharing proposal of the Com
mission and family allowances.
(f) Prepare a scheme for the establishment of pit committees.
(g) Prepare plans for the assistance of men displaced from pits.
(h) Set up a committee on housing in colliery districts.
set up, or other definitive step taken by the Government towards giving effect to any of the
recommendations of the Commission, a full statement of the step proposed shall be all
(3) Coal Advisory Committee. Before any legislation is introduced, or committee
before the Coal Advisory Committee of the Secretary for Mines.
It shall also be the duty of the Advisory Committee to review from time to time the
progress made in giving effect to the recommendations of the Commission, and to make
recommendations on the subject.
In the event of any recommendations made by the committee not being adopted by
the Secretary for Mines, he shall lay them before Parliament, together with a statement
his reasons for not adopting them.
(4) Apart from any expenditure that may be necessary under 2 (g), the Government
will provide further financial assistance to the industry to the amount of approximatel
£3,000,000.
(5) For a period not exceeding . . . . . weeks:—
(i) The miners will accept a reduction of . . . . . . per cent. in minimum wages other
than subsistence rates) in all districts.
(ii) The owners will bear wages equivalent to 100 per cent. of ascertained net
proceeds (in January-March) so far as necessary to maintain those wages.
(iii) The Government will fill the gap with a subsidy to be debited against the
£3,000,000 aforesaid.
(6) In the meantime :-
(i) A Board shall be set up consisting of three representatives of the coalowners
and three representatives of the miners, with an independent chairman.
(ii) The Board shall frame a national wages and hours agreement governing the
principles on which the general wage rates should be ascertained in each district, and
shall also decide the minimum percentage on basis, taking into consideration the state
and prospects of trade, the reorganisation proposals of the Commission, and other
relevant factors.
(iii) Subsistence wages shall not be reduced in any district where they at present
yield 45s. per week or less for a full customary week.
(iv) The Board shall decide also what the districts shall be.
(v) The Board shall issue its decision within three weeks.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

286

include representatives of those two parties with a neutral element and an independent
made in the Report of the Royal
Commission should be pressed and the powers of the proposed Board enlarged.
The proposals in this direction tentatively ma
Chairman.
such points into consideration.
consider relevant to the issue under discussion and the Board should be required to take
(3) The parties to the Board should be entitled to raise before it any points the
tively adopted. A committee should be established as proposed by the Prime Minister
(4) There should be no revision of the previous wage rates unless there are suficies
on which representatives of the men should be included, whose duty it should be to un
assurances that the measures of reorganisation proposed by the Commission will be effe
operate with the Government in the preparation of the legislative and administrative
Board, should assure itself that the necessary steps, so far as they relate to matters with
measures that are required. The same committee or alternatively the National Wage
the industry, are not being neglected or unduly postponed.
considered every practicable means of meeting such immediate financial difficulties a
(5) After these points have been agreed and the Mines National Wages Board
exist, it may, if that course is found to be absolutely necessary, proceed to the preparatio-
of a wage agreement.
(6) Any such agreement should
(i) if practicable, be on simpler lines than those hitherto followed.
(ii) Not adversely affect in any way the wages of the lowest paid men.
(iii) Fix reasonable figures below which the wage of no class of labour, for a
normal customary week's work, should be reduced in any circumstances.
revision of such adjustments by the Wages Board from time to time if the facts warran
(iv) In the event of any new adjustments being made, should provide for
that course.
(7) Measures should be adopted to prevent the recruitment of new workers, over the
(8) Workers who are displaced as a consequence of the closing of uneconomic collieria
age of 18 years, into the industry if unemployed miners are available.
should be provided for by
(a) The transfer of such men as may be mobile, with the Government assistance
that may be required as recommended in the Report of the Royal Commission.
(b) The maintenance, for such period as may be fixed, of those who cannot be
so transferred and for whom alternative employment cannot be found this main
tenance to comprise an addition to the existing rate of unemployment pay under the
Unemployment Insurance Act, of such amount as may be agreed. A contribution
should be made by the Treasury to cover the additional sums so disbursed.
(c) The rapid construction of new houses to accommodate transferred workers.
The Trades Union Congress will facilitate this by consultation and co-operation with
all those who are concerned.

MR. BALDWIN ON THE SITUATION.
Buses, Trams, and Tube Agreements.

RAILWAY TERMS.
In the House of Commons yesterday afternoon, Mr. Baldwin made a brief statement
on the situation.
With regard to the docks and certain forms of transport, he said negotiations were
still going on and pursuing their normal course.
Work was to be resumed on buses, trams and the underground railway system.
Agreement had been reached, but the terms were not yet available.
With regard to the railways, he had received a telephone message from Mr. J. H. Thomas,
who hoped that by the time he (the Premier) was making this statement a settlement
would be signed between the parties, which Mr. Thomas believed would be satisfactory
to all.
He then made his statement on the mines situation given elsewhere.
Mr. Ramsay MacDonald said that so long as they had the assurance that negotiations
were going on relating to the three important points, the best service that could be rendered
was to say as little as possible.
They were very glad to hear the Prime Minister's statement, and he wished to offer
one observation with reference. This was on the mines, and is reported elsewhere with
Baldwin's statement.


---
RAILWAY TERMS FOR RESTART.
Signed by Representatives of the Three Unions.
Terms for the resumption of work on the railways were reached yesterday afternoon
after a conference lasting several hours between representatives of the three unions and
the railway managers.
Pending further instructions railwaymen had been ordered to remain on strike, and
this order was obeyed.
The terms agreed upon were set out in the following agreement:--
(1) Those employees of the railway companies who have gone out on strike to be
taken back to work as soon as traffic officers and work can be found for them. The principle
to be followed in reinstating to be seniority in each grade at each station, depot, or office.
(2) The trades unions admit that in calling a strike they committed a wrongful act
against the companies, and agree that the companies do not by reinstatement surrender
their legal rights to claim damages arising out of the strike from strikers and others respon-
sible.
(3) The unions undertake (a) not again to instruct their members to strike without
to take any unauthorised action: (c) not to encourage supervisory employees in the special
class to take part in any strike.
(4) The companies intimate that, arising out of the strike it may be necessary to
remove certain persons to other positions, but no such persons' salaries or wages will be
reduced. Each company will notify the union within one week the names of men whom
they propose to transfer, and will afford each man an opportunity of having an advocate
to present his case to the General Manager.
(5) The settlement shall not extend to persons who have been guilty of violence or
intimidation.
Signed on behalf of the General Managers' Conference: Felix J. C. Pole, H. G. Burgess,
H. A. Walker, R. L. Wedgwood, R. H. Selbie.
On behalf of the Railway Unions: J. H. Thomas and C. T. Cramp (National Union of
Railwaymen), J. Bromley (Associated Society of Locomotive Engineers and Firemen),
A. G. Walkden (Railway Clerks' Association).
Mr. J. H. Thomas, in a statement to the Press at the conclusion of the Conference
after signing the agreement, said :-
"Having regard to all the circumstances I consider it an eminently satisfactory
settlement.
"When one considers the bitterness, the disorganisation and the difficulties surround-
ing the whole situation, I hope that the men will accept it in the spirit in which the com-
panies and the leaders signed the agreement, namely, a genuine desire to do all that is
humanly possible immediately to restart the wheels of industry."
Mr. Bromley, secretary of the Associated Society of Locomotive Engineers and Fire-
men, said :-
"Those who, like myself, know all the difficulties with which we were at first con-
fronted in negotiating for a settlement, will, I am sure, feel as I do, that finally a very
satisfactory arrangement has been arrived at.
"Naturally, when the first position of the railway companies following the end of the
General Strike was known, my members solidly refused to return to duty, and a similar
action was taken by the other unions.
"I feel now that my members generally will accept the position and work will be
resumed and carried on smoothly."
Mr. Walkden, secretary of the Railway Clerks' Association, said that although it had
taken many hours of very strenuous argument and persuasion before they could arrive at
the conclusions they had reached, he felt convinced that the settlement would prove
satisfactory.
He was grateful to the railway managers for the magnanimous spirit in which they
had concluded the discussion, and was equally grateful to the leaders and members of the
other two unions for the spirit in which they had co-operated in helping to bring about
this settlement.—British Worker, 15th May, 1926.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

ORGANISATION OF INDUSTRY

THIS JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL
for the Boot Manufacturing Industry
supports Clause 6 of the Preliminary
Conference Agreement, September, 1913, viz.:

For the more effective enforcement of any
agreements, awards or decisions, as well as for
the general advantage of the Industry, the
Federation and the National Union equally
recognise the importance of their respective
organisations being as numerically strong and
as fully representative as possible of employers
and operatives in all centres of the shoe trade,

AND IS OF OPINION THAT THE BEST
INTERESTS OF THE INDUSTRY WILL
BE SERVED IF

ALL MANUFACTURERS CAN BE
ENCOURAGED TO JOIN THE BOOT
MANUFACTURERS' FEDERATION, AND

ALL OPERATIVES ENCOURAGED
TO JOIN THE NATIONAL UNION OF
BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.

T. F. RICHARDS, Chairman
(President of the Union)

H. J. BOSTOCK, Vice-Chairman
(Vice-President of the Federation)

November 24th, 1925.


---
289
SCOTTISH TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
Delegate's Report.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
On behalf of the Scottish Section of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Opera
tives, 1, along with our brother member, Mr. J. P. Reid, of Arbroath, attended the 20th
Annual Conference of the Scottish Trades Union Congress, held in the Wesleyan Central
Halls, Inverness, on 21st, 22nd, 23rd and 24th April, 1920.
In the report of the Scottish Trades Union Congress General Council, a scheme was
outlined, arising out of a remit by the 1925 Congress, for co-ordinating and increasing the
Trade Union movement. The General Council's scheme, submitted after consideration,
was to form Local and County Trade Union Committees in addition to those Trade and
Labour Councils already existing. Notwithstanding that existing Trade and Labour
Councils have already Industrial Committees as well as Political Committees, a lengthy
discussion took place on this question, in the course of which the Secretary stated that
most of the existing Industrial Committees were so only, on paper, as the Council never
received any replies, even to their letters of enquiry. Ultimately a vote was taken on this
question, and it was decided by 144 votes for Council's scheme to 30 against, to adopt
Council's scheme and set up Trade Union Committees.
As our members would read in the Press, there was a resolution from the Glasgow
Trades and Labour Council which was of a somewhat important nature, namely, that a
workers' defence corps should be formed. Some of the Press gave more publicity to this
resolution than perhaps was to the best interests of the Trade Union movement. The
resolution was defeated by a large majority.
A resolution was passed that the Congress demand the immediate ratification of the
Washington Convention by the British Government stabilising the eight-hour day and
making adequate provision however for those workers now enjoying conditions better
than the minimum conditions which the Convention prescribes. The Congress consider
that if this measure is adopted by Great Britain it will have the effect of stimulation to
other Governments.
An emergency resolution was passed unanimously that the Congress co-operate and
utterly endorse the fight of the Miner at this time, and calls upon all Trade Unions to give
their support in the Miners' cause.
The General Council was instructed by Congress to co-operate with Trades Councils
and affiliated Unions to keep the question of unemployment prominently before the
country, and call upon the Government to carry out National schemes of work such as
roads, bridges, &c., to relieve unemployment and to insist upon Trades and Labour Councils
having representation upon local employment committees, as they are in the position to
represent many small unions not now represented thereon.
I would like to emphasise the last paragraph, personally, and draw the attention of
our own branches to the importance of having representation on Local Employment
Committees and also co-option on Rota Committees. I have taken a special interest in
this question of Labour Exchange Committees, and would advise all our branches to apply
for representation on same, which would be to their own interests and also in the interest
of their fellow workers and the unemployed generally, as we as trade unionists must fight
and fight hard for justice (at least) in these Committees, and I would suggest when branches
are sending representatives to above Committees they take care to send men who can get
away from work when required for Rota work without endangering their positions.
A resolution was passed referring to the General Council the question of Sick, Un-
employment, Compensation, Death Insurance, Pensions for Widows and Orphans, and
Old Age Pensions, to formulate a scheme of State Insurance which will adequately insure
the workers against Sickness, Unemployment, Accident and Death, and to press upon the
Government and the Labour Party the necessity of Pensions for Widows and Orphans and
Old Age Pensions being granted on a non-contributory basis. Many other important
measures were discussed and the Conference was most successful, and most magnificently
conducted, and I am sure will be the means of further advancing the Trade Union cause.
Yours in Unity,
GEORGE HANDLEY, 16084.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

290
INTERNATIONAL INFORMATION.
The following Extracts are from Reports of International Boot and Shoe
NR. 1
Operatives and Leather Workers' Federation.
NURNBERG,
INTERNATIONAL SECRETARIAT.
Once more Bata, in Czecho Slovakia.
1st April, 1926.
In connection with this matter the Secretariat received the following letter
Ministry of Labour.
International Boot
PRAGUE,
11th February, 1926.
In reply to your letter from 29th October, 1925, we have to inform you that
conditions of employment existing at the firm Bata were thoroughly examined by the
competent authorities. Several times the workers' organisations lodged complaints
about the infringement of the 48-hour week and the weekly rest on Sundays. The
complaints were partly well founded and the inconveniences stated, were caused in the
main by the rapid development of the factory for which the existing buildings did not
suffice any more. For these reasons several complaints had to be rejected, especially
when concerning works being of urgent need, and moreover of temporary character were
exempted from the legal prescriptions relating to working hours and weekly rest.
Where, indeed, infringements were stated, the competent authorities rigorously
intervened, and Bata was considerably fined.
workers' organisations exercised at the same time, brought it about that the condition
This action of the competent authorities and also the influence of the respective
at that factory became altered, especially the observance of the legal working hours
secured, owing to the insistence of the trade inspector, who urged upon the factory to stop
the electric machines after eight hours. Night-work was stopped too, so far as it did not
concern exemptions. As to Sunday work, the trade inspector pays strict attention to
that; in case that there are concerned exemptions, the workers employed get their weekly
rest during the week.
In regard to these statements one can expect that the complaints about inconveniences
at the factory cease and that the legal prescriptions are observed in the future.
MINISTER:
SIGNATURE.
In connection with this question, COMRADE SRB, Secretary of the Czech Boot and Sho
Operatives' Union, wrote the following :-
As to Bata, it is true that the Ministry rigorously intervened. Bata has been con-
siderably fined several times, and the legal working time is not surpassed for the time being.
Whether that be the consequence of the ministerial intervention, is difficult to state,
because Bata has few orders. It is true, too, that the trade inspector has strict command
to pay attention to the severe observation of the legal working hours. Bata has built
a good deal during the past two years. In autumn, when he had many orders he tried
to make work two shifts. He pointed out he was unable to employ more workers before
the new buildings were finished. Owing to our intervention the Ministry did not give
its permission and Bata was forced to give orders to other factories. There are a good
many small firms willing to carry out orders that Bata is unable to do.
In our Journal we have published already 13 articles about Bata that caused much
sensation and called the attention of the authorities to that firm. Probably more attention
will be paid to it now.
Affiliation Fees received.
M 229.50.
DENMARK, Boot and Shoe Operatives. Affiliation Fees for 1925; kr. 209.25-
BELGIUM, Leather Workers. Affiliation Fees for 1926; fr. francs 1,820-M 208.75
M 4,066.
GREAT BRITAIN, Boot and Shoe Operatives. Affiliation Fees for 1926 ; £203 6s. od.-


---
•
291
Returns and Reports on Union Work for 1925.
The following National Unions have failed to furnish returns:
Denmark, Leather Workers.
Germany, Leather Workers.
Yugo-Slavia. Leather Workers.
Luxemburg, Leather Workers.
Norway, Leather Workers.
Austria. Leather Workers,
Austria. Saddlers.
Poland. Leather Workers.
Roumania, Leather Workers.
Sweden, Boot and Shoe Operatives.
Switzerland, Leather Workers.
Spain, Leather Workers.
Czecho-Slovakia, Clothing Workers.
Hungary, Boot and Shoe Operatives.
United States America, Shoe Makers.
As to the Reports on Union Work, only five unions have sent same to the Office.
We instantly request the Unions not to retard the work of the International Secretariat
and to strictly accomplish their duties in this regard.
FROM THE NATIONAL UNIONS.
DENMARK, BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.-Conditions continue to be slack. Despite
the beginning of the season we have 1,075 members unemployed, being a percentage of 23.
GERMANY. REVISION OF THE AGREEMENT FOR THE BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.-
The Joint Conference between the Employers' and Workers' Federations set to revise the
Agreement, having failed, the Ministry of Labour intervened to establish the Economic
Peace in the Boot and Shoe Industry.
As far as our Industry is concerned it is the first time that any State Arbitration
Board tried to establish an understanding; not only in wage matters but to bring about
the revision of an Agreement as a whole. That the struggle against the employers' demands
was hard, is clearly shown from the fact, that the proceedings at the Arbitration Board
took six days. The Umpire seemed to be deeply impressed by the stereotyped phrases
of the employers. Conditions in our industry are very bad, though our representatives
could prove by decisive documents that the wages and charges of social insurance influence
the least the level of prices. From these circumstances it resulted that the workers'
demands could not thoroughly be realised. Nevertheless we were able to modify several
employers' demands in favour of the workers.
The advantages we secured concern piecework prices—the agreement interdicts to
apply the premium system in connection with this matter—apprenticeship and time wage
rates for particularly skilled workers. Other favourable terms refer to the passing from
piecework to time work, to the interdiction to reduce the piecework prices and time wage
rates, to the regulation of wages at the reopening of factories closed down.
As to disadvantages, contained by the award, we have to register the permission for
the manufacturers to have overtime worked on Saturdays, whenever it depends upon the
agreement of the factory council.
Sick indemnity is limited to cases of sickness lasting more than 12 days. The minimum
wage rates for girls are settled at 70 per cent. of the rates for males. This must soon be
repaired. The paid holidays have been reduced to 6 days instead of 7.
The agreement will remain in operation until 31st March, 1927.
The General Council of the Union immediately assembled to discuss the award.
They were of the unanimous opinion that the disadvantages contained were of a serious
character. On the other hand they had to put the question—“ What will happen if the
agreement is rejected "? This question was thoroughly considered too. It is no secret
that the employers occupy the more favourable position at present. If the agreement be
rejected, continual conflicts would occur. Another important point of view was the fact
that we are not bound to the wage rates settled, on the contrary we are able to put wage
demands at opportune times.
With the exception of three colleagues the General Council finally decided to adopt
the award.
The attitude of the Manufacturers—The big and leading Federations of Manufacturers
of the boot and shoe industry also adopted the Award.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```
202

FRANCE.

Leather Workers' Wage Movements.
The difficulties of the working class are far from disappearing. The Branch Officer
have much to do to increase the wages of the workers in the leather industry.
In the following centres increases of wages have been secured:
AVIGNON. Increases of wages for Tanners and Tawer of twenty-five centimes
per hour.
DELOS. Increase of two francs per day for all boot and shoe operatives.
LA VERPIERS. Augmentation of 25 centimes per hour for boot and shoe operatives
LOIENTE. Increase of 12 per cent. for all boot and shoe operatives.
MAZAMET. Increase of wages of 1.30 francs per day for Tawers.
MULHAIL. Twelve days of paid holidays secured for the Tanners.
OLLINS. Increase of one franc per day for the Tanners.
PARIS. The Saddlers obtained an increase of wages of 45 centimes per hour an
per cent. for piecework.
VALENCE. Increase of 2 francs per day and half a week of paid holidays.
All these wage demands were secured without a strike. Whereas in two cent
SAINT-DONAT.-After six days of strike the boot and shoe operatives obtained
increase of wage rates of 25 centimes per hour and the acknowledgement of the T
Branch.
ECHELLES. Increase of time rates by 25 centimes per hour after a ten-day s
and monthly premiums.

GREAT BRITAIN.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.

Trade.					Membership at		Unemployed		Inc. in		Or Dec
							end of Feb.,			at end of Feb.,	percentage as	Unemploye
							1926.					1926.			comp. month	with a
													ago.			year ag
Boot and Shoe				81,603				3,058		3.7			0.7			0.6
Leather					5,697				659		11.6			0.2			3.2

Employment in the Boot and Shoe Industry
Showed a slight improvement in almost all centres of the boot and shoe industry
during February, but was still only moderate on the whole; short time was still prevalent
in many centres. There was also a slight improvement as compared with February
last year, though a few districts showed no improvement, or even in some cases a decline.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 7.7 on the 22nd February, as compared with
on the 25th January and with 9.5 on 23rd February, 1925.
The number of men and women wholly unemployed registered as applicants for
employment at Employment Exchanges on 1st February, 1926, in the principal centres,
at which approximately 71 per cent. of the total number of applicants for employment
were registered was:-
1st February, 1926			4,342 Men		708 Women		5,050 Total.
December as compared with 4th January,
1926					320				221				541

NORWAY.

Conditions in the Boot and Shoe Industry, from Skotoiarbeideren,
February, 1926.
Unemployment is still widespread and many factories have closed down, at the others
much short time is worked (3 or 4 days), a few are working full time.
About 35 per cent. of our members are wholly unemployed and little hope of improvement.
Nobody can buy, neither people nor merchants. Everybody is waiting for the enormous
decline of prices in consequence of the revision of agreements.
```

---
293

But we fear that this is a false calculation. Whenever a reduction of wage rates may
be passed, this will not influence the prices of footwear. The wages play a small part as
to the settling of prices. If the prices of footwear become lower, the prices of raw materials
and the profit of commerces have to be reduced first. That is the chief point.

The Employers Prepare the Attack, from Skotoiarbeideren, March, 1926.
The manufacturers have given notice to terminate the agreement for the boot and
shoe industry at 1st April. Even the non-federated manufacturers and the masters of
hand-sewing shops have done so.
The employers' federation invited us to hold a joint Conference on Friday, 5th March.
We immediately stated that there was no hope for a good result. The employers' demands
were too arrogant. The joint Conference was broken off at the first meeting.

On 10th March the State Umpire interdicted to withdraw from work and at the same
time began his activity to settle the matter. The first meeting took place on the 11th
March. The Award has not yet been made.
The North Secretariat for the boot and shoe industry has the intention to call a
Conference during the month to consider this conflict.
In connection with this matter Comrade Gundersen states:-
OSLO,
9th March, 1926.

Conditions show a slight improvement. At the time being the percentage
unemployed is approximately 30.
However, it seems that there will be coming a serious conflict in Norway. The
manufacturers have given notice to terminate the agreements among those for the boot
and shoe industry. We must expect every day that the manufacturers announce the
lockout for the 31st March. Though the index figure of cost of living declined by 15
per cent. only, the employers demand a reduction of wages by 25 per cent., moreover to
exclude the two youngest groups of boys and girls from the agreement and to reduce the
holidays to 8 working days instead of 12. We held a joint Conference, but the employers
insisted upon their demands, and it was broken off. Now the State Arbitration Board
has intervened. If any lockout occurs, it will concern about 2,000 of the 2,541 membes
of the Union.
While I am writing this, I received the news that 2,000 of our members have been
given notice to be discharged. But I still hope that we will succeed in settling an agree-
ment to avoid the conflict. Failing in so doing we must expect a serious conflict and shall
be compelled to ask for help at the International.
The Unemployment strongly engaged our unemployment fund. In January and
February we paid altogether 150,000 kr.
CZECHO-SLOVAKIA.
Conditions in the Leather Industry
Continue to be very slack. There are a few orders at the tanners and the boot and
shoe operatives. Short time is widespread. Only the factories producing coloured shoes
are better employed. Of the tawers, too, a good deal are unemployed, so that we may
have to pay large sums in benefits.
This period of unemployment caused to the Union a loss of 600 members. But the
Communist Unions, too, lost a good many of their members.
In the Saddlers' trade conditions are terrible. The saddlers are disappearing more
and more. It is difficult for them to pass over to other departments of the leather industry,
because in several of them conditions are slack too. The bagmakers only enjoy rather
good conditions and have very few unemployed.
As to the belt-gearing industry, many difficulties are to be surmounted. The
employers have given notice to terminate the agreement, intend to suppress the paid
holidays and to reduce the wages. Certainly a strike will occur. Similar attempts have
been made in the auto industry, up till now in vain, but we have to expect others. In
Spring, conditions will probably improve somewhat, because the military authorities will
place orders. But in general small shops will receive same, situated in country districts,.
so that the workers in the cities do not profit much.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

294
GERMANY.
Unemployment in February, 1926.
After an inquiry made by the Allgemainen Deutschen Gewerkshaftsbund, comprising
3,296,714 organised workers, there were 728,008 members unemployed, or 21.1 per cent.,
and 704,085, or 21.4 per cent. working short time.
Unemployment in the boot and shoe and leather industry largely surpassed the
average.
Leather Workers 23.2 per cent. unemployed.
46.7 working short time.
Saddlers 36.4 unemployed.
31.0 working short time.
Boot and Shoe 40.3 unemployed.
43.1 working short time.
From these figures it follows that the boot and shoe industry is most heavily involved
by this crisis. In March, no improvement could be registered either, so that we must
expect a further duration.
Slight Decline of Unemployment.
The number of workpeople unemployed did not change much towards the end of
February. The number of male workers unemployed decreased by 22,000 as compared
with the 15th February, 1926, and that of females increased by 20,000 approximately.
The total number of workpeople unemployed was 2,056,807 on 1st March, as compared
with 2,058,392 on the 15th February, being a decrease of 1 per cent.
Act on Workers' Holidays.
FRANCE.
The Minister of Labour submitted to the Chambre des Deputes a Bill relating to paid
holidays for workers. In the statement of reasons that heads the Bill it is indicated that
holidstate and Municipal functionnaries are entitled to have yearly holidays. As well,
the employees in private undertakings have secured yearly holidays by special agreement,
As to the workers it is absolutely necessary to grant to them a certain period of holidays
in addition to the daily free time and the weekly rest, to maintain and to strengthen
their productiveness. For these reasons the workers must be granted yearly holidays
like the State functionnaries and the private employees.
The Bill provides for at the least 8 holidays after one year's service, a fortnight at
least after two years. The period of holidays is to be increased at factories of a dangerous
and insalubrious character, as well as for boys and girls under 18 years of age. The holidays.
are not redeemable.
Increase of Cost of Living.
The following figures show the increase of the index figure of cost of living in 1925
till January, 1926. These figures base on the retail prices of 13 different articles, available
in Paris—(Bread, Meat, Bacon, Butter, Eggs, Milk, Cheese, Potatoes, Beans, Sugar,
Petroleum, Oil and Brandy).
January, 1925
April,
July,
October,
November,,,
December,,,
January, 1926
408
409
421
433
444
463
480
GREAT BRITAIN.
Unemployment Insurance.
Contributions, Benefit, &c., in last three insurance years.
The Minister of Labour gave the following (approximate) figures on the above subject
in answer to a question in the House of Commons, on the 24th February, 1926:—
CONTRIBUTIONS.
Insurance
Year.
1922-23
1923-24
1924-25
From
Employers.
18,110,000
19,560,000
19,580,000
From
Workpeople.
15,900,000
17,360,000
17.340,000
From
Exchequer.
12,170,000
13,180,000
13,150,000
Benefits.
41,880,000
35,970,000
44,570,000


---
Here is the extracted text:
295
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
Index numbers of purchasing power of Hourly Earnings in Boot and Shoe Factories
(1913, 100.0) :--
1906
1907
1008
1909
1910
1911
1912
109.3
111.0
105.6
104.8
98.9
102.2
95.2
1913
1914
1916
1918
1920
1922
1924
100.0
98.1
91.3
80.3
111.3
124.3
125.4
ITALY.
The Reorganisation of the Italian Trade Union Movement.
(I.F.T.U.) -In view of the difficult position of the Italian Unions brought about by
Mussolini's tyrannical restrictions, our Italian comrades are pursuing a policy of saving
what they can. They have not attempted to pit themselves against the inevitable, but
are doing everything to stick to their principles.
One outcome of this policy has been the formation of a mixed Trade Union Federation
for all those trades the membership of which is small. The object of this new Federation
is to facilitate the recruitment of all the supporters of the Italian Trade Union Centre.
It is directing its attention to isolated workers workers who are organised locally again
in mixed organisations and National Trades or industrial unions which have lost their
independency. The organisation is to give moral and financial support to the members,
who have to pay a total subscription of 20 lire.
WAGES IN POOR DISTRICTS.
Writing to the Editor of the Shoe and Leather News, on the 24th April, 1926, a Mr. H.
Williams, 47 South Street, Liverpool, says-
"The article, 'Wages in Poor Districts,' by Mr. H. Crabb, contains the same amount
of eyewash as usual. He says I am responsible for a proposal for a reduction of wages of
10 per cent. all round. He omits the vital part of my proposition, i.e., the reduction of the
minimum rate by 10 per cent.
. . I ask Mr. Crabb seriously, would it not be better for those men to be employed
at 455. per week, than to live on the 'dole' or the guardians ? I commend his statement to
the consideration of the Minister of Labour, as he practically admits these men could be
working, only that the minimum is too high.
... One thing Mr. Crabb has done by his article. He has made many of us believe
that those who are supposed to represent the employers on the Trade Board, are represent-
ing the men, and should be moved at once. Mr. Crabb should study the miners' position,
their minimum is 7s. 6d. per day, and I think that should be the minimum for the boot
repairer."
IT IS EVIDENT FROM THE ABOVE, THAT THE WRITER OF THE
LETTER DESIRES TO BRING DOWN THE MINIMUM RATES OF PAY FOR A
BOOT REPAIRER TO A POINT WHICH WOULD MAKE WAGES BELOW THE
STANDARD OF 1914. IT IS THEREFORE AS WELL THAT MEMBERS SHOULD
KNOW THERE ARE SOME REPRESENTATIVES BELONGING TO THE BOOT
AND SHOE INDUSTRY WHO WISH TO DEPRESS WAGES TO A POINT AT WHICH
IT WOULD MEAN A MERE EXISTENCE.-E.L.P., G.S.].
APPRECIATION FOR WORK DONE.
A successful smoking concert organised by the members of the local branches of the
Operatives' Union was held on the 4th inst. at the Trades Hall, Upper Fountaine Street,
Leeds. Councillor A. J. Dobbs occupied the chair. Mr. George Abbott, one of the oldest
members of the branch committee, handed a cheque for £142 to Mr. Joseph Wescoe, who,
until his recent retirement, had been a branch secretary for 39 years. The sum was
collected by the various branches of the Union, and was supplemented by a contribution
from the National Council of the Union.-Shoe and Leather Record, 7, 14, 21 May, 1926.


---
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES,
34 Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1.

OFFICIAL REPORT
OF THE

Thirty-Sevemth
General
Conference

HELD AT THE

CENTRAL LIBRARY,
BLACKPOOL,

WHITSUNTIDE, 24th to 29th May, 1926.

Edited by Mr. E. L. POULTON, J.P., General Secretary, London.
Reported by Mr. ERNEST BORDOLI, Confidential Clerk to the
Union, London.

LONDON:
Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Limited, 58 Gough Street, London, W.C. 1.


---
Here is the extracted text:
11
STANDING ORDERS.
BIENNIAL MEETINGS.
RULE 80.- Biennial Meetings of the Conference shall be held on Whit
Monday and subsequent days.
TIME OF CONFERENCE MEETING.
RULE 81.-On the first day of Conference the Delegates shall assemble at a
place provided for the purpose, at Eleven o'clock a.m. prompt,
and shall proceed to the election of Two Tellers, and shall also
consider the President's Address and Council's Report; after which
the Conference shall adjourn at 12.30 p.m. and re-assemble at 2 p.m.
and proceed with the business of the Conference and adjourn at
5 p.m. On Tuesday and each succeeding day, the time of meeting
shall be 9.30 a.m., adjourn at 12.30 p.m., re-assemble at 2 p.m., and
adjourn for the day at 5 p.m.
DELEGATES' QUALIFICATION.
RULE 82.-The Conference shall consist of Delegates who have been elected
in accordance with General Rules 71 and 77, which read as follows:
"Delegates shall be elected in accordance with the number of Financial
Members returned in the December Report previous to the date on which the
Conference is to be held. All Permanent Officials shall attend the Conferences
by virtue of their office, over and above the maximum of representation. The
basis of representation for delegates shall be one delegate for every 1,000
financial members, with a minimum representation of not less than fifty
delegates (one-third to form a quorum.)"
"The latest date for sending in amendment and additions to Rules, or
Standing Orders of Conference, shall be February 15th, in the year in which
the Conference is due to be held, and they shall be published in the February
Monthly Report. Nominations for delegates shall be taken on the February
Monthly Meeting Night, and voting for same on the March Monthly Meeting
Night."
The Council to attend by virtue of their office.
PRESIDENT OF CONFERENCE.
RULE 83.- The President of the Union, by virtue of his office, takes the chair
at all Conferences.
STANDING ORDERS COMMITTEE.
RULE 84.-A committee of five persons shall be elected from the Delegates of
the Conference, whose duty it shall be to examine the Delegates'
Credentials, and report thereon. They shall also be at the service of
the Conference to consider any questions or matter that may be
relegated to it with a view to reporting thereon during the sitting of
Conference. For such extra services they shall receive additional
pay, to the amount of 10s. each.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

12
TELLERS.
RULE 85. Two Delegates shall be appointed as Tellers, whose ruling as to
numbers shall be final, except in cases of dispute, when the Chairmar
shall order a recount.
DOOR KEEPER.
RULE 86. A Door Keeper (not a delegate) shall be selected by the Cour
whose duties shall be to test all applications for admittance
Conference, and also to keep the floor of the hall strictl
Delegates only, and also to regulate the granting of passe
members of the public to the gallery. and to perform such
duties as may be required of him by the General Secretary.
VOTING.
RULE 87. The system of voting shall be by show of hands, the decision
the majority to rule.
LIMITATION OF SPEECHES.
RULE 88.- Every latitude is to be allowed the Delegates for giving express
to their views on the various subjects that may be brought be
Conference; but in the event of the Chairman seeing that
business is not making satisfactory progress, he shall have power
appeal to the Conference to limit the time allowed to movers
resolutions to ten minutes, a seconder to seven minutes, and 21
subsequent speaker to five minutes. No one shall speak more
once on a question, except the mover of an original resci
Should the President be of opinion that there is no practical differe
among the Delegates, he shall have the power to stop the discuss
AMENDMENT OF STANDING ORDERS.
RULE 89. Should any amendment of the Standing Orders of Conference
proposed by any Branch, such amendment shall be forwarded at
same time and under the same conditions as the amendments
posed to the Rules. Notice of such amendment to be sent by:
General Secretary to the Delegates as early as convenient a
receipt.
DELEGATES LEAVING CONFERENCE.
RULE 90. No Delegate shall leave Conference without the consent of
President, and Delegates absent one whole sitting without leave
absence shall be named by the Chairman. The Conference st
thereupon decide what action shall be taken with any such delegan


---
Here is the extracted text:
13
MINUTES OF STANDING ORDERS COMMITTEE.
The members of the Standing Orders Committee to the Blackpool
Conference - Messrs. F. C. Jex, G. Chester, A. Hill, J.P. A. W. Lyne, J.P.
and F. Gould, J.P., with Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P. (General Secretary) met in
the Board Room, 34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1, on the 1st April, 1926,
at 1 p.m.
CHAIRMAN.
Mr. F. C. Jex was unanimously elected Chairman.
SECRETARY.
Mr. G. Chester was unanimously elected Secretary.
ORDER OF BUSINESS.
The following order of business was unanimously endorsed: -
1. Chairman's Welcome to Delegates.
2. Election of Two Tellers.
3. General Secretary to report Result of Voting for
Standing Orders Committee.
4. Chairman's Address to Conference.
5. Council's Address.
6. Resolutions as per Agenda.
7. General Business.
It was decided to recommend the Conference adjourn for the day at
12.30 p.m. on Wednesday, 26th May, 1926, and re-assemble at 9.30 a.m.,
Thursday, 27th May, 1926.
The Health Insurance business the Committee suggest shall be dealt with
on Tuesday, 25th May, 1926, at 2 p.m.
SUPERANNUATION.
The Committee recommend any reference in the Council's Address to
Superannuation be left over until the adoption of the Address when a
general discussion be taken on Superannuation, after which a vote be taken
on the Council's recommended scheme for Officials and Staff, and the Higham
and Rushden resolution be taken as the official amendment.
AGENDA.
The items on the Agenda were then placed in numerical order.
1st April, 1926.
FRED C. JEX,
Chairman.


---
17
PROPOSED NEW RULES, ALTERATIONS, OR
AMENDMENTS TO RULES.
THE COUNCIL.
SUPERANNUATION FUND.
1. The Fund shall be held in Trust by the Management Committee (Execu-
tive Council of the Union) for Superannuation purposes, and shall be adminis-
tered in accordance with the following rules:
The objects of this Fund are to provide a Superannuation allowance to
permanent (full time) officials and clerks of the Union or branches, and a
payment to the dependents or representatives of a deceased official or clerk,
according to the scale set forth in these rules.
The Fund shall be used for no other purpose.
Those eligible to participate in its benefits shall be permanent officials and
clerks of the Union and branches of 21 years of age and upwards.
Contributions to the Fund shall be compulsory by all permanent officials
and clerks over 21 years of age.
Retirement Conditions.
2. Where an official or clerk over 21 years of age with over ten years'
service has retired from service on account of inability to efficiently perform
his duties owing to infirmity or ill-health, and under 60 years of age, he shall
receive pay on the scale of Stuperannuation named in these Rules subject to
the discretion of the Management Committee, who shall have power to review
such cases from time to time. An official or clerk shall not be entitled to
claim Superannuation on the grounds of age alone until he has attained the age
of 60 years, but he must compulsorily retire at 65 years of age.
tion.
No superannuated official or clerk shall accept office with a rival organisa-
Scale and Basis of Payment.
3. Superannuation benefit shall be paid to a permanent official or clerk
on the undermentioned salary basis :-
Years of Service.
10 years
Fixed Benefits.
35 per cent.
plus I per cent. for each additional year's completed service, the salary at the
time of retirement being the determining factor for the amount of pension.
Contributions and Refund of Same.
4. The rate of contribution shall be 3 per cent. of wages received from
National officers and Central office clerks, and 3 per cent. from Central Funds;
3 per cent. from Branch officials and Branch clerks, and 3 per cent. from Branch
funds. When an official or clerk has been superannuated he shall cease to
contribute to the Fund.
5. An official or clerk upon resigning, or his services being dispensed with,
or failing to secure re-election, shall (in cases where there is no title to a pension)
have refunded to him all contributions paid by him to the Fund plus 4 per cent.
on the total amount due to him when leaving the service of the Union. A
similar refund shall be made to the dependents or legal representatives of any
official or clerk who dies before completing ten years' service.


---
Here is the extracted text:
19
TO RULES.
PROPOSED NEW RULES, ALTERATIONS, OR AMENDMENTS
Inasmuch as under Regulation 8 of the Rules made by the Commissioners
of Inland Revenue pursuant to their powers under Section 32 (4) of the Finance
Act, 1921, the Trustees of the Superannuation Fund are liable to account to
the Commissioners for Income Tax at one-third the standard rate in force at
the time of refund on all contributions (with any interest additions thereto)
returned to members of the Fund during the life-time of the members, a
deduction shall be made from contributions returned to a member during his
life-time, and such deduction shall be at the rate of one-third the standard
rate of Income Tax in force for the year in which the repayment is made.
Any official or clerk dismissed for dishonesty shall have no claim on the
Fund whatever.
Payment on Death.
6. In the case of death of an official or clerk before participating in the
Superannuation Fund, provided that he has from 10 to 15 years' service, the
dependents or family of such an official shall be entitled to ONE YEAR'S super-
annuation allowance; where his services exceed 15 years and under 20 years,
18 months' allowance shall be paid, and where the service exceeds 20 years,
the dependents shall be paid TWO YEARS' allowance in accordance with the
scale, or a refund may be made as named in clause 5, whichever sum is the
greater.
Where an official or clerk has been superannuated and dies before receiving
two years' allowance, the Management Committee shall grant the dependents
or family the balance of two years' superannuation allowance according to
scale.
This shall be considered a final payment in such cases.
An official or clerk entitled to benefit from the Fund can nominate any
person to receive such sum as may be granted in the case of death. In the
event of there being no dependents, the Management Committee shall grant
such sum as will cover all necessary funeral expenses.
General.
7. The Union shall guarantee the benefits of the scheme.
Retirement for the purposes of claiming superannuation benefit shall be
suspended until 1st January, 1930, but in the case of those 65 years of age
and over at the commencement of the scheme, it shall be optional for them to
retire on 1st January, 1927. In such cases they shall be deemed to have
completed not less than ten years' service with the Union.
Payment of contributions to the scheme shall be payable from 4th Septem-
ber, 1926.
8. In the event of a permanent officer being returned to Parliament he
shall continue to pay contributions at the same rate as were paid before being
returned to Parliament.
9. The Fund shall be controlled by a Management Committee consisting
of the Executive Council of the Union.
10. If the Union shall be dissolved or amalgamated with any other Union,
the Trusts constituted by these presents may, subject as hereinafter provided,
thereupon determine. Otherwise the said Trusts shall continue during the
life of the survivor of the issue now living of her late Majesty Queen Victoria,
and 21 years after the death of such survivor and such further period, if any,


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
1
21
TO RULES.
PROPOSED NEW RULES, ALTERATIONS, OR AMENDMENTS
as may be lawful. Upon the determination of the said Trusts, the affairs
thereof shall be wound up, and subject to the payment of all costs, charges
and expenses which may then be owing and to provision so far as the Fund
will admit being made for the continued payment of any pensions which are
then payable, the balance of the Fund, if any, shall be applied at the discretion
of the Trustees in making provision for pensions or gratuities amongst all or
any of the permanent officials or clerks who are then in the active service of
the Union, and to whom the Superannuation Scheme is, or may be, applicable.
The Executive Council shall create a Fund to meet the liabilities involved,
a sum equal to one year's interest (for 1925) on Union's funds, and invested
for the purpose of a Superannuation Fund.
2 HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. Suggestion." That a Superannuation Scheme for
the whole membership of the Union be drawn up by the Council, at once,
as an alternative to the scheme at present proposed."
3 WELLINGBOROUGH.-" That this Branch, after giving very careful consideration
to the Superannuation Scheme for full time Officials and Clerks as sub-
mitted by the Council, rejects the same as being too narrow in its scope.
It further asks that a scheme be drawn up that will include all members
and that it be submitted to a ballot vote of the Union for their approval
or rejection."
4 KINGSWOOD.-"That this meeting of the Kingswood and District Branch of
the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, instructs its delegates,
including the permanent official, attending the Conference to be held at
Whitsuntide, 1926, to vote against the endorsement of the Superannuation
Fund submitted by Council on the grounds that it is not expedient or in
the best interests of the members of the Union to do so."
5 BRISTOL NO. 2.-Rule 2, Paragraph 2, Line 1.-Delete the words "A rival,"
and insert "Any."
6 BRISTOL NO. 2.-Rule 3.-Add:
"But in no case shall the retiring pension
of any Officer or Clerk exceed £4 per week, nor shall it be less than £2 per
week."
7 NORWICH. Rule 3.-To add: "The salary at date of retirement shall provide
the basis upon which the pension is calculated, it being always understood
that no superannuated member shall receive more than £208 per annum,
and that no superannuated member shall receive less than £104 per
annum."
8 BRISTOL NO. 2.- Rule 7. Paragraph 2, Line 3.-After "1930," add: "But in
the intervering period the age for voluntary retirement shall be 65, and
for compulsory retirement 70 years of age, commencing from January 1st,
1927. Then follow on to the end as printed."
9 KINGSWOOD. Retirement Conditions." Any Superannuated officer or clerk
accepting office after retirement, for salary or wages, shall be liable to
reduction of Superannuation Benefit as the Executive may deem fit."
10 LEICESTER NO. 2.-Retirement Conditions. Rule 2, Section 1.-Delete "But
he must compulsorily retire at 65 years of age."
11 NORWICH. Rule 2. Second paragraph to read: "No superannuated official
or clerk shall accept office for payment with any trade organisation."

---
Here is the extracted text:
23
PROPOSED NEW RULES, ALTERATIONS, OR AMENDMENTS
TO RULES.
12 NORWICH.-Rule 3. Line 4. Delete all after word "Plus," and insert: "Half
per cent. for each additional year of non-contributory service and 1 per
cent. for each additional completed year of contributory service."
13 NORWICH.Rule 5, Paragraph 1. To read: "Any official or clerk ceasing to
hold office shall (in cases where no title to a pension is established), have
refunded to him all contributions paid by him into the fund plus 4 per cent.
compound interest on the total amount due to him when leaving the
service of the Union. A similar refund shall be made to the dependents
or legal representatives of any official or clerk who dies before completing
ten years' service."
14 NORWICH.Rule 5, Paragraph 3.-" Any official or clerk dismissed for dis-
honesty in connection with the Union shall have no claim on the fund
whatever."
15 NORWICH. Rule 6, Paragraph 1 to read: "In the case of death of an official
or clerk before participating in the superannuation fund, the dependents
or family shall receive a sum equal to six months' superannuation allow-
ance where less than ten years' service has been rendered, ten years and
not exceeding fifteen years a sum not exceeding one year's superannuation
allowance, over fifteen and not exceeding twenty years a sum not exceeding
eighteen months' superannuation allowance, and where the service exceeds
twenty years the dependents shall be paid two years' superannuation
allowance, or a refund may be made as named in Rule 5, whichever sum
is the greater."
16 NORWICH. Rule 6, Paragraph 2, Line 3.-After word "Balance," to read:
"In accordance with preceding paragraph in Rule 6."
17 NORWICH. Rule 7, Paragraph 2, Line 4. To read : "On or after 1st January,
1927."
18 NORWICH.Rule 8.-To add: "And while remaining a member of Parliament
shall not be eligible to receive superannuation benefit."
19 WOLVERHAMPTON.-" Delete from all parts of the Scheme the words Clerks
of the Union or Branches."
20 WOLVERHAMPTON. Rule 4, Paragraph 1.-Delete "Branch Funds," and
substitute "Union Funds."
GENERAL SUPERANNUATION.
21 BRISTOL No. 1.-" This Conference instructs the Council to consider and
prepare a Voluntary Scheme for the Superannuation of all members, and
report to the next Conference."
22 BRISTOL NO. 2.-New Rule." That a Superannuation Scheme be established
for all members. The scheme be incorporated with the Sick and Funeral
Fund as this Fund is rapidly increasing. The Council to make a report
as early as possible on the extra contributions required to give members
a superannuation of 15s. per week at the age of 65. Conference to decide
what amount is to be drawn from the Sick and Funeral Fund and set aside
for this purpose. To approach the Manufacturers' Federation to see if
anything of a joint effort can be made to cover the industry."
23 LEICESTER NO. 1.-" That the Council prepare a Superannuation Scheme for
the members, such scheme to be submitted to the members and a ballot
be taken for their approval or otherwise."
24 NORTHAMPTON. That instructions be given to the Council to draw up a
scheme of Pensions for members and report to a special conference."


---
Here are the bounding box detections:
```json
[
  {"box_2d": [157, 406, 186, 710], "label": "benefit"},
  {"box_2d": [650, 412, 675, 728], "label": "Benefit"},
  {"box_2d": [787, 412, 909, 900], "label": "contributions"}
]
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
25
PROPOSED NEW RULES, ALTERATIONS, OR AMENDMENTS
TO RULES.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
15 NORWICH. - Rule 214. -Add "Unemployment benefit in respect of holidays
(see definition, Rule 216) shall not be paid to any member making a fresh
application on any of the three preceding days to such holidays."
16 WELLINGBOROUGH. - Rule 214. - Delete first three lines to "Month," and add :
"Members out of employment after the payment of 52 contributions only
shall be entitled to 2s. 6d. per day or 15s. per week for ten weeks. After
the payment of 104 contributions they shall be entitled to 3s. per day or
18s. per week."
17 BRISTOL NO. 1.- Rule 216, Line 2. - Delete "Twelve," and insert "Three."
28 BRISTOL NO. 1. - Rule 216, Line 5. - Delete "Thirteenth," and insert
"Fourth."
19 GLASGOW NO. 2.-Rule 216, Line 11.-Delete "Twelve," and insert "Six."
30 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 217, Line 2.--After word "Weeks," add "From the time
of receiving his full benefit."
31 BRISTOL NO. 1.- Rule 217, Line 2.-Delete from the word "Benefit," the
remainder of present rule.
32 GLASGOW. Rule 217, Line 3. - Delete "Having in the interval worked at
their trade three months."
33 HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.--Rule 217, Line 6.-Delete "Three months," and
insert "Nine weeks."
34 BRISTOL NO. 1.-Rule 223, Line 2.-Delete words "Or other misconduct."
OUT-OF-WORK CONTRIBUTIONS.
35 GLASGOW. Rule 228, Line 4.-After "Funds," add "The Branch Com
mittee to have discretionary power to continue this benefit in bona-fide
cases of unemployment."
36 GLASGOW. Rule 228. - Add "All members shall draw their State Unemploy-
ment Insurance Benefit through the Union."


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
26
EXISTING RULES.
RULE 229. Any continuous full paying member to the Union for a period
of 30 years, and whose card is clear, if unable to find employment
permanently incapacitated and only entitled to Sick and Funeral
through infirmity or old age, shall be exempt from paying further
contributions (any member claiming this benefit must be regarded as
Benefits); whilst in receipt of sick pay the member must pay his
event of such member returning to work he shall then pay full con
tributions and shall serve the necessary probation for all trade benefits.
and pay 52 weeks' contributions before being entitled to unemployed
own contributions according to scale for Sickness Benefit.
benefit.
Sick Pay.
RULE 234. - Male members declaring on the sick fund shall receive 2s. per
day or 12s. per week for twelve weeks in any twelve consecutive
months; females, and youths under 18 years of age, to receive 1s
per day or 6s. per week during the same period, provided it is drawn
continuously. But should a member declare on the sick fund oftener
drawn, if coming within the twelve months previous to the date or
than once during such twelve months, the whole amount previously
the declaring on certificate, shall be reckoned against him. Example:
a member drew one day's pay on the 29th May, in any year
and declared on again on the 29th May the following year, that das
pay shall be counted. Members who may have received their fu
amount in such twelve consecutive months, shall not be entitled to
weeks from the date of receiving his or her last sick pay. The tota
any further sick benefit until after the expiration of fifty-two clear
amount of sick pay to be drawn by any full male member shall nc:
exceed £40; half-pay members, £20; females not to exceed
whether continuous members or not. A member working for a longer
period than three hours in a day is not entitled to any payment from
the Sick Funds for such day.
RULE 245.--
Funeral Benefits.
Member.
fs. d.
Member's
Wife.
Member's
Husband.
fs. d.
fs. d.
Males, Full
600
300
Sick
600
300
"
Trade
600
"
Special Trade
300
(under Rule 34)
Youths
Females, Full
300
300
1 10 0
"
Sick
300
1 10 0
"
Trade
300
"
Special Trade
(under Rule 34)
Under 18
1 10 0


---
Here is the extracted text:
27
PROPOSED NEW RULES, ALTERATIONS, OR AMENDMENTS
TO RULES.
LEICESTER No. 1. -Addition to Rule 229. - "Any continuous full paying
member to the Union for a period of 50 years, and whose card is clear.
shall be exempt from paying any further contributions, and shall be
entitled to all benefits; Out-of-Work Benefit ceasing if the member
retires or is totally incapacitated. This rule to apply in the case of a
member who is still being employed."
SICK BENEFIT.
LEICESTER No. 2. -"To ask that the few members now on the books as
Half Sick shall be entitled to Full Sick Benefit."
KETTERING NO. 1. - Rule 234, Line 2. - Delete "12 weeks," and insert "14
weeks."
LEICESTER No. I. - "That all members who are paying 1s. per week con-
tribution shall be entitled to full sick pay.
FUNERAL BENEFITS.
LEICESTER NO. 2.-Rule 245.-" That in each instance where the amount is
'£6' to read ' £7 10s.,' '£3' to read ' £4,' and ' £1 10s.' to read ' £2.'"


---
RULE 203.
28
EXISTING RULES.
Travelling Assistance.
from which he is registered, being able to secure work in some other
A financial member unable to find employment in the branch
part of the country, can apply to the Secretary of his branch for
payment of his rail or boat fare. The Secretary must correspond
is offered. The member must produce satisfactory evidence to his
to ascertain if matters are satisfactory upon the firm where work
with the Secretary of the Branch to which the member wishes to go.
payment up to 10s. (if the fare calls for as much) may be made to
to any payment under the rules; should the evidence be satisfactory
Secretary that he has a situation to go to before becoming entitled
the member in no case, however, can any member claim under
Members must also be da
this rule more than £1 per annum.
upon the books before any payment is made under this rule.
Victimisation Pay.
to the General Secretary
RULE 200.-Any financial member who by reason of acting upon instruction
from his officials whereby he loses his employment or, who by reasor
of continuous activity in forwarding the cause of the Union is die
his case inquired into by the Branch Committee, when, if it is foun
missed, and thereby suffers financial loss, shall be entitled to ha
to be a case of victimisation, the Committee must send on at 1
a full statement of the case to go be
the Council with a view to Victimisation Pay being paid, along w
a recommendation as to the amount they think will meet the Car
the maximum amount being £8, that is, £1 per week for eight weeks
No member shall receive Victimisation Pay while receiving pay fre
any other Union Fund. (It being understood that ordinary case
of graduated scale and minimum wage claims are only entitled to
maximum grant of £2; that is, £1 per week for two weeks shor
they remain out of employment. To be entitled to this benefit
member must be financial at the time of discharge.
9.-BENEFITS.
Table of Strike or Lock-out Pay.
RULE 197.-Any member of an established branch, who has belonged:
the Union thirteen weeks, and is clear on the books at the date upo
which the dispute is declared, should the whole of the men be
structed by the Council to withdraw, shall receive 1s. 3d. per di
until such time as, his twenty-six weeks' probation is complete
when, if he has paid all dues up to that date, he shall become entitl
to trade benefits, excepting those members working on the Contine
who shall be entitled to all benefits except for disputes and lock-ou:
10. FUNDS AND FINANCE.
RULE 250.-The General Secretary shall keep a
of the Union Funds and shall find security to that amount.
banking account of 1.000
be empowered to draw on the said account. Cheques must be signed
banking account of £5,000, and shall
RULE 251. The Council shall have a
by the General President and General Secretary.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

```
20
PROPOSED NEW RULES, ALTERATIONS, OR AMENDMENTS
TO RULES.
TRAVELLING ASSISTANCE.
NORTHAMPTON. - Rule 203, Line 10. Substitute the sum of "One Pound" in
the place of "Ten Shillings."
NORTHAMPTON. Rule 203, Line 12. Substitute the sum of "Two Pounds'
instead of "One Pound."
VICTIMISATION BENEFIT.
1 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 200, Line 11. After word "Weeks," add "If unemployed
for that period."
BENEFITS._ STRIKE AND DISPUTE.
5 THE COUNCIL. Rule 197, Line 5.-Delete " Is. 3d." and insert
"
Is. 8d."
FUNDS AND FINANCE.
THE COUNCIL. Rule 250, Line 2.-Delete "£1,000," and insert "£3,000."
THE COUNCIL. Rule 251, Line 1.--Delete " £5,000,” and insert " £10,000."
WELLINGBOROUGH.-New Rule. "The Council shall have power to lend
money upon mortgage to local branches, who desire to purchase their
own offices"
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
31
PROPOSED NEW RULES, ALTERATIONS, OR AMENDMENTS
TO RULES.

FIDELITY FUND.
19 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 130. - The Branch Officers must be insured with the
Union Fidelity Fund at the following minimum premium for each official
of the Branch :-
Per annum.
Amount
Insured For.
Branch with weekly income under £25
£50
£75
£100
£150
£200
2/6
5/-
10/-
£1
£1 10
£2
£12
£25
£75
£100
£150
£200
دو
دو
دو
دو
50 NORTHAMPTON No. 2. - Rule 130, Line 2. - After "Fund," add "Or any other
responsible insurance company."

BRANCH OFFICERS' DUTIES.
51 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 127, Line 18. - After the word "Secretary" add
"Within eight weeks after the end of the quarter."
52 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 127, Line 12.-After word "Week," add "Or pay the
same into the Bank every week."
13 THE COUNCIL. - Rule 127. - Add new sentence, "All correspondence relative
to members must give the branch and registered number of the member
referred to."


---
Here is the extracted text:
33
PROPOSED NEW RULES, ALTERATIONS, OR AMENDMENTS
TO RULES.
54 THE COUNCIL. — Rule 129, Line 3. — After "General Meeting," add "The
system of accounting and the Balance Sheet must be drawn up on an
approved system, and to the satisfaction of the Central Office."
55 THE COUNCIL. — Rule 129, Line 4. — After word "Vouchers," add "Bank pass
books, paying-in books, deeds of investment, and cash in hand."
56 THE COUNCIL. — Rule 148. — Add "Any contributions taken after Monday
night must be booked for the following Saturday."
APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
57 NORTHAMPTON No. 2. — Rule 123. — Add "Where new Branch Secretaries are
appointed, the General Secretary or a member of the Central Office Staff
shall inspect the branch accounts at least once a quarter during their first
year of office."
OBJECTS.
58 THE COUNCIL. — Rule 26. — Add "All administration allowances to be paid to
the credit of the branch."
59 LEICESTER WOMEN'S. — Rule 26. — Add "That National Health Insurance and
National Unemployment Benefit be paid under the sole control of Branch
Executives and administered as part of the work of the Union through
the Secretary of each Branch, and all administration allowances be
credited to the branch funds.
re RULE 26.
The following table shews the amount paid to branches by way of
Administration Grants for 1925, both for State Unemployment Insurance and
National Health Insurance purposes.
Name of Branch.
State
Unemployment Acts.
Administration.
fs. d.
5 12 7
15 I I
84 18 9
National Health
Insurance Acts.
Administration.
fs. d.
4 10 2
25 9 5
14 0 5
8 8 10
7 8 0
23 II 0
6 13 I
4 2 I
2 II 9
21 10 I
19 3 4
3 12 0
3 10 4
0 7 2
Aberdeen
Anstey
Arbroath
Anstey No. 2
Ayr
Barwell
Blaby
Belfast
Bishop Auckland
Bristol
Bristol No. 2
Bozeat
Brynmaur
Burnley
3 15 3
I 12 8
15 2 7
47 I 3
88 I 7
23 17 0
Cambridge...

---
Here are the bounding box detections:
```json
[
  {"box_2d": [88, 100, 111, 124], "label": "74"},
  {"box_2d": [73, 113, 89, 325], "label": "CONFERENCES AND DELEGATE MEETINGS."},
  {"box_2d": [13, 254, 69, 523], "label": "PROPOSED NEW RULES, ALTERATIONS, OR AMENDMENTS"},
  {"box_2d": [74, 27, 226, 151], "label": "NORWICH."},
  {"box_2d": [77, 154, 98, 167], "label": "15"},
  {"box_2d": [512, 156, 538, 418], "label": "POWERS OF THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL."},
  {"box_2d": [36, 31, 68, 45], "label": "79"},
  {"box_2d": [242, 50, 271, 651], "label": "METHOD OF NOMINATION AND ELECTION OF ALL OFFICERS"},
  {"box_2d": [79, 28, 99, 43], "label": "76"},
  {"box_2d": [545, 36, 562, 51], "label": "79"},
  {"box_2d": [247, 450, 268, 518], "label": "DELEGATES."},
  {"box_2d": [155, 28, 171, 43], "label": "77"},
  {"box_2d": [78, 57, 98, 71], "label": "75"},
  {"box_2d": [36, 48, 53, 64], "label": "78"}
]
```

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**42**

**EXISTING RULES.**

**Duties and Powers of Branches and Branch Executives.**
*RULE 153.* Economic and Industrial History Classes may be formed by any branch whose members express the desire for the same.

**4. CONDITIONS OF MEMBERSHIP.**
*RULE 32.* No person shall be admitted into the Union who is physically unable to follow his employment.
*RULE 38.* Any member who has paid 26 weeks' continuous contributions, and has served a probation of 26 weeks from the date of his joining a branch of this Union, shall be returned to the Council as a financial member, and be entitled to trade benefits. Should he, however, not be clear upon the books at the time he has paid 26 weeks' contributions but does not owe more than 8 weeks' contributions, fines and levies combined, he shall also be returned to the Council, and be entitled to trade benefits. Such members shall serve a further 26 weeks' probation, and pay a further 26 weeks' contributions from the date of their registration with the Union, TO ENTITLE THEM TO OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT, sick pay and funeral benefit, the payment of their out-of-work contributions if Rule 228 is complied with. All members must have paid 52 weeks' contributions before becoming entitled to out of work, sick, and funeral benefits. If the debt, including fines and levies during the latter probationary period should exceed 8 weeks, the member shall serve four weeks' probation from the date of reducing his debt down to 8 weeks, before becoming entitled to benefit. If, however, the arrears during such probationary period exceed thirteen weeks including fines and levies, the period before which benefit can be obtained shall be in accordance with Rules 42 and 169. Youths and females after they commence to pay full contributions serve half probation only before receiving full benefits (that is, 13 weeks for trade, and 26 weeks for out of work, sick, and funeral benefit); always providing that to be entitled to this preferential treatment youths and females must have been paying members to the Union for at least two years previous to claiming such preference.
*RULE 39.*-A branch must belong to the Union twenty-six weeks to be entitled to trade benefits, and fifty-two weeks before it can become entitled to out of work, sick, and funeral benefits, or make application for an advance of wages to be voted upon by the Union.

**Branch Secretaries.**
*RULE 302.*-Failing to send a quarterly balance sheet to the General Secretary to be fined 2s 6d.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
43
PROPOSED NEW RULES, ALTERATIONS, OR AMENDMENTS
TO RULES.
DUTIES AND POWERS OF BRANCH EXECUTIVES.
KILMARNOCK. - Rule 153.- Should be substituted by a national rule making
allowances for a complete national educational scheme.
CONDITIONS OF MEMBERSHIP.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN, Rule 32,- Add: "Or who is not employed in the
manufacture of boots and shoes."
GLASGOW. - Rule 38, Line 19.- After word "Benefit," add "Branches shall
have power to claim 3d. per week additional contribution until the card
is brought into compliance with the eight weeks' arrears period."
83 THE COUNCIL. Rule 39.- Delete.
BRANCH SECRETARIES.
84 THE COUNCIL. Rule 302.- Add after the words "General Secretary," "Within
eight weeks after the end of each quarter."
85 THE COUNCIL. - New Rule.- "Any member, who, for the purpose of defeating
the Rule as to ten weeks' out-of-work benefit in twelve months refrains
from declaring on the Out-of-Work Fund shall be dealt with as breaking
the rules of the Union. Any such case being found out by a Branch
Committee, such Committee shall forward on the particulars to the Council,
who shall have full power to deal with the case and the member as they
think fit."


---
Here is the extracted text:
48
EXISTING RULES.
RULE 137. Branches shall have power to invest their branch funds in the
shares of Co-operative Productive Societies, always providing that
not less than 5s. per member shall be left in hand. They shall also
have power to levy their members one penny per week for such
purposes.
Bond Notes.
RULE 206.-Any member who has belonged to the Union thirteen weeks
and is clear on the books, shall be entitled to a Bond Note of
and any branch wishing to give Bond Notes of greater amount or
additional Bonds, or Bonds to members who have not belonged to
the Union thirteen weeks, can do so, but on their own responsibility
RULE 207.-If a member has made away with work, and the Union has made
it good, all expenses so incurred shall be placed as a book debt against
such member, who must repay it, serve twenty-six weeks' probation
and be clear on the books before becoming entitled to trade or sick
benefits, the probation to date from the time he makes his first pay-
ment towards the book debt. The Council shall have power (on the
application of the branch) to mitigate the amount as they may deem
fit.
RULE 208.-The Union to be at the cost of prosecution under this law, and
no Bond Notes to be issued but those supplied by the Council.
RULE 209. In all cases where the parties so entrusted should abscond with
the work, or any portion thereof, the employer must make application
for them at their addresses, and should the employer fail to recover
the property he must be prepared to prosecute or the Union will
not indemnify him.
RULE 210.-All Bond Notes to be returned by the members to the Secretary
who issued them, or a note from the employer to show that all the
work has been finished up properly.
RULE 211.-The Union will not be answerable to employers for any work
kept out above fourteen days, unless the said employer notifies the
same within fourteen days of that date.


---
Here is the extracted text:
49
PROPOSED NEW RULES, ALTERATIONS, OR AMENDMENTS
TO RULES.
BRANCH DEBT.
100 SILEBY. - " The Executive Committee of the Sileby Branch wishes to appeal
to the Conference re the Debt that is owing by the above Branch to the
Union. They feel that good and straight members should not be dis-
enfranchised through no fault of their own. Hoping we shall meet with
success as we intend and mean that this Branch in future shall be carried
on strict and better lines."
CLEARANCE WEEK.
101 WOLVERHAMPTON. - New Rule. - "That there be an annual clearance week for
all members."
DUTIES AND POWERS OF BRANCHES AND BRANCH
EXECUTIVE.
102 HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Rule 137, Line 3.- Delete sentence after "Hand."
103 WELLINGBOROUGH. - Rule 137, Line 3. - Delete after "Hand."
BOND NOTES.
104 THE COUNCIL. - Delete Rules 206 to 213 inclusive.
D


---
Here are the bounding box detections:
```json
[
  {"box_2d": [112, 632, 146, 714], "label": "EXISTING RULES."},
  {"box_2d": [153, 402, 218, 966], "label": "RULE 212. Should any branch allow a Bond Note to remain in the possession"},
  {"box_2d": [220, 410, 248, 972], "label": "RULE 213. All bills from employers for work made away with, and the"},
  {"box_2d": [266, 402, 320, 960], "label": "1.-NAME."},
  {"box_2d": [289, 402, 337, 966], "label": "RULE 2. The Union shall be known as the National Union of Bout and"}
]
```

---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

Opening of the Conference.

MONDAY.

Morning Session.

THE THIRTY-SEVENTH GENERAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNION
opened at the Central Library, Blackpool, on Whit-Monday, 24th May, 1926,
at 11 a.m., Mr. T. F. RICHARDS (General President) presiding.
THE CHAIRMAN was supported by Mr. C. Bates (Rushden), Mr. J. Wheeler
(Leicester), Mr. L. Poole (Wellingborough), Mr. W. R. Townley (Northampton), Mr.
R. White (Edinburgh), Mr. Alex. Smith (Wolverhampton), Mr. W. Hindes (Norwich),
Mr. E. Law (Northampton), Council Members; Mr. D. McCarthy, Mr. Len. Smith, Mr.
I. H. Baum and Mr. W. R. Smith (Organisers); and Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., General
Secretary.
Herr J. Simon, President of the German Boot Workers' Union and Secretary of the
Boot and Shoe International, was present as fraternal delegate. Frau Dr. E. Ghenck
attended also as interpreter.

The Chairman's Welcome.

Mr. T. F. RICHARDS: On behalf of the Union, and the Executive Council especi-
ally, I wish to welcome you to Blackpool upon this auspicious occasion. Not only is it
auspicious so far as our work is concerned, but it is a relief to find we shall get a little more
fresh air after working hours than when we are meeting in an inland town. We are to be
congratulated upon holding our Conference on the seaboard.

I have two letters to read to you.

59 STOCKWELL HEAD,
HINCKLEY.
22nd May, 1926.

DEAR MR. RICHARDS AND COLLEAGUES,
Owing to my domestic trouble and the difficulty in administering the Unemploy-
ment Scheme owing to the abnormal circumstances, it is impossible for me to leave
home before Tuesday morning. It is with regret, because I was looking to this week
as being one of relaxation.

Wishing you and all the delegates the best of everything during your sojourn
in Blackpool.
I remain, yours faithfully,
W. WARNER.
30 SPRINGFIELD ROAD,
WALTHAMSTOW, E. 17.
22nd May, 1926.

MR. E. L. POULTON,
DEAR SIR,
I regret to say that I shall be unable to be with you for the ensuing week. My
health for some time has been very indifferent, and my doctor's advice is not to make
the journey. Trusting that the week's deliberations will prove to be of material
advantage to the members as a whole, and that the delegates will have a pleasant
time and carry home happy memories of Blackpool.
Yours fraternally,
J. WOODWARD,
London Metro. Branch.

It was decided that suitable replies should be sent.


---
54
Roll Call.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY then called the Roll, all delegates answering to
their names.
Standing Orders Committee.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY reported the result of the voting for the Standing
Orders Committee. See pages 7-9.
Tellers.
THE CHAIRMAN suggested that to save time three Tellers should be appointed
and the suggestion having been endorsed, Miss E. A. Timms (Leicester Women's), Mr. H.
Fraser (Norwich) and Mr. W. Langley (Rushden), were elected, they being the only three
delegates nominated.
Standing Orders Committee Report.
Mr. F. C. JEX submitted a resolution from the Higham and Rushden Branch, as
follows:--
TO THE STANDING ORDERS COMMITTEE.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN BRANCH.
Please can you arrange for the following on the Agenda, owing to the abnormal
circumstances caused by the General Strike: (1) That a grant from Central Funds
be made towards members who have previously, during the year, drawn their ten
weeks' unemployment pay and now, though unemployed because of the National
Strike, are unable to draw benefit; (2) That grant be equal to Unemployment Benefit.
W. LANGLEY, Secretary.
Mr. JEX intimated that the Committee had considered the matter but felt they could
not take any action in the matter having regard to the rules.
THE CHAIRMAN : This matter is out of order, but every opportunity will be given
for such matters to be raised on the Council's Address.
The Minutes of the Standing Orders Committee were submitted by the General
Secretary as set out on page 13.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The Council have considered this report, and
they suggest it would be better to go on with the business and try and finish on Friday
night, rather than have a break in the middle of the week. So far as Health Insurance
is concerned, the Council suggest this should be taken on Thursday morning.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) said on behalf of the Standing Orders Committee, having
regard to the circumstances of the past month, they readily accepted the suggestions of
the Council.
The recommendations were then unanimously endorsed with the proposed alterations
suggested by the Council.
The Chairman's Address.
Mr. T. F. RICHARDS (Chairman) said:
FELLOW MEMBERS,
This is the Thirty-seventh General Conference of our Union, and having passed
our Jubilee Year of 50 summers and 31 years since our own general strike, we have every
reason to be proud of the relationship that exists between ourselves and the employers'
federation.
Our recent agreements at the Industrial Council meeting of our trade to endeavour
to organise all employers and all operatives have been accepted as an omen of goodwill
towards each other and tends to remove many irritating complaints of small employers
and minor firms.
The Bill to give similar powers to the Trade Board Acts has yet to be drafted because
the Industrial Councils Bill, given a second reading in 1925, would be too open and too
dangerous in the opinion of Counsel employed by the Trades Union Congress, and as our
employers share our view as to punishments we are most likely to agree on a redrafting.
Shoddy Footwear and how to check its use to the detriment of the public has caused
us much concern; several meetings with the manufacturers have been held to remove
this blot of deceiving the public by imposing upon them cheap, nasty and spurious articles,
often the harbinger of dread diseases and articles tabooed by genuine manufacturers and


---
retail dealers who believe in giving their customers a square deal, and are of opinion that
it is standard of boots and shoes in such a manner as to
describe other than that of shoddy. Our proposals are two:
First, all goods should be
stamped with thaldrmponent parts described on the sole; or, for the hard wear of men's,
swomen's, and children's boots to be warranted equal to the war-time boot, and as the
wovernment have already samples of these, the poor could be protected and the industry
purified.
or sweated
are truly
As our Union has extended its activities to other countries, it appears to me to be our
duty to discourage the importation of any articles produced under unfair
duiditions or even below our economic standing, not by tariffs, but by entire prohibition,
as by this means only can we obtain some measure of equality for all, because if we are
asternational in spirit and heart, we cannot live or enjoy anything in life that causes pain,
Want, or tribulation to our fellows, irrespective of sex, country, colour, class or creed, and
although we are informed that America and Canada are in receipt of better remuneration
than we are in this country, we are able to announce that our foreign relations are such
as to cause some very close enquiry. The International Secretary, Herr Simon who such
our greatest competitor, and who can also tell you that with the exception of the U.S.A.
my left and whom I am pleased to see here, and who will be able to tell us something of
we appear to be in a much better position than any of the other countries, comprised as
they are in the order named for height of remuneration to boot and shoe operatives
America, Great Britain, France, Norway, Belgium, Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland,
Germany. Austria, Hungary, Roumania. Czecho-Slovakia, although of America I am in a
position to say that the conditions of the employees engaged by the Spalding Stiffening
Co., and the Bennet Stiffening Co., of Canada, are produced under worse labour conditions
than prevails in 90 per cent. of the stiffening factories in this country. The same may
also apply to those firms who cut imported leather from abroad. But of Czecho-Slovakia
I know most from information received from several different sources, and their rate of
remuneration is 24 against our 100, or fourteen shillings against our sixty shillings, but it
is only fair to say the firm supply cheap food, houses, games, cinema, theatre, &c., and
even claim to be equal to any firm in this country. Mr. Horrell, President of the Employers'
Federation, and myself, have sent a joint letter challenging this statement, and we shall
choose several firms in refutation of this statement.
The question of Superannuation will come before you, and as we all along surmised,
no pension could be paid without an additional contribution. To use any of the accumu-
lated funds is a matter for the membership; in any case we want their confidence in all
we do, as all the Unions who pay pensions think them the cause of much thought and
anxiety.
The work of Trade Boards has been so successful that although less than 10 per cent.
of the repairing shops get visited within any one year, no less than 30 per cent. of those
visited are found to be wrong in payment to the operatives with the result that over two
thousand pounds per year back money is being obtained by the Ministry through the aid
of the Board.
Now let us return to recent events-Industrial and Political. The greatest industrial
upheaval the world has ever seen has come and passed with untold results to the great
labour movement of Great Britain, who have done three things of paramount importance.
They have demonstrated the unity of a nation's working-class population who can peace-
fully withhold their labour; they have shown the Nation and themselves that they can
make and unmake Governments when they choose. The Government of the country is
wholly and solely responsible for the trouble from beginning to end for the following
When last year they decided to subsidise the Mineowners no one expected that
they were going to subsidise those mines that could pay their own way even to-day, but
that those mines that could not pay were those, and those only, who should have received
the subsidy. There are two-thirds of the mines affected in the industry who can produce
coal at a profit and one-third of the mines who produce at a loss. The figures are for 1924 :
reasons.
170 million tons of coal were produced at a profit.
84
"
"
at a loss
Were all the profits and losses pooled there would be a profit of fourteen and a
quarter million pounds, although the average profits over the whole coal fields for
the five years ending 1913 was just over thirteen million pounds. The Government were
certainly lacking in their love for the taxpayers by such wanton waste of public money;
such a subsidy would have helped the poorer mines for three years, and in the meantime,
the Government could have consulted a Committee of the Miners with their own Staffs
and formulated some reliable plan or policy to lay before the House of Commons, similar
to the action taken when the Government wanted shells in 1915. By such means the
Government would have won the confidence of the Miners at least, and of many Mineowners.
The spirit of those who ask for non-interference by the Government have something to
hide in addition to the loss they fear when the Mining Royalties are removed; the Govern-
ment itself appear to have made no attempt to get the owners to withdraw the notices
or even act on the advice of the Christian Churches of the country in this great controversy.


---
and put all back and start afresh as from 30th April. This was actually the positi
breed of the Government by the Trade Union Executives on the 29th and 30th April
trade, old conditions should prevail until by negotiation we have reached a settlement o
would think the Government would never have been so foolish to close the door
10 Downing Street on Sunday night, and then to inform the country on Monday that.
we have settled so many disputes in
Debt of seven thousand seven hundred million pound
the disputed point
one
With a National Debt
door was still open
sanity of out movement, had never been shut.
Inion Council and the publication
Party Mauld aliv
th
We all know that the door at Eccleston Square, to the credit am
ion of the British Worker, which kept the spirit of
Let us hope that the action of the Trad
splendid little paper was resuscitated, will be appreciate
and that the Daily Herald will ultimately find a place in the home of every worker
Pauly Herald has never yet had a chance and never will until we secure at least one millio
As one who has a deep regard for the miner. I cannot see how he do
alive until oun
readers daily
accept less wages on
permit longer hours;
: to me either is inhuman, and he cannot
more than the following implies, which is the position of our own Union
and miners' representatives."
Wages Board formed in 1921, by which the independent Chairman is empowered te
The Miners' Executive are willing to continue the practice of the National
give a decision upon any matter referred to him by mutual agreement of coalom
that to refer the matter to him makes little difference to principles, and that is all anyo
In our conferences the Chairman only decides when we are so near a settlement.
to serve its friends first, or they would never have committed the unpardonable sin
can expect the miners to do. It is evident to everyone that this Government's desire
to the enormous extent of 42 million pounds per year, and then were unable to finance the
during the first six days; by taking away extended benefits from single men and women
ment has taken of million pounds from the unemployed by taking away any benefi
scheme of widows' and old age pensions without robbing the poor. This self-same Gover
who reside with their parents, although they are permitted to pay their contributions
Extended benefit is taken away from women whose husbands are at work, men whose
wives are at work although the wages may be too small to live upon. Benefit has also
been taken away from large numbers who work only a few hours per day. These are a
few of the robberies of this Minority Government whose majority in the House of Com..
mons have a majority of votes against them in the country. We ask all our members
to never forget the Great War and the great strike, and having been outraged by both the
great political parties in the past, that on the third great occasion which will come at the
next General Election, let them stand by their own movement and give the Labour Party
a chance to demand National Services from all able-bodied persons, adequate remuneration
relieving the super-taxpayers of some portion of their ill-gotten
gains, whom they reli
for such services and a taxable extinction of all drones.
In conclusion, with the poet, Ebenezer Babcock, we would say :-
Be strong;
We are not here to play, to dream, to drift;
We have hard work to do and loads to lift,
Shun not the struggle, face it! 'tis God's gift
Be strong;
It matters not how deep entrenched the wrong,
How hard the battle goes, the day how long,
Faint not; fight on, for to-morrow comes the song.
(Applause.)
Fraternal Delegate's Report.
German, his address being ably translated by Frau Dr. E. Ghenck, as follows:-
HERR JOSEF SIMON, Fraternal Delegate, then addressed the Conference in
DEAR COLLEAGUES,
you cordial greetings as well as on behalf of the International.
On behalf of the German Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union I beg to present to
There have passed 14 years since I had the honour and the pleasure to attend your
Conference at Norwich. These 14 years comprise a good many events, but most of them
were very hard and sad.
could come over us, we cannot examine here, nor whether everything was done to prevent it.
only with abhorrence and detestation. Whose fault it was, that this murdering of masses
During this period the Great War happened-lasting four years which we remember
and war. At the conferences of their parties and trade unions they demanded general
The organised workers of all countries, over and over again, protested against militarism
disarmament and concord among all nations. If, despite all these efforts, this most
---

---
horrible of all wars happened, it shows that there were strong elements which succeeded
in exciting the national passions such as to make the major part of the workers forget the
feelings of international solidarity.
But the enormous sacrifices which had to be made in the war, the suffering and poverty
which were endured, all this has animated again the feelings of international solidarity
between the working classes, and what is more the experiences of the war period have
brought about that international solidarity; recognised
wars.
as a nec necessity, as a
vital question
in London in 1920,
The International Congresses of Trade Unions, held after the war
in Rome 1922, in Vienna 1924 -especially dealt with the question how to prevent future
and in the transport trade. have been bound to withdraw their members from work should
a new war occur and the International Congresses of those Unions undertook this
The has a world wide anti war
propaganda, and will continue, and, if possible, increase it
the fraternisation of all workers must, regardless of landmarks, create an atmosphere
become the general opinion of the workers throughout the world, International solidarity.
that will make wars impossible.
responsibility.
"No more War" must
To forward international solidarity is the essential task of the International Trade
Unions. They are so much the more able to accomplish it as they increase in strength
and power.
Whatever evil the Great War may have brought about, there was one good thing:
the workers have been stirred up, they have understood that strong parties and strong
unions only are able to deliver the workers from poverty and slavery and to struggle for
the happiness of the people. In all countries the membership of the Trade Unions has
thereased considerably, for example, I beg to indicate the membership of the National
Unions affiliated to our International as it consisted before the war and at present. In
1913 the International membership was 156,766; in 1925, 345,161. By the amalgamation
of the Boot and Shoe International with the two Internationals of Leather Workers,
there was a further increase of membership. At present there belong to the Shoe and
Leather International 26 Trade Unions in 16 countries, with 345,566 members.
Fellow Colleagues, this Conference is held while the industrial life is deeply excited.
Unemployment in many countries is intense and widespread as never in pre-war times.
But this fact proves that the disturbance in industry is a consequence of the war.
Nearly
What was saved from the war was
World commerce, the exchange of goods, have been curtailed by the war.
all nations, particularly those in Western Europe, have become poor, their purchasing
power has decreased in an extraordinary manner.
largely destroyed by the so-called Inflation. Especially in Germany, where, in 1923,
the value of one gold mark decreased to one billion. Unemployment consequently
At present there are more than two millions of workpeople unemployed
and as many working short time. As to the German Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union,
in January, 1926, the percentage of members unemployed was 37, and on short time 46.
At present 32 per cent.
became enormous.
But also in those countries where the standard of coinage remained stable, the value
of money has decreased. Everywhere, consequently, the cost of living is continually
increasing. But wages and salaries did not increase likewise. All these circumstances
taken in account, we become aware of the magnitude of the industrial depression.
Moreover, these facts aggravate the contrasts between the classes. In all countries
the employers try to burden the workers with the payment of the war damages. Lengthen-
ing of working hours, shortening of wages-that is the watchword of capitalism in all
countries. Everywhere the workers are struggling for the maintenance of the 48-hour
week-for securing and maintaining sufficient wage rates.
In Great Britain, the workers had just fought a battle, the parallel of which is not
to be found in the history of the workers' movement. Such enormous disputes, com-
prising nearly three millions of workers, can only be carried through on the basis of inter-
national solidarity and assistance.
You all know that the Amsterdam International appealed to the workers of all
countries to grant financial assistance. The countries of all continents manifested their
sympathy-Europe, as well as America, Africa and Australia, and declared to be prepared
to grant financial help.
Such an event makes us deeply feel that the international solidarity of the workers
is something mighty and powerful. This proof of international solidarity makes it certain
that the working classes throughout the world are more and more prepared to surmount
capitalism and to begin to realise Socialism.
In this spirit I tender to you once more my best wishes of sympathy, and trust that
this Conference will do good work. (Applause.).


---
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: We were hoping to have had a representative
from the American Boot & Shoe Workers' Union, but no reply has been received to our
I venture to say, when we have his address printed in their
conference report, and it is read very carefully, many of the points will not only appeal
to our members, but will reinforce the views we hold as to that
with the workers in Europe. It is sometimes said, what benefit do
Mr. Chairman, I suppose everyone will not only regret, but exceeding
We are not
going to relax out efforts for solidarity because our membership in 1914 was the
regret, the abhorrence of war. We are not because of the happenings of thre
prepared, and the machinery so perfect that those who go to war
when individuals fought in a field. Possibly it may bring us back to the old tim
be the other people, and not the workers.
things in the future they will not strong enough to prevent that avalanche. If politicians attempt
Then there are the questions of hours and wages obtaining on the Continent. Wh
the spirit of international solidarity and goodwill is growing we know, bad as we may w
placed here, by comparison we are better off than some others. We are going as far a
we can do to render to our less fortunate brothers and sisters that help which will
national can assure you Herr Simon does all possible to help forward the real spirit of under
them to enable us to go forward yet further. In meeting from time to time in our Inter
standing, and although it may be slow work, nevertheless we are laying a strong foundation
In no small degree is the Boot and Shoe International doing its work. Some figures
submitted to you about the growth of membership but I would call the attention of th
conference to the fact that it is not based on the same method as we have. Our Iriter
Secretary can report (that amidst all the adverse circumstances) progress is being made
should cheer and hearten us in our work. I am convinced we shall continue to render a
national includes leather and glove industries. Nevertheless, the fact that the Internationa
the support possible, and I hope our International Secretary and his able Interpreter
i should like to pay tribute, knowing the valuable work she is doing not onl
conference, but also in the work at the International Office, as she is wholeheartedly
the address, but for coming here, which is one more reminder that we should do all tha
On behalf of the Conference I beg to thank you-Herr Simon and Dr. Ghenck-not only
us in our attempt to emancipate the workers-will be enabled to report still further progres
whom 1
is possible for goodwill amongst all mankind. (Applause.)
we know, those of us who have had an
how certain statesmen are lending their minds towards equipping themselves for war
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): seconded the vote of thanks. When we know
and statements made from time to time, it should be taken as an indication that perhaps
we are not so far removed from war as is assumed Herr Simon is indeed welcomed, because
labour conditions, that their attitude is different, and his presence here helps to increase
opportunity of visiting other countries and witnessing
the people are all suffering from poverty, despair, unemployment, and the same force t
the security of peace. It matters not whether the nations are victors or vanquished
lower wages and the standard of life. The thoughts that our fellow workers on the Con
tinent are suffering the same as we are should make us more determined to stamp out war
We extend to Herr Simon our greetings and best wishes for his future work (Applause
THE CHAIRMAN: All in favour that our best thanks be extended to Herr Simon
and Dr. Ghenck. Unanimously agreed.
Council's Address.
The Address of the Council to Conference was then considered, and upon the suggestion
of Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) was taken as read, and considered seriatim.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
1.-TRADE.
Μαν, 1926.
The position of the past two years has been not only varied, but of a character which
has needed constant vigilance on the part of National and Local Officers to ensure the
safeguarding of the members' interests, which of necessity mean so much not only to the
members themselves, but also to the family life generally.
a heavy out of work list as have many of the industries of the country; nevertheless, we
Trade has not been at all good, though happily we, as an industry, have not had such
have, since the London Conference in 1923 paid out in
Union Out of Work Benefit
State
Total
£133,107 19 6
244,252 6 2
£377,360 5 8
---

---
59
In addition, members' contributions paid by the Union total £4,822 18s. 5d. Thus
these three items alone amount to the very considerable sum of £382,183 4s. 1d. Added to
this, we would call attention to the amounts paid out for Sickness and Funeral Benefit for
the same period.
UNION FUNDS:
Sickness Benefit
Funeral
STATE: Sickness
Disablement
Maternity
Total
196,594 16 4
9,807 0 0
69,601 8 0
26,710 6 7
9,555 2 9
£212,268 13 8
This large sum of money ought to convince anyone of the very beneficent work we
are doing day by day, not only for the membership, but for the Nation, and thereby con-
tributing to the health and well-being of a considerable section of the community.
It must, however, be always remembered that the real purpose of a Trade Union is
not its Friendly Society work, but its economic and industrial work. In this sphere we claim
we are doing our full share, not only by daily oversight of the situation but in the agree-
ments we have arrived at with the Manufacturers' Federation, and which upon the whole
copy of the agreement which is now in operation.

NATIONAL CONFERENCE (SEPTEMBER), 1924 AGREEMENT.

1. (A) Subject to resolutions 1 and 5 (d) of the Terms of Settlement it is desirable
that a uniform system of prices should obtain, and that the general outline or groundwork
of such system should be arranged on a broad basis, so that the essential conditions and
prices can be applied or adapted to the same class of labour and materials in all areas pro-
ducing similar classes of goods.
(B) Manufacturers shall, before changing the method of working from piecework
to daywork, or vice versa, give four weeks' notice of their intention to the operatives, and
also notify in writing the local branch secretary of the Union.
2. Where general or shop statements do not at present exist, the Local Arbitration
Boards, at the request of either side, shall proceed forthwith, upon the ratification of this
agreement, to prepare piecework statements for their respective districts (subject to Clause
1). All manufacturers and operatives shall accept such statements in their entirety as a
basis of payment, but the system shall be termed a daywork system, and the wages of the
operatives shall be regulated and adjusted weekly according to the amount of work done
at the prices fixed by the statements for each operation or process, provided that no adult
operative shall be engaged at less than the minimum wage rate without the written permit
of the Union or the Local Arbitration Board in cases where the minimum wage is applicable,
and provided also that when operatives, whether on full or short time, have been supplied
with a full quantity of work and have been granted reasonable facilities for the proper
performance of their work, and do not earn the minimum or agreed wage rate at the state-
ment prices, they shall be paid only for the actual work done at the statement prices. In
cases where circumstances arise that prevent the operatives earning the minimum or agreed
wage rate owing to bad materials or special care required in the performance of their work,
such cases shall be subject to special adjustment between the employer or his representa-
tives and the operatives or their trade union officials.
3. It is understood that operatives use their trade skill and productive ability to the
best advantage and fullest capacity provided they are paid the full rate of wage for all
output.
4. (a) Where operatives attend at the factories on the instructions of the employers
or their representatives, work shall be found for them for at least half a day, except when
short time is being worked, and in that case operatives, whether engaged on day or piece-
work, shall be informed overnight if their services will not be required on the next working
day, and shall be informed before the midday interval if they will not be required to attend
in the afternoon. If no such intimation is given, and operatives attend at the factories,
work shall be found for them for a period of not less than four hours in the morning and
three hours in the afternoon, or they shall be paid for the four hours and three hours res-
pectively at not less than the minimum or agreed wage rate.
(b) This clause shall not apply in the case of machinery breaking down in any
factory after the operatives have entered, or in the case of illness or absence of any operative
which interferes with the organisation of the factory, in which cases the operatives shall be
allowed to leave the factory at once. It is understood that employers and their representa-
tives will take all reasonable precaution to avoid the necessity of sending operatives away
from the works on account of breakdown of machinery or disorganisation of the factories.


---
Here is the extracted text:
63
(b) The staff employees in the Stock or Shoe Rooms shall not be subject to any
overtime regulations if they are paid for holidays.
20. The minimum wage and graduated scale rates fixed by this Agreement, together
with the Holiday (Provision) Scheme as confirmed in Clause 9, shall be simultaneously
every district up to such rates; but if at the expiration of the period for which this Agree-
ment has been fixed it can be shown that the Union has failed to put such rates into general
operation throughout the non-federated districts it shall be competent for the Federation,
or any of its local Associations to decline to consider any further application to increase
such rates.
21. (a) In no case shall a Local Arbitration Board upon which the Federation or
Union is represented, its Arbitrators or Umpires, make any agreement or award as to wages,
the operatives (having regard to the local circumstances of the district) than the wages,
hours of labour, or conditions of employment, which shall be less favourable generally to
hours and conditions contained in any agreement or award made between the Federation
and the Union, or which extends beyond the period for which any such national agree-
ment or award, or any local agreement or award of a similar character affecting
federated manufacturers has been fixed.
(b) Local Boards of Arbitration are recommended to bear in mind the importance
of maintaining national uniformity in regard to the conditions of employment, hours of
labour, the basis of the rates of wages, and the Holiday (Provision) Scheme.
22. The Conference re-affirms Resolution 8 of the Terms of Settlement of 19th April,
1895, which is as follows :-
"No strike or lockout shall be entered into on the part of any body of workmen,
members of the National Union, or any manufacturers represented on any
Local Board of Arbitration."
(a) Where grievances exist they shall be investigated immediately by representatives
of the Local Manufacturers' Association and of the local branch of the Union con-
cerned, with a view to adjustment.
(b) Where any strike or lockout takes place and is continued beyond the period of
three days allowed by the Agreement of 31st March, 1910, the right of the Federa-
tion or the Union, as the case may be, to claim upon the monetary guarantee under
that agreement and the Trust Deed, may be exercised by application to a National
Umpire appointed in accordance with Clause 9 of the Trust Deed and on the
recommendation of the Minister of Labour for a forfeiture either (a) by way of fine
or penalty, or (b) by way of damages or compensation for loss sustained, and in
any case where the latter alternative is adopted the amount of such loss shall be
assessed by a committee of three representatives of the Federation and three
representatives of the Union, and in the event of their disagreement the question
shall be referred to the National Umpire.
23. A Standing Committee of three representatives of the Federation and three
representatives of the Union, with the Chairman of the Conference, shall be appointed to
deal with all matters arising out of or in connection with the Terms of Settlement of 1895,
so far as they are now operative, and any other national agreement, between the Federa-
tion and the Union and this Agreement, including any disputes that may arise as to the
interpretation of such agreements, provided that due regard is paid to the authoritative
decisions that have already been given under the above-named agreements.
24. Anything in this Agreement which is in conflict with existing local awards or
agreements shall be remitted to the parties by whom such agreements were made, or to
the Local Arbitration Board. Failing agreement by the local authority, the matter in
dispute may be remitted to the Standing Committee, acting in an advisory capacity with
a view to obviating the necessity of a reference to the Arbitrator for such Local Board.
25. Both parties to this Agreement undertake to use such means as are at their
disposal to ensure its due observance by all employers and workers, whether members of
their respective organisations or not.
26. This Agreement shall come into operation on the 1st pay day of December, 1924,
and shall be known as the National Conference (September, 1924) Agreement, and shall
remain in force to the last pay day in October, 1926, or until a subsequent Agreement shall
have been ratified. Either side may on or after 30th April, 1926, give six months' notice
to terminate or revise the Agreement.
The Conference agrees to recommend the respective organisations to ratify this Agree-
ment, which shall be submitted for the approval of such organisations before 1st December,


---
65
In this connection we have also made headway regarding the Legalisation of Agree-
ments, and it will be remembered that our resolution on the subject was passed by the
Trades Union Congress in September, 1925. We are, therefore, working along parallel
lines with the General Council of the Trades Union Congress relative thereto.
3. DISPUTES,
In the ordinary acceptance of that word, have not been numerous. This does not
mean that adjustments and differences calling for settlement have ceased to exist ; on the
contrary the work of the General President. Organisers and local officials calls for constant
attention and vigilance regarding the same. The principal dispute occurred on the firm
of Messrs. Jackson & Joseph, of the East End of London. Here for a period of 26 weeks
a great measure of success. Moreover, the effect upon other firms was very considerable.
The Manufacturers' Federation to show their sympathy with us granted the sum of 2s. 6d.
per child (of the members on strike) under 14 years of age, which help was much appreciated
It is of interest to note that in connection with the Holiday Fund Scheme, Messrs. Jackson
& Joseph were sued by one of their employees for payment to him by the firm for his
share of the said fund. The case was heard at Old Street Police Court on Tuesday, 23rd
March, 1926, before Mr. Clarke Hall. After hearing the case the Magistrate awarded the
member the sum of 7s. and 10s. costs.
The work of the Organisers as shown by their Monthly Reports clearly points to the
continued need for day by day oversight to ensure the proper observance of the various
agreements, and in this respect it is beyond all question that their services mean a very
considerable amount of money going into the pockets of the workers as a result of their
activities.
INFRACTION OF THE TERMS OF SETTLEMENT.
At LEICESTER the whole of the operatives employed by Messrs. B. Ellis & Co. Ltd.,
left work on 28th October, 1925, owing to the bad language used by the then manager to
some of the juveniles. A claim was made on the Guarantee Fund by the Manufacturers'
Federation ; as, however, the operatives returned to work within a few hours the claim fell
through. The officers of the three Leicester branches interviewed the head of the firm and
the Manager resigned, the cause of the dispute thereby being removed.
A case also occurred at the Co-operative Wholesale Society, LEEDS, on 16th July,
1925, where the Management desired a change of system. The month's notice-named
in the Agreement-was given, but satisfactory terms were not made meantime. The
matter was remitted to the Board of Arbitration for the fixing of skiving prices, but the
Manager instead of attending the meeting went for his holidays. Upon his return, it was
found convenient to dispense with the services of two of the women members who had given
evidence in connection with the prices, a week's wages being given in lieu of notice. The
girls in the closing room then left work, and the operatives in the other departments came
out in sympathy. The General President (Mr. T. F. Richards) was asked to deal with the
question, and after a number of days the members accepted his advice and returned to
work. The General President, however, expressed himself with disgust with the whole
affair, as the C.W.S. directors did not try to do justice to the operatives concerned.
Another case occurred at Messrs. W. Barratt Ltd., NORTHAMPTON, where, owing
to the action of one of the forewomen the women operatives came out on strike, and here
again they were out for several days. This firm was non-federated. The whole factory
eventually was brought to a standstill. Both the General President and General Secretary
of the Union, together with the local officers, interviewed Mr. W. Barratt and the Manager
upon several occasions, and eventually the operatives returned to work, as the person who
was the cause of the dispute was reduced in status and asked to find other employment
within one month; this being complied with.
In the month of June, 1925, an unauthorised stoppage of work took place upon the firm
of Messrs. Sexton, Son & Everard Ltd., of NORWICH, regarding the question of member-
ship of a certain workman. The matter ended by the man leaving Norwich ; the Terms
of Settlement were, however, broken by the stoppage, and a claim was put in for a financial
penalty as a consequence of the violation of the Terms. On the 15th November, 1925,
the matter was placed before the Rt. Hon. Lord Buckmaster, P.C., the National Umpire.
The hearing took place at the offices of the Manufacturers' Federation, 7 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1. After the claim had been presented by Mr. H. J. Bostock, Mr. H. J.
Sexton and Mr. Jeffs, the defence was put up by the National Officers, Mr. T. F. Richards
and Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., whilst Mr. W. Hindes and Mr. F. C. Jex represented the
Branch. At the suggestion of the Umpire, and in view of our admittance of the " breach "
which could only be for one day's damage, the employers considered what had been said
and decided not to press for a monetary payment.
E


---
Here is the extracted text:
66
[COPY.]
The award of the Umpire under such circumstances is as follows:-
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
AWARD,
The Federated Associations of Boot and Shoe Manufacturers, and the National
REFERENCE to the National Umpire, the Rt. Hon. Lord Buckmaster. P.C., in the
matter of the claim of the Federation upon the Monetary Guarantee of the Union
under the Terms of Settlement and the Trust Deed in respect of a strike at Norwich.
Federated Associations of Boot and Shoe Manufacturers against the National Union
I have duly considered the matters of complaint brought before me by thu
of Boot and Shoe Operatives with regard to a strike that occurred at the factory of
Messrs. Sexton, Son & Everard Ltd., of Norwich, on 6th June, 1925, and having heard
Supplementary Agreement of 31st March, 1910, and subsequent Agreements, ha
the representatives of both sides, I DETERMINE AND AWARD as follows:-
to make compensation to the Federation, but the Federation not pressing their claim
That a breach of the Terms of Settlement of 19th April, 1895, as amended by thu:
by the workmen concerned whereby the National Union became liable
been committed
ty, I make no further award,
to a penalty,
24th November, 1925.
BUCKMASTER
not to obtain, and in our judgment stoppages would not have happened had the heads of
were broken, nevertheless the stoppages were brought about by circumstances which ought
Whilst we regret these cases, and especially the fact that the Terms of Settlement
the firms named dealt with the matters.
It is not our desire to have stoppages of work.
but at the same time there comes a point when workers will not put up with continual
injustices, irritations and aggravations in regard to their employment.
4.-POLITICAL.
the form of Government. It was therefore to us, as stated in the 1924 Address, a gratif::.
with. The workers, that is, those who have votes, being in a big majority can determine
The outlook from the Labour standpoint is one that we cannot but feel dissatisfactica
ing fact that a Labour Government was then in office. Events, however, moved so rapidl:
that in November, 1924, Mr. MacDonald appealed to the country, the result being from.
colleagues, viz.-Messrs. W. R. Smith (Norwich), J. Buckle (Eccles), and F. Gould (Frome
so far as members were concerned, but we, as a Union, lost the three seats held by our
the Labour point of view a very bad one indeed not only was Labour heavily defeateri
people can be turned so easily from one party to another, especially if one has regard to
This was, and is, a sad blow to us, and moreover is one which it is difficult to understand how
ment, particularly in the sphere of Finance and Foreign Affairs. We nevertheless, do not
the very good work that, in a short period of time, was accomplished by the Labour Govern-
policy, being firmly convinced that the said policy is the best one for the country as a
intend to allow such a result to deter us from persistently pushing forward the Labour
whole. The loss sustained by our colleagues is one we feel keenly.
and Gould, with our other Parliamentary Agents, ere long will again be returned to the
did good work in the House of Commons and we entertain the hope that Messrs. Suits
House of Commons to carry on the work which is so necessary for the general welfare of
Our colleagues
the community.
In the late Mr. Buckle, to whom reference is made elsewhere, his passing hence has
removed one who for a long series of years gave his life to and for the people's cause, and
we are the poorer because of his death, as is also the movement.
which reads as follows:-
The fact of non-election of our two colleagues called into operation part of Rule 107,
"Should a Parliamentary Agent be elected to the House of Commons who was a full
time national official before the election to the House, and fails to secure re-election to
the House of Commons, he should act as an Organiser for the Union until the following
Conference, when his position would be determined."
This applies now only to Mr. W. R. Smith-Mr. Buckle having died. After giving
full consideration to the position of Mr. W. R. Smith, we recommend that his case be dealt
with in the following manner:-
He continues his work as an additional Organiser until the next Conference, unless in
the meantime he should be elected to the House of Commons, in which event his work as
an Organiser would cease.
of great uncertainty, and one, moreover, that threatens, unless handled in a Statesmanlike
The Mining and Engineering situation are both at the time of writing-in a state
number of
especially the Miners' calling, it ought to be equally clear that the special circum-
stances regarding such industry, call for treatment somewhat different from say Factory


---
workers. The development, and in some cases, the practical working out of Mines
demand, in our judgment, support from and by the Government. It is therefore of
essentials and stands in a different category from ordinary industry. We feel con-
primary importance that the National position should be kept in mind.
fident if such factor is borne in mind, then the Miners' conditions and wage standards
can be preserved, and if sacrifice is called for, then let there be from those who are not
called upon to carry out the arduous and uncongenial toil associated with Coal Mining, some
surrender financially rather than still further depress the standard of life, not only of the
Miner, but also of his wife and family.
The Engineering situation, while not in quite the same category, nevertheless is one
We are aware of
which is surrounded with many factors of an unsatisfactory character.
world competition, nevertheless if one were to concede as valid some of the arguments put
up by some employers, then all that would remain for the worker would be longer and yet
longer hours of labour and lower wages. We venture to say that along such a pathway,
instead of world-progress being helped, it would tend to make matters worse. We trust
that our comrades may speedily find a just settlement of their difficulties and one which
will bring prosperity and stability along with it.
5.-UNEMPLOYMENT.
The present Government has, especially in four matters Finance, Foreign Policy,
Unemployment and Education, dealt in an entirely different manner with such subjects
from that pursued by the Labour Government, whose policy was to take a broad and
generous view of their obligations to the community. Take, for instance, Unemployment
and Education; here, the Labour Party, within the short period of time at their disposal,
did really good work, which work is being largely nullified by the policy of the present
Government, showing clearly that if real remedies are desired by the people they must
increasingly look to the Labour Party for the carrying out of a programme which will bring
into being such laws as will make for the permanent well-being of the masses of the people.
Having regard to the attitude so adopted by the Government, we ask that the two
following special resolutions dealing with unemployment and education be unanimously
endorsed :-
This Biennial Conference of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives
deplores the attitude of the Government upon the Unemployment problem, which
problem, with its attendant suffering and injury to the health of the people, calls for
the most drastic treatment to find a remedy for the same.
This conference affirms that the following, among other schemes, ought at once to
be put in hand :
(a) Raising of the school leaving age to 16 years with a financial allowance from the
National Exchequer to the parents for all children at school after 14 years of age;
(b) Development of the land of the country for productive purposes;
(c) Extension and acceleration of the Afforestation Schemes ;
(d) Road and Canal Development;
(e) Reduction of the working week by a certain number of hours;
(f) Adequate provision of houses for the people.
This Conference instructs the General Secretary to forward the resolution to the
Prime Minister and ask that the matter receive urgent attention."
In connection with Education we propose the following for your endorsement :-
This Biennial Conference places on record its emphatic protest against the
Educational Policy of the Government, especially as represented by Circular 1371
and Administration Memorandum 44, believing as it does that the said policy will
retard real education; arrest new developments and lessen the provision of finances,
thereby tending to lower the standard of education.
This Conference further calls for increased educational facilities being given to
the children of the working class, for raising the school leaving age (with financial aid
to parents) and for increased secondary school accommodation for working-class
children, and that this resolution be sent to the Minister of Education."
THE ECONOMY BILL.
We emphatically protest against the proposal embodied in the Chancellor of the
Exchequer's Economy (Miscellaneous Provisions) Bill, under which it is proposed to reduce
the State grant towards benefits paid to insured persons, thus relieving the taxpayer at
the expense of the wage earner.
Whilst believing that the insured population was willing to make every reasonable
effort to assist the nation in its financial difficulties, it was submitted :-
(1) That the Royal Commission unanimously recommended that money within the
scheme should be devoted to extending services, and


---
(2)
68
6. THE POLITICAL FUND.
That the proposed reduction of the State grant was not real economy, inasmuch
as it prevented the provision of allowances for the dependents of insured persons
and restricted other developments in the services for the prevention and cure of
sickness.
The state of finances in connection with our Political Fund are not so healthy as we
could desire, this being due to two outstanding facts:-
(1) Three general elections in a comparatively short period of time and (2) the payment
of double contributions to the Labour Party for last year on account of the need for placing
the National Party Funds in a good position.
We do not feel that the time is at present opportune for altering the political rules
believing as we do that within a short time the Fund will be such as to meet our demand.
upon it.
Congress was, and is, concerned.
7. EDUCATION.
that we were waiting for some more general agreement upon a policy so far as the Trade
Upon this question we have not put specific plans before the Union, due to the fact
The gift by Lady Warwick, of Easton Lodge to the
General Council for and on behalf of the Trades Congress for Educational purposes, ha
opened up an entirely wider vista and one which is being dealt with by the General Counci
movement is greatly indebted to Lady Warwick for such a magnificent gift, comprising a
with a view to dealing in a thorough manner with such an important question. The
and thereby provide a very considerable income for carrying on Educational work.
it does not only Easton Lodge, but also about 900 acres of Park land, which can be developed
We suggest that meantime local schemes should be put into being, such schemes to te
worked with, and in conjunction with, the Trades Union Congress, and for this purpose Te
are prepared to spend £200 per annum. We hope, ultimately, there will be one great
trade union scheme covering the whole movement.
8.-SUPERANNUATION.
The proposed Superannuation Scheme as outlined by us, and submitted to the branches
has (judging by the few amendments submitted by the branches), been favourably received
Our reason for putting forward the scheme is because we believe the time has arrived
when the Union should make some provision for those who have been permanently employed
by the Union, so that in their later days they may know provision has been made for them
when they arrive at the age calling for them to lay aside the reins of office. We under.
stand reference has been made to the fact that if provision is made for the Officials and stafi
it should equally apply to the whole of the membership. We would point out that in our
judgment there is a distinct difference between the two positions, and of such a character
that they cannot be dealt with on similar lines.
Any scheme which would embrace the whole of the membership must naturally be
one which would have regard to the large claims that would be made upon such fund.
This question was discussed at great length at our 1923 Conference, and upon our
report it was felt that we could not adopt such a scheme having regard to the increased
contributions required to meet the obligations.
We note, however, the suggestions made by some of the branches, and have seriously
reconsidered the question; when the recommendations are before the Conference we are
prepared to submit a statement showing the increase of contributions that would be needed
if a scheme embracing the whole of the membership was agreed upon.
9.-FINANCIAL.
The position of the funds of the Union as compared with the 1923 Conference has
materially improved.
CASH AND INVESTMENTS.
April, 1923.
£114,599 5 5
157,744 11 11
5,222 14 3
497 15 7
93,979 6 10
£372,043 14 0
April, 1926.
172,153 13 2
176,724 17 8
2,675 12 9
495 11 1
122,147 10 11
£474,197 5 7
of £34,278 14s. 3d. has been added to the Sick Fund during the period, this being the full
Showing a net increase of 102,153 11s. 7d. It should be borne in mind that the sum
interest received during that period.
---

---
69
10. MATTERS INTERNATIONAL.
Our international work has been continued during the interval since our last Con-
ference. The Biennial Conference of the Shoe Workers International was held in Paris in
September, 1925, and was attended by the General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P.,
Mr. C. Bates and Mr. J. Manners, Council Members.
It may not always appear upon the surface as to the usefulness of the International,
We are, however, fully persuaded of the value of the work, and feel confident its value will
increase as the years go by. One of the great advantages is that by an International we
can at once correspond with countries upon points needing enlightenment, and obtain
information relating to wages and conditions. The development of this phase of our work
may appear to be slow. By an International we are enabled to get nearer one another as
to the conditions in various countries, and thus help to eliminate certain undesirable
elements which creep in from time to time under a competitive system, when an attempt
is made to increase hours of labour or reduce the standard of living.
We can only hope this work will become more effective in future, and accelerate the
pace by which the workers' conditions are improved.
The General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., has been re-elected as a member of the
Executive of the Boot and Shoe International.
During Whit-week, 1925, the General President, Mr. T. F. Richards, and Mr. W. Warner,
Council Member, attended the Conference of Belgian Leather Workers, when our relations
were cemented.
Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards also attended the Labour International at Marseilles in 1925,
and was thus able to get first-hand information of the conditions obtaining.
Reports of these conferences appeared in the Monthly Reports, a resumé of which is
appended.
We are also in close touch with officials and members in both America and on the
Continent, watching the interests of our members regarding hours and conditions.
REPORT OF DELEGATES TO BRUSSELS.
As fraternal delegates to the Biennial Conference of the Belgian Leather and Skin
Workers' Union, which has some ten thousand shoe operatives, who by the way are about
75 per cent. of the whole of the shoe workers in Belgium, we beg to report that the Con-
ference was held on Saturday, Sunday and Monday of the Whitsuntide holidays. The
delegates, some eighty in number, assembled at the Maison du Peuple, or in English the
House of the People. We had a pleasant, but rough, passage from Dover to Calais, and
were struck by the policy of small holdings which are so prevalent in France and Belgium.
We boarded our train at Calais and went through St. Omer, Armentièrs, Lille to Blandain,
the Belgian frontier. Here we were for the second time in the hands of the Customs.
Later we passed through Fingeens, Tournai, Barry Moude, to Loos, Englies, Halle Hall,
to Brussels, where Comrade Hellinck and Comrade Wartel met us. The first named is
the general secretary of the Union, and the latter our interpreter, who could speak a little
English, and was a tailor by trade employed at the Maison du Peuple, and a member of
the Management Committee of that place, who are trade unionists and co-operators and
socialists all rolled into one. The building is used for trade union meetings, and for the
sale of some articles, a restaurant where food and drink can be obtained, and where the
people from the provinces are sure of getting a meal at a reasonable cost. To us the cost
of living appeared to be quite 25 per cent. cheaper than in this country. Clothes and
some other articles cost much more, including furniture. Most of the labourers on the
land, those in the streets and gardens, wore sabots (or wooden shoes) with everlasting
wear, and only wear for a dash a pair of slippers or something easy for the feet. This
only applies to the very poor, and, as stated above, those who work on the land, which is
very moist in some parts, more so in France than Belgium. Women are in the majority
as field workers: oxen are used extensively by milkmen, rag and bone dealers, and those
who pretend to push a hand cart have a dog underneath in harness who never appears
to be told where he has got to pull as his neck is in the collar as soon as the cart moves.
The Congress was attended by their three presidents-Charles Jorden, Jean Diericks
and Egene Deprex. Delegates were Citoyens Richards and Warner, and Madam Richards,
a visitor from Angleterre (England), Drett (France), Lex (Germany), Shinty (Luxembourg).
Interpreters were Wartel (for English), Shinty (for German), Vanhove (from French into
Flemish), and Luppens (Flemish into French). All understood French or Flemish who
belong to the Union, and they had to have every speech translated into French and Flemish.
The General Secretary was Alex Hellinck; the Secretaries were Leon Petry and Georges
Terrin. The basis of their organisation and benefits are similar in character to our own;
contribution scales and benefits are various. Day labour is the order of the day, and much
of the information we obtained was from an old shopmate, Adolphe Vallenion, who is a
laster. He was wounded in 1916, sent to England and found work at the C.W.S. Works,
Rushden, after declared unfit for future service. The girls' minimum is about two-thirds


---
70
of that for men; all work is held together and they complete the work right thro
the cost of living alters the wages
vention as substitutes for our arbitration boards.
There was one machinist at the Congress, Madame Valeria la Traneq. The rise or fall in
es and to-day's mean would be 400 points. All juveniles
are apprentices and are paid on a graduated scale, and increases take place every six
months, and in most of the big centres the rates are as with us, settled by the local con-
After the Chairman's short address and the fraternal delegates had spoken, the
delegates presented Mrs. Bell-Richards and Madame la Traneq with bouquets. A banquer
provided their own harmony and some beautiful singing was heard and there was only one
he whole of the delegates, and a very pleasant evening was spent. They
short speech of about ten minutes at the commencement from the Chairman. The great
drawback is the language, but a six months' careful study of one hour per day would work
Comrade Moena took up the fourth contribution question as to its being used solely
for strikes, and was it to be compulsory or voluntary. The voting was for 5,903 against
Contributions are 2.50, and as a franc is only worth
24d. of 97 to the / at the time we were there, this means they pay about 64d. per week
from the Union and 3 from the State, or 8 francs per day, which in English money is Is
per day or tos. per week. The girls get 5 francs all told, or about Is. old. per day, or
week prior to the holidays and the other the employer was not of the kind to help 113.
We tried to get permission to go round a shoe factory, but one had a fire during the
says Comrade Hellinck. The nearest was about 100 miles away and permission was not
or Belgique or Eke as they call it, and especially Brussels (in their spelling Bruxelles, 13
no competitor of this country, and there is no outrage of the 48-hour week; they do not
sure, so we abandoned the idea during this visit. Of one thing learned. is that Belgium
believe that their Government nor the employers will ever be strong enough to abolish
the 48-hour week. The only regret is, that like ourselves, we both permit overtime.
wonders, but expression and intonation have to be acquired afterwards.
2479; neutral 868; majority 3,504.
and get sick, strike, accouchement, death, out-of-work pay.
6s. od. per week.
This is, I hope, our next demand for it to be abolished.
The latter means 5 francs
We cannot close without thanking all the comrades in Brussels and Belgium who added
Statuary, music, painting and very fine and beautiful buildings were much in evidence
When the same effort is put forth by the powers that be to utilise their wealth for the
to our comfort and permitted us to spend a pleasant outing at Waterloo and other districts.
sturdy and intellectual people, we shall be nearing the millenium.
benefit of making a
12th June, 1925.
T. F. RICHARDS,
W. WARNER,
THE THIRD INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS.
Delegates.
The Third International Congress of Shoe and Leather Operatives was held in the
Ferrer's Room, Bourse du Travail, Paris, on the 25th, 26th and 27th September, 1925,
commencing at 10 a.m.
345,161 members.
Eighteen countries were represented by approximately fifty delegates representing
The report of the International Secretary, Herr Josef Simon, dealt with a number of
matters both in the industrial, political, social and economical spheres of the various
countries. Amongst other things Herr Simon said that in GERMANY trade conditions
were bad. In 1922 there were employed about 30,000 more operatives in the boot and
shoe industry than before the War. At the end of 1923 the German currency was renewed,
and its stability safeguarded. Towards the end of April, 1924, a great want of credit
troubled anew the development again, and in addition, the purchasing power of the working
class decreased more and more, whilst in the middle of 1924 the economic situation was
really desperate. During many months 10 per cent. of the boot and shoe operatives
only worked full time; 30 per cent. were unemployed, and 60 per cent. on short time,
to the extent of eight hours per week. During the latter part of 1924 conditions im-
proved somewhat. Meantime, many bankruptcies had taken place; many factories
closed down and wholesale discharges of operatives occurred, reducing the number of
workpeople to 100,000, this being the same as before the War. According to the reports
of the Leather Workers' Unions (Tanners and Glovers), short time varied between 10
and 43 per cent. in 1923 and 3.5 per cent. to 23 per cent. in 1924. Similar conditions
dominated the operatives employed as saddlers and the leather goods industry.
unemployment everywhere.
In AUSTRIA short time was the rule and one-third of the workpeople were
In HUNGARY the number of bankruptcies increased to a frightful degree causing
unemployed.
In Norway employment was bad in 1922 and 1923, but became normal in 1924.


---
```text
71
In SWITZERLAND and CZECHO-SLOVAKIA unemployment is widespread, but improve
ment is in sight.
The cause of this economic struggle is to be seen in the long duration of the War and its
consequences, and in addition the different States have surrounded themselves with
custom walls.
In November, 1923, the Secretary reported he had taken part in the conference
between the International Federation of Trade Unions and International Trade Secretario
held in Amsterdam, as well as in June, 1924, preceding the Vienna Congress of the
I.F.T.U. These two congresses had the task of promoting the co-operation between the
International Trade Secretaries and the L.F.T.U. The following rules were agreed upon
and adopted by the International Congress:
1. The International Trade Secretaries shall participate in the International Trade
Union Congresses; they may take part in the discussions in a consultative
capacity.
2. Every two years the Bureau of the L.F.T.U. shall hold a two days' Conference
with the International Trade Secretaries. This Conference shall be held immedi
ately before the biennial Congress of the International Federation of Trade Unions.
The Conference will deal chiefly with the following questions:
(a) The manner in which relations with the I.F.T.U. can be strengthened, and the
changes that should be made in regard to these relations in view of the indus
trial development in the various countries.
(b) The carrying out of the decisions of the International Trade Union Congresses.
(c) The manner in which the press service of the International Trade Secretariats
can be developed and improved, with the co-operation or assistance of the
I.F.T.U.
3. The Conference shall elect a Commission consisting of three representatives of
the International Trade Secretariats, who shall represent the International Trade
Secretariats at the Management Committee of the I.F.T.U. and shall take part
both in the discussions and in the voting.
4. The International Trade Secretariats pledge themselves not to take final decisions
in regard to general questions which lie outside the domain of their respective
trades, or in regard to special questions affecting the interests of the other trade
union organisations, without first consulting the Management Committee of the
I.F.T.U. or at least the Bureau of the I.F.T.U.
5. It shall be a fundamental principle that only the following organisations may
affiliate with an International Trade Secretariat:-
(a) Organisations which are affiliated with their respective National Trade Union
Centres, which in turn are affiliated with the I.F.T.U.
(b) Organisations which are in no way associated with any other International
(e.g., organisations belonging to the Norwegian Federation of Trade Unions,
which Federation is not affiliated with any of the existing internationals).
(c) Organisations which belong to a non-affiliated National Trade Union Centre,
which does not make propaganda against the I.F.T.U. (e.g., organisations
belonging to the American Federation of Labour).
(d) Organisations not affiliated with their National Trade Union Centre, if this
latter belongs to a Trade Union International which is opposed to the I.F.T.U.
By these rules the co-operation between the two bodies is ensured and is of advantage.
The most important boot and shoe factory in SWITZERLAND is that belonging to Messrs.
Bally; here the Union lost all influence and great efforts and tactics will be needed to
reorganise the workpeople there. It was hoped that the decisions adopted by the General
Conference would help to strengthen the force of the Union.
Herr Simon expressed his personal thanks to our General Secretary (Mr. E. L.
Poulton) for having taken great pains to secure the American Boot and Shoe Workers'
Union as members of the International.
The International Conference held in Dresden discussed the relations between the
Boot and Shoe International and the national unions affiliated to Moscow, and fixed
certain conditions to be recognised by all the Unions wishing to join our International.
Herr Simon pointed out that no National Union should be allowed to join the International
that is affiliated with Moscow. In this connection at the end of December last he informed
affiliated Unions of this decision, whilst on the 7th August, 1924, he met representatives
from the Central Union of Czech Boot and Shoe Operatives: Czech Leather Workers
and Czech Glovers. After a long discussion, the proceedings were broken up without
result, representatives of such Unions declaring that they were unable to withdraw from the
Moscow International.
```

---
The OCR of the image is:
72

The Secretary then read a long series of letters dealing with the position of this C
and their position at Congress owing to the various resolutions and the fact that
had formed rival organisations.
Secretary is the one we are obliged to recognise, whilst the Union which previously
albliated with the In
by refusing to abide by the conditions fixed.
It is self-evident that we
we, too, desire to
strange thing that those who destroyed the international unity of trade unions are NON
In connce fion with International Trade Union Unity, Herr Simon said: " it wo
As long as the Communists think themselves entitled to be the mass
of the trade mions, unity will remain a dream, That is the point of view taken by
Vienna and Dresden Congresses, and I suppose the Paris conference will adopt it
Union for the Paris congress having regard to the fact that at the Dresden Congo
The Council of the Swiss Union have put a resolution to invite the Russian Leat
meet this request. Both the National Unions and the International have more
business than to be continually discussing questions that have already been decide
several delegates opposed my having
so very desirous to establish the same?
settled
previous conferences."

12,550 marks.
having invited Russian representati
more import
ture for next year in connection with the International Secretary's Office is approximate
The financial position of the International has improved. The prospective expend
discussing the difficulties still in operation owing to the attitude taken up regarding w
Although no Russian delegate was present, nevertheless a good deal of time was pe
is known as the Red International: During the discussion of the various matters before
the Conference, it was made quite clear that a very considerable amount of time of unic:
on the Continent was spent upon these questions, i.e., the Red International and th
I.F.T.U., which in our judgment very considerably diminishes the power of the unions
hours. We can only hope that as a result of the various discussions the next two year
carrying out their essential work to improve the conditions of the workers, wages and
will show that "UNITY which is talked about so much. but in reality is seen very seldo
The following resolutions were passed by the Conference :-
Trade Union Unity.
This International Conference of Boot and Shoe and Leather Workers declare.
In consideration of the fact that the question of Trade Union Unity is a vital
question for the workers' movement, the Conference appreciate all attempts suitabla
to advance trade unity.
This Unity can only be established and the Unions strengthened in the highest
degree, if they remain free and independent and not subordinate to any political
party or Government.
the Trade Unions and to reach this aim by cell-building, and declare that this attitude
The Conference rejects the attempts of the Communist Party, to subordinate
is likely to disturb most seriously trade union unity.
The Conference state that the division of trade unions from whatever cause is
to be deplored, thereby doing serious injury to the trade union movement as a whole.
This Conference follows the principles of Amsterdam by declaring that one
Organisation cannot adhere to two different Internationals, having regard to the fact
that this is contradictory to trade union unity as well as to the decisions of this
Congress.
EIGHT-HOUR DAY.
This Conference declares that the Eight-Hour Day or Forty-Eight Hour Week is
indispensable for the cultural and social progress of the working class as well as for
the development of physical strength and of mental capacities.
It is a fact that the shortening of the working week is a step forward regarding
national economy and output.
The employers' attacks directed against this reform are of a character dictated
by interests of profit and the intention to suppress the workers' movement.
to be able to use the argument that it prevents the chances of competition.
Reactionary capitalism intends to suppress the Eight-Hour Day in one country


---
73
This unfair play of the enemies of the Eight Hour Day will not be finished unless
the Eight-Hour Day be irrevocably given international legislative effect.
quest and maintenance of the Eight-Hour Day is a most important international
affair of the working classes.
The aim must be to carry through the ratification of the Washington Convention.
This will be the first step to internationally secure the Eight Hour Day.
This Conference further demand that the securing of the Eight Hour Day must
be followed by a still further shortening of working hours and that the Trade Unions
firmly stand up for this demand.
Referring to the decision on the Eight-Hour Day or Forty-eight Hour Week
made at the Dresden Conference, this Conference demand the affiliated National
Unions to oppose with all their forces every attack of the employers directed against.
the Eight-Hour Day, and to moreover make all efforts possible to also realise the
Forty-four Hour Working Week.
Resolution.
This Conference of the Boot and Shoe International protest categorically against
the oppression of trade unionists, and against persecution and imprisonment of Trade
Unionists in some countries.
This Conference chiefly condemns the procedure of Government and Police
directed against the trade unions and their leaders in Italy, Poland, Yugoslavia,
Bulgaria, and Roumania, as well as the persecutions and oppression of trade unions
by Italian Facism.
The imprisonment of nineteen members of the Roumanian Trades Union General
Council assembled at Bucharest is an outrage against liberty. This Conference calls
the organised workpeople of the world to support this protestation.
This Conference is of opinion that the respective Governments and authorities
in persecuting the trade unions and their leaders act as understrappers of the em-
ployers, and thereby support them in exploiting the workers.
This Conference calls upon the workers to rally so much the more round their
organisations, as only by strong organisation and united action of the workers will
they triumph over and suppress reaction and the exploitation of the workers and
bring about sufficient wages for the workers to ensure a fair standard living.
Another important matter was a proposal by one of the unions that the Secretariat
and the Executive of the International should have authority to put a levy on all affiliated
unions when a strike occurred in any particular country. This matter raised very serious
consequences from our point of view, more especially as some of the unions affiliated had
not been able to pay their full contributions to the International, due as they said to
circumstances over which they had no control. The resolution meant that we should be
called upon to pay an additional sum in addition to our contributions, but eventually,
upon being put to the vote, the resolution was lost. The following resolution was carried
in regard to the matter:-
International Strike Benefit.
(1) In consideration of the fact that the employers endeavour to decrease wages
of the workers; to lengthen working hours and to reduce the standard of the workers'
life as a whole.
(2) This Conference declares that the employers attempts have resulted in
opposition to such reductions from the workers, as shown in several outstanding
cases especially, namely, in Great Britain and Denmark.
(3) These attempts of the employers are of such a character as to call for mutual
help from the different organisations and are matters for International consideration.
(4) The Conference declares mutual international assistance to be given in general
strikes and lockouts is a most important question, and may become a vital question
concerning the existence of the Unions.
(5) The Conference declares that the Boot and Shoe International has given
financial help to each other up till the present when they were involved in general
conflicts going beyond their own forces, and declare that those attending the National
Unions to be prepared in the future to prove international solidarity in case it is
required.


---
```text
74
for ha recognition of the fact that it is desirable to settle the question of Inter-
antional help
hat, being of opinion
mstructs the affil
ad que tion
the motions submitted by the Scandinavian Boot and Shoe Ooperatives Unions
om cases of general strikes and lockouts, the Conference appreciate
thereby enable the next International Conference to ascertain their views upon the
filiated Unions to discuss the question at their own conferences, and
pinion that this question is not yet sufficiently clear, this Conference
are requested to send their views to the International Secretariat not later than thre
(7) Those Inions that intend to submit motions in connection with this question
There was considerable discussion upon customs and commercial treaties and the
The opener of the discussion was Herr Marl, of Berlin, who spoke ver
strongly against tariffs, and pointed out they had a detrimental effect upon the worker
We pointed out that there was a growing feeling in Great
of taking action as to absolutely prohibit the import to this country of goods produced
Butain that so far from putting on tariffs and customs, we were considering the question
The final discussion was upon a statement made by Herr Simon, showing the effect of
The statement largely endorsed the deductions show
considerably lower than those obtaining in Great Britain. The statement also sho
on pages 108 and 499 of the August Report, and that in some countries wages are very
and a unity which exists in fact so that work can be pursued effectively for raising the
the absolute necessity of there being a real understanding between the various nations
months before the date of the next International Conference.
question of tariffs.
and declared for Free Trade.
under
sweated conditions."
wages and conditions generally.
general standard of life.
Herr J. Simon was re-elected Secretary to the International, and Mr. E. L. Poulto-
Paris comrades for the arrangements made to ensure the Conference being a success, and
J.P., was re-elected a member of the Executive. The Congress closed with thanks to o
expressions of goodwill and hope that the next Conference would find the movemer
stronger and the conditions of the workers generally improved
E. L. POULTON,
CHAS. BATES,
J. MANNERS,
Delegates,
WOMEN'S LABOUR AND SOCIALIST INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
International Labour and Socialist Congress, held at the Chateau Des Fleurs, Marseilles
As requested by the Council of our Union, I proceeded to the Second Women's
from the 21st August, 1925. The First Women's Congress was held in Hamburg in 1923
The præsidium of women formed having instructions to maintain relations with the women
correspondents in all countries. The International Executive of men deciding to invite
one woman delegate of the præsidium to attend its meetings, Frau Popp (Austria)
The Socialist Women's Congress this year was decided on and called by the main Inter-
attending at Vienna in 1924, and Dr. Marion Phillips the one in Brussels, February, 1925.
national Executive. There were representative women attending from. 18 countries.
The Congress decided that the chair should be taken alternatively by Marie Juchaux and
Dr. Marion Phillips (to have different chairmen is a custom of International Congresses).
The delegates were given a hearty welcome by members of the International Executive:
For England, Mr. Cramp; for Germany, Mueller; U.S.A., Hillquit; and for Holland,
Wibaut. Bracke, of France, also spoke a few words of welcome, but regretted exceedingly
that the women of his country, with Belgium, had no vote as yet.
It was decided that this Women's Congress should not overlap by discussing the
questions of the main Congress. Our chief business this year was to convince the women
of all countries of the need for a Socialist Women's International; the object being to
arouse the interest of the great masses of women in all countries to assist in the Socialist
Congress, to be part of and act in conjunction with the Secretariat of the Labour and
movement. And secondly, to form a constitution which would be accepted by the main
of language. The customs and outlook of delegates from other countries which prolonged
Socialist International. It would be too long a story were I to describe the difficulties
mild decision
women, know that all true men and women who are anxious for an International Socialist
have attended Congresses of this kind can understand. Nevertheless. I. with other
movement among men and women of all countries, will appreciate our efforts.
```

---
75
The resolution to be submitted to the main Socialist Congress, to be moved by a German
woman, Frau Popp, is in full below:
Resolution.
I.--For the accomplishment of Socialism it is necessary that the masses should
be roused to assist in the active work of the reorganisation of society, and the masses
It is therefore essential that the Socialist Parties
consist of women as well as men.
in all countries should do their utmost to assist in the organisation of women within
the Labour and Socialist Movement, and in order to accomplish this, every Socialist
Party should regard the complete emancipation of women as the primary aim of their
It is their duty to work for the full political equality of men and women,
policy.
especially with regard to electoral equality and equality in laws dealing with the
family, citizenship and marriage, and equality of rights between legitimate and
illegitimate children. They must also demand full freedom for women to enter
administrative and industrial life, and economic equality in regard to wages.
II.--As it is necessary that the policy of the Socialist Movement should be based
upon the needs of women as well as men, Socialist women in all countries should
have the right to discuss and formulate themselves their views of social problems of
interest to women.
III.-The development of capitalist society has left women under many social
and educational disadvantages, so that from a political and economic point of view
their position is weaker than that of men, while the obligation and burdens of mother-
hood require that they should have special care and protection in industrial life.
It is therefore necessary that the Socialist Movement should advocate all such measures
of protection and care as the workers and especially the women workers think requisite
in order to secure the welfare of mothers and children.
IV.-In order to get full understanding between the Socialist women in the
different countries, an International Advisory Committee of women should be formed
consisting of representatives of the women; with the special duty of advising the
Executive Council of the Labour and Socialist International: and to assist in organising
biennially an International Conference of Labour and Socialist women.
mittee should be constituted on the same basis of representation as the Executive
Council of the L.S.I., and should be called together at least once every year.
This Com-
V.-The administrative work of the International Organisation of Women should
be conducted by the Secretariat of the L.S.I.
The British Labour Party made me their fraternal delegate to the main Socialist and
Labour Congress, an act I appreciate very much, enabling me to be as one of and with them
all through the following week. I had a share of work on Commissions, and was able to
attend all Commissions, to hear the discussions, sitting with the British delegation in full
Congress.
This Congress met in the Palais des Expositions, and wasopened by the Mayor of
Marseilles at 9 o'clock in the evening of the first day. The full sessions of Congress met at
four o'clock each day and continued until midnight. The mornings were spent in Com-
missions. The chief questions were Socialist Peace Policy, Dangers of War, Security and
Disarmament, Unemployment, Hours of Labour, Report and Proposals of the Women's
Socialist Conference.
The future home of the L.S.I. was considered and ultimately decided that Zurich
should be the place for the Secretariat.
The voting is by card according to the number of votes allotted to each country by
the E.C., according to Article 9 in their constitution.
The constitution suggested to the main Congress for their acceptance by the Women's
Labour and Socialist International was accepted unanimously, which makes the Socialist
women of all countries a wing of the main, as also is the Socialist Youths' movement in
all countries.
To all who doubt the future of a great International movement, may I say, in my
opinion, the Socialist movement is to the fore and very powerful, growing year by year
into a mighty force for the emancipation of all peoples. It was a privilege to attend.
We finished up by singing the "Internationale" at 12.30 a.m. on Saturday morning.
29th August, 1925.
14TH SEPTEMBER, 1925.
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

76

11. OBITUARY.
We exceedingly regret we have to report the loss (by death) of some of our
colleagues who held official positions in the Union, the list upon this occasion being
a heavy one. Yeoman service was rendered to the cause by our colleagues, whose
loss we deplore and whose death leaves the world indeed poorer.
Mr. J. T. ROOKE, President of Kendal Branch. Died 7th January, 1924.
Mr. J. SPEIGHT, Secretary Leeds No. 2 Branch for ten years and one time member
of the Executive Council. Died 16th January, 1924.
Mr. G. STANDEVEN, Secretary London South Branch for 28 years. Died 16th
January, 1924.
Mr. T. ADNITT, President Leicester Branch and member of Executive Council
from September, 1921. Died 19th October, 1924.
Mr. F. H. SEGON, President Norwich No. 2 Branch for five years. Died 14th
February, 1925.
Mr. C. BLEAKLEY, fourteen years member of Executive Council. One time
Branch Secretary and active member of branch for 30 years. Died 17th May,
1925.
Mr. J. RAWLINGS, Branch Secretary London South from January, 1924. Died
9th July, 1925.
Mr. J. BUCKLE, J.P., Organiser from 1916. Member of Executive Council and
President of Leeds Branch up to time of election as Organiser. Member of
Parliament for Eccles, 1922-24. Died 8th November, 1925. Did yeoman
service for the Union for very many years.
Mr. T. JACKSON, Leicester No. 2 Branch. Anstey Section Secretary for 34 years.
Died 30th November, 1925.
Mr. H. MORETON, many years Secretary of Wolverhampton Branch. Member
of Executive Council until 1914. Died 17th December, 1925.
We trust that the example and the work which our colleagues have been called
upon to lay aside, will act as an incentive to the younger generation to work with a
determination so as to continue to increase the influence of the Union throughout
the Kingdom, and to make the pathway of life easier and brighter for the coming
generation.

12. - BOOT AND SHOE REPAIRING TRADE BOARD.
This work is of much importance to the Repairing section of the industry, and members
of the Union who are repairers.
Although there are at least thirty of our members representing the Union on the
Central and District Boards in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, the Board
in the Irish Free State seems to have fallen into disuse since the establishment of Home
Rule. The expenses of these representatives, are, in the main, paid by the Finance Depart-
ment of the Ministry of Labour.
The number of Establishments or Workshops known to the Ministry in December,
1925, was 25,567, employing over 29,000 repairers.
It will be seen from the figures below how small is the number of operatives engaged
in various repairing firms, and that is probably the reason why organisation in this section
of the Industry is meagre. We are sorry to think there are any repairers who are not pay-
ing to the trade unions which cater for them; but it is so. There are those, however, who
will take benefits for which they do not subscribe.
The number of establishments inspected in 1925 show that those with
Less than four operatives employed 1,735
Those employing 5 and under 10
11
21
20
50
78
16
7
All enquiries and decisions accepted by the Ministry have the force of law behind them,
and as there are no less than forty trade boards, and only forty-eight inspectors to do the
necessary work of detecting any infringements of the Orders, it will be seen that the work
does not proceed at a rapid rate. During 1925 the Department investigated :-
Direct complaints 320
Inspections without complaint 1,516
Total 1,836


---
77
Inspection, as mentioned above, has resulted in many cases being fond of the orders
not being carried out in a proper manner. It was found that, out of 862 time workers
employed, including 22 females, 53 of them were not receiving the rates and a claim amount
ing to £580 3s. 2d. was made, of which sum 472 already been paid
entitled to less than the adult rates, there were 484, of whom 7 were females
number a sum amounting to over £1,012 was claimed for 90 operatives, and more than (663
has been paid of that sum.
Of those
Of this
For pieceworkers 895, including 7 females, were entitled to the rates, and out of that
number 65 claims were made for £717 14s. 10d, and over £537 has been paid on account.
HOME WORKERS. There are 266 persons affected (including 2 females) in this class
ten claims were made amounting to over £37, all of which has been paid. There have also
been several prosecutions for non-compliance with various Orders, and a penalty was
imposed in each case.
It will thus be seen from the following that
Total wages claimed
already paid ..
Amount still due
12,346
1,709
637
It will therefore, be seen, that this abridged report should encourage the repairing
section of the industry to join up with the organisation which looks after their interests.
Our representatives on the Central Board ofttimes have matters of grave importance in
which they have to appeal sometimes to the Minister of Labour, and also the Legal Advisers
of the Crown for a rendering of what we believe to be right. Some people decry the work
of Trade Boards.
We do not belong to that class and it would be mean to be so.
Whilst we have on our manufacturing side some good employers, there are some who
cannot be described as good, and it would be interesting to know what would be the position
if Government Inspectors visited some of the factories of those who cannot be described as
"good." As is well known some of the smaller manufacturers give us most trouble and
think that up-to-date conditions ought not to be imposed upon them.
Let us hope that the time is not far distant when no employer will be allowed to start
in business without being held responsible under the Laws of the country for the conditions
of employment.
13.-REVISION OF NATIONAL AGREEMENT.
The existing National (September) 1924 Agreement with the Manufacturers' Federa-
tion is open for revision this year. We have given the matter full consideration and delibera-
tion, and have sent notice to the Federation of our intention to call for revision of certain
clauses of the Agreement. We entertain the hope that when we meet the Employers'
representatives, that our requests may be complied with.
We beg to assure both this Conference of delegates and the members generally that
no effort will be wanting or lacking on our part to ensure success being secured.
In the interval a good deal can be accomplished to attain our object by the members
themselves, in still further strengthening the Union and giving that live support to the
organisation whereby it will be made plain, beyond dispute, as to the policy of the Union
having the full support of the membership.
14.-SHODDY.
The question of SHODDY has also occupied the time of the Joint Industrial Council,
and on this matter we have taken a very decided stand against the danger incurred to the
public in general (and children in particular) who purchase footwear often composed of
paper and leather substitutes, and even all leather, but not solid leather, unstamped, and,
therefore, unknown as to the country or firm of origin. We believe the trade will benefit
most when the general public can trace a bad pair of footwear to those responsible for their
manufacture. For the successful pursuance of this matter we have already deputised the
Board of Trade with representatives from the Employers' Federation, who asked for the
assistance of the Department to institute a régime whereby all footwear shall be stamped
describing the materials used in their composition, and the country of origin, such as is
already imposed on British Manufacturers who send footwear to Australia, New Zealand,
South Africa and Sweden.
We also asked the Department to note the opinion of many medical men who advise
that all footwear should, for the sake of health, be of sufficient thickness of solid reliable
leather. Good advice was given by representatives of the Board of Trade to the deputa-
tion as to the best course to be pursued, and upon this advice we have and are taking the
necessary steps to improve the character of the industry and the protection of the public.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
78
15. CONCLUSION.
In conclusion, we beg to say that difficult as the time has been and uphill the fighe
nevertheless, we have at all times endeavoured to do our duty, and to safeguard the inter
We trust that the days to come may and the organisation of increasing value, and
whereby more and more opportunities may be brought within the sphere of its
to still further widen their influence to raise the general standard of the lives of the perple
at the members.
T. E. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
I. WHEELER.
C. BATES,
E. LAW,
W. R. TOWNLEY,
L. P POOLE,
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS,
FELLOW DELEGATES,
We are,
Yours fraternally,
W. WARNER,
W. HINDES,
R. WHITE,
A. J. DOBBS,
ALEX. SMITH,
J. MANNERS,
THE COUNCIL
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT.
Superannuation for Members.
May, 1926.
This matter has received consideration at some length, and after long discussions Wes
eventually referred to a Sub-Committee consisting of Messrs. T. F. Richards, W. R. Townlew
A. J. Dobbs, Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards, Mr. W. R. Smith and Mr. E. L. Poulton. A number
of meetings of the sub-committee have been held, and eventually it was decided to secure
from the Leicester No. 1. Northampton No. 1, Glasgow and Stafford branches a retur:
showing the age of the male members in those branches. These returns were tabulater
and the whole position again reviewed.
Eventually we unanimously agreed to recommend the following details for your con-
sideration, this being a tentative proposal. We suggest that a payment of FIVE SHILL.
INGS superannuation benefit be made to members at 65 years of age (after 25 years' mem-
extra benefit for each five years additional membership. That is to say:-
of 3d. per week, with a rising
Members with 25 years' membership, after paying to the Scheme for five years, would
receive a pension of 5s. weekly, at age of 65.
30 years' membership
35
40
45
50
(10 years' payments)
(15
(20
(25
(30
Pension 5/6
6/-
6/6
"
7/-
7/6
We further suggest that NO benefits be payable before 1st January, 1932 to enable
the Fund to get on a sound financial basis.
The Fund we propose should be for FULL MALE MEMBERS only, and that for this
class of member the scheme should be COMPULSORY. We do, however, suggest that
FULL WOMEN MEMBERS should be allowed to join the scheme if they so desire, i.e.,
for full women members the scheme is optional
In order to finance the scheme, a capital sum of not less than £150,000 will be required
to make it financially sound and self-supporting, and we, therefore, suggest that £100,000
be transferred from the Central Sick Fund, and that the members of the branches be
approached, at special meetings, with a view to securing £50,000 from Branch Funds,
payments to be made in equal proportion to the full membership.
to make a small additional grant by way of Funeral Benefit to the relatives of those mem-
We are hoping that when such a scheme is worked out in detail, that it may be possible
bers who die before attaining the age of 65 years, and who have contributed a reasonable
amount to the Fund.
the delegates purely as a matter of principle.
We desire to point out that these suggestions are only tentative, and are placed before


---
79
If such a scheme should meet with the approval of the delegates to the Conference, then
we propose that special Branch meetings should be called to discuss the matter, and even
tually a vote of the membership be taken thereon.
We have had before us an alternative scheme for the payment of double the benefits
named above, but this would mean an increased contribution of 6d per week, instead of
3d. suggested in the tentative proposals: whilst the capital sum required to finance the
same would be £300,000.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President,
J. WHEELER,
C. BATES,
E. LAW,
W. R. TOWNLEY,
L. P. POOLE,
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
Yours fraternally,
W. WARNER,
W. HINDES,
R. WHITE,
A. J. DOBBS,
ALEX. SMITH,
J. MANNERS,
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
THE COUNCIL.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): An opportunity should be given to indicate what will
be done and what the Council propose to do when revising the Agreement. A phase of
circumstances has grown up in relation to variation of wages to take place from time to
time owing to changes in the cost of living figures. When next the Council are negotiating
could steps be taken to consolidate the position? It may be asking for something imposs-
ible, but an investigation might take place. In Norwich we have met one or two manu-
facturers who are against the "cut" due in June. The agreement gives them an
opportunity to reduce wages, and the buyer wants a big reduction in the price of shoes.
I think some endeavour should be made to stabilise the wages in the next Agreement.
THE CHAIRMAN: The reason we have not sent in any amendments to the Agree-
ment is because we do not want to prevent branches from sending in to us. We have
given the manufacturers formal notice to review the Agreement and it is left there for the
moment. The point raised by Mr. Jex has been expressed in many parts. We have
entered into an arrangement, and if anyone wants to depart from it all I can say is we shall
not object to any manufacturer not taking advantage of the "cut."
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood): The cost of living and the figures shown are
not convincing to working men and women. I should like the Council to give us some
idea as to how the Ministry arrive at their figures. It has been told us that local Exchange
officers go round the shops and send in prices.
THE CHAIRMAN: Public bodies don't get information like that. I do not think
there is any cooking of the figures, and I have no reason to doubt them knowing, as I do,
the way they secure the information. It is obtained from retailers all over the country.
We shall not hesitate to have the whole matter placed before the employers, and I hope
you will endeavour to let the Council have the benefit of your experience when we will
give proper attention to it. To open up this matter would take a long time and possibly
without any good result.
Mr. C. MAYES (Kettering): Can the Council give us information, or contradict
the rumours as to whether the manufacturers are prepared to forego the "cut," if only
for a short period?
THE CHAIRMAN: Dame Rumour is a lying jade. No definite statement has
been made to us. I understand the employers are meeting on Thursday of this week,
and if anything is done we will let you know.
Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton): I contend the figures are not reliable, and
we should have something more reliable. I have to do some shopping so know what it
means.
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): The men begin to think
what it costs to feed the family when they have to buy the food. Every woman knows
what it means, and if there is a reduction in her money she looks out to see what can be
cut down. It is hard to find, because when one thing goes down another goes up. Nothing
is saved on the supposed reduction in the cost of living. I have studied this question
and am constantly told the reason why the worker does not save anything is because they
will not have the cheapest stuff. Bacon prices range from Is. 5d. to 2s. 5d. per lb. We
don't want bacon at Is. 5d. The best is always good enough for us, especially boot opera-
tives.
Mr. A. MARTIN (Leicester No. 2): I believe it is a question of principle as to
whether wages are stabilised or not. Stabilisation seems to be the right thing, but whether
you seize the psychological moment or not is another matter. The Council should, at the
earliest opportunity, take into consideration the question of reviewing the policy to remove
any rise or fall. If we are to alter our wages in future according to cost of living, the
---

---
1
80
cal side of the movement.
longside the political
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): The
he hint thrown out by our General Prese
and place persons in positions who will protect their interests. We must place ourselve
oner you proceed to deal with it the better. All trade unions should seize their powers
We shall make every effort to bring our influence to bear to get wa
xchange of views we cannot get the information, and we want perq
It is irritating to have variations in wages, as the ga
to emploVCES IS VOry small and I hope something better will be done when we meet٩٧٠
sheorld be taken
If there is no exe
with lal knowledge to back us up.
employers next time
said
The Conference adjourned at 12.30 p.m.
Afternoon Session.
The delegates reassembled at 2 p.m., the General President presiding.
The General Secretary stated all the delegates were present,
The disenssion on
Paragraph I was resumed, and Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester
I propose, with your permission Mr. Chairman, to move
To ask the Council to negotiate with the Manufacturers' Federation to do.
in their power, and to ask the Federation to forego the recent 'cut","
is resolution you have everything to gain, and nothing to lose. We should atid
by the Agreement, but from conversations I have had with manufacturers they wist
was not coming into operation. I think they would be willing to forego it, if t
Federation acted nationally. It is no good being done by local centres. You take
only means 2s to him, whilst 4s, would come off
facturers' Federation, and feel sure something could be done, even if the "cut" was
dayworker. I know the good feeling that exists between the Council and the Mar...
postponed for a time. I should not blame the Council if they say we tried and fail
cut
pieceworker earning 14; the "cut"
Let us get the Federation to act and see if their members are sincere
THE CHAIRMAN: I am sorry this matter has gone so far. We cannot tell you
we know, or people who tell us things in confidence would lose that confidence in
Neither Mr. Parbury nor anyone else from Leicester can say it is the wish of the Leicester
Association. We entered into this arrangement, and I don't want to go
CAP IN HAND.
It was only as a result of strikes that brought about the position of women in Leicester
although certain promises were made. I beg of you not to humiliate yourselves. Do not
court a refusal. It would be better if there was a possibility of the thing being successfui
but we must not whine because the thing is against us.
nanufacturers who would prefer not to put the "cut" into operation. The "cut" onir
gives the manufacturer d. per pair off boots and shoes, whilst the factor wants 3d. of
I know there is a great crowd of
Thursday let us leave the matter
don't run away from the position. Let us endeavour to stabilise the wage so that anhe
employers will not be put into this quandary. They alone have the power not to put the
cut" into operation, but do not let them say it was because we begged of them to do it.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): I would for four bob.
amend the matter as early as possible.
THE CHAIRMAN: We have entered into an arrangement; let us carry it out and
Mr. W. HINDES (Council Member): Are we going to discuss this matter or
leave it as suggested by Mr. Jex?
THE CHAIRMAN: I have not accepted Mr. Parbury's resolution. We get official
information and know where we are moving. Others do not, and then we are pressed to
do something humiliating. Let it rest where it is. If the employers wish to help us let
them do it, especially the Leicester Manufacturers. If not we will try again in the new
Agreement.
The suggestion of THE CHAIRMAN was accepted and Paragraph 1 endorsed.
we have asked for the notice to be exhibited and only once been refused. Their conduct
THE CHAIRMAN: Dealing with Paragraph 2, there are a few instances where
was reported to the local Association and they were called before the Committee of Inquiry
and the Association and eventually the notice was put up.
The paragraph was then endorsed.
Paragraph 3 was next discussed.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

81
Mr. T. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2) moved the reference back of Clause 3,
because no reference was made to the dispute at Messrs. Smith & Co., Slater Street, Leicester,
due to the transfer of a woman from one department to another.
given two months' grace but could not find her a job so she was given notice to leave
It was broadcast from the Women's Branch that if this woman left, all those in the closing
department would be withdrawn. Then we had a letter from the Leicester Boot Manu
facturers' Association asking us to take the matter before the Board of Arbitration
my great regret I agreed -and I regret nothing more than having agreed because the ques
tion later went to the Joint Standing Committee. To
Council, and we received a letter from our General Secretary as follows:
ALDERMAN A. HILL, J.P.,
Leicester.
DEAR MR. HILL,
One side of the tale was told to the
23rd March, 1925.
The Council at their meeting to-day had a complaint brought to their notice
from the Leicester Women's Branch of a woman member of that Branch who was
working for Messrs. Smith & Co., Slater Street, Leicester, in the heel building depart-
ment being objected to by your Mr. G. Smith, and the firm were requested by him
to discharge Mrs. McDowell.
The Council understand this member had been working for Messrs. Smith & Co.
for a considerable number of years, and in the judgment of the Council such a matter
is one which ought to have been the subject of consultation between the officers of
the two Branches with a view to securing agreed action in relation to matters affecting
members of the two branches.
The Council hope that in future, there will be consultations whenever necessary
so that any friction may be avoided and thus allow the work to proceed smoothly
and harmoniously.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
We were agreeable to a meeting of the two Executive Committees as asked by the
Council. On 25th May the Council again discussed this question in extenso, after having
received a deputation from our branch. The Council instructed the two branches to arrange
a meeting when a Sub-Committee of the Council would attend to thrash the matter out.
We were told on 27th May, 1925, by Mrs. Richards, that they had decided not to meet us.
The Council issued its instructions and appointed three of its members. The Leicester
No. 2 Branch was agreeable to meet the Women's Branch, but the Women flouted the
Authority of the Council and nothing was done for several months. At the end of last
October or early in November, the question was again raised. We understand several
Council members were hoping the matter would not go to the Joint Standing Committee.
The Women's Branch having refused to meet us, we were later too proud to meet them.
Now, Mr. President and fellow delegates, we were not prepared to take this lying down.
Here we have one of the branches of the Union openly defying the Council. Is there any
other branch who dare do it and get off scot free. (Cries of "No.") I suggest that the
dispute of Messrs. Smith & Co., Slater Street, Leicester, should be entered on the Address.
Mr. G. SMITH (Leicester No. 2) formally seconded the reference back.
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member) : I am bound to defend our
branch. It would have been better if the Leicester No. 2 Branch had given the Council
a chance to have had all the correspondence here. They should have given notice they
intended to raise the matter and not present a one-sided case.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S BRANCH
So far as the
is concerned, they would not care to be left out The case is not as the No. 2 Branch have
presented it. We claim our case on your Agreement. We fought our case on that Agree-
ment and won. So far as the Council is concerned and its laying down a certain line to us,
the Council treat us as other branches and we try and carry out their decisions. The
Council discussed this question time after time. A member of ours who had nine years'
membership was fetched out of the firm because she was on heel building. We claimed
women could, and can go on heel building and work under the National Agreement. This
case was brought about by two youths. One youth was always losing time. One morning
he was sent away for the half-day. He went to the Leicester No. 2 Office and told them
a woman was working there. The woman was there because she did her job properly.
Another excuse was that when the war finished her husband could not get back into his
job. The woman was not married until two years after the war ended. We took our
case to the Joint Standing Committee and had a decision. We stick to that decision.
F


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

82
I know the Leicester No. 2 Branch feel aggrieved. If the Council deserve the things
Mr. Vallance said he must have forgotten all about the letters from the Council. I asked
the Council at one meeting if they knew the Leicester No. 2 Branch intended taking this
No. 2 Branch to consult our branch before taking the matter to the Board, as the Council
felt heel building could be done by women.
After discussion the Council requested the Leicester
Then I proposed it should go to the Joint
At the Board
Whilst we do not agree to women doing men's work a
What we have under the Agreement we shall hold
We don't intend to lower the standard
Standing Committee, and Mr. Hill said he should not let it go there. Everything was
done to keep it away, but it went.
committee of the Council because we know the mind of every man.
satisfactory arrangements in future, but we did not get a proper answer.
waste time and money.
wanted to override our branch.
and get as much more as we can.
lower rates than men, we do intend to keep our jobs.
this no more women in Leicester will be fetched out if we know it.
between two branches.
With the help of the Board of Trade
of our trade by women, but the women have certain rights which we shall keep. After
ALD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2): The situation appears to be a domestic quarre
The position so far as heel building is concerned in Leicester
of Trade we established in Leicester, what I think
stands by itself. Before the war, at great expense and trouble, we organised this class of
was the first Heel Building Statement. That was established knowing it was for adult
male workers. Not only so, but at the request of the two national executives, we began
to legislate for the introduction of female labour. In loyalty to our Council we agreed
with the Leicester Manufacturers, and also the local Association for Heel Builders
we have a Board officially recognised for heel building only - that females should be
in during the war they signed a card which was brought into our office, signifying their
Labour
allowed to go into the heel building department during the war.
were only there for the period of the war
date when female labour should cease.
The Council let them do it, and the Council dare not object.
We agreed they should be transferred to other
Later we agreed at the Board upon a certain
in Leicester is not for women to do heel building, but they do as they like. (Hear, hear..
departments. We never asked for women to be dismissed, only transferred. The idea
on the Council was only some other person than it is, the Chairman of that Council would
Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): I think you are right. (Laughter.)
ALD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2): If the representative of the Women's Branch
not allow such things to happen.
THE CHAIRMAN: I don't think it right or proper to make such personal attacks
common sense to leave out individuals simply because she is married to a person with
Let me say I don't run my wife, and she does not run me.
You should have enough
whom you disagree.
defiance without the Council have dealt with them. We were prepared to carry out the
instructions of the Council, but we were not prepared to enter into negotiations with a
ALD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2): Our Executive Council has never been put at
branch who refused to recognise the Council. In the letter we received from the General
were asked to withdraw the resolution. In reply to Mr. Poulton I told him we put the
Secretary we were not asked to meet the representatives of the Women's Branch. We
resolution before the Board of Arbitration at the request of the Secretary to the Leicester
Boot the situation was. As soon as our Branch Vice-President asked for this lady to be
Boot Manufacturers' Association, because of the dispute. We told the manufacturers
transferred and gave the manufacturer a month's notice no other work was found her at
the end of that time, so she called at our office one Friday night, and on the following day
it was broadcast that all the women would be fetched out. We were loyal to our agreement.
It is all right for our lady friends,
THESE MODERN WOMEN,
these women who talk about economic independence to think it does not matter about a
man being out of work, because their member has got his job. Our good friends of the
Women's Branch knew when they went to the Joint Standing Committee that there was
only one decision. I do not complain of the decision. After our local efforts and arrange-
ments - and right across the period of the war every woman who came into heel building
knew what she was doing - I would remind you the Women's Branch have not spent one
half-penny in this connection, and I don't think the right thing has been done. With
all respect, the next time any branch defies the Council like the Women's Branch did,
I hope they will have punishment which the occasion calls for.
this controversy, especially by an Alderman of the Leicester City Council. I have my
THE CHAIRMAN: I am extremely sorry the personal attitude has entered into
duty to perform without favouring anyone, and I am sorry this antagonism which has


---
83
Mr. Hill tells you he
remained dormant some time, should have been exhibited to-day.
backed a wrong 'un. He and his colleagues were responsible for what has taken place.
They could have refused to have allowed the matter to go to the Board of Arbitration.
Why they wished to voluntarily surrender we do not understand. Read Rule 18 of the
Arbitration Rules :----
18.
Should any case arise in which Rule 17 as to suspension of work, should be
contravened, a meeting of the Board may be called immediately, and without
previous notice by the Chairman, to consider the case.
I suggested this matter should be settled locally. Is there any local branch officer here
who would allow the officer of another branch to interfere with one of their members?
Is Leicester No. 2 so big and the Women so small? Had my suggestion been adopted
we should never have been bothered with this affair. The whole thing hangs on a promise
given to Mr. Hill by a Leicester Manufacturer at one of the National Conferences. When
the Manufacturer returned to Leicester and the local association repudiated it, he could
go no further. Let Mr. Hill and Mr. Vallance tell you what they wrote after the decision
of the Joint Standing Committee. With all due respect they said to the Council they
would go on their own way." Open defiance-revolt. If you had given notice of this
matter the whole of the correspondence could have been here. Fancy your own Union
going to the Umpire to decide a question between two of its branches.
Miss E. A. TIMMS (Leicester Women's): Had the Leicester No. 2 Branch have
consulted the Women's Branch-because they had seen this member of ours-nothing of
this would have happened. We all belong to one Union and surely we ought to have been
consulted. It was the least they could do. Have we broken the Agreement or not?
When the matter went to the Joint Standing Committee it was decided in accordance with
the Agreement. We are one Union; if we cannot have confidence in one another where
shall we get ? We have no desire to take any man's job, and see him walking about.
It is wrong of any member to think that. It is the last of our thoughts. I am astounded
to think this feeling has arisen. Had we known it was going to be raised we should have
been ready. I wish there was more unity inside our own Union.
Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester): I should like to reciprocate every word spoken
by Miss Timms, but we had some difficulty because our members at Barwell and Earl
Shilton were consulted without telling us first. A later question arose in connection with
the parliamentary position and we tried to get the ladies to attend. They did, but never
opened their mouths, so need not have been there. There is nothing I regret more than
the deplorable position between the Leicester Nos. 1, 2 and 3 branches in Leicester.
Mr. G. SMITH (Leicester No. 2): There is nothing in the Council's Address
about this dispute and that is why we suggest the reference back.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I don't blame the Leicester No. 2 Branch for
moving the reference back, because it is a time honoured method of raising a question on
the floor of the Conference. Except those who are immediately concerned the delegates
will, I think, agree with me, it was a wise thing not to put it in the Council's Report. I make
no apology for not having put the case in the report. That does not prevent one from
raising it. It is a different matter, officially to put into a report a thing which we know
should never have happened. Whether our Leicester No. 2 friends agree or not outwardly,
inwardly they do agree that they made a mistake when the case went to the Board, because
it was a matter in my judgment not for correspondence (because these branches are under
the same roof) but for a personal friendly talk. I hope those who come to our Conference
in 1928 will have the pleasure of hearing that the three Leicester branches are friendly.
(Applause.) To our Leicester women I want to say they made a grievous mistake, not
from the point of their own branch, but in the best interests of all concerned, in not agreeing
with the proposal of the Council. They did not think well so to do, and this is the result.
Although I regret these things, I cannot help but think that the net result will be for the
good of all. Unless we approach these matters friendly no headway can be made.
Whoever looks into the future must deal with these facts from a different angle than
obtained twenty years ago. That does not absolve our women friends for doing what
they did. I very much regret, I exceedingly regret, that any branch should refuse a
proposal of the Council. I have profound regard for the Council of our Union, and their
suggestions should not only be respected, but carried out. Mr. Greaves said there was a
deplorable position between the three branches in Leicester.
Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester): There is not sufficient consultation nor common
effort between the three branches. It is a deplorable position. There is no enmity
between the Nos. 1 and No. 2 branches.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Mr. Greaves has emphasised the fact that there
is a deplorable position between the three branches, all under one roof. I think it is quite
time our friends made a serious attempt, where so many thousands of our members are
enrolled, to end this opposition. It may be some of this discussion will appear in the
Press. If it does I hope we shall meet as comrades. As I said before I did not want
this case to appear in our Official Report, so I beg and entreat all our friends, not merely
---

---
84
out in a broad-minded manner, even though you disagree with the Council. Do let
to respect rules and regulations, but when Council suggests things, that they will be carried
have a better feeling between our Leicester branches; in fact, between all our branches
venture to say the Council not only tries to do the right thing, but
have always tried to meet the position, and if they have some
the events justify the position they from time to time take up. Alderman Hill has never
So far as I know the Council
hesitated to say to me, either over the telephone, or by letter, that our
allow for women to go on heel building.
Conferences with the Manufacturers' Federation.
Mr. Duncan Henderson
Mr. Hill claims he had an undertaking at one of
was showing to that particular part of the Agreement. It was not embodied in the Agree
ment, and I understand Mr. Henderson now says he knows nothing about it. I trust a
some statements at that time which satisfied Mr. Hill, so he withdrew the opposition be
will endeavour to work in harmony. (Applause.)
The matter then dropped.
C.W.S. Dispute (Leeds).
the C.W.S. after the strike at Leicester whereby agreements should be made, and I sho
Mr. H. PERKINS (Leicester No. 2) : I thought there was an arrangement w
like to know why a different attitude was taken at Leeds.
THE CHAIRMAN: I went to Leeds and the operatives begged of me not to
them back to work until the matter was settled. I went to see the Directors at Ler
Street, London, and Mr. Lancaster, the Secretary, admitted he knew nothing of the arron
ments made after the Leicester strike, but I am convinced Mr. Haigh knew all about
He knew what he ought to have done, but did not do it. I sent a personal letter, as
as putting it in my monthly report - saying I would not order people back in future
C.W.S. works until the case had been investigated. They offered our friend Dobbs
and a month's notice given to change the system. All the facts are set out in the Repor
lowest price in the country. He refused it. The matter went to the Board of Arbitration
before you. I met the Directors-they would not see Dobbs whilst the strike was on
asked Mr. Lancaster what would have been the result if a case was before the Law Cour
not as a trade union official, but as an old co-operator. The operatives went back and
and witnesses were tampered with. Mr. Lancaster admitted he knew nothing of c
Agreement. The girls had been sacked so were prevented from having an investigation
Last year we had four unauthorised strikes, but they were all justified.
Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton) : Did you submit to seeing C.W.S. Directors
as an old co-operator?
THE CHAIRMAN: You know I did.
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member) : I understand it created a mild sensation
because of my attitude in connection with the Leeds position. Whatever the men managers
of the C.W.S. may know, or may not know, I don't think you could teach Mr. Haigh
anything. Although I tried to get a settlement of the dispute for nearly twelve months
I was side stepped, and at the end the two workpeople concerned were given two weeks
wages and dismissed, and then said they were not members of the staff. Their week
finishes on Thursday night. Five minutes after the others left these two were recalled.
They were told not to come again and given two weeks' wages. The Manager thought
I should not know until next morning. He gave instructions to his underlings not to
talk to me on the telephone as he was going to Manchester. Fortunately I had arranged
a meeting of the operatives for that night. He went to Manchester. The people were
out seven days. The Directors and Managers are worse people to deal with than any
private employer I know. When the General President and I met them for the final
settlement I made a statement that I had not asked for a single condition which I had
not secured in other factories in Leeds, and some of the Directors were astounded.
These disputes are brought about owing to the personnel of the Management. One is
always sorry for a stoppage, but when a trade union official is prepared to accept
peace at any price then he should give up his job. This dispute has created a different
atmosphere amongst the operatives at the Leeds C W.S. factory, and I think Mr. Haigh
will hesitate before attacking us again. Students of the Agreement must realise this is
very important. We should try and tighten up these things. Members of the Union will
realise the difference between a wide and narrow interpretation of our Agreement. If we
can get additional safeguards it will greatly improve our Agreement. (Applause.)
Paragraph 3 was adopted.
on members ?
On Paragraph 4 Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) asked if the General Secretary could
make a statement on the Mining situation; the present cost to the Union and the levy
---

---
85

The General Strike.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The General Council have decided to hold a
special meeting on 25th June, 1926, to give in a report to the various unions who gave
authority to proceed upon the lines they did. It has been said the meeting should be held
at an earlier date. The General Council felt it was the earliest when they could present a
report, having regard to all the circumstances, more particularly bearing in mind the fact
that the Miners are still locked out, and so far as one can see and read, the advice which the
officials are tendering is : to continue out. It was felt if a meeting was called during the
early days after the general stoppage it might hinder, rather than help to bring about a
settlement in the industry. I do not intend to answer or even attempt to answer some of
the statements which are being unjustifiably made against the General Council and their policy.
I would wish - for the purpose of this conference - that the Press were not here. I am only
one out of thirty-two members of the General Council, and I do not intend to be drawn into
newspaper controversy as "begging, crawling and cringing" by which some have attacked
the General Council. This will be done at the proper time and place. I was the chairman
of the Press and Publicity Department during the strike, which had a good deal to do with
the information received and sent out through the British Worker. When we meet in June
we shall be able to justify our position. The Miners are apparently discussing resolutions
and proposals which are a good deal worse than we at first secured. I want to take you
back to the time when we were called as an executive, rather than as ordinary delegates,
because of financial help which would be required. That takes us back to July, 1925,
when we appointed a Negotiating Committee. The Government made a subsidy and the
General President referred to it this morning by saying the subsidy was applied to both
good and bad pits. The subsidy did not ease the situation only for a period. No move
was made until the report of the Royal Commission was presented. We then found
ourselves forced into a circumstance of first-class importance. The Miners said they were
prepared to put their case into the hands of the General Council, and the executives of the
various affiliated unions met in the Memorial Hall, Farringdon Street, London. Our own
Council were about the place for three days, as the Negotiating Committee were trying to
bring about some arrangements. When we left on Saturday, 1st May, the position was
not hopeless, although it looked very dark. The Negotiating Committee found themselves
with that unfortunate happening in connection with the Daily Mail, where the men
refused to handle the Monday's issue because of some objectionable copy-so the men
said-which hampered the position, and the negotiations were abruptly brought to an end,
because of that happening, about which neither the General Council nor the Negotiating
Committee had any knowledge. The door was shut and the obligation thrown upon the
General Council - by one of the biggest votes ever recorded - that they felt, having had that
vote, they had no option wherever it might lead them, but to take the course which they
did. The Negotiating Committee was called into being and acted as a go-between for the
Miners so that there should not be a stoppage, but a settlement by agreement, whether
it was by arbitration, conciliation or mediation. They used all their influence to try and
prevent a general stoppage. When we met on Friday night about 47,000 miners had
ceased work (which amounted to a lockout), because they were offered employment at
certain rates of wages which meant a considerable reduction of wages. The reduction was
13 per cent., and the notices having expired and the General Council having decided to assist
the Miners, we had no other option but to declare our policy and order the transport unions
to come out in support of the miners. That is the reason why the general stoppage was
caused. That stoppage, I venture to say, is unexampled in history. It surprised many
of our own people and our opponents also. My colleagues constantly consulted the miners,
and I was at three meetings at which the executive members of the Miners' Federation were
present. Mr. Herbert Smith said : "We are prepared to put our case fully into your hands.
All we ask for is not to give up our revolver." We understood by that term they meant
they were entitled to put their point of view upon the negotiations. Later, that was found
not to be the position. If there is one thing a general stoppage has taught me, it is - we
are not prepared to have a general stoppage. I am not going to say more at the moment.
My colleagues who had the negotiations to carry out should be respected. Statements
were made that we wished to make this a constitutional challenge. I did all possible
through the British Worker to keep the position before the public that it was an industrial
dispute. I think we were fairly successful. After the first burst of enthusiasm we found
some men were wanting to go back-others wanted to come out. The Committee who
had that part of the business in hand reported that if we wished to maintain the maximum
amount of influence the general stoppage had created, we should seek a way out for calling
off the strike. It was one of those momentous times when men have to take their

COURAGE

in their hands at the risk of great unpopularity due to misunderstanding. The General
Council showed great courage in doing all they did with the facts before them. We went
to the Prime Minister because we knew by then that the proposals which had been dis-
tributed had been sent out. When my colleagues made their report to the General Council


---
they felt it would be best to ask for an interview with the Premier, and say we are prepared
Cook had a statement published repudiating what had been done, and saying the miners
To our astonishment, and the very great surprise of the miners, by some means Mr. MacDonald
would not accept it. Mr. MacDonald and Mr. Henderson were constantly in attendances at our
meetings to know what was taking place. Upon that day the Labour Party had
were willing to accept it, and said this may be termed "The Miners' Charter."
Mr. Cook repudiated the letter of the General Council you can well see our position
meeting, and I am told by some of those who were present, that miners' representatives
a reduction in wages for the lower paid men, but also prevent an increase in hours and
also the Royalty owners would be bought out. We felt we had secured a very real bargain
We were hoping, by the Samuel proposals, we should not only prevent
others in the same position would have done and seeing Mr. Cook said he was
The Premier took hold of Mr. Cook's letter as I
in the name of the miners he offered other proposals, and those proposals are much
method of dealing with the mining industry. When those proposals were turned dow
than those of Sir Herbert Samuel which we had good reason to anticipate would be the
Mr. Cook has made a statement that they were not finally consulted. He was at
I am afraid it will now continue for some time
meetings he took part in the business, and when the final decision was made it is tr
he said he could not agree with it. Several of my colleagues then went to Russell Square
port unions are very sore and bitter, not merely at the things said about them, but at the
before meeting the Prime Minister. These are the bald facts. The railwaymen and trai
against the Government and met with all kinds of difficulties. Personally, I did not
position in which they found themselves after making the final decision. We were
when we found how things were going and the conditions that might obtain, we felt th
how we could act otherwise after we promised the miners to our utmost extent
we could have done otherwise when the door had been bolted and barred. Equal
strike 'should be called off. The names of those on the Negotiating Committee we
Messrs. A. Pugh, W. M. Citrine, J. H. Thomas, A. B. Swales, J. Bromley, A. G. Walkde
A. Hayday, Hicks, and B. Tillett. So far as I know, there was unanimity in our ranks
decision, it took a great deal of courage to go to the Prime Minister. I have known M
It has been said we took our decision because we lacked courage. When we took the
the position was an extraordinary one.
J. H. Thomas for a good many years. (Cries of derision.)
THE CHAIRMAN: Some of you don't know him.
apart from the general movement. It cannot be measured in £ s. d. My colleagues a
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I know his work and worth to the railwaymen
bore testimony and eulogy-the greatest from Mr. Bromley himself as to the wonderfu
work Mr. Thomas did in continuing the negotiations as long as he could, and in getting
I have no fear when we meet the executives on 25th June, because it was a revelation to
them reopened again. They were unanimous as to the valuable services of Mr. Thomas
those men and women who spent their days in the Memorial Hall, as to how they appreci
finished it in the only honourable way we could. Although we had to do it, it was a
ated the issue at stake. I am confident they will agree we took the only course, and
barbaric method to settle wages and conditions, and I don't think we shall ever have
another general stoppage. (Applause.)
clear. I think he has made a very courageous statement. We have been told we were
Mr. H. FRAZER (Norwich): The General Secretary has made the position very
prepared to back the miners for all we were worth. I desire to know what the Boot and
Shoe operatives have done? I hope the General Secretary will be able to place before
this Conference a statement showing all that has been done to help not only the Relief
Fund of the Trades Union Congress, but also the miners.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: It was expected by the Congress held in Scar-
borough that unions would alter their rules and regulations in accordance with the decisions
of that Congress, so far as they affect funds and finance, so as to be prepared for any
onslaught. Some unions did alter their rules to meet the positions. The Miners in many
parts of the country have no money. Their contributions were comparatively low, and
inasmuch as it is a Federation we have the Yorkshiremen being able to pay out, whilst in
Northumberland and South Wales there is no money. We made an appeal for finance,
and although the general stoppage is over we do not know the total cost. Many people
were called out and had no benefit for fourteen days. They were as cheerful as it was
possible to be. Our Executive Council felt in honour bound to show that we were not
merely prepared to vote, but in your name we were prepared to send money to the Relief
Fund. The Council, therefore, voted
TWENTY THOUSAND POUNDS
from the accumulated funds. If you had seen the look on the faces of the other members
of the General Council when the cheque was handed over, you would have seen how very
highly they appreciated our position. I know it will not be forgotten in the days to come.


---
In addition, the proceeds of the Levy received through the Branches up to Saturday
morning, 22nd May, 1926, are:....

Branch. l. s. d.
Bristol 9 12 9
Bristol No. 2 10 10 0
Bromsgrove 0 2 0
Cork 7 0 0
Desborough 34 2 6
Edinburgh 7 18 6
Higham and Rushden 14 16 4
Ipswich 6 13 6
Kendal 17 19 3
Kettering No. 1 103 10 5
Kettering No. 2 78 14 2
Leeds No. 2 10 1 0
Leicester 280 15 9
Leicester No. 2 129 0 0
Leicester Women's 80 0 0
London South 4 1 0
Manchester 4 6 0
Mansfield 4 0 0
Norwich No. 1 350 0 0
Norwich No. 2 155 0 0
Northampton No. 1 320 0 0
Northampton No. 2 230 0 0
Plymouth 4 0 0
Reading 0 8 0
Stafford 86 3 4
Stone 7 0 0
Street 76 12 6
Waterford 1 4 0
Wolverhampton 12 1 0
Worcester 10 0 0
Yarmouth 0 15 6
General Secretary and Central Office Staff; 15 3 0
Insurance Manager and Staff
Grand Total £2,076 10 6

Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): I am not going to criticise the General
Secretary nor blame him for the result, but we have a complaint as an Executive Council
that we should have to wait until 25th June, 1926. We are asked to take the position
on trust. I am prepared to argue you cannot have a General Strike which is non-political.
From the very inception of the Prime Minister's intervention it is political. What have
the members of the Cabinet to do with it if it is only industrial ?
THE CHAIRMAN: No Prime Minister would give himself away. He would not
tell Sir Herbert Samuel or anyone else. It is done through friends or a patronage secretary.
I am of the opinion that Sir Herbert Samuel had some encouragement to draw up that
document. I think the matter should be left until the special meeting on the 25th June.
In relation to the Levy, Mr. Jex has had all the circulars so knows the full position.
Mr. A. W. LYNE (Northampton No. 2) asked if any alteration would be made in
connection with payment of benefits to our members.
THE CHAIRMAN: Mr. Bordoli reminds me that all the facts and reason for our
action appear in the Council's Address for May, and we ask for the endorsement of our
action by all branches. The reports will be here on Thursday.
Mr. J. BRIGGS (Leicester): The General Secretary says the Council have handed
over £20,000 to the Trades Union Congress Relief Fund. We had a meeting in Leicester
of the three branches and the General President said £10,000 had been sent. A few days
later in the Leicester papers it stated £20,000 had been sent- we are fogged. What is
the position?
THE CHAIRMAN: £10,000 was paid up to the last Council meeting. When we
met we voted another £10,000, making ₤20,000 in all.
Mr. J. BRIGGS (Leicester): I take it you will address our meeting again.
THE CHAIRMAN: I do not miss many of your meetings.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): You do not.
Mr. W. HINDES (Council Member): The Council never suggested £10,000 at
all. They left it to the General President and General Secretary to send what they thought
fit. Last Sunday week we met and endorsed £10,000, and decided to send an additional
£10,000.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
Mr. S. BETTS (Northampton No. 2) : There is a lot of sympathy with the miners.
I suggested a levy of 5s. be made from each delegate here and send it to the Miners' Federation.
The Conference adjourned at 5.3 p.m.
TUESDAY.
Morning Session.
The delegates reassembled at 9.30 a.m., the General President being in the chair
The General Secretary read the Roll and reported all the delegates were present
The Minutes of the business transacted at Monday's Sessions were read by the General
Secretary, and upon the proposition of Mr. W. R. Townley, seconded by Mr. G.
Parbury
were unanimously adopted, and signed by the Chairman as correct.
The discussion on Paragraph 4 was resumed.
THE CHAIRMAN: The strike is still on; money will be required, and it
depend upon those in the movement what help we can give the Miners and the Trade
Union Congress. I think it would be unwise to attempt to arrive at a decision, but suggest
you leave the matter to the Council so that we can acquaint you of our intentions:
necessary an extraordinary Council meeting can be called at any time.
Mr. F. NORMAN (Northampton): You had a suggestion made from our Bra
yesterday. Small as we are as a Union, we are in the front rank of trade unionism and
we should give a lead to others.
Mr. W. WHYMANT (Desborough) : Can our members have a grant:
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): Are not all the delegates subscribing? I shoul
think every delegate is paying to his own branch. All our Leicester delegates are doing
including Mr. Richards. We cannot pay double. If our friend wants to give a dollar
let him do so.
THE CHAIRMAN: All our officers are paying 5 per cent. and some 10 per cent
of their salary. To go round with the hat is not so good as regular payments.
This matter was then dropped.
Mr. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): As this is the only opportunity of seeing
our General Secretary, and having regard to the fact that he was Publicity Agent during
the strike, I should like more information. Mr. Poulton left me in a big cloud yesterday
as big a cloud as when I came here. We are living in the midst of rumblings, and a clear
statement should be given. Mr. J. R. Clynes said the strike failed. Mr. Poulton did
not give us that impression. If it has failed, where did it fail? I can visualise the position
of the General Secretary when he meets with others, the Executives at the bar on 25th
June. We should here and now get a clear definition as to where the strike failed. If
started? I can understand the General Council's negotiations with Sir Herbert Samuel
there were weakenings among the rank and file, is it too much to ask where the disaffection
ing. I think the trade union world will want to know why it was a capitulation of the
General Secretary did not agree it was a weakening.
position. I understand Sir Herbert came from Italy with such a desire to bridge the gulf,
and the Negotiating Committee-all able men, men all industrial experts-and Sir Herbert
Samuel takes the whole thing in hand, formulates a policy and the Trades Union Congress
puts it this way-it is clear such a set of circumstances would be accepted by the Govern
ment. What made it clear? Sir Herbert said "Renewal of the subsidy for reasonable
period to enable the miners to return to work on present conditions." Either he fooled
the Trades Union Congress or Baldwin backed out and left Sir Herbert Samuel and the
Trades Union Congress in the soup. Mr. Baldwin said the Miners should accept a reduction
of 10 per cent. in wages in all districts. The miners have a grave reason for thinking they
have been badly let down. I am surrounded by 5,000 miners and they want to know
the position.
THE CHAIRMAN: Mr. Gould has been in Parliament and knows full well it is
difficult to get information. I am astounded that men with the experience of Mr. Gould
should think he can get governments putting into black and white their conditions, and
commit themselves to a position. If the General Secretary can tell you more it will be
news to me. On the Saturday morning, 1st May, we had to wait an hour until the Miners
handed over their case. As soon as the Miners handed their case to the Trades Union
Congress, you will, I hope, allow the Trades Union Congress to negotiate. You should
all have open minds on that matter. As soon as you negotiate and make a statement
people want to know if there was any definite understanding. Prime Minister's give no
one a definite understanding. It goes through a lot of people before it reaches the crowd
he wishes to approach. I have every confidence that the Negotiating Committee felt
they had the backing of the Prime Minister, and Sir Herbert Samuel will not give the
Prime Minister away.


---
Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton): I have been pressed many times for the
reason why it was called off. We want something tangible of what took place.
Mr. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): To prevent the Press reporting the matter
I propose this Conference goes into Committee.
Mr. C. BATES (Council Member) seconded, and the proposition was endorsed.
The General Secretary Tries Again.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I regret 1 left Mr. Gould's mind in a cloud.
Mr. Gould is in a fog because of some statements he has read in the Press. I said yesterday
I should not be drawn into it, and I regret anyone should be writing to the Press after
the authority given to the Trades Union Congress. Inasmuch as the Executive Councils
authorised us to pursue a certain line of conduct if certain matters happened, it is for the
Trades Union Congress to report back to those Executives. (Hear, hear.) Mr. J. H.
Thomas one of the persons who has been strongly attacked has made a statement
that he was not going to be drawn into a newspaper discussion, but would wait until the
Conference called for the 25th June. That is my position. Mr. Gould has laid hold of
the words of Mr. Clynes when he said, "he made certain suggestions to his Executive
regarding the position when he saw the development of the strike." Mr. President, it
is no secret that we, as an Executive, also discussed certain matters before going to the
conference, round our own board in Guilford Street, London, when we arrived at a specific
decision, and I should like Mr. Gould to know that Mr. Clynes' union, with others, said
"Yes" to the call of the General Council. He raised no protest there. So far as I was
concerned my mind was made up a good many years ago, but it is open to new ideas.
Personally, I did not see up to that time and the lessons I have received have learned
me more that a big general stoppage is not the best way to meet the situation. I felt that
having given our word to the Miners we should try and keep the door open for negotiations
to continue, even though it lead us to a general stoppage. We were prepared to carry it
out to its logical conclusion. If the same set of circumstances happened again, I should
still as loyally carry out the given policy, but I hope we should adopt different tactics
to meet circumstances. Mr. Gould challenges me as to whether I consider the stoppage
a success. Mr. President, I did; and in calling it off also. Men in any responsible position
would be lacking in what I consider not only policy, but courage if they failed to get the
best for all concerned. Although we appeared to be on the crest of our influence when we
met the Prime Minister, we knew men in some districts were weakening. I am not pre-
pared to give further details on that. It is not fair to the conference which is to be held.
(Hear, hear.) Mr. Gould ought to accept such a statement.
Mr. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): I do; if you are pledged; I do.
Mr. A. MARTIN (Leicester No. 2): You might have known that.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: It is the first great effort to support some of our
comrades in another trade when they had conditions forced upon them without arbitration.
I think our policy is the best and secures better results. I wish to refrain from adversely
criticising kindred organisations. At the Conference in June some strong things will be
said on that side of the business, because you cannot expect responsible men in the unions
which were called out to tamely sit down when statements are made against them which
are known to be contrary to facts. Upon more than one, two, or three occasions during
those anxious days, either Mr. Herbert Smith or Mr. Cook, or both, were at our meetings,
and they were prepared to leave their case in the hands of the General Council.
Mr. H. C. ATTEWELL (Northampton): There was a reservation.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: No reservation! The reference I made yester-
day was made in the General Council's offices at Eccleston Square, and not in the Memorial
Hall, and was to the effect that "We must leave them their revolver," meaning they
wanted a say in the business. At the finish they said they could not accept the decision
we had arrived at. When the matter had been placed in the hands of the General Council
we were bound to respect the work of our nine colleagues, as they were especially appointed
to deal with the matter. I am positive as to two meetings, if not three, at which I was
present with sixteen members of the Miners' Executive, so how can it be said they were
not consulted? We had expressions of opinion given by Mr. Herbert Smith and Mr.
A. J. Cook. It is quite true they said they felt unable to accept the conclusions, but
when we reached that stage we could not withdraw and throw the thing overboard,
because the Negotiating Committee had tried to get the door open for negotiations. We
had nothing in black and white. Anyone who knows the position, and the way the
Government treated it, must know that no Premier, nor anyone else acting for him, would
put it into black and white. We had to find a way out by which negotiations could be
renewed, and my colleagues reported this was the only way by which negotiations would
be resumed, and they had every reason to believe the conclusions would be respected.
Having heard that statement we accepted their report. Apparently Mr. Gould has
orgotten the important statement I made yesterday. I said the Labour Party, although
---

---
refraining from putting questions in the House of Commons, had Mr. Ramsay MacDonald
and Mr. Henderson in constant session with us, so that they would know what was taking
place. Having gone to the Premier, a meeting of the Labour Party was held, and mining
members told other members of the Party that they considered the document would be
become the Miners' Charter. We were astounded that in the last editions of the Lon
the position. That statement, so far as we understand, was entirely unauthorised
it gave the Premier what he wanted, and the Premier threw over the Samuel sugges
still further developments, and the Premier has sent another letter which means unle
and made his own suggestions, which were considerably worse. Since then there have l
those conditions are accepted this week, they will have worse conditions still, beca
the Government will withdraw their monetary offer. The Premier had a divided Catones
many of whom were against him. The party of the Cabinet lead by Churchill and New
Chamberlain were determined the Premier should not agree to any terms, but by
great advantage when we went to the Premier and got those terms formally before
we should be compelled to give in all the way round. We considered we had secured
Mr. H. C. ATTEWELL (Northampton): Mr. Poulton has proved-if his word
can be taken as the truth-that the trade union movement is not prepared to take a
united fight. Mr. Poulton was in charge of the propaganda department, and why
that the British Worker said the whole of the country was solid to a man, when they know
or rather they now say, that the men were wavering? After the strike was called
Mr. J. H. Thomas stated there were more men out than when the strike was on
Cabinet.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: That is quite true.
Mr. H. C. ATTEWELL (Northampton): Was it the leaders of the trade we
world who failed us? The Trades Union Congress cannot get out of the situation,
saying that Sir Herbert Samuel was acting for the Government when the letters say
We should be able to have the truth of the whole affair and that without a
was not.
trouble.
ALD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2): This is a boot and shoe union conference and
have met here to do our business. So far as this reference is concerned I propose we to
on to our own business and propose we now go out of Committee.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester) seconded the proposal, which was agreed to
legislation which is going on about trade unions. We now find a number of trade unionists
Mr. T. CAMPBELL (Kilmarnock): I rise to raise the matter of the threat
behind prison bars, because of the law of the land. Something should be included in con
trade unions. We find the legal and judiciary system is not sufficient, so they call car
report to show we, as a Union, are determined to resist any infringement on the rights
tion as to our attitude in cutting down the rights of trade unions and the strike weapor
the Navy, Army, and Police, as they did a few days ago. We ought to make some declara.
by our opponents.
Paragraph 4 was then endorsed.
draw benefit now.
Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden): In paragraph 5 I desire to tur
the attention of the Conference to members of the Union. Norwich, Kettering, Rushden
and perhaps other branches, sent to the Chief Office of the Union regarding the circular
issued by the Council and the payment of unemployment benefit, asking that payment
should be made from the first day, and that members who had previously been in the
shortunate position of having drawn their unemployment benefit should be allowed to
the strike. I agree the Council did the wisest thing possible in paying unemployment
We know it was impossible for the Council to be called together during
benefit rather than dispute pay. The people I desire to appeal for are those who have
suffered most by not being able to have any benefit. I wanted permission to refer the
matter to the Standing Orders Committee for them to bring in a report. At Bozeat,
Wollaston and Finedon things have been very bad for some time, and I suggest we should
give these people some consideration.
Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow): We had much heartburning and grumblings in
Glasgow in relation to the six days' waiting period. They have been stopped and do their
six days, and at the end of the week return to work; then they are stopped again, say,
after working three days, and have to do another wait of six days. We think this is
unfair, and I have letters from several branches in Scotland appealing to me to raise the
question. I have a circular from the Central Office saying all fresh claims made after
29th May, 1926, must be dealt with under Rule 216, and we do not think it fair. I have
much pleasure in supporting Mr. Langley, as it would be a good organising move in
Scotland.
is only one way to give satisfaction, and that is to pay everybody. We were not involved
THE CHAIRMAN: You place the Council in a very awkward position. There
in the mining dispute. We were only in attendance as occasion might arise. The Council
took the suggestion most prevalent among the unions at the Memorial Hall, that we should


---
91
The rules do not permit us to pay,
endeavour all to stand off for six days without benefit.
Then we have the case introduced of the member who has had all his benefit. Why not
Out of our shilling contribution we are doing very well. If we
pay perpetual benefit?
I know it is popular to be generous.
set an example of this kind there will be no end to it all.
There is no adverse criticism if you are generous and distribute the cash.
I think the Council deserve congratulation upon their generosity by cutting
the waiting time by half. If every officer looks at the thing on its merits they would see
We go through the half-yearly report, and find some branches
we cannot go farther.
draw out 50 per cents more in unemployment benefit than they pay into the trade fund.
We want to take these things seriously, because you do not know what it will cost.
I
think the Higham and Rushden Branch would be well advised to leave the matter where
it is; we have been told that some of the men on strike have not had any benefit for
fourteen days. They did not in Leicestershire, whilst in Northumberland, Durham and
South Wales, they have received nothing at all. We ought not to get into the habit of
paving every time a member is suspended and wants to come on the funds. The Council
were fairly united on this occasion, and I suggest the matter be left where it is.
Mr. C. MAYES (Kettering): 1 do not agree with Mr. Langley that unemployed
members should be entitled to draw again once they have had their benefit, but I do
think an injustice is being done to a great number of our older members; men who have
never drawn from the Union before, and with 30 years membership. The men serve
six waiting days; they go back to work for two or three days and then stopped again
and have to wait another six days before being entitled to benefit. Would it be possible
for the Standing Orders Committee to give us a lead in the matter?
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): Last Friday we had another 600 registered for
benefit, and if Mr. Langley's suggestion was accepted they would all be entitled to out-
of-work pay. The employers know how to play the game the same as some members.
If this suggestion was carried it will cost us another £1,000 per week for the Leicester
Branch only. Mr. Gamble talks about it being an organising point of view. I thought
they were all in in Glasgow.
Mr. R. WHITE (Council Member): You should'na think George. (Laughter.)
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): The Council have broken the rule this time,
although I agree with it. We have not heard any of this grumbling in Leicester. They
are pleased the Council has reduced the 12 waiting days to six. I ask this Conference
not to go back and pay from the beginning. If you do, it will be very unwise.
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): The regrettable part of the grumbling is this.
Some of the people who have grumbled were most robust in talk in supporting the miners.
If the Council give way to this idea there will be no money left for the miners or anyone
else. Do you call this an united front? We shall never win anything unless we have
men and women prepared to make some sacrifice for the cause, such as the Salvation
Army and others. When we made this decision on the 1st May we were practically
unanimous.
Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton): Before being generous, be just. We must
consider the full position, and not spend all we have whilst we are alive. We ought to
make it imperative upon the Government to take some of the responsibility.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): I hope there will be no attempt by this
Conference to alter the position. Whilst I am in agreement with Mr. Langley there are
cases of hardship where men have drawn ten weeks out-of-work pay, found a job and are
now stopped owing to the strike. So far as Mr. Mayes is concerned, we all have these
men. The position is not so hard as under the 12 day suspension rule. So far as one can
gather the position has been met satisfactorily throughout the country. It is impossible
to inflict a waiting period which meets with satisfaction. We are all in favour of paying
from the first day if it can be done. We must have some responsibility for our liabilities.
If the Council do not do anything for those people named by Mr. Langley, who have had
their ten weeks' benefit, I suggest they should give worthy consideration to such cases
and allow branches to try and meet those cases.
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): So far as the Women's
Branch is concerned we have about 500 members suspended. We know what it means
to have nothing coming into the home. In our branch we find there are a number of
widows with children. We set our shop clerks to watch and report upon the conditions.
We have had to pay out of our branch funds-small as they are-to keep the children fed.
As women we cannot see the children of widows going without food. We have not much
in our branch funds, but we hope to continue to do as we are doing.
Mr. W. WHYMANT (Desborough): I am a member of a small branch, and perhaps
find it more difficult to keep members together in these times. This decision of the Council
has caused dissatisfaction. You mentioned yesterday, Mr. Chairman, that the Govern-
ment made the unemployed wait six days, and you said it was wrong, and yet our own


---
92
Union puts it into operation. We have a job to keep our members together, and I am
afraid we shall lose members. In relation to the levy, some of our members pay and
do not all should be made to do alike.
Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering): I do hope this Conference will allow the Standing
Orders Committee to discuss the matter in accordance with the resolution submitted to
Mr. Langley and Mr. Gamble. I think the General Strike was the greatest manifestation
of the emotional, industrial and economic desires of the people of this country. We wer
solid to a man, and the operatives of our Union would have joined the ranks the follow
into consideration, I suggest our Council only did half what they should have done. I am
morning. I am not saying the Council did not do the right thing, but taking all the fac
Mr. A. BIRT (Northampton): We have heard a lot of talk of members receiving
benefit from the first day they are off. I recall to mind the greatest hardship amon
men we find in branches, i.e., those who pay their contributions but cannot get
I trust
matter will go to the Standing Orders Committee so that these members can be dealt wit
because they have not worked three months since they last received benefit.
Mr. W. R. TOWNLEY (Council Member): I hope the delegates will not suppo
If we are going to deliberate along the lines suggested by h
you will make it difficult in future for conferences that are to come. If you do a M
Langley suggests for unemployment benefit to those who have received their ten week
the view of Mr. Langley.
members who have drawn all their sickness benefit might ask to be dealt with. I thin
the delegates will consider the difficulties in which the Council was placed. I think
are entitled to a little credit for being so generous. Benefit cannot be given in diffic
circumstances ad lib. I am surprised at Mr. Chester. We found a strong desire for re
to down kit, he says; then he turns round and asks for support for those who were not o
on strike, but could not get pay in consequence of the strike. It may be well to say
have nearly half a million pounds of money, but it should not be spent as a consequenc
of the strike. If we open the door in this way we shall land ourselves into a very difficu
position. You get men drawing unemployment benefit from the Exchange after receivina
our ten weeks, and they will argue with you that they should have their contributions paid
whilst on sickness benefit, and others who are unemployed. Let us watch the position
by us because something is being done for others. We have men who have paid the le
very carefully.
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood): I hope whatever decision may be arrived at
come from a district where we have made large demands on the unemployment fund
it will not be in the nature of adding difficulties to the instructions already issued. Wie
and we should move very carefully.
Mr. L. P. POOLE (Council Member): This question is somewhat misunderstood
Mr. Langley makes a statement. Mr. Mayes says pay from the first day. Mr. Birt refers
So far as our district is concerned there was little grumbling regarding the six days waiting
to members continuing out of work, and now I want to bring another phase before you.
period. Our difficulty is the position of those members who served their six days and then
were sent for, and after several days' work were put off again and now have to serve another
six days. I think an agreed issue should be declared on that point.
sent to the Standing Orders Committee. The point seems to be whether six days should
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): Speaking for myself, I hope the matter will not be
be served or remit the whole period. That point wants exploring. As to whether men
could duplicate benefit was another point, and I hope the Council will never agree with
that. Norwich attempted to foresee this business coming along, and raised a voluntary
levy to meet such cases.
well to fight a strike on enthusiasm. Our Council supported the policy which brought
unemployment to those who would not have been unemployed had we not agreed with it.
It is on those lines you could meet such cases.
We have been fortunate in Norwich as we have not more than 80 or 100 people suspended,
apart from one factory which closed down.
It is all very
Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): What would be the position if we spent
£10,000 to help our members ?
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): It is evident we must not get away from the
rules in future. It is a mistake to make grants when we all belong to one union. There
should be equal benefits. Nearly a quarter of a million pounds has been paid from our
Union funds during the last three years. Our members look forward to have some money
when they come on difficult times. This Conference, after hearing the varied expressions
of opinion, should stick to the rules. Our members have been on half time for twelve
months. Thousands of members will assist on the question of sympathy. Look at the
hundreds we have to turn down because they are not in benefit, and if you break the rule
once, you must do it again. Let the Government shoulder this responsibility.
Glasgow in 1906 when the Unemployment Fund was established. We were told that we
Mr. A. MARTIN (Leicester No. 2): My mind goes back to the Conference held in
were seeking the ruination of the Union. Proposals were made, and counter-proposals
---

---
03
I believe the funds were then about
Our method of arbitration
also, with the result that the fund was established.
$100,000. To-day they are nearly five times that amount.
has helped to bring it about, because no raid has been made on the funds for a strike.
I suggest the Standing Orders Committee be allowed to deal with the matter and bring
I suggest they should take into consideration all the liabilities attached to
in a report.
it that once a man has served the waiting period in six months, he should be entitled to
Our members want to be placed in the spirit of independence so
I have been out of the trade during the past
benefit again at once
as to make them better men and women.
twelve years; still I know what it means to be out of work and the serious position it creates,
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester): Our friends from Norwich seem to think all is well
In Leicestershire we have drawn wages as high as any part of the country, and we are
proud of the fact. The reaction has set in. One third of our members are now receiving
unemployment benefit. The same thing applies in Barwell as well as Earl Shilton.
had the least amount of subsidy in Leicestershire for the mines; nevertheless, the miners
are paying out 1 per man, 10s. for boys, and es, for each child.
ter with suspicion, but when they are reminded that the miners pay one
the matter
١٢٠٠
Our members look on
shilling
No benefit
for a fighting fund, as compared with our shilling all in the grumble stops.
was paid to the miners until 14th May. The Council, in my opinion, have taken a wise
step. What has the suspension scheme cost?
THE CHAIRMAN: £25.000 in two years and seven months.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Judging by the appeals sent in so far, the sum
required will be somewhat large. The information we have goes to prove it will be
abnormal.
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester): If you do what friend Chester wants, you will soon
lose all your money.
Mr. A. COLTMAN (Kettering No. 2): We appear to be in a muddle. We have
931 members suspended in our branch. Our trouble is that members have served six
days and then returned to work for a day or so; then they have to serve another six days
and we think this should be altered.
Mr. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): Can any unanimity be arrived at in view
of all the evidence submitted this morning? I do not think the matter should be left to
the Standing Orders Committee. It should be considered from the point that the Council
be empowered to make a grant to boot operatives in the various areas.
to consider whether they could get all the data and then consider the desirability of making
such grants to our own members, and so wipe out any bad feeling that exists.
I ask the Council
THE CHAIRMAN : I think the suggestion of Mr. Gould is worthy of our con-
sideration.
Mr. F. Gould proposed, and Mr. G. Parbury seconded :-
"That this matter be referred to the Council with a view to their making grants
to distressed members in the various areas, caused by the mining dispute."
There voted for this resolution
"
دو
against
The Conference adjourned at 12.34 p.m.
::
Afternoon Session.
The delegates reassembled at 2 p.m., Mr. T. F. Richards presiding.
76
28
The General Secretary called the Roll and reported that Mr. W. Pitts and Mr. W.
Westley (both of Northampton) were absent; they arrived later.
The discussion on the payment of suspension benefit was resumed.
The Chairman and Suspension Benefit.
THE CHAIRMAN: On behalf of the Council, who held a meeting during the
luncheon hour, I beg to move the following resolution :---
“
Members having served six waiting days and returning to work for not more
than two days, and then again being out of work, the two days shall not count as any
period for again being called upon to serve another period of six waiting days. This
special 'suspension period shall operate from 1st of May to Saturday, 29th May,
both dates inclusive."
Mr. W. HINDES (Council Member) seconded the proposal. After discussing
the whole matter we found a good many difficulties would arise. We hope you will accept
the resolution. Most of the speakers this morning referred to the period of men having
served the waiting days and then returning to work; we have tried to meet it.


---
94
Mr. A. H. FOLKARD (Norwich No. 2): What does it mean by two days? Mar
of our people are only working three and four hours each day.
THE CHAIRMAN: If a man does any work on any day it counts.
Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering): It says after serving the six waiting days.
a man do four days waiting, return to work for two days, and when suspended have
four days counted for waiting period?
THE CHAIRMAN: Certainly not.
to receive Suspension Benefit I cannot see where any advantage comes in with the Con
cession run until the end of June.
Mr. H. PERKINS (Leicester No. 2): Being one who has been unfortunate encou
tesolution I think our funds are large enough to pay all the members. In fairness
the members who are drawing suspension benefit, the Council might have let the c
of two weeks during which no one could say what would happen. All the phases have
question centres round the General Strike and not the Miners' Dispute. It was for a peri
been discussed, and on a vote of this Conference they thought it wise for the Council
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): I hope the Conference will accept the resolution.
to meet the difficulties, and suggest you have no right under the circumstances to 
try and find a way out of the difficulty. I take it this is the best the Council can pr
endorse what the Council have recommended.
Mr. G. BROOKS (Leicester): Whatever conclusion the Council arrive at, ther
I think it is a very wise conclusio
will be individual hardships: they are bound to occur.
The recommendation was endorsed with one dissentient.
after the agenda had been printed.
including the following resolution :-
of the Agenda Paper.
ment and education I beg to propose to you.
that of Mr. H. Green, of Northampton No. 2 Branch, who had been elected Branch Secretar
the credential cards were in order, there being one more than the printed list shower
At this juncture the Chairman of the Standing Orders Committee reported that
Upon the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee their report was adopter
left until Conference reaches the proposals relating to Education on pages 37 and 38
“That the paragraph relating to Education on page 19 of Council’s Report A
in general terms the policy underlying their suggestion, as contained in paragraph
Further, that the Council, when the proposals are reached, be asked to state
be taken as the proposal, and resolutions 62, 63 and 64, be taken as amendments.
of section 7 of their report, dealing with Education, and that Council's recommendation
Mr. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): The resolutions dealing with unemplow-
these matters. There are at present over a million unemployed in this country, and man;
I feel some time should be spent upon
could not be dealt with at the conference of trade union executives, and so given a new
ational conception. We are getting accustomed to this matter being discussed, and also
I should like to know whether the burden of unemployment
e unemployment policy. The position is indeed tragic when we consider the moner
overnment then squash the unemployed; tighten the regulations, and make it more
ent on navy, army, air force, and many other matters-good money all wasted. The
and more difficult to keep children at school. We ought to send a definite protest to
the Government on these matters. I regret very much that it should be said the Boot
Operatives passed these resolutions with common consent.
help when we were in office, stabbed us in the back and sent other people to Parliament
instead of those willing and ready to help the cause of humanity. I hope when the
next election comes the Labour Party will be put into power. When we go into power, it is
our duty to put these matters right, or at any rate to try and put them right. (Applause.)
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester): I wish to call attention to items (b), (c) and (d) :-
(b) Development of the land of the country for productive purposes;
(c) Extension and acceleration of the Afforestation Schemes;
of them are watching us.
(d) Road and Canal Development.
Men whom we tried to
When we remember what Mr. Walter Smith did in connection with the Beet-growing
industry I should like you to know it has the praise generally of farmers. I serve on one
of the Agricultural Wages Boards and the men have nothing but praise for it. Land
has been allowed to go out of cultivation through lack of means. Drainage wants to be
dealt with more than is being done at present. We all know how the forests have been
depleted-especially during the war in the South of England; they require replanting.
We all know that motor traffic is becoming more and more extensive on the roads, and the
roads should be kept in better repair. The canals we cannot expect to be brought up to
date because they are owned by the railway companies. The railway companies will
not bother about the canals. I think we should give these clauses our hearty support.


---
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): There is no doubt this is a most important thing,
and one of the most important before the Conference. I sometimes wonder whether we
are too prone to take these things as a matter of course instead of trying to develop and
explain the reasons for these resolutions. My friend Astley has referred to three items
as being of grave importance. As time goes on this country more and more will be driven
by sheer necessity, to develop its own resources as a means of creating its own needs due
to the fact that the whole of the circumstances of our nation will have to be modified.
We are not in command of the world's markets to-day as we were before the war. If this
country ceases to be a manufacturing nation, supplying the world with goods and in return
being able to get food from all parts of the earth, we shall be driven to grow more and
more of our own food. We have advocated the land for productive purposes. Mr.
Astley referred to the fact that I had some responsibility under this heading. No matter
what question you touch which deals with the land, whether it is reconstruction or develop
ment, no sooner do you approach the question than you are faced with the situation that
the land does not belong to you. Possibly some of you know I am a member of the
Forestry Commission which controls all land acquired for this purpose. We are doing
some excellent work when I say we have been responsible for planting close on 18,000,000
young trees. That is only a small proportion of what it is possible to do, and what requires
to be done in the years ahead. Here again we are handicapped because private ownership
is in the way. If this policy is to be applied and given a chance to those out of work we
must see that the proper body is placed in control of the House of Commons next. This
should be done at the earliest opportunity. The House of Commons has been the finest
instrument the possessing classes have ever had, and if we have the power we can use
the House of Commons in the interest which we represent. I submit these ideas to you
so that you can understand the whole position.
Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton): When we take into consideration the thousands
of unemployed who could be employed on the land, we should do our best to return Labour
men to power. Seven million acres of land is required to produce wheat for this country
alone out of a total acreage of 57 million acres. Instead of the unemployed walking
about we should find them work and prevent our money going to other countries.
Mr. T. CAMPBELL (Kilmarnock): Go to India and you will find coolie labour
is utilised at wages exceedingly low; in Dundee we have a town where jute is the livelihood.
In India jute is being manufactured and the Dundee operatives are out of work. Some
of the people own factories in both places. So long as we remain under the system of
capitalism, so long will you have the unemployed starving. Whether it can be altered
by Parliament is open to question.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I wish to support what has been said by those
delegates who have spoken to the resolution on
UNEMPLOYMENT.
Mr. Gould touched upon the point when he said we were in danger in consequence of
ameliary measures, of taking this problem as part and parcel of the ordinary life of the
country. In my opinion it is a disgrace that we have a recurring army of men and women
unemployed and with them gradually losing hope. In the last election we unfortunately
lost all our representatives in the House of Commons. I hope we shall redeem that position
next time. Although we only say five representatives in our rules, I hope I shall live
long enough to see more than five members of ours go to the House of Commons. To
Mr. Campbell I would say the House of Commons will be made efficacious as we make
it strong, and when we get men there who hold our views. I was once at a Government
Committee for placing men on the land, but every obstacle was put in the way. There
are private interests constantly to be considered in the same way as we have private
interests preventing a settlement of the mining dispute. Those members who read our
monthly reports will have seen my efforts to bring home to them the scandalous position
in relation to the Housing problem. We are told that the various Ministers have a difficulty
in finding money for all kinds of projects and objects; it would be better to work for
peace than making provision for killing people. I have upon a number of occasions done
my best to impress upon Ministers the necessity of building houses. A great parade is
made by the existing Ministry as to the thousands of houses they have provided. They
ignore the fact that they were built as a consequence of a foundation laid by the Labour
Party. Despite many thousands of houses that have been built, at a conservative estimate
we are still 1,000,000 houses behind to properly house the people of the land. If there
was any real intention to deal with unemployment-whatever difficulties there may be
in the building trades-we could find work for a great army of men in building houses.
alone. It would find work for years to come. Then there is the tragic sight of ill-health.
We are being told by doctors who have spent their lives in this business that much of the
ill-health is caused by the bad state of houses. In our own reports I have put cases of
people who have been living in pigstyes. How can you expect our boys and girls to grow
up fit and strong if these conditions are allowed to obtain? They can only grow up
weedy, and lacking for the necessity of life, and instead of having an Al nation, we shall


---
96
which is besetting our people from day to day. When one reads of the sums of questions
which poor people have to pay for mere shelter, it ought to make us not only determine
but to do all we can to remove the scandal. This opportunity occurs in varying ways
from time to time, not only in local municipal elections, but in urban district councils
and also in parliament. I know it has a great effect upon the powers that be if they had a
a live virile Labour vote. I want our people to be properly housed, and not herded together
They will not be my friends, until we make our influence more and more felt, both local
We know, as a result of certain happenings this country is poorer tha
it was before the war, but it is quite wealthy enough to find houses for its people, and
and nationally.
The resolution on Unemployment was unanimously passed. (Applause.)
Mr. J. H. BAUM (Organiser) proposed the resolution dealing with Education
If we could only get behind the minds of those persons who have been in office for the
few years and obtain their objective, we should discover there was a determined and wil
attack to deprive the children of the poor of its more legitimate object of life. To 1913
we held the position, hoping it would be made easier. Mr. Trevelyan gave better facilitie
Education Inspector coming to Leicester, and in giving in his report he stated that in th
city no less than eight schools were either unsuitable for children or unfit for them to to
ny Minister of Education had done before. For fifteen years we had a Board
educated in. Mr. Trevelyan found there were over 300 schools of a like character in th
first of all issued a circular, and then an administrative memorandum which altered th
centage payment. Before an education authority decided upon any schemes they ma
country. The position set up by Mr. Trevelyan has been reversed. The Governmen
basis of payment to local education authorities. This Government abolished the pe
be submitted to the Minister of Education for his approval or otherwise. Under the p
for economy they found, like all such governments find. that they could play with the
weaker members of the population. They said the children of the poor must be made
suffer for the benefit of the super-taxpayers. Further, everyone is entitled to the ordinar
one of the most brutal attacks made upon the working-class children of our countr
elementary rights of giving an opportunity to develop their mental gifts. Their act
If we are prepared to try and subordinate mental and physical conditions of the childre
and intelligent, and more determined to carry out the fight in which we are engaged, i
of the country we shall pay heavily for it. We believe in an extension of the educational
facilities. Men and women from the common stock will in future be more alert, kee-
than any
only they are given a proper education.
Mr. G. CHESTER (Kettering): There is no department in our public life which
comes under the province of an executive than the dictatorship of the Board of Education
We all know the difficulties that obtained in making progress before the advent of the
LABOUR GOVERNMENT
came into office. A good deal was done as a result of their taking office. Indeed when
the Labour Party came into office a different atmosphere pervaded the educational com-
mittees up and down the country. There was an unhampered atmosphere of progress
This has been provisionally withdrawn in view of the protests made against it. Still
We all had a feeling of despair when the circular, and later the memorandum, was issued
the principle underlying it is still in operation. Churchill has been warned by some of
the newspapers that he must make further entrenchments upon the educational facilities,
and it has been suggested to him that no monies must go to the schools until passed. This
will be a hardship on the working-class homes. The Labour Party suggested that nursery
schools and play-centres should be set up for those children where the home life is such
that they cannot have proper facilities at home. I hope we shall do all possible to counter-
act the attempts of the Government regarding their action.
The resolution was also unanimously endorsed.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser) next called attention to the Economy Bill, which
was a further attack on the position of the working classes. The special point to which
this resolution calls attention is the attack on the Health Insurance Funds. Health
Insurance, as we understand it, is a working-class measure. It is absolutely essential
that we should have a medical service to be placed at the disposal of the working people,
and anyone who has administered the Insurance Acts knows the growing need for proper
medical attention. So far the Acts have only touched the fringe of the problem. When
we claim special attention for members of the working class it is felt we must do so on a
narrow basis. As a result of wealth, the wealthy classes can provide for themselves,
but the working classes have to provide by collective methods. Within the Insurance
Acts there is fine scope for a State medical service on a national basis, but those who are
in power feel they must limit the opportunities of the working classes. There are other
schemes of economy such as the Road Fund. I am strongly persuaded that the future
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
97
policy of this country should be in the direction of developing on fast moving traffic, and
the time will come when that position will have to be met. The Government has decided
to cut down the Road Fund and so reduce the activities of the people who should have
better roads. In Health Insurance it is economy at the expense of the
expense of the working classes.
I think we should most emphatically declare our protest against the Government on these
poor, whilst in the education resolution the economy was at the expense of the child
matters.
If they are to be given greater
buildings and the expense of the working classes we should be up against it
freedom at the expense of the working classes we should be up against it
or not enough is done for our people, which makes this kind of thing possible. It is because
it is the fact that we are so ready to take these things for granted that nothing is done
of its importance and its relationship to the working-class life that this conference should
pass these resolutions with great emphasis.
Mr. A. W. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): In the second resolution we were pro-
testing against cuts in the third resolution we are doing the same. If we take the result
of the action of the Government within the past few weeks and its attack on the social
life, we shall see the same trend running through it all. During the war the Government
had to borrow money, and we know we are likely to be faced with paying £1,000,000
per day in interest on that money. Consequently a Government, such as we have to-day,
is bound to cut down the social services or to cut down the wages of the workers, or the
Chancellor of the Exchequer will impose new taxes. It is a fight all the time between
those who own and control, and those who own nothing.
Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): The best thing to do is to cut down
the National Debt by half for a start. Bonar Law once said he had £8,000 in two years
on some capital. Much of this he put into War Loan, but those who fought like my lad,
had to come back and do the paying. That is not right. In fact it is wrong. They get
education system with religious styles, but that will not wash to-day. I hope this resolu-
tion will be passed.
The resolution was carried unanimously.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY reported he would send the resolutions to the
Prime Minister and various departments. Appended is copy of the letter sent, together
with the reply :-
THE RT. HON. STANLEY BALDWIN, M.P.
10 Downing Street, S.W. 1.
THE PUBLIC LIBRARY,
BLACKPOOL.
25th May, 1926.
DEAR PRIME MINISTER, I am instructed by the delegates of the above-named
Union, representing over 80,000 members, that the enclosed resolutions were unani-
mously endorsed at their sitting this afternoon, and they expressed the hope that
you will see your way to take such steps as to put the same into operation at an early
date.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
10 DOWNING STREET,
WHITEHALL, S.W. 1.
28th May, 1926.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
Blackpool.
DEAR SIR, I am desired by the Prime Minister to acknowledge the receipt of
your letter of the 25th instant and the accompanying resolutions, and to say that it
shall receive attention.
Yours faithfully,
R. P. M. GOWER.
Paragraph 6 dealing with the Political Fund then came under review.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The Political Fund is in a serious position.
I hope, however, we shall not reduce the number of our candidates for the next election.
Some of us feel it might meet the position-if we really mean what we say-if we had a
levy. I know we can afford, or do afford certain things which do not affect our interests
so vitally as representation in the House of Commons or local bodies. It is worth con-
sideration as to whether or not the membership would pay a levy for this fund. I know
G
---

---
direct representation or we do not.
any tim
98
levy would soon place us in a fairly satisfactory position. We must
voluntary sacrifice.
money we transfer from our contributions to this wo
must try and alter the b
a levy is unpopular with us, but we must try and make it popular. Either we belie
to fight a general election, it would be a serious thing if we had no
If we were suddenly called upon--and we may s
money to place our men in the field and get them into the House of Commons. A
of society, and that cannot be done without funds. If we believe in it we must make
I trust you will consider this matter so that at the next conference
may be able to report the position is improved from what it is to-day. The small amou
the broad sense, and have a chance to make life more free. Some of the members of v
work is well spent. We must look at t
Council feel this is worth your consideration, with a view to sending it on to the memtes
ship generally, and try and raise a good sum for the Fund. I hope to live long en
Agenda: pass this paragraph and then leave the matter for the time being; it com
THE CHAIRMAN: This matter might be left over until we reach Item 69
to see many more than five of our members sent to Parliament.
you to nothing.
The paragraph was then endorsed.
Committee.
being reached, and in accordance with the recommendations of the Standing Orde
Paragraphs 7 and 8 were held over pending the various resolutions on the Age
The finances of the Union were then reviewed as shown in Paragraph 9:-
Trade Fund £19,000; there is no need in the world to build up a sick fund so long as
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): You will see the Sick Fund has increased by f58,000
are in a position to meet your liabilities. The Council should apportion the rates differens
benefit. What is the value of the society to-day? £5 per head. That is not a large
possible, because when a member has been in the Society for some time he is likely to wa
Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton): We ought to keep the sick fund as high
sick fund as a trade fund, and I hope we shall not consider any alteration of that Fund
I think it is quite as necessary that we should have a lam
occasions, and some of us feel it ought not to be subsidised with all the interest. If t
THE CHAIRMAN: The Council have had this matter before them upon seve
weeks. We have already considered the suggestion of Mr. Tex, and for all I know we migh
General Strike had developed the whole of the money would have been spent within sever
for a membership like ours.
be spending some of that fund before next Saturday.
when doubt was expressed as to the stability of the sick fund. We are in a poor wa:
Mr. A. MARTIN (Leicester No. 2: I am surprised at Mr. ex. I remembe
are getting older and our liabilities are increasing all the time. I advise that we should
compared with the friendly societies. You have £172,000 for 70,000 sick members. W
rather increase it as much as possible.
because it is evident some people do not understand the position. Mr. Martin recalls
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): This is a subject which wants a little consideration
the time when the sick fund was in a difficult position and had to be dealt with on specia
lines. Ten years ago, at Bristol, the sick fund stood at £8,219 as compared with
£172,153
to-day, or an increase of £163,934. Our worth to-day is £6 2s. 6d. per member, and I
suggest there is an opportunity of using some of our savings for further benefits. I suggest
the present benefits are adequate for the membership, having regard to the fact that many
have taken advantage of the facilities offered by friendly societies and the Health Insurance
Acts. It seems to me we should stabilise the sick fund and leave it in a satisfactory
condition. During the same ten years the trade fund has only increased £44,000.
I am not at all satisfied with the position of the trade fund. There may be periods of
depression through which we shall have to pass and the trade fund must be placed in a
proper position. In January, 1921, we had £212,000 in the trade fund; January, 1922,
£171,000. Whilst the sick fund has gone up leaps and bounds the trade fund has not pro-
gressed in the same manner. There are proposals coming forward this week for your
consideration, and a clear statement should be given. The branch funds have increased
from £65,000 to 122,000, or nearly doubled. Taking the total funds of the Union, they
have increased by £265,913. This shows our industrial policy is the right one because
we have secured conditions for our members under the best circumstances, and have
accumulated the funds shown in the report.
ALD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2): The latter part of Mr. Walter Smith's speech
did away with the first part. One would think he was visualising a time when we should
be called upon to proceed along the old lines and fighting to a finish. My impression of
the past 25 years of the Union's policy is such that it will be a sorry day for us if we
reverted to the old policy, because I am satisfied-notwithstanding all the dissatisfaction
and drawbacks which may be associated with our policy-we have secured as much, if


---
```text
99
not more for our members than any other Union. I do not agree that we should disturb
our finances. We decided that for the time being all the interest should be given to the
sick fund of the Union. Possibly that can be reviewed and the trade fund now have its
share of the interest. You will discover your gain on the sick fund is not too high after
all, because 34,000 has been given to that fund from our investments. So far as the
industrial side is concerned, we have passed through a crisis which surely we shall never
be called upon to pass through again in our time.
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): One could agree both with Mr. Smith
and Mr. Hill. If Mr. Hill had a fear in his mind that Mr. Smith wanted to get back to the
old spirit and have a "bust up," he is mistaken. So long as we can proceed along our present lines and be so successful as we have
been it would be absurd to alter the policy. Our policy has been a most successful one in
the view of the circumstances surrounding the trade. That has nothing to do with the funds,
i.e., the arrangement of our sick fund. What we should do is to earmark your funds
for a certain purpose. It is only a question of bookkeeping. Funds are invested in
Corporation Loans and to alter the arrangement is to separate your investments, or in
other words, simply a matter of bookkeeping. It is a commonsense point of view as put
forward by Mr. Smith.

Mr. A. REYNOLDS (Northampton No. 2): It would be disastrous to do anything
to alter the accounts. You could not get an actuary to say any of the funds were solvent.
I want to see the funds get higher and higher. The amount
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I suggest we are not too wealthy.
of money we have is not big having regard to our commitments. Thrown over the member-
ship it is not a big sum having regard to the obligations. The membership this month (financial)
shows 75,764. I submit then that this is not a big sum for that number of financial members,
especially as we are climbing the second half century of our existence. In the past I have
fought strenuously to maintain the funds in a sound position. I know, and I do not attach
undue importance to the fact, that we are not actuarially sound. At Bristol we borrowed
money for the sick fund. If it was thought the sick fund was having more than its fair
share of the income, there is always an easy way to meet that, simply by rearrangement
of the contributions or divisions between the sick and trade funds. As a matter of fact
I suggested this year that this should again take place. My colleagues felt, however-
and I do not disagree that when discussing the next half-yearly account we might con-
sider the question of dividing the interest. If the interest had been divided the sick fund
to-day would be £155,000 and the trade fund £193,000. Our unemployment, as un-
employment, is comparatively light, and I think it is well that we were able to pay back
the borrowed money to the trade fund. We have been able to do a lot for our members
in times of stress. I am glad some members on the floor of the conference have called atten-
tion to this matter, as our funds are not big when thrown over the membership. I did not
understand Mr. Smith when he said we wanted a big trade fund, as he rather suggested it
might be wanted for a strike. We do want funds to have some parity one towards the
other. Whatever we may do later in the week will be done with your full approval and
with your eyes wide open. It may be this Conference will decide that it is wise to deflect
some of the monies from the sick fund to another fund. Our methods of doing business
have justified themselves, not merely in wages and conditions, but to help our members
in times of difficulty.

The paragraph was then approved, and paragraph 10 next came under discussion.

Mr. T. CAMPBELL (Kilmarnock): Some time should be spent on this matter.
The International Federation of Trade Unions have 50 per cent. in its ranks, and there
are members not attached to any unions. We have some attached to the Fascisti and
others to the Christian Unions. So far as the Fascisti and Christian Unions are concerned
we may dismiss them as they are insignificant. Attempts have been made to get the
Russian International Trade Unions and the I.F.T.U. together. We find delegates from
the Trades Union Congress went to Russia and reported back to our delegates that the
R.I.T.U. are prepared to come to an unconditional conference. The I.F.T.U. says they
will only meet the R.I.T.U. on conditions. I am asking whether a round table conference
cannot be obtained with a view to getting unity.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I yield to no one for unity in internationalism.
The statement made here, if it came from the R.I.T.U. would create no difficulties. If
Mr. Campbell reads the statements that are being made about the Amsterdam International,
then all I can say is, the statements they make and are reported in our international
literature are quite contradictory. It is quite true the Trades Union Congress sent a
deputation to Russia. Since then they have been endeavouring to bring about an under-
standing, and I hope it will take place. I would have Mr. Campbell understand that our
Continental friends are in a different position from ourselves. They are all the time being
attacked by the R.I.T.U. I want Mr. Campbell and his friends to do all they can to
modify these statements. It is a very real thing of real terror to our Continental friends,
not merely the statements, but the attitude some of them take up in regard to its approach-
ment one to the other. In Russia also there are many thousands of Socialists in prison,
```

---
100
because they dared to express an opinion on Socialism and their Government.
Whatever Government we had here we should never surra
to that.
Hear Simon could tell you that at one of our meetings not so long ago, he
a letter from one of those preaching unity, stating that the first thing to do was to
the negative of freedom.
We may say that in our ordinary language, "you be hanged," but to
do was to
my of them have been hanged. Alther
Continental people it is a serious thing, as many
all of them.
I know that has obtained, it does not hinder me trying to bring about an understand
Af our List International Conference we had the utmost difficulty in dealing with
one of the delegates who
Secretary), to visit one of the countries, and found, to his very great surprise and s
next meeting, from Herr Simon himself, in which he states he had been (as our Internati
metal worker. You can understand why our friends on the Continent feel very stert.
ho came to our Paris Conference as a leather worker was a Comm
about these things, I appeal to Mr. Campbell to get his friends in Russia to refrain fr
these attacks when talking of
UNITY.
should split up the unions. They now say the General Council have sold the works
You will not have it whilst these documents are being printed. I have another
only two years old, upon similar lines. They talk of unity, and then go on to say how
of this country. Making these statements increases the opposition, and if you
these statements about men who have spent their lives in the movement, it only increa
cerned we are prepared for an understanding. I know what was said to one of my colla
the opposition. It will not help until these attacks are stopped. So far as we are
and about one of the principal Russians. I am glad to know from Mr. Campbell 5.5"
official documents that their own industries are still many points below their pos
ment that the position has somewhat improved. I want to remind you from their
in 1912. When you consider these things you should consider where we should be !
if we believed everything without investigation. It does not follow we are against
understanding with the Russians because we criticise them, but we are not prepare
They have seen their movement rent in twain, torn from top to bottom, and from ba
have an understanding which will be one-sided or lop-sided. Take the position of Fra
than 200.000 members. How can you expect men who have spent their lives building
million to a million workers have suffered as a consequence of the R.I.T.U., who havele
a position to meet, when these things are taking place. I know from conversations I ha
had with Simon how he feels about it. Can you imagine how he feels when he finds
he has been duped. Out of all proportion to the offences it raises barriers which are diff
tries in 1918, and I was hoping after the Boundary International Conference that we sho
I remember sitting in Westminster Hall with our friends from many co.
make headway. Eight years have elapsed, and we have still to appeal to them to stu
Mr. H. C. ATTEWELL (Northampton): It is imagined those who sit at Amster
national is wrong. The deputation to Russia did a service to the workers of the world.
dam are angels, and the Red International are devils. The statement of Comrade Poulte-
that the Red International wanted to impose their conditions upon the Amsterdam Inter-
So far as people being suppressed in Russia is concerned, that is because they were fighting
When the Third Communist is hurled about that is not the Communist International
against the Workers' Government. Did we not find the Labour Party putting the Emer
gency Powers Act into operation and "pinched" Johnnie Campbell? You will have to
read much more before you understand the position.
to overcome.
these unwarranted attacks.
The Conference adjourned at 4.57 p.m.
WEDNESDAY.
Morning Session.
The delegates assembled at 9.30 a.m.
The General Secretary read the Roll and reported all were present.
The Minutes of Tuesday's proceedings were read by the General Secretary, approved,
and signed as correct.
when the Roll was called on Tuesday afternoon.
THE CHAIRMAN asked Messrs. W. Pitts and W. Westley why they were absent
they found they had taken the wrong turning." (Laughter.)
The two defaulters expressed " sorrow for being late. As they did not know Blackpool
The discussion on paragraph 10 was resumed.
the item International Work, it was demanded that international unity ought to be estab-
HERR SIMON addressed the Conference and said: Yesterday, in connection with
lished at any rate, but that the Amsterdam International prevented it. In this regard
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
101

I beg to state that if there is anyone anxious to see international unity not only
established, but thinks it to be an absolute necessity, it is myself.
They thought to succeed in this by designating
destroyed this unity?
Federation of Trade Unions, and what is more they created it with the only purpose
to destroy the Amsterdam International.
the Amsterdamers as "yellows," the leaders as workers traitors.
All the calumnies issued were spread every day
By this way they hoped to make the workers
The Red International attacked all trade union officers that adopted the Amsterdam
platform, in quite a disgusting manner.
by the Communist Press of the Continent.
dismiss their leaders or to make them leave the trade union join the Communist
unions.
They suddenly
in France, in Germany, and especially in the
The trade unions on the Continent
Balkan countries were split. But the Communists, when understanding that their orders
were not obeyed as much as they liked, suddenly changed their policy.
gave out the watchword: unity must be established.
it was a mere pretext to bring the trade unions under the rule of the Communists to rule
the trade unions from Moscow.
Losowski, the leader of the Red International, recently
declared, in an article of the Russian Trade Union Journal, that they were prepared to
continue the fight against us whatever happened, and unity could not be established
until their aim be reached all trade unions under Communist rule for all trade union
But I beg to state this: when Mr. MacDonald, who is highly
officers are traitors. Mr. Poulton and our British comrades see the matter from quite a
different point of view.
appreciated by all Trade Unionists on the Continent, became Prime Minister, the Red Flag,
the Communist newspaper in Berlin, every day called him a workers' traitor. When the
General Strike was called this same Red Flag declared that Mr. MacDonald and Mr. Thomas
would certainly again deceive the workers. That is the unity the Communists want to
establish. I do not want to state here all the attacks directed against myself personally
by Isesovitch and other Communist leaders.
Mr. Poulton has pointed out already which policy the Bolsheviki followed at our
International Paris Conference, where a delegate from Yugo-Slavia was present who was
not a boot and shoe operative nor a leather worker at all. In addition, two years before,
Isesovitch sent me an appeal protesting against the shooting of a trade union leader of
the Leather Workers in Bulgaria, asking me to sign it and publish it. Recently, when
I attended the Trade Union Conference in the Balkans, the comrades there informed me
that there had been no leader of the leather workers killed. There was one who died in
the hospital from consumption. Please will you imagine the fact that this appeal would
have been published by the International, signed by Simon. What a defaming matter.
Unity and brotherhood are an urgent necessity. But this unity can immediately
be established. The Communists only need to dissolve their separate unions and to join
again their old unions. There would be no need to maintain the Red International, and
the Russian trade unions could affiliate with Amsterdam.
Unity would have been reestablished a long time ago, and whenever the Communists
have the honest will to so do, when they are willing to cease to calumniate the old
experienced leaders who have been working for the well-being of the workers during
their whole life-who are calumniated only because they are opposing disturbances caused
by the Communists, and when they ceased to call them workers' traitors paid by the
employers.
What we oppose so much, as being contrary to the interests of the working classes,
is that the Communists try to make the trade unions follow their orders. But the trade
unions have been created to forward the workers' standard of living, and they can accom-
plish this task only by insisting upon their remaining independent. That has nothing
to do with the neglect of political education. We very well know that it is absolutely
necessary to do all that is possible to cheer up the workers so far as political matters are
concerned. This insight must become a general opinion, that only by supporting a workers'
government the working classes will finally succeed in abolishing capitalism and in pro-
moting the realisation of Socialism, of happiness and well-being for the working-classes too
(Applause.)
THE CHAIRMAN: You have heard a different complexion put on the trade
unionists of this country who seemed to be the only people who commit offences. Yesterday
we had boos for friends and applause for foes. It is not by attacking people who are
closely attached to you that you will make headway. If they want a new show let them
build it up, not pull down. I think it would be better for all to have one International.
Immediately you have a rival show you should state the object. We don't know. It is
a bad thing to find traitors in our midst, because our own rules deal with those who work
against the interests of the union. The First and Second International were not enough
so they had the Third International.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): We had had a big discussion on this subject
at our own International, and the feeling on the Continent is very strong, and very


---
102
ddicerent from outs on account of the Red Unions. You will remember when a big effort
wing made to send munitions to Poland: the dockers here refused to load the" Jolly
We were assured at the Dresden Conference that trade unionists would refu
to tord the ships there, but members of the Red Unions did the work. I am stating whay
was given us by delegates at our own International. It was also stated that when there
is agitation within the unions in favour of a strike and this statement was not
challenged the Reds agitate for a strike and then go into the workshops and get the
Reger
on the Continent, according to the statements of
Until such a
The policy Czecho-Slovakia, Austria, and Balkan States, is tha
lest jobs for themselves.
representative of Unions from France, C
the Red Unions are pursuing a policy of wrecking.
useless to speak of trade union unity.
Paragraph 10 was then approved.
In connection with paragraph 11:
THE CHAIRMAN said:
policy is stopped it is
"We have lost some very good officers: very capab!
men, and men who set an example we should all do well to follow
departed colleagues.
The delegates then stood in silence as a mark of esteem and appreciation of their
Mr. R. WHITE (Council Member): I should like to know whether anything
Paragraph 12 was next discussed.
they cannot have more Inspectors as they are too poor.
can be done to speed up inspection of the workshops ?
? I know the Government have said
I should like our Union to get
the Government to speed up this work so that all shops can be visited. I know places in
doing on the Board is good work and we should try and make it as perfect as we can.
cannot get hold of them because no wages books are kept. The work our members are
Edinburgh that have not been visited and they are not observing the conditions. We
Mr. W. HINDES (Council Member): This matter has been raised on the Council
several times, and we have approached the Government Department for more inspectors.
will continue to operate. Notwithstanding the policy pursued by the Government we
have done good work in connection with the Trade Board. When you look at the list
They said they could not have more because of the request for economy. Until we
get the people in power that will look after our interests. I am afraid the present position
difficulty is we cannot get the complaints registered with us in the way we should like
in the Council's Address and see what has been done you will see the position. The
them. We shall try to get everything done that is possible
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): We blame the Government for not appointing
more inspectors. The men at the repairing trade are responsible for the position they
are in. At Liverpool some men told me they would be safe under the Trade Board and the
employers would have to pay the rates. I told them unless they belonged to the Union
nothing was safe. Last year a decent employer in Liverpool who pays more than the
rates told me that not 10 per cent. of the employers were paying the proper rates. We
should have anything from 5,000 to 7,000 members in the Union on the repairing side
belonging to us.
was as
Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton): The statement got out by the Trade Board for
repairing is equal to any got out by our branches for making and finishing. I am sorry
to hear of the apathy of the repairers. When we as a Union have come forward and
tried to get them a respectable wage they should join our Union. I wish the Government
good to the members on the Trade Board as our own Union, as I have a lot of
trouble to get any pay for attending the meetings.
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): As one of the original representatives of
the Union on the Central Committee of the Trade Board, I rise because the repairing
trade-particularly in Lancashire-is of much more importance than some people imagine.
There are thousands of people in the North of England getting their living at boot and
shoe repairing. There are few factories making new stuff, and they are only small at that.
It is possible to get all repairers into the Union, but the difficulty is to secure a shop
president to collect their contributions. There are some branches of ours in Lancashire
who have had members for years. I have been in meetings in Lancashire, and every time I
find an old member from Leicester or Northampton who has been put on the scrap heap by
machinery, and so transferred to the repairing side. They are the people who have made
the position for the younger operatives. Whatever we can do to improve the position
should be done. There are one or two phases of this question which delegates ought to
be more alert upon. The question has been raised about the lack of inspectors; that has
been discussed many times, and we are told it is due to the craze for economy.
lying all this, you must get down to the bedrock fact that the present Government do not
believe in Trade Boards, and they are trying their best to strangle them by not administer-
ing them properly. We have recently noticed a sinister influence at the back of the
Government department. I have sat at Trade Board meetings for two and three days
when the business was legal quibbles as to what we can do and what we cannot do. As a
Under-


---
103
I do not want that spirit to
repairing industry
Those who knew the rep
consequence some say why bother with the Trade Board
get into the minds of the members of our Union.
before the Trade Board, and since, will agree with me that the position has entirely changed
Then there is the question of payment for services
I do pecause hate think the members of the Board have not objected to the rates of
been taken up several times by the General President, but we know that whoever
does work for the Government has had their pay reduced.
pay, we
This has
regarding the Trade
THE CHAIRMAN: 1 am surprised we do not get more enquiries regar
The great amount of time our late colleague, Buckle, and I have put into
Board work
this work calls for more attention. Sometimes we sit
sit for nearly week out of a month
That means
under the chairmanship of Mr. W. Addington Willis. Thirty thousand orders are sent
out every time an instruction or order is made by the Board. This number has been
checked and I am assured that everyone of that number are employers.
there are at least 30,000 members in the repairing trade, and we cannot find 5,000 belonging
We have tried to get inspectors chosen who have a technical knowledge.
to any union.
The present inspectors are trained men and women with an alert mind, due to education.
They do good work for us, but only 4 per cent. of inspections take place. Mr. Richards
He continued: We have been hammering away at these
then referred to his negotiations with a large repairing firm at Harrogate and showed the
headway that had been made.
people since 19th June, 1922, and now it is 1926, and we have only just secured a settlement,
so you will see we have been sorely tried.
up our Trade Boards because we can impose the conditions on
It would be an unfortunate thing if we gave
BAD EMPLOYERS
as well as the better ones paying the conditions. In many instances some of these people
are so small, that when they have been prosecuted they have had to pay the fines in
instalments, Still we must go on with this work.
Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow): The inspectorship has improved during the past
few months, and I am going to give credit to the young ladies who do the job. I believe
there are more technical details about this side of the work than in some of the factory
operations. There are many one man shops, but nowhere is the demonstration of capital-
ism shown more than in those shops. Some of the repairers say they cannot be paid less
than the rates shown in an Act of Parliament, but I say they should get inside the Union
to have their position protected.
Mr. T. CAMPBELL (Kilmarnock): I do not think anyone here knows the number
of boot and shoe repairing shops in the country, because they do not have to register.
We should press for this registration. It would be a bad day if the Trade Board was
withdrawn from our industry. It is heartbreaking to meet men who are willing to draw
benefits secured through the Trade Board and refuse to join the Union.
We have had a number of cases
Mr. J. T. OSBORNE (Bristol): We have been pegging away for some time to
get a register established and shall continue to do so.
before the Police Courts in Bristol, and in one instance the people were fined; it being
proved that over £70 was due in wages.
The paragraph was then endorsed.
Paragraph 13 dealing with the revision of the National Agreement was also endorsed,
the matter being left with the Council to submit proposals to the Employers' Federation.
Paragraph 14 on Shoddy was endorsed without discussion, and also paragraph 15.
This concluded the discussion on the Council's Address.
Standing Orders Committee.
The Chairman of the Standing Orders Committee recommended the following pro-
cedure in connection with the Superannuation Scheme, the recommendation being adopted.
1. Council to move general discussion on the principles of Superannuation.
2. Rushden to move their amendment to the scheme for officials.
3. Branches having amendments in opposition to the Council's recommendations
speak in support of Rushden's amendment.
4. After discussion vote be taken on the amendment.
5. If amendment is lost, Conference proceed to discuss amendments 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 to Council's official scheme.
6. Conference then proceed to discuss Council's Scheme for members and a vote
be taken for and against acceptance.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
104
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: On behalf of the Council I beg to propose t
following scheme for your adoption:
THE COUNCIL.
SUPERANNUATION FUND.
L. The Fund shall be held in Trust by the Management Committee (Execut
Council of the Union) for Superannnation purposes, and shall be administere
accordance with the following rules:
The objects of this Fund are to provide a Superannuation allowance to permas
(full time) officials and clerks of the Union or branches, and a payme
ents or
representatives of a deceased official or clerk, according to the scale set foy
in these rules.
The Fund shall be used for no other purpose.
Those eligible to participate in its benefits shall be permanent officials and
Contributions to the Fund shall be compulsory by all permanent officials
of the Union and branches of 21 years of age and upwards.
clerks over 21 years of age.
Retirement Conditions.
2. Where an official or clerk over 21 years of age with over ten years' serمز
has retired from service on account of inability to efficiently perform his duties o
to infirmity or ill-health, and under 60 years of age, he shall receive pay on the
of Superannuation named in these Rules subject to the discretion of the Manageme
or clerk shall not be entitled to claim Superannuation on the grounds of age alo
Committee, who shall have power to review such cases from time to time. An offe
until he has attained the age of 60 years, but he must compulsorily retire at 65
of age.
Scale and Basis of Payment.
No superannuated official or clerk shall accept office with a rival organisatio
3. Superannuation benefit shall be paid to a permanent official or clerk on the
undermentioned salary basis :-
Years of Service.
10 years
Fixed Benefits.
35 per cent.
plus 1 per cent. for each additional year's completed service, the salary at the time of
retirement being the determining factor for the amount of pension.
Contributions and Refund of Same.
officers and Central office clerks, and 3 per cent. from Central Funds: 3 per cent.
4. The rate of contribution shall be 3 per cent. of wages received from National
from Branch officials and Branch clerks, and 3 per cent. from Branch funds. When
an official or clerk has been superannuated he shall cease to contribute to the Fund.
5. An official or clerk upon resigning, or his services being dispensed with, or
failing to secure re-election, shall (in cases where there is no title to a pension) have
refunded to him all contributions paid by him to the Fund plus 4 per cent. on the
total amount due to him when leaving the service of the Union. A similar refund
shall be made to the dependents or legal representatives of any official or clerk who
dies before completing ten years' service.
Inasmuch as under Regulation 8 of the Rules made by the Commissioners of
Inland Revenue pursuant to their powers under Section 32 (4) of the Finance Act,
1921, the Trustees of the Superannuation Fund are liable to account to the Com-
missioners for Income Tax at one-third the standard rate in force at the time of refund
on all contributions (with any interest additions thereto) returned to members of the
Fund during the life-time of the members, a deduction shall be made from contribu-
tions returned to a member during his life-time, and such deduction shall be at the
rate of one-third the standard rate of Income Tax in force for the year in which the
repayment is made.
whatever.
Any official or clerk dismissed for dishonesty shall have no claim on the Fund
Payment on Death.
annuation Fund, provided that he has from 10 to 15 years' service, the dependents
6. In the case of death of an official or clerk before participating in the Super-
or family of such an official shall be entitled to one year's superannuation allowance;


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

105

where his services exceed 15 years and under 20 years, 18 months' allowance shall be
paid, and where the service exceeds 20 years, the dependents shall be paid two years'
allowance in accordance with the scale, or a refund may be made as named in clause 5,
whichever sum is the greater.
Where an official or clerk has been superannuated and dies before receiving
two years' allowance, the Management Committee shall grant the dependents or
family the balance of two years' superannuation allowance according to scale.
This shall be considered a final payment in such cases.
An official or clerk entitled to benefit from the Fund can nominate any person to
receive such sum as may be granted in the case of death. In the event of there being
no dependents, the Management Committee shall grant such sum as will cover all
necessary funeral expenses.
General.
7. The Union shall guarantee the benefits of the scheme.
Retirement for the purposes of claiming the superannuation benefit shall be
suspended until Ist January, 1930, but in the case of those 65 years of age and over
at the commencement of the scheme, it shall be optional for them to retire on Ist
January, 1927. In such cases they shall be deemed to have completed not less than
ten years' service with the Union.
1926.
Payment of contributions to the scheme shall be payable from 4th September,
8. In the event of a permanent officer being returned to Parliament he shall
continue to pay contributions at the same rate as were paid before being returned
to Parliament.
9. The Fund shall be controlled by a Management Committee consisting of the
Executive Council of the Union.
10. If the Union shall be dissolved or amalgamated with any other Union, the
Trusts constituted by these presents may, subject as hereinafter provided, thereupon
determine. Otherwise the said Trusts shall continue during the life of the survivor
of the issue now living of her late Majesty Queen Victoria, and 21 years after the
death of such survivor and such further period, if any, as may be lawful. Upon the
determination of the said Trusts, the affairs thereof shall be wound up, and subject
to the payment of all costs, charges and expenses which may then be owing and to
provision so far as the Fund will admit being made for the continued payment of any
pensions which are then payable, the balance of the Fund, if any, shall be applied
at the discretion of the Trustees in making provision for pensions or gratuities amongst
all or any of the permanent officials or clerks who are then in the active service of the
Union, and to whom the Superannuation Scheme is, or may be, applicable.
The Executive Council shall create a Fund to meet the liabilities involved, a
sum equal to one year's interest (for 1925) on Union's funds, and invested for the
purpose of a Superannuation Fund.
Proceeding, the General Secretary said: "The Council feel that at a given period in
the life of officials there should be something for them to fall back upon rather than they
should be stranded. I hope we shall deal with this in an impersonal sense and not have
any regard to persons or individuals. I believe we have all been actuated with the idea
of starting a superannuation scheme. If the personal element is introduced it will destroy
the whole idea. I would like to call your attention to the fact that when you have a printed
document before you which you can read in a few minutes and grasp the situation
in a short space of time, that it does not always convey to the reader-and I want to assure
all the delegates-the fact that the Council, and also a Sub-Committee have spent a good
deal of time upon this subject. Their report represents much time spent and also the
consideration of many schemes. It is only after examining a number of schemes of unions,
government schemes and municipal schemes, that these proposals are presented to you in
this form, and the Council feel you will give them adequate and serious consideration.
You will see we propose that the scheme should apply to permanent (full time) officials
and the clerical staff both in the Central Office and the branches. I believe the proposals
are sufficient in themselves to explain what we desire to do. If there is any doubt in your
minds my colleagues will be pleased if you will say so here. I equally wish to say that I
hope no delegate will refrain from expressing his opinion, as it is much better to do it here
rather than go away with some misunderstanding.
In the first clause you will see how we propose to set up the
SUPERANNUATION FUND.
In that regard the Council feel it should be a watertight fund. Paragraph 2 deals with
those officials or staff over 21 years of age wishing to retire from ill-health or infirmity.
They must be subject to the discretion of the Management Committee.


---
105
We are not in the position of the great organisations that we can bring thousands,
people into the scheme, as say the Prudential Assurance Company, so members will ha
to be dealt with on different lines.
In the third item you will see the benefit to be paid is on a salary basis: the men
In the case of the General President and myself it would be approximately
anyone can receive, if joining the scheme at 21 years of age and retiring at 65, would be
70 per cent
experience is worth something. Some men are old at 50 and others are not old at 7
£350 per annum. I do not believe everyone will want to retire at 65 (hear, hear), becaus
When you look into the political world it is considered to be just the time when the
When you look into the political world it is considered to be just the time when the
in the scheme. After going into the figures the Council are of opinion that the propo
people who hold high office are appointed, because of their accumulative knowledge,
Then there is the question of the rate of contributions to be paid by persons participativ
rates will meet the position.
There are about 11 officials at the maximum who would be entitled to come on
scheme Under these rates the General President and General Secretary would be entitl
to approximately £350 pension, and the total pensions would not exceed £2329 per
The income would be approximately £2329 per annum.
annum.
Council suggest £15,000 should be transferred from the sick fund, this being t
approximate amount of one year's interest.
There would be 83 persons entitled to come within the scheme. I believe we ha
arrived at the stage, when thanks to the method of dealing with our business, we can
to do this. The scheme, when in working order, will do away with two things
(1) Officers might keep in office longer than they should do, because at present they ha
not sufficient means to retire upon; (2) It prevents worrying about the future positio
if officers fall on bad days. It is up to us to try and help such men and women who ha
ought now to show that we are amongst the first of the unions who will take this
spent their best years in the movement, whether by giving brain or physical ability
on and show that we are anxious to do all we can for our people in their declining year
and so keep them free from care and anxiety. These are some of the reasons which ha
prompted the Council to bring the scheme forward. They have fairly good reason to hope
it will be accepted, as there is no serious attempt by any branch to upset the basic principis
I know there is another proposal whereby some think that all should participat
There is some considerable difference between being able to make provision.
or none.
the whole of our 83,000 members in the way in which members talk, and making provisi
for those in our service. I shall be delighted if we can do the two things. It has beer
scheme will be a beginning and help those who have borne the heat and burden of the da
one iota because we can settle our differences without having disputes. I hope thi
and is, one of my dreams to see our Union with £500,000 in the bank, apart altogethe-
These are the reasons for our presenting the scheme. We must get a start somewher
and here is a chance for a start. I have pleasure, Mr. Chairman, in proposing this report
The proposal having been formally seconded,
Mr. C. SMITH (Higham and Rushden) proposed Item 2 as an amendment.
Higham and Rushden." That a Superannuation Scheme for the whole
membership of the Union be drawn up by the Council, at once, as an
alternative to the scheme at present proposed."
We discussed this matter at several meetings of our branch, and did not come to any
decision upon the matter. I represent the rank and file of the Union. I hold no official
office. It is more a matter of principle with me because I am a Socialist and think we
should all be served in the same way. Under present-day conditions we should not have
two schemes as it is against our own movement. Surely it is not democratic to set up one
scheme for officials and one for members. I therefore propose the amendment.
Mr. W. HULBERT (Kingswood) seconded the amendment. At Kingswood we
are not opposed to the principle of superannuation, but after discussing the scheme sub
mitted by the Council, we felt we could not agree with it. It might create an atmosphere
which would be difficult to deal with seeing it only applies to officers and staff. We feel
it should be extended. We feel it is too limited in its scope for present application. Take
for instance shop presidents, shop committees, and even some Council members are not
full time officials, although they give much time to the work of the Union. We think
such services are worthy of consideration, and our suggestion is not unreasonable.
Mr. A. MARTIN (Leicester No. 2): The members of the Conference regret very
much the absence of any data supplied by the Council; up to this moment it has not been
supplied. It is a matter of supreme importance and we should have had much more
information. I have no indication as to the number of officers who would be entitled
to come under the scheme. I now learn there are 83 so entitled. How many of our
permanent officers will retire in 1930? How much has been allocated to reimburse those


---
i
107
What is the position of a permanent officer
permanent officers who are not clected
who, after losing his job say after 25 years' service, is re-elected?
annuation is sound, and one we should accept, but we must have more information.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): What we are discussing is whether you will be per
Everything will depend as to how far the Council's scheme is
mitted to secure a scheme for officials and staff as distinginyereythene for the
membership as a whole.
adopted.
Our friend from Rushden asked why there should be two schemes.
The basis
The scheme for
basis of superannuation of the operatives is a scheme of a person belonging to a society.
for superannuation for officials and stati is a scheme for the servant of an employer; the
The basis for the official is one which says when you have reached a certain age you should
leave and we will try and secure certain monies for your retirement. This scheme
is brought forward because we have knowledge of officers who have been compelled to
and this scheme is brought here for the first time and we should heartily give it our support.
cling to office concurrently with the knowledge that they know they cannot do their job,
If the Council have been induced to prepare a scheme to safeguard an officer when the
time comes for him to retire, then it should not be turned down. Meantime let us be clear
on this question as to whether you accept the principle of the scheme or turn it down
until such time that a scheme is evolved for all. I oppose the amendment.
on. What is good enough for the workman should be
Mr. D. C. ARNULL (Daventry): I feel as a trade unionist and labour man we
cannot have two classes in one Union.
good enough for the officials. Any official who will participate in this scheme should be
quiet and allow the delegates from the rank and file to do the talking. We have the
Northants District Council and this question was discussed there. I
over it. Superannuation is a wonderful thing and I believe in it wholly and solely. Why
worry what will happen in our old days when we are
TOO OLD AT FORTY.
I hope that everyone will vote for the amendment.
I feel very keenly
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): Before the vote is taken I hope we shall
have a clear view as to what is meant. It is impossible to have a scheme for members
on the same lines as officials, and if this conference thinks we should only have one scheme,
then close the discussion at once.
As employers, are you prepared to give your servants
superannuation benefit? By each one who has spoken the principle of superannuation
has been blessed, but they oppose this scheme. To tell officers they should have the
decency to remain quiet when the officials have a longer membership, and are doing more
than their quota of the work, does not help the position. We have felt grieved at the
plight of some of our older officers. We have also felt the interests of some of our members
have suffered because officials have held on too long. Grants have been made. Appeals
have gone round to the branches to start a fund. Some members of the Council feel there
ought to be a superannuation fund. It is not welcomed by all officials of the Union, but
we believe in it in the best interests of the members of the movement. You cannot afford
to let the movement grow old. I appeal to this conference to try and view the position
from the point raised by Mr. Jex. You can reject the scheme for the officials and say you
will have one for the members if you like, but don't turn the officials' scheme down because
it only applies to 83 instead of 83,000. Don't turn it down until you have carefully
examined it.
Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): The best men I know are the older
men, yet Mr. Manners said we must not have them.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): I said you must not let the movement
grow old.
Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): I have been to three hundred branch
meetings in succession and have had very little out of the funds. It is a question of being
temperate. I have been a member 29 years, so you will see what I have done to help
build up the funds. I consider such men as myself should come in the scheme, and I am
opposed to two separate schemes.
The Conference then adjourned at 12.30 p.m.
Afternoon Session.
The delegates reassembled at 2 p.m., Mr. T. F. Richards in the chair.
The General Secretary read the Roll and reported that all the delegates were present.
THE CHAIRMAN: Several delegates have asked me if they can leave the conference
to-morrow night owing to the unprecedented position brought about by the strike, and the
large amount of unemployment benefit required.
It was left with the General President to use his discretion as to whom he should
allow to leave, it being understood those delegates desirous of so doing should make
personal application to the Chairman.


---
108
The discussion on the Superannuation Scheme was resumed
Mr. A. STOTT (Heckmondwike): The problem before us is two-fold, the
a scheme for the officials and the other a scheme for members. I agree with Mr.
I hope the delegates will not be led astray by others. Some of the employers are
nising their responsibilities, and we should be prepared to acknowledge the matter
you do not accept the position you will have badly failed.
Mr. C. PRATT (Leeds No. 2): I have been wondering as to whether we are aw
We have been told we must not forget the rank and file,
regarding this question.
scheme must not be a different one from ours.
Is it more important that a man of 65 a
The average member is under the i
that the Council have taken a short time,
for 83 members and not 80,000.
officials of the Union had had the Council's Address before their members the opp
would not have been so strong as it is to-day. It is just a feeling that the rank and
a permanent office should come out of office, than for a man to leave the factory!
are being put off. Some of us have received our instructions how to vote, becaus
members think they have been forgotten. It is just that thought that a scheme 13
Mr. W. ENGLAND (Norwich): A lot of complaint has been made about
rank and file and the officials, taking up too much time. I want to support the price
of the scheme. We have grumbled for years in various districts because at the ETIA
certain period men were too old to work and were not quick enough. If we canno
anything from our employers that is no argument why we should treat our employe
the same way. Whatever we give our servants you must remember they will ha
2s. 6d. per week. It is all very well to say we want a fund for all our members. Ima
pay 3 per cent. of their wages to the fund, and I should say that means an avera
to the conclusion that you cannot ask them for another 3d. per week. Some think
our members being asked for 2s. 6d. per week for superannuation. In fact I have
present shilling is too much. I hope the conference will pass this scheme. The oppre
extended to it is through lack of knowledge through the scheme not being explainer
Our Council member and officials explained the scheme to our members and we
instructed to vote for it.
Mr. S. BETTS (Northampton No. 2: Our officials say they are prepared to
be assured of something to have a comfortable time at the end of their life. It is not c
the bottom dog. Mr. Poulton said after our officials had worked very hard they sho
our Union officials who work hard, but the shop presidents, committee, and others, and
should be included.
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member) supported the scheme. As a Council
are suggesting that provision should be made for our employees when they reach tha
for our public servants for years, and we have got it. You back it when somebody else
age when we think they should have the opportunity to retire. We have asked for the
officers with the lowest paid worker than any of you imagine. It has been suggested the
pays. I suggest you have done more harm by trying to regulate the standard of ve
officials should not speak to the scheme. Suppose one was to come to the official and the
what would happen? You take your yearly income and you will find some officials d
not get as much as you. I will go further, and say there is not a member of the rank and
file who has been asked to do what we have during the past three weeks; if so, there
would have been open revolution. Personally, I do not care whether this goes throug
or not. For the sake of the Union I suggest it is in your interests that you accept the
scheme. The mover of the amendment in his own words said they had discussed it several
times, and came to no decision. If you do not understand it, why reject it? You might
have asked for an explanation. It is suggested it is not democratic to have two schemes,
because we should all be on one grade. There is no comparison between the two people.
You cannot provide an income for the members' scheme unless the employers subscribe.
Suppose at some future time we put up a case for a scheme for the Federation to subscribe
to a joint scheme for members. They would defeat us with the arguments used here
to-day. If they quote some of the statements made they will be successful in opposing
such an application. I suggest you should be very careful before turning this scheme
down. Trade Union work of to-day is very different from what it was years ago. The
life of a trade union officer is more difficult and strenuous. We had an illustration here
this afternoon. Go back for twenty years and see the causes of death of trade union
officials, and ask yourself what the length of their life is. I prefer-as an individual-to
retire with the full force of vigour and faculties than wait until I am worn out. You
cannot give the rank and file members what the Council are proposing here. The rank
and file has never been generous to its officials, and very often the wages of the rank and
file has suffered as a consequence. I believe it was Mr. Pratt who said we must take into
consideration the average member. The average member when he compares the position
things on the official he would not do himself. It is largely through lack of thought.
I support the scheme in the best interests of the Union


---
Mr. J. BRIGGS (Leicester): We discussed this matter and came to the conclusion
that it would be better to wait until we had heard the discussion and then form our own
judgment. I have come to the conclusion that Item 23 meets the position.
Leicester No. 1. It says
"That the Council prepare a Superannuation Scheme for
the members, such scheme to be submitted to the members and a ballot be
taken for their approval or otherwise."
I am going to back up the Higham and Rushden Branch. Mention of permanent officials
has been made. There is no such office; only the clerical staff is permanent as they do
not have to submit to a vote.
Mr. W. PAINE (Kingswood) objected to the statements of Mr. Dobbs on behalf
of the members he represented. Have the Council had any actuarial advice on this
scheme?
THE CHAIRMAN: No.
Mr. W. PAINE (Kingswood): I suggest you would find the whole scheme insolvent
if you take the statement of the General Secretary that there would be eleven entitled to
benefit, as some can come on the fund in January, 1927.
THE CHAIRMAN: We have considered many schemes that were on an actuarial
basis. After paying 180 to an actuary for an unemployment scheme which Dr. McNamara
refused to put into operation, we decided to base our experience on what other unions are
doing.
Mr. J. BRIGGS (Leicester): Is any scheme financially sound ?
THE CHAIRMAN: Yes, that of the Typographical Society.
Mr. G. BROOKS (Leicester): I came here with an open mind. Had everyone
adopted the same outlook as the General Secretary probably a different impression would
have been given. I have come to the conclusion that Mr. Dobbs' speech will do more
harm than good. He gave us an example of glorified officialism. Mr. Dobbs talks about
the strenuous work of the officials; the same applies to the operatives. Life was never
more strenuous. The General Secretary put the scheme before us in an unbiassed way
and the other speakers should have done the same.
Mr. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): I hope the mind of the conference will not
be closed yet. It is deplorable to find terms being slung about as they are being done at
this moment. The men we elect to serve us are selected because of their courage, ability,
and the stand they make for us. When they refuse to do so we ought to get someone else.
When I argue the case for the teachers I say only the best men and women are worthy of
teaching our children. Only the best brains ought to go to negotiate for us. What is
that worth? We ought to look at the scheme from that perspective There is
NO TRADE UNION
We have
in this country built up with so much serious and wise government as our own.
reached 1926. We have fulfilled all our obligations. We have paid out thousands of
pounds of unemployment benefit at 18s. per week for ten weeks. It is due to the Council
we have selected. I am not forgetting the rank and file, nor shop presidents who are
the living link. We cannot do anything without good generals. The workers are a most
magnanimous people. If I ask for £100 for a political division and can back my claim
I get that £100. You all know it. We can afford one year's interest to launch this scheme.
Does that debar anyone from coming into a scheme? Unless we have a note from an
Actuary that the grant is sufficient we should get one. We ought to be able to proceed
on proper lines. If we believe in the thing, and believe it to be wise, then help us to win
through. Let us endorse the Council's scheme and then turn our attention to hammering
out a scheme which will be actuarily sound.
ALD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2): When the vote is taken we shall discover the
majority are agreeable to the principle. I hope none will be lead astray. If we believe
in the principle it is up to us to vote for it, and not merely stand by. Personally I do not
mind whether the scheme is carried or not, but I do think the time has arrived when we
should do something to ensure to the officials-although some of you think our life is a
cake walk-who desire to retire a decent retirement. It has been remarked that we
have representatives on public bodies. We all know that public bodies of any standing
have initiated for their servants a superannuation scheme. I am glad to belong to such
a movement; in a sense we are the employees of the members in the same way that the
tramwayman is the employee of the municipality. I feel there is underlying all this a
sort of comradeship linking the rank and file to the higher forces. The officials up and
down the country have not asked the Council to do this. So far as I know the move has
been made by the Council without the least prompting that it should be done. I think
the action of the Council is good. I do not think all men are down and out at 65 years
of age. I have known officers of this Union who through unfortunate circumstances


---
street word,
bad state of health.
as a question of principle,
on your work.
110
but I think the benefits too high for the contributions,
could to the detriment of the Union. If we had had such a scheme as this, it would
step out with better results to the Union. Money never troubles me very much, but
and protracted illness have not been able to render to this Union that service
Should have done, but because of their financial position they have hung on as long as
eunsured to the unfortunate man who becomes broken down in health a way for hi
mind goes back to other conferences where general officers and branch officers, to we
down by infirmity and their lives were overshadowed by carping cares. I want to a
it was cruelty to animals" for them to carry on their work owing to
They had no chance to get into the factory. They were
if your seriously consider the matter you will accept this scheme to-day. Deal
to the rank and file to do their bit, to appeal to the finer spirit and generosity, and I
as a question of broad justice to the men you appoint to
Mr. W. YEOMANS (Kettering): If you pass this it will be a disastrous st
Mr. T. RABBITT (Wellingborough): I am not against the scheme for offe
If you pass it, you will want four general officers in future instead of two, to get the mem
we are 100 per cent, membership, and if you pass this scheme we shall lose mCTOV
Our members did not take this as a serious proposition at our meetings. In Kette
Mr. W. R. TOWNLEY (Council Member): One would imagine that the office
were bringing something forward for their own object. I would like to say as a men
of the Sub-Committee, that was not the motive which actuated the Council in bring
the scheme forward. As a Council member we have to deal with appeals from brate
financial assistance. It did not come from the officials, but the rank and file. I do
the officers as well as with the members. If this scheme is not adopted it will not on
believe any of our members desire such a thing to remain. There are casualties
any result to those officers who are casualties. It can be truly said that our officials
been in the habit of doing all possible for their members. I should like you to remem
that. The cost of this scheme, what it may be. will not be a financial burden on the Cro
and Unemployment Insurance Acts, and that has been a source of revenue without
During the past few years many of the branches have administered the Health Insura
and myself decided to take on the State Unemployment, and as a result our branche
to the branch. About fifteen months ago, the Vice-President of the Northampton Bra
members of the Trades Union Congress, surely it is good for the Union. It would give
If superannuation is a good thing
sense of comfort to all the officers when they could no longer do their work.
back into the Union again.
benefited, in addition to the members doing so.
Mr. A. REYNOLDS (Northampton No. 2): It will be disastrous if you ad
this scheme. Some time ago we were told a scheme could not be started. I do not this
seeing one-third of the delegates are permanent officials. We shall have to stand the jar
this Conference is competent to decide whether a scheme should be put into operation
when we get back.
Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton): In your general address, page 36, you say :-
" If such a scheme should meet with the approval of the delegates to the Confer.
ence, then we propose that special Branch meetings should be called to discuss the
matter, and eventually a vote of the membership be taken thereon."
Does that apply also to this scheme ? I assure you it will be a big relief if that is so.
Mr. J. WESCOE (Leeds): Are we to have a superannuation scheme or not? I am
exceedingly pleased, as an old member of the Union, to think the Council have brought
forward a scheme of this character. Many unions have such schemes, and I have heard
from various members that it took them years to get the schemes into operation, but it
would be a sorry day if they were taken away. I think the delegates believe in the principle
of superannuation. I have been in office over 30 years, but am now a member of the rank
and file. So far as the duties of a permanent officer are concerned they are ever increasing.
The responsibility is greater. I heard a remark this morning that it would enable officers
on account of age or infirmity to relinquish their office and live a brighter life, whilst
younger men step in. So far as my vote is concerned, I shall give it honestly and con-
scientiously on the principle, not forgetting the rank and file in the least, but there must
be a commencement, and I am proud to see this scheme brought forward. I was an
officer for nearly 40 years, and I do not think it is possible for any officer who reaches
three score years and ten to go through life without some disability. If you have any
serious domestic trouble it shakes you from top to bottom. I think this is a step in the
right direction. I hope this Conference will seriously take the matter into consideration.
In event of it being adopted and there are any defects, they can be rectified in two years
time. I wish personally to thank every officer and every member of our Union for their
practical sympathy with me, which I have received upon relinquishing my post. (Applause.)
be taken. The question is, are we, or are we not, in favour of superannuation? I support
Mr. A. BUTCHER (Norwich) : I think the time has arrived when the vote should

---
I feel if the principle is adopted we shall have an opportunity of
discussing a scheme for the rank and file. The most important reasons have been given
by other speakers.
into our Union the better. I do not see how it is possible to have a scheme for the officials
and staff which would include the ordinary members.
about one for the rank and file. Pass this scheme and then set
that the scheme is sound?
Mr. H. PERKINS (Leicester No. 2): Are the Council willing to give us an assurance
Mr. J. FOUNTAIN (Northampton No. 2): Will you allow Mr. Lewis' suggestion
to go forward? If so, I should like to second it. I am in favour of the scheme, but I
think it should be submitted to the members. The rank and file scheme is the best of the
two. I think the scheme for members is a good one.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): Many of the speeches made against the scheme
are because members do not grasp it. It has been submitted that the issue is one where
we should have a scheme for the officers and the members combined. That is a simple
issue. Whenever a progressive idea is put forward we are told we shall lose members,
and yet we are bigger to-day than ever before. Friends, do not let us be alarmed at
progressive ideas. If you think the scheme is wrong,
TURN IT DOWN.
None of us will complain. We can show you how it would be of advantage to the organisa-
tion if passed. Whatever a superannuation scheme does, it can be shown that it will
benefit the people in whose service people are, and those who are to be beneficiaries under
the scheme. This is in harmony with the tendency of the times. You have a super-
annuation scheme to-day for all the servants in public office. I submit we should get our
minds on broad lines. We are not the first trade union to adopt such a scheme. There
are many organisations which have schemes. I do not wish to argue this too much from
the sentimental side. Go back to your Rushden Conference and recall the painful scene
when the then General Secretary, smitten with illness, had to submit himself to a discussion
as to whether he should vacate his office or receive a paltry sum of money. In some of
our branches such circumstances have arisen. I can recall a case of a branch officer
remaining in office rather than go on charity. That branch had to make a special arrange-
ment to pension him off, and his successor accepted a reduction for some time as a con-
sequence. Some base their arguments on grounds that you have not sufficient information
and then tell us they are instructed to vote against the scheme. Is that fair? If there
was not sufficient information to warrant your supporting it, there should not be enough
for you to turn it down. In the calmness of thought there is a sincere desire to do the
right thing, and to do something of this sort. On matters of real difficulty for branch
administration you would not pay too much attention to, because the members who com-
plain never come to a branch meeting. It is the few members who run the thing all the
time. The last general officer we lost had to have the case investigated, and enquiries
made before anything was done for the widow. Our officers always take their chances
in their hands. These things are worth remembering. Mr. Paine assumed too much.
He said the scheme had not been submitted to an actuary for his opinion and advice;
then he tells you it is unsound. He is setting himself up as a better authority than the
Council. In the past you have trusted your Executive Council in financial proposals.
When any scheme for benefits was involved, and increased contributions asked for, you
have always accepted their advice and judgment as to its soundness. How far have their
actions been wrong? You must have some confidence in your officials. The General
Secretary gave information and details this morning when presenting this scheme to the
Conference. The financial side of it has been examined. In my opinion we shall be able
to give facts, figures and information showing the scheme is unmistakably sound in every
respect. Is it just or fair that because we cannot give the members a scheme the same
as this one, that you should turn it down? Is that in itself sufficient justification for
rejecting this scheme? It has been suggested we should look after the bottom dog. No
organisation does more than we do to-day. Part of the credit for that is due to the men
who to-day hold the high positions in your Union. I think the officials are entitled to a
better attitude of mind than has been displayed here to-day. I go round to some of our
branches and have been astounded at the way some officers give help. Is there any official
who has ever refused his help to you? Has any officer refused to help you in things
outside his business? No! Our officials are guides, philosophers and friends. If only
for that reason, and the broad spirit of comradeship, I hope you will save your hostile
criticism. Superannuation is right in principle. It is for you to say whether it should be
withheld from those who have given you their best service. There is nothing in this
scheme, if carried to its fullest extent, that will prevent anyone putting forward a scheme
to help the general membership either in regard to superannuation or anything else.
Mr. A. KELMAN (Glasgow No. 2): Our opinion is that we are in favour of the
principle of superannuation. If we vote against the Council scheme are we finished with
the superannuation business?


---
112
Superannuation Approved.
THE CHAIRMAN : We are not imposing this scheme upon everybody. It is the
Union which will impose it upon the officers and staff. Some of us do not care whether
it goes through or not. I often tell people when I am organising that by our securing
for them that their contributions to the Union cost nothing. This they have had to
Some of us also felt the general membership should be provided for.
Compare our position with our unfortunate friends, the miners.
So far as the reference to Mr. Lewis is concerned, we have not always done that, although
I am not adverse to it. You have had four and a half hours’ discussion on the matter,
how can you expect the members to understand it at a branch meeting when you have
taken all this time?
The vote was then taken at 4.25 p.m. and THE CHAIRMAN declared :
For the Amendment      ...      ...      43
Against      ...      ...      73
THE CHAIRMAN then had a vote for the Council Scheme which was approved
Mr. A. MARTIN (Leicester) : Has the scheme been submitted to an actuary
THE CHAIRMAN : No. The various amendments to the Council Scheme wi
now be dealt with.
Items 3 and 4, in view of the above decision, fall.
Wellingborough." That this Branch, after giving very careful consideration
to the Superannuation Scheme for full time Officials and Clerks as submitted
by the Council, rejects the same as being too narrow in its scope. It further
asks that a scheme be drawn up that will include all members and that it be
submitted to a ballot vote of the Union for their approval or rejection."
Kingswood.—" That this meeting of the Kingswood and District Branch of
the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, instructs its delegate,
including the permanent official, attending the Conference to be held at
Whitsuntide, 1926, to vote against the endorsement of the Superannuation
Fund submitted by Council on the grounds that it is not expedient or in the
best interests of the members of the Union to do so."
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): I think we should have all
the figures laid before the Conference which have been drawn up for the Council. Whe-
you engage an actuary you give him all he wants to know and he charges you for it.
know Mr. Walter Smith and Mr. W. R. Townley have put a lot of time in at the figures
Let the delegates have the figures and judge for themselves.
Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton) : If our friend Poulton, and the young gentle-
man Bordoli go into figures, I would trust them equal with any accountant in the country
THE CHAIRMAN: I think it might be a wise plan to send the figures to an actuary.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) : I think we should have all the information which the
Council have had.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The Conference having agreed in principle to the
scheme are now asking for sets of figures. I should like to know what they want exactly
to be placed before them. I have given you the income; estimated expenditure; capital
sum required; number of members eligible to join; maximum number who would receive
benefit. All these figures were submitted to the Conference this morning.
Mr. A. MARTIN (Leicester No. 2) : My point is, it is impossible for any member
of the Conference to take those figures down verbally.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Figures have been produced. We have all the
sets of figures worked out for both schemes, but our difficulty will be as to what effect
any of the amendments which may be passed will have on our figures. I fail to see where
an actuary can help us.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): Three seems to be a desire on the part of
the Conference to have the details, so I propose we ask Mr. W. R. Smith to supply details
of his figures.
THE CHAIRMAN: If Mr. Manners has any motion he must submit it to the
Standing Orders Committee. I should like to say that Mr. Bordoli has given a consider-
able amount of time to this business and has produced many sets of figures. He is also
in the fortunate position of being in touch with actuaries.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

113
It was Agreed that the figures should be printed and submitted to the Conference.
This was done as copy appended:
The total Weekly Salaries of Officers is £423. This at 3 per cent. from Officers
and 3 per cent. from Branches brings in approximately (1,329 0s. 8d. annually
Total in Scheme: 83, at
Age 21
1
5
Age 49
3
22
50
4
23
1
51
6
25
52
2
27
53
3
30
54
1
32
1
55
2
34
3
56
2
35
2
58
2
36
2
59
1
37
3
60
1
38
2
61
1
39
62
1
40
63
1
41
64
1
42
65
1
43
66
45
1
68
46
3
47
2
Total
83
48
2
Of these 33 have over 10 years' service.
Income on capital sum of £15,000 at 4 per cent.: £675 per annum.
£675 for 4 years
£2,700
Interest on £1,329 (say)
200
£60 for 3 years (say)
£2,900
Contributions
5,316
Capital Sum
15,000
Total
£23,216
Expenditure if members retired at 65 and over in January next (three are entitled
so to do), the cost would be approximately £350 per annum. It was, however,
intended by the Council to meet this expenditure from Central Funds until 1930.
Assuming, however, that this approximate £350 expenditure per annum for three
years-£1,050-is taken from the Superannuation Fund, it would reduce the amount
in hand on 1st January, 1930, to £22,166.
Interest for 1930 on £22,166
£994
Income from Contributions
1,329
Total
£2,323
In 1930 the estimated pensions for 7 members eligible would be £876, growing
in 1937 up to approximately £2,245, when the balance in hand would be approximately
£24,000.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member) proposed Item 5:-
Bristol No. 2.-Rule 2, Paragraph 2, Line 1.-Delete the words "A rival,"
and insert "Any."
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood) seconded.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: If this is adopted it will prevent anyone taking
on any work for the Labour Party as it says "any organisation."
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): The General Secretary has distorted the
meaning altogether. However, I will withdraw the amendment.
Agreed.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member) then proposed Item 6:-
Bristo' No. 2.-Rule 3.-Add: "But in no case shall the retiring pension of
any Officer or Clerk exceed £4 per week, nor shall it be less than £2 per week."
This is brought forward to obviate any disparity in pensions. The General Secretary said
this morning that the General President and himself would be entitled to a pension of
£350 per annum. I don't agree that is a right thing. I do not think we should give
anyone a pension beyond £4 per week.
H


---
Here is the extracted text:
114
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) seconded, including Item 7:-
Norwich. Rule 3. To add: "The salary at date of retirement shall
the basis upon which the pension is calculated, it being always under
that no superannuated member shall receive more than £208 per an
and that no superannuated member shall receive less than £104 per ann
The basis on which the Council's scheme is based is an extravagant one. I helped for
case have we been so generous as this. I am well aware that any person having a
best part of a year drawing up a scheme for the Norwich Co-operative Society, but the
of £8 or £9 per week will have to drop to £4 and they will feel it somewhat. Neverthe
the 13 10s. Od. per week man will have to drop to £2 and he will equally feel it.
THE CHAIRMAN : The General Workers' Union have a scheme for officials s
and this clause was copied from it.
Mr. A. MARTIN (Leicester No. 2): Has the member who pays for 70 per
benefit to forego his benefits if this is passed.
THE CHAIRMAN: Yes, and long term of service will not count.
Mr. W. R. TOWNLEY (Council Member): It would be varied between f2
4 by the length of service, and the amounts drawn by various people would natura
not to have the full benefit of their contribution, as under this clause it means a reduc
vary as a consequence. I think it is distinctly unfair to those who pay the contrib
in the amount of superannuation benefit to be drawn.
The Amendment was endorsed.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member) then proposed Item 8:-
Bristol No. 2. - Rule 7, Paragraph 2, Line 3. - After "1930," add : "Br
compulsory retirement 70 years of age, commencing from 1st Jan
the intervening period the age for voluntary retirement shall be 65, ar
1927. Then follow on to the end as printed."
A superannuation scheme is of little use to any person who has to go on beyond 70
of age, and we suggest in such cases they be dealt with under this resolution.
Mr. W. HINDES (Council Member) formally seconded the resolution.
Agreed.
The Conference adjourned at 5.6 p.m.

THURSDAY.
Morning Session.
The delegates assembled at 9.30 a.m., the General President presiding.
Mr. R. D. Mayes, Manager to the National Health Insurance Department, was in atten
ance.
The Minutes of Wednesday's proceedings were read, endorsed, and signed as correct
In accordance with the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee, the
National Health Insurance business was transacted, the report of the Council being taken
as read.
Mr. A. MARTIN (Leicester No. 2): I happen, Mr. Chairman, to be a person wh
cannot belong either to this, or any other Society, and I am asking if we are permitted to
discuss Health Insurance matters or vote?
THE CHAIRMAN: Some of us are Managers and Directors of the Insurance
business, but are not insured persons, nor are we insurable. As it is part of the policy of
the organisation and the Government not to accept anyone but the General Secretary of
the Union as the responsible person, you will see they are not adverse to any of our members
interesting themselves in the welfare of the Department.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton) : In my opinion the financial side of the Council's
Address was passed over too rapidly the other day, and I think the Manager should make
some statement before we take the report as read.
THE CHAIRMAN: Mr. Mayes tells me he has put everything down in the Report,
and he cannot add to it. He is willing to answer any questions or elucidate any of the
printed items.
Appended is a copy of the Insurance Report.


---
COUNCIL'S REPORT.
May, 1926.
34 Guilford Street,
Russell Square, London, W.G. 1.
Fellow Officers and Delegates,
(1) In accordance with Rule 50, Part 2, and under the provisions
of Regulations governing the administration of the Health Insurance
Act by Approved Societies, the Report of the Council, and the Cash
Statement showing amounts received and distributed during the three
years ending 31st December, 1925, are herewith presented. During
this period the sum of £108,782 6s. 6d. has been expended in Benefits;
the cost of Administration being £19,839 13s. Od. making a total
of £128.621 19s. 6d. The Health Insurance Acts have been in operation
for thirteen-and-a-half years at December, 1925. The total amount
of Benefits paid by the Society during that period is £317,451 9s. 8d.,
with Administration costs amounting to £65,665 7s. 7d.-making a
total, since the inception of the Society, of £383,116 17s. 3d.
(2) Separate Cash Statements appear in the Appendix of this Report
for the years 1923-4-5. On looking through the various items spent
on Administration it will be seen that the Society has been able, not-
withstanding the reduction in the amount allowed for Administration,
to carry on the work well within the margin allowed. In all, a sum
exceeding £11,500 has been saved on our Administration. This sum
should eventually prove of value in helping to meet the cost of our
heavy sickness incidence.
(3) In this connection the Society, in October, 1924, was notified
by the Ministry of Health that the amount expended in Sickness and
Disablement benefits was excessive. This is particularly evident in
the case of our women members especially married women. The
conditions under which married women are allowed to remain in
Insurance make the administration in this section of the membership
very difficult, seeing that whilst remaining on the funds, or, if un-
employed, maintaining that she is looking for work, a married woman
remains entitled to all the benefits of Insurance; whilst, in many
cases fulfilling her household duties. In relation to this fact, efforts
are continually made to keep our Sickness claims within somewhat
reasonable limits by the submitting of doubtful cases to the Regional
Medical Officers. Schedule III. in the Appendix shows an Analysis of
cases referred for special examination during the three years under
review. It will be seen from these figures that out of a total of 642
cases referred, 376 members were found either to be "fit for work";
or "failed to attend for examination"; or "submitted final certificates
before the date fixed for examination." These figures prove the value


---
Here's the extracted text from the image, formatted for better readability:

116

*   interests of the members generally.
*   In 24 cases members
    referred for Consultative advice where it was felt that they were
    receiving sufficient or correct treatment for the complaint certi

(4)
*   Since the last Conference Report (1923), cards number
    174,104 containing contributions numbering 4,007,519, of the t
    value of £164,689 18s. 5d., have been forwarded to the Ministry.
    sum of approximately £500 annually is credited to the Society.
    in detail the number and value of stamps received in each year.
    account of Army members. Schedule I. in the Appendix sets

(5)
*   The Society commenced operations with a membership
    27,000. The present membership is 33,293 (Schedule II., showing
    nett increase of over 6,000 members. This increase, whilst int
    a source of gratification in view of the general decline in Trade U-
    Approved members, still leaves room for improvement, and effc..
    should be made by every official and member to make the members.
    of the Approved Section more consistent with the number of membe
    on the Industrial side.

(6)
*   Schedule IV. shows in detail the value of Investments held by
    Society; and by the Ministry of Health on behalf of the Society. T
    amount of Investments in securities selected by the Society
    £110,705 8s. 9d. (cost), the nominal value being £120,262 12s.
    and the amount held in securities by the Ministry of Health is £96,82
    making a grand total of £217,088 12s. Od. The Society has rease
    to congratulate itself on the possession of this sum as a provisio
    against future demands and contingencies.

(7)
*   Reports of the Government Auditors for the years 1922-3-4
    are included in this Report. The Cash Accounts for 1925 have been
    audited but it is not possible for the Auditors to submit the Report
    for that year on account of the contribution records for the period
    forming, of necessity, part of the Accounts; and schedules advising
    the value of the same cannot be received from the Ministry of Health
    in less than six months from the end of the year.

(8)
*   The introduction in January of the present year, of the Widows',
    Orphans', and Old Age Pensions Act is a matter of great importance
    to the Insured person, introducing, as it does, greater security for
    the Widow and Orphan, and an appreciable addition to the insured
    person's Income on reaching the age of 65. Approved Societies, as
    such, have very little to do with the administration of the benefits
    under the new Act, except that they are to be used as distributive and


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
their interests.
117
collecting Agencies so far as contributions are concerned. Many
opportunities occur, however, in which Approved Society officials
can be of service in pointing out to applicants the provisions made in
Under the provisions of the Act Insured persons
cease to pay contributions both for Health Insurance and Pensions, on
reaching the age of 65, but the Employer continues payment of the
WHOLE of the Pensions Contribution. This has necessitated an
amendment of the Health Insurance Act. In accordance with this
provision an adjustment of one penny per week has been made in the
Health Insurance contribution, seeing that Health Insurance liability
ceases at the age of 65 instead of 70, as hitherto. Medical benefit,
however, continues under the same conditions as previously. The
Council desires to emphasise the importance of members keeping in
touch with their Agents, and the Central Office, either when unemployed
or sick. and receiving no benefit. The records of the Society are the
only means of reference when pensions are claimed, and vexatious
delay in receiving Pensions may be caused by members failing to
acquaint the Society of their whereabouts. A member having 104
contributions to his credit, and having been in Insurance for the
prescribed periods under the Act, remains entitled to benefits under
the Pensions Act, even though unemployed, or incapacitated, provided
the Society is notified of his position and is thus able to credit the
necessary contributions.
(9) Schedule V. shows an analysis of members ages. Men 40 years
and under number 13,786; Women 7,638. Men 41 and over number
11,149; Women 720. The average age of men is 38.39-that of women
being 26.45. An increase of three years is shown in the average age of
men, since the census taken eleven years ago. This, notwithstanding the
fact that upwards of 13,000 new members have joined the Society
at 16 years of age during the interval. This factor has to be borne in
mind in considering the question of excessive benefit payment, seeing
that the higher average of age carries greater sickness risks.
(10) In conclusion, the Council desires to thank all Agents and
Members for their loyalty to the Society in the past, and expresses the
hope of increased membership and greater usefulness in the future.
General President.
T. F. RICHARDS,
J. WHEELER, Leicester.
E. LAW, Northampton.
C. BATES, J.P., Rushden.
W. R. TOWNLEY, J.P.,
Northampton.
L. P. POOLE, Wellingborough.
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER, Hinckley.
W. HINDES, J.P., Norwich.
R. WHITE, Edinburgh.
A. J. DOBBS, J.P., Leeds.
ALEX. SMITH, Wolverhampton.
J. MANNERS, Bristol.
E. L. POULTON, J.P.,
General Secretary.
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS, Leicester. R. D. MAYES, F.F.I., Manager.


---
141
Each paragraph was considered seriatim.
Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, and 4, were adopted without discussion.
In connection with Paragraph 5 Mr. J. H. BAUM (Organiser) asked if the ratio
of young persons coming into the industry were coming into the insurance section
I think we should appeal to our branches again.
started with 27.000, and now the membership is 33,293.
not made that progress one desires.
From the facts before us we are not making an increase in the membership that should
be made.
It may be possible for a fillip
Our membership of
THE INSURANCE MANAGER: On page 2 of the report we give the figures
We are hit by people
showing 6,000 new members who have joined the Society.
A few years ago we used to estimate that
to be given for younger members, but the figures shown are net.
persons who have passed through the Society is nearly 50,000.
passing out of insurance, particularly women.
we should have 2.000 in, and 1,000 pass out yearly, but we are not quite reaching that
number at the present time, but the membership schedule shows how we stand.
Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester): In our district we have many Friendly Societies,
and members get their children to join along with them because they get a higher benefit.
Can Mr. Mayes tell us if there is any chance of us having increased benefits, or can he do
anything to expedite the Valuation Report?
THE INSURANCE MANAGER: Our Valuation Report appears at the end of
the Council's Address.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): I see the average age has increased during eleven
years by three; does that mean we have not had young members in the Society?
THE INSURANCE MANAGER: We do not get all the young members into the
Society when they join the Union. Trade union membership of approved societies is
declining, so we can take some credit to ourselves because we are increasing. Possibly
we do not get all the younger members because some societies offer higher benefits.
THE CHAIRMAN: The original complaint against us was we did not take people
into the Union until they were 16 years of age. Consequently our secretaries did not
come into contact with the younger members; that was altered by our last Agreement
as we cater for them now at 15, and some of them had 5s. weekly rise as a consequence.
I am afraid secretaries and shop presidents do not worry themselves over the Health
Insurance side. Why should members belong to a trade union which looks after their
bread and butter, and then go to another society for sickness benefit passes my com-
prehension. Mr. Mayes has made, and the late Mr. Murby made, several attempts to get
new members.
Was there not a big
Mr. C. MAYES (Kettering): Is there not something to be said of not getting
members because of the competition of insurance companies ?
increase when we legislated for boys at 15 on the industrial side ?
THE INSURANCE MANAGER: Yes; there was a decided increase.
Mr. T. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): The Health Insurance Department does
We have the
not appear to be so healthy as it might be. There are opportunities for an Agent, which,
if taken advantage of, will give the necessary fillip. We shall never reach a healthy state
unless we can get the young members to come along and join with us.
insurance work under our control in the Leicester No. 2 Branch, and when a shop president
reports a boy is 16 years of age, he is given an application form for membership of the
approved society, and I venture to say we get 80 per cent. of the young members joining
the Union also making the Union their Approved Society.
Mr. G. REDLEY (Northampton): I do all I can to get members to join the State
side of the Union when they join the trade. It is for their own benefit to make the trade
union their Approved Society also, because they draw both benefits from one office. If
shop presidents looked after the matter we should get more members.
Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester): I do not think our shop presidents use all the
influence they should on the social side of our work. In no case should members join the
Union and then join some other society for health insurance.
Mr. H. GREEN (Northampton No. 2): Many friendly societies have juvenile
sections, and take children from six years of age, so they are in constant touch with them.
I try and make all the approved members I can.
Mr. A. J. JEFFS (Leicester No. 2): As an approved member I find I am always
forestalled at the C.W.S., where they have a society of their own. Invariably I find
their agent has been and made members before we get there; I think that is unfair.
Mr. W. KENDALL (Leicester): That is our difficulty of shop presidents at the
C.W.S. because they give medical treatment, glasses and other benefits, so we have no
earthly chance at all. They have a very active agent on our firm and the boys are collared.
We do not administer the Act in the Leicester No. 1 Branch like the No. 2 Branch, so we
have not the same facilities.


---
142
Mr. F. COULTAS (Norwich No. 2): I
along I have forms ready
can get higher benefits from other societies.
I have always endeavoured to do my best
I could get them very easily indeed at one time. My experience is that parents find the
get members for the Approved Society. I find it a difficult matter to get lads to
so that I can get them as soon as they are 16 years of age
mistic over the State side of our work. As a matter of fact I think the State side
be congratulated, particularly if you take into consideration the great competition of y
Mr. W. PAINE (Kingswood): I do not think the delegates present need be fir
who have agents on the doorstep, and they are particularly interested at the birth of
The keenest competitor to-day is the industrial approved so
industrial societies.
child.
The Manager's Advice.
THE INSURANCE MANAGER: If I were a shop president, I should have all
ages ticked down, and tackle the boys as they became 16 years of age. A boy could
tackled in fact three months before he is 16. I do not think any good excuse has bee
one of the greatest handicaps off under which we have been working during the past.
put up. I believe we are in for a better time. I think our increased benefits will ta
few years where members have asked for financial assistance, and we have not be
ears. I could bring stacks of letters from the Central Office received during the
to help; now we have a chance.
Mr. G. FAREY (Northampton No. 2): Is there any marked difference in the sor
ber of members in a branch who do not administer the Act and those who do administ
it themselves?
THE INSURANCE MANAGER: We have fewer members coming through
trade union work, and the fact that the State side is run independently. They are out
Leicester Agency than in any other section, and I put it down to the division between
touch with each other.
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): It is apparent to ever
delegate why we do not get all the new members into our society. The C.W.S. cate
belong to that society. Most of our women members at the C.W.S. belong to that societ
for all the children who go there are put into the C.W.S. Society because their iathe-
Miss Timms, a member of our Executive does not, and never has been a member of theirs
Although they pay a little more benefit they get a great deal of humbug. I do not thir
Approved Society; I might ask too many questions. I do not think we should preac:
it would be any good a friendly society man coming to me and asking me to join the Union
what we do not practice. If it is good for a friendly society man to belong to a friend
society, why should he want me to belong to the trade union approved side? We sha
have to get some of our delegates inside our society first. We gave up the Health Insurance
we did. Mr. Mayes had taken it on, and later Mr. Mayes asked us to take it back. In the
years we did not administer the Act things were not very well, but they are a good dea
felt the allowance was not enough
better now. We never troubled to join members at 16 then. Since we have had the
agency back again we are in touch with all the members.
Mr. A. JEFFS (Leicester No. 2): Mrs. Richards is misleading the Conference br
saying all workers at the C.W.S. belong to their society.
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): I said women.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): Possibly some of the members wonder why i
do not administer the Insurance Act. It is due to the shop presidents themselves. The
Council took the job from the Leicester No. 1 Branch because the shop presidents nearly
blackmailed the Committee over the price they should have. They called a shop presi-
dents' society, inside the trade union movement, and paid contributions into it. They
used to meet and say they would demand from the Committee what they liked, and if they
did not get it, then they would not bring the cards in. Mr. Poulton called a meeting of
the Leicester Branch, and Mr. Richards 'attended with members of the Sub-Council
I do not mind taking it on again. I did not get a penny for administering the Act, but if
we had allowed the shop presidents all they asked for, we should have had to pay from
our branch funds. We paid them 2d. for bringing in each card, and they wanted 4d.
We offered them 3d. and they would not take it. At the finish I could see it was no good,
so I sent my resignation in to the Council, and I think the Council did the best thing under
the circumstances by taking over the whole business.
Paragraph 5 was then endorsed.
Paragraphs 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 were passed nem.con.
The Accounts of the Society as named above were unanimously endorsed.
7


---
Here is the extracted text:
The Valuation Report.

Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden): In view of the correspondence
which has passed between myself and Mr. Mayes, I should like to ask whether the members
who have been unemployed for a considerable period and are 7s, in penalty arrears could
not have some portion of that 7s. from the surplus? As you know, Mr. President, our district has been
Societies have adopted this system. I should like to ask what would be the cost to our society by paying
hit by unemployment.
say 3s. or 4s, as an extra benefit for this purpose?

THE INSURANCE MANAGER: This benefit mentioned by Mr. Langley is
unexplored. No one knows what it would cost because we have no data, nor does
one know the amount of future unemployment. It is the last benefit which has been
I was advised by a member of the Ministry
tacked on to the schedule as being legal to pay. I suggested to the Council, and submitted a scheme to them,
that we should take 200 off $450 which I had at first suggested. A considerable sum is
annually subscribed by the Ministry of Health (1150,000 I believe) to this purpose.
stuck out for a little benefit this way. So far as granting contributions is concerned, you
must remember that when an unemployed man is called upon to pay 7s., he has already
had 26 contributions allowed him by the Central Office; therefore, the 7s. is only the final
payment of his indebtedness to the society to secure a member fu'l Leneft.

Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow): I have had quite a lot of applicants for extra
benefits. If the apportionment
I understand the surplus is to cover a period of five years.
set out here is strictly carried out and exceeds in any particular, will members have to
stand off for another year?

THE INSURANCE MANAGER: The Society is allowed to adjust its accounts
each twelve months. I should never be a party to asking a man or woman to wait twelve
months for a set of teeth.

Mr. T. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): You say 50 per cent. dentures up to
3 5s. Od. What does that mean?

THE INSURANCE MANAGER: We are not free on this matter. If a society
undertakes to provide for dental treatment and dentures, 100 per cent. for treatment,
and 50 per cent. for dentures is the lowest we can provide, and ₤3 5s. Od. is half the Dental
Association's present charges. If a member wants something extra such as gold fillings,
he must pay the difference. That is not encouraged. If we cut the amount to two guineas
it would not be passed by the Department. I do not think we shall have any too much
in £5,200 allowed for this benefit, but you can take it from me we shall be able to adjust it.
I believe this benefit will do more for the society's good than anything else.

Mr. D. ASTLEY (Leicester): What effect will the Economy Bill have upon
Approved Societies' funds. Does it affect the grant?

THE INSURANCE MANAGER: The prophecy is that there will be some depre-
ciation on the next valuation. It will certainly affect us, but I de line to te pessimistic
on the matter. Other inte ests are a cruing year by year, which I think will more than
compensate for the reduction in any State grant.

Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): Does it mean the Government Grant will be
reduced?

Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton): I see you have 15s. for glasses. In North-
ampton we can get a pair for 7s. 6d. through the Saturday Hospital Fund. I think 15s.
is too much.

THE INSURANCE MANAGER: The State grant is on benefit paid, and not so
much per card or per member. If you think 10s. 6d. is enough for glasses, that can be
put before the Ministry of Health, although I do not think 15s. is too high.

Mr. G. UNDERWOOD (Higham and Rushden): Our friends at Northampton
must be fortunate. Taking the whole of the society I think it would be fair to leave this
benefit as you propose.

Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood) proposed and Mr. C. MAYES (Kettering)
seconded that the Valuation Report and Recommendation of Increased Benefit be
Adopted.

The resolution was unanimously endorsed.

The same two delegates were also authorised by the delegates to sign Form A.B. 2.

Miss E. SHERWIN (Leicester Women): How will this affect a member who has
drawn her 26 weeks' benefit; will she be able to have dental treatment?

THE INSURANCE MANAGER: She would be entitled to it.

Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood): A married woman having been transferred
from Class K; what would be her position?


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

144
THE INSURANCE MANAGER: Class K members are entitled to benefit.
THE CHAIRMAN thanked Mr. R. D. Mayes for his attendance and ex-
THE INSURANCE MANAGER: I thank you, fellow officers and delegate
your expression of confidence, and feel sure the Department will now look for
prosperity, and not lack in future that stimulus which has been denied it, owing to
Mr. R. D. MAYES retired at six minutes after eleven a.m., the Industrial Insur
Standing Orders Committee Recommendations as appended were approved.
1. The resolution submitted by Mr. Amos Martin cannot be accepted on
ground that opportunity has been provided, through the channel of branch mee
for amendments to the scheme. Standing Orders Committee recommends, howe
that the following addition be made to the first line of clause 7:-
"But if during the operation of the scheme any danger of insolvency appe
such dangers shall be met by an increased subscription from the contract
2. That limitation of speeches in accordance with Rule 88 be now impor
3. Members' Scheme of Superannuation. - Amendments 21, 22, 23, 24, be
drawn, and the last clause but one to read :-
"If such a scheme should meet with the approval of the delegates at a
opportunity provided for amendments to be submitted. A special one-day
conference to be then called to discuss the matter, and eventually a ballot
of the membership be taken thereon."
That:-
AMENDMENTS TO RULES.
Resolutions 27 and 28 be taken together.
38 and 40 be taken together. Leicester No. 2 to move, a
Leicester No. 1 to second.
42 and 43 together.
51, 52 and 53 together.
54 and 55 together.
58 and 59 together. Council to move, Leicester No. 3 to second
88, 89 and 90 together.
91, 92 and 93 together.
102 and 103 together. Rushden to move, Wellingborough to second.
• Mr. A. MARTIN (Leicester No. 2): Whilst the Standing Orders Committee ar
not prepared to accept my resolution, they are prepared to adopt the spirit inasmu
as I understand they are prepared to guarantee to the Union that any time when there
signs of insolvency appearing in the Superannuation Scheme, such adjustments of co
tributions and benefits shall be made as to make it self-supporting. That meets with the
spirit of the resolution I submitted to them last night.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): The reason we did not accept Mr. Martin's resolution
was because the Leicester No. 2 Branch appealed for amendments and none were forth
coming.
Mr. A. MARTIN (Leicester No. 2): I complained of the bald statement in the
report.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): The points raised by Mr. Martin are covered
by the report of the Standing Orders Committee.
It was decided to proceed.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I feel in view of the full and strong words used
by the Standing Orders Committee that we need not have a long discussion upon it. We
have got the figures as far as it was possible to get them for to-day. We have other
figures which can be submitted, although if they were given to-day they would not make
any difference.
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood) formally proposed Item 9:-
Kingswood. -"Any Superannuated officer or clerk accepting office after
retirement, for salary or wages, shall be liable to reduction of Superannuation
Benefit as the Executive may deem fit."
If a man is taking a pension he should not be allowed to do any other work.


---
Here is the extracted text:
145
THE CHAIRMAN: That being so you will encourage men to "scab" it. We have
always condemned a man who is a pensioner taking a job at a lower rate of pay. Personally,
I think you should leave it alone.
Mr. A. REYNOLDS (Northampton No. 2): Look at the retired policeman.
They get night watchmen's jobs and I do not think our people should be allowed to compete
for jobs when they are on pension.
THE CHAIRMAN: There are plenty of men willing to go on pension and spend
their time on their gardens co-operative societies or hordes of things.
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): If, when I am old enough
to have a pension I start a baby linen shop (loud laughter), I do not think anyone would
try and hinder me from doing it, even though I may make a profit.
THE CHAIRMAN: Oh! dear me that is a different matter.
Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): Yesterday we were talking about
people being worn out at 65; now we are talking about them having another job. Remem-
ber that Satan finds mischief for idle hands. (Laughter.)
Mr. H. C. ATTEWELL (Northampton) appealed to the Kingswood delegates to
withdraw their resolution. In the process of designing the scheme things will have to be
altered. At one time the benefit varied up to £6 and £7 per week; now it is fixed at £4
the highest and £2 the lowest. It seems rather unfair to deprive a man of any other
benefit he may receive.
Upon being put to the vote, the Chairman stated only Two Voted for the recom-
mendation, and he declared it lost.
Young at 65 Years of Age.
ALD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2) proposed Item 10:-
Leicester No. 2.-Rule 2, Section 1.—Delete "But he must compulsorily retire
at 65 years of age."
Some men at 65 years of age are worth their money and their place in the world. Another
reason why I think the position should be considered is because some people think it does
not matter how much income you have, you will get an old age pension at 65. If I under-
stand the Act properly no pension will be paid to non-contributors until the age of 70 is
reached, that is so far as the means clause is concerned. I know in municipal offices,
government departments and teaching profession, people are growing up, and they are
looking out for preferment. There is no analogy between our position and those I have
named, because those people have a job for life, whereas our officers have to retire every
so often. I am not complaining, because generally speaking our officers are re-elected.
A man may be smart and clever in some directions which would take him to the top of the
teaching profession, but unless you have some personality you cannot get a trade union
official position. I think 70 years of age is sufficiently early enough to compulsorily retire
any officer. There will be a number of our present officials who will be put in a tight
position if they have to go before, and I ask you to support this resolution.
Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton) seconded the resolution. To compel a man to
retire at 65 or 70 is a mistake. I am 70 years of age this year, and feel as if I shall go for
at least another 20 years. (Laughter.) I do not think you should force retirement on
any man who is capable of work. I admit some men are too old at 50. I have seen some
old men at 30. I suggest you support this resolution.
Mr. D. C. ARNULL (Daventry): I am afraid this will prevent the Union keeping
young. If you give a man the privilege to hang on, what is the good of the scheme. Some
men will hang on sooner than "chuck" it.
THE CHAIRMAN: I cannot see the wisdom of getting rid of men by subterfuge.
I have known men retire, and then go back to work. Their own work. I have known
policemen retire and then melt like butter in the sun for the wants of a job. I agree
provision should be made. There are few officers that have been with us ten years who
could not have bettered their position. (Cries of "Question.") I have had many offers
and so have others, but we prefer to stay with those for whom we have spent our lives.
A little while ago a man was retired in the trade union world on £300 a year. His successor
killed himself with work: the present holder of the position is not over strong. We have
Charlie Harper, of Wolverhampton, and it will be a long time before he desired to retire.
A compulsory retirement of men because you have not courage enough to tell them they
are incompetent is not straight. Will Thorne could have had a pension years ago, but he
goes on with his work. I shall support Mr. Hill.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): I rise to speak against the amendment. You cannot
pick out men and say they need not retire. Many are anxious to stay on for years after
their time, and unless you lay it down definitely we shall have complications.
K


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

Mr. G. KNIGHT (Leicester): Can you force anyone in our Union to retire at 65
In our rules it says any full paying member is eligible for office so long as
he is financial.
THE CHAIRMAN: That would have to be taken into consideration.
Mr. A. JEFFS (Leicester No. 2) supported the amendment in a common sense
rank and file way. Who can judge whether an old servant is capable of doing his duty
If this clause is carried we shall not be able to say our
better than his own branch?
servant, can continue

Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): I wish to draw your attention to the fact that in
pulsory retiring age at 60 years. One of our best general secretaries: I refer to Mr. Inskip
ety scheme bar one, the compulsory retiring age is not more than 65. If that is a work
on no matter how many pass out. This Conference ought to keep in mind and ask them
selves whether this is a sound principle. If we were appealing to them to retire under
in every scheme, how can we leave it out? The N.U.R., I believe, have a com
was known as a giant of his day: he died at 49. The Union went on. The Union will ge
areumstances which are not fair I could understand it, but are we? We must have some
There is nothing unfair in saying we should work on the same lines as
Mr. A. MASON (London Metro.): I am in favour of the scheme, and I am in favor
of compulsory retirement. No doubt some of my members will be glad I am. I shall
of age, that will not prevent him from doing work for his branch. I think a man should
Mr. W. KENDALL (Leicester): If it is correct to make an officer retire at 65 year
I am prepared to be pensioned off now at £2 per week. It
degree of logic.
other organisations.
It is sound; it is fair and it is logical in all its aspects.
vote against the amendment.
retire at 65 years of age.
not kill me. Let me give it a trial. (Laughter.)
Upon being put to the vote the Chairman declared the resolution from Leicester
No. 2 Lost.
Item 11 was proposed by Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich):
Norwich. Rule 2.—Second paragraph to read: "No superannuated offic
or clerk shall accept office for payment with any trade organisation."
We have trade unions affiliated to the Trades Union Congress and the Labour Par
both catering for the same class of people, and it would be possible for a person on pensi
to take another job, so we suggest this alteration. It would, of course, include a man
facturers' federation.
Mr. H. FRAZER (Norwich) formally seconded.
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): Why is trade organisation
put in? I want more information. Are there not political organisations of a different
in the Labour Party working for payment? If a man retires at 65 years of age, he would
colour from ours? Our men could easily get a living there. What will happen to a man
be able to go to Parliament. This ought not to be lightly passed over, as some explanatio
is wanted. If a man is not good enough for us at 65 then he cannot be good enough fo
the Labour Party or the House of Commons.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I should like more information for the sake
of clarity. I can see a scheme like this might go through, and a man retiring to the
country. Possibly he may be asked, as is being done to-day, by the Agricultural Labourers
Union, to do a little work for them. Supposing he did, I can easily see the difficulty
which would be created. I think it should be clearly laid down as to what is meant.
It would be cruelty to retire a man and prevent him taking on some work of this kind
wherein he has spent his life. Before we pass on we should have an explicit explanation,
as we should hesitate before we put an embargo on anyone.
Mr. T. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): I am surprised at Mr. Jex after he had
spoken against clause 10. Speakers against clause 10 lead me to believe they would be
decrepit old men and women, and be scrap iron. Now we find there will be men of 65
who will be good enough to go out as

PIONEERS
in another industry, or be engaged possibly against us.
Let us try to be logical.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): A man can voluntarily retire at 60 if he wishes.
at 65 being virile enough to be engaged against us.
Mr. T. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): It appears there is a danger for some men
the resolution. I appeal to Norwich to withdraw
officer, there is enough room for him to give his services without payment. It wants a
Mr. H. C. ATTEWELL (Northampton): I consider when we have an exceptional
big stretch of imagination to see the House of Commons coming under the category of
"trade organisation." There have been cases of trade union men going over to the bosses
organisation, and that should not be allowed.


---
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): I hope the Conference will not be misled
by our General Secretary.
Mr. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): I think we should define what organisations
are to be left out and what should be left in. Suppose a man went to the C.W.S., is that
a trade society? I suggest you add the words
time to time.
such organisations to be scheduled from
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): There are many trade union officials who carn
a considerable sum of money by writing. The men with experience need not be writers,
but they would be able to give valuable information.
Mr. G. BROOKS (Leicester): When a man retires, whatever his age might be,
you seem to have no objection to him working himself to death. The only objection is
if a man receives something for services rendered. I am surprised at the suggestion.
Mr. W. HINDES (Council Member): I do not know why our friend Brooks should
be surprised when he looks at the Council's recommendation. Norwich only want to make
it more watertight. Personally I do not see any harm. Surely it is not too much to ask
men to be safeguarded.
Mr. A. STOTT (Heckmondwike): We have nothing definite as to the extent of
its application. The amendment appears to limit the opportunities of a man. I do not
think it is possible for us to frame any line or rules that will prevent anyone who desires
from getting round them, and I suggest you vote against it.
Mr. W. R. TOWNLEY (Council Member): I oppose the suggestion. There is
no rule to stop any officer from going into business, or from earning more money than he
is earning to-day, and I shall vote against it.
Upon being put to the vote, the CHAIRMAN declared the same lost.
Mr. W. HINDES (Council Member) thereupon challenged the vote, and the
Tellers reported to the Chairman, who read out the figures, as follows :-
For the Amendment
Against
THE CHAIRMAN repeated the amendment was Lost.
The delegates adjourned at 12.33 p.m.
Afternoon Session.
43
62
The delegates reassembled at 2 p.m., the General President again presiding.
Upon the Roll being called, the General Secretary reported that Mr. Len. Smith
(Organiser) and Mr. W. R. Townley (Council Member) were absent. They arrived later.
The discussion on the Council's Superannuation Scheme and the amendments was
resumed.
Item 12 was withdrawn.
Norwich. Rule 3, Line 4.-Delete all after word "Plus," and insert: "Half
per cent. for each additional year of non-contributory service and 1 per cent.
for each additional completed year of contributory service."
Item 13 was proposed by Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) :-
Norwich. Rule 5, Paragraph 1. To read: "Any official or clerk ceasing to
hold office shall (in cases where no title to a pension is established), have
refunded to him all contributions paid by him into the fund plus 4 per cent.
compound interest on the total amount due to him when leaving the service
of the Union. A similar refund shall be made to the dependents or legal
representatives of any official or clerk who dies before completing ten years'
service."
We wish to make it plain that under certain conditions a member of the scheme should
receive his own money back, plus interest. Formally seconded, and agreed without
discussion.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) then proposed Item 14:-
Norwich. Rule 5, Paragraph 3.-" Any official or clerk dismissed for dis-
honesty in connection with the Union shall have no claim on the fund
whatever."
A member could be dishonest in law, not with the Union, but under the Council's suggestion
he would lose his job. We claim if it was not against the Union that he committed the
crime, he should not be punished twice or be punished for something which did not occur
in connection with the Union.
The resolution was formally seconded.


---
Here is the extracted text:
consideration.
148
I hope you will not accept the suggestion from Norwich.
entitled to receive that for which he has paid.
Mr. A. REYNOLDS (Northampton No. 2): In most of the friendly societies the
have a rule that if a man is convicted, he forfeits all benefits. You should take that
Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton): A man is paying for this, and he should.
with him for anything against the law, and I fail to see why we should inflict a penal
Mr. W. HINDES (Council Member): If we do what Mr. Reynolds suggests.
I do not think that should be done. The law would
will inflict a double penalty.
as well
Cries of "Agreed." Carried.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) next proposed Item 15:
family shall receive a sum equal to six months' superannuation allowa
Norwich. Rule 6. Paragraph 1 to read: "In the case of death of an of
or clerk before participating in the superannuation fund, the dependent
where less than ten years' service has been rendered, ten years and
exceeding fifteen years a sum not exceeding one year's superannuat
allowance, over fifteen and not exceeding twenty years a sum not exc
eighteen months' superannuation allowance, and where the service wa
twenty years the dependents shall be paid two years' superannuation alle
ance, or a refund may be made as named in Rule 5, whichever sum
greater."
We want that official who may not be entitled to retire, but who leaves before retiri
appeals will be made round the country. If the Council's clause is passed there
age to have the proper proportion due. We are hoping, if the scheme is adopted, that
provision made for a man who may have to pass out before 10 years service.
Mr. H. FRAZER (Norwich) seconded.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): Under ten years there is no qualification for
fit, but when you say give benefit, then you establish a claim.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): If a person paid in for seven years he should ha
seven-tenths of 35 per cent. and whatever his proportion may be up to 10 years.
Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton): We are giving a little latitude at the beginnin
tion should be a proportion of 10 years. If it is understood it is all right, but it should
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): The period of service according to your sugges
made clear.
years and under ten years.
Mr. T. W. LAWN (Norwich): Norwich, so far as I understand it, say over
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: We should know where we are and a proper
interpretation put on it, otherwise it will be very difficult for the Council to administer
THE CHAIRMAN: The wording is very plain you either vote for or against
The vote was taken and the CHAIRMAN declared the same lost, and
Mr. H. FRAZER (Norwich) thereupon challenged the vote.
The Tellers counted on a show of hands, the CHAIRMAN again repeating that the
vote was lost, the details of the voting being :-
For the Recommendation..
Against
::
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) then proposed Item 16:-
31
51
Norwich. Rule 6, Paragraph 2, Line 3.-After word "Balance," to read:
"In accordance with preceding paragraph in Rule 6."
The Council seek to lay down a basis under which they will pay superannuation. In the
second paragraph they seek to lay down as to what should happen if a member dies and
draws less than two years' benefit. If he dies before receiving his superannuation he is
entitled to a ratio, and I propose this recommendation.
Mr. H. FRAZER (Norwich) seconded. Agreed without discussion.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) proposed Item 17:-
Norwich. Rule 7, Paragraph 2, Line 4.-To read : "On or after 1st January,
1927."
This is necessary to make it quite clear, and prevent any legal quibble.
Agreed.


---
149
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): In proposing Item 18
"And while remaining a member of Parliament
Norwich. Rule 8. To add: shall not be eligible to receive superannuation benefit."
said: I hope I am not wearying the Conference. A member of the Union having rendered
service on the industrial side, interlocking with the political side, may be a popular figure
when it is time for him to retire. Possibly his constituents may seek to retain his services.
He would receive the M.P's salary and allowance from the Political Fund. This seeks
to take away instead of duplicating.
The resolution was seconded when
We have decided
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member) asked: Why should con-
If a man is in Parliament no one would ask him
stituencies be allowed to nominate members of our Union after 65 years of age, any more
than your branch members should keep in office after they are 65 ?
they should retire at 65 years of age.
to come out at 65, but they would allow him to run his full term. All our officers are
interlocked with the Labour Party, but I cannot see why this Conference, or the Union,
should allow a man to be our nominee after he is 65. What is the difference in a man's
constituencies have faith in their M.P.'s, I cannot see why he should be allowed to stand
brain and standard to go to Parliament, and yet give up his Union work? Although
again, whilst the official retires. If we retire our officials at the Central Office and Branches
at 65 and take superannuation benefit, and not another job, then you should not be allowed
to go to Parliament either and be allowed to draw superannuation and a subsidy from
the Union.
I agree with Mrs. Richards this time. The
Suppose Mr. Poulton
Mr. W. KENDALL (Leicester) :
Parliamentary Agents are our representatives and receive £150 per year. Officials have
to retire at 65, yet you want to keep an Agent in Parliament.
retires and gets into Parliament, I should be quite agreeable to him going, but not with
our money.
valuable man.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I expressed a different opinion on the Council
with my colleagues on this point. I said it would be unfair to debar a man from running
for Parliament as one of our representatives even though he was 65. He may be a most
The plain inference is, if this man has held office he would be entitled to
come under the scheme, because in the scheme it refers to such a man, and they would
pay to the scheme. I am quite sure my friends from Norwich will understand me.
you press this upon us you will create a most difficult position having regard to the fact
that the Leicester No. 2 resolution was defeated. I do not want to stop people from going
to the House of Commons, but you have decided that we must retire at 65 years of age.
If
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser) : I take a different view from the General Secretary.
I felt, and I still feel you will have to meet this position. You cannot have one man on
the political side treated differently from another man on the industrial side. I look upon
a Parliamentary representative in the same way as an official, and the rule would have to
apply to him in the same way. Upon reaching the age of 65 he has reached the age at which
his salary ceases, and superannuation would apply. A man may be a member of Parlia-
ment, and you cannot compel him to vacate his seat. Is it the idea to make some arrange-
ment for the remainder of that Parliament? He would take his superannuation benefit,
and the question as to whether he will stand for Parliament again for his constituency
will be between him and the members of that division; they must find the money to
pay for his expenses of the election. There must be something definite. I think this
suggestion of the Council was that a man should take his superannuation, and lose his
150 allowance.
Mr. T. W. LEWIS (Northampton): What I am looking at is the difference between
the amendment and the actual rule of the Council. In No. 8 it does not mention Parlia-
mentary Agent.
Mr. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): The Parliamentary Agent who is an official
nominee of the Union, I suppose, would have his superannuation allowance stopped
whilst he is in Parliament. Suppose one of our candidates went to Parliament who was
not financed by the political fund; what would be his position ?
THE CHAIRMAN: These people have in their minds the desire of a man being
deprived of his industrial work at 65, but he can go on with Parliamentary work. Has
political work fallen so low that it does not matter? It is a grave mistake what has already
been done. The constituents might re-elect a man, but you do not give the industrialist
that opportunity. The political side of our work is of no more importance than the
industrial. What is to prevent Mr. Poulton or myself standing nomination and seeking
a constituency after we are 65 years of age, unless you draw the line tight? With all due
deference that 65 is your age, and you have told the employers so, I would remind you
that they will now be telling us. Why you should give a member of Parliament an advan-
tage over the industrialist I cannot imagine. Remember you are committed to an agent;
how long will that be continued after a man is 65?


---
Here's the extracted text from the image, organized for readability:

150

Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): So far as I understood the view
would be made for them to continue during the life of that Parliament. It was
Council it was clearly and distinctly understood when our Parliamenta
so far as they are financially concerned – that would end, but artan?
65 years of age
or intention that equal treatment should be meted out.
Mrs. Richards and the General President.
some
I think that is the
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich) asked permission to withdraw the resolution, but
safeguard should be incorporated, otherwise a member of Parliament could
to have superannuation benefit.
Mr. A. STOTT (Heckmondwike): Having decided every officer must ret
Mr. F. GOULD (Midsomer Norton): Under what rule does a Parliar
certainly must apply to Parliamentary Agents also.
Agent retire from Parliament, if he is not inside the scheme?
THE CHAIRMAN: There is no rule. Mr. Gould is not a permanent offices
will not come under this scheme, so he cannot be governed by its conditions
The vote was taken, and the CHAIRMAN reported the same lost
Mr. LEN. SMITH (Organiser) proposed Item 19.
THE CHAIRMAN: Have you been authorised to move this resolution
Mr. LEN. SMITH (Organiser): No!
THE CHAIRMAN: Then you are out of order.
Items 19 and 20 fell, there being no proposer.
the Union or Branches.'"
Wolverhampton. - Delete from all parts of the Scheme the words 'Cler
Wolverhampton. Rule 4, Paragraph 1. - Delete "Branch Funds," and
stitute "Union Funds."
Items 21, 22, 23 and 24 were withdrawn.
Bristol No. 1. - " This Conference instructs the Council to consider and
a Voluntary Scheme for the Superannuation of all members, and repo
the next Conference."
Bristol No. 2. " That a Superannuation Scheme be established
this Fund is rapidly increasing. The Council to make a report as ear
members. The scheme be incorporated with the Sick and Funeral Fund
possible on the extra contributions required to give members a
amount is to be drawn from the Sick and Funeral Fund and set aside for
annuation of 15s. per week at the age of 65. Conference to decide
purpose. To approach the Manufacturers' Federation to see if anything
Leicester No. 1. " That the Council prepare a Superannuation Scheme for to
members, such scheme to be submitted to the members and a ballot be tr
a joint effort can be made to cover the industry."
for their approval or otherwise."
Northampton. - " That instructions be given to the Council to draw
scheme of Pensions for members and report to a special conference.

General Superannuation.

THE CHAIRMAN: I suggest we take a vote at our branch meetings rather th
have a blind vote.

Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): Ordinarily that would be the best procedure, but seei;
we propose an increase in contributions I think a general vote should be taken.

ALD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2): If the Conference decide on the principle the othe
parts of the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee can be carried out
They suggested that the Conference should later be held in Leicester as being the mos:
central place.

Mr. A. W. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): The Scheme in the report was not take:
as a scheme in its entirety. We take it as a skeleton. I do not think we could vote 12
favour of the scheme, because of the increased contribution. I know a good deal of time
and trouble has been devoted to the work.
lay the scheme before the members should be sufficient. It must be compulsory. 1
THE CHAIRMAN: The adoption of the principle of the Council's suggestion to
suggest you vote upon it.
The principle laid down in the scheme was unanimously adopted.
THE CHAIRMAN: I understood Mr. Lyne wants more detail.


---
scheme.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY : It appears that inasmuch as the Council fore-
stalled the resolutions in putting an outline before the Conference, that we might put
this scheme before the members with some likelihood of it being carried. The proposal
involves a slight increase in contributions and will weigh considerably when you talk of a
scheme. So far as the amount of extra contribution asked for, this is absolutely
lowest sum for the benefits named. Some unions are paying as much as 3s. 6d. per week
to a superannuation fund for 24s. benefit, and then a levy each quarter. I have spoken
to most of the secretaries who have superannuation schemes in operation, and they have
all told me, whatever we do, be very careful about starting the fund and have an adequate
contribution. For 1 weekly bene’it we shall want a contribution of 3s. per week. The benefits we propose cannot be
Council looked at this matter in an impartial way.
given unless there is a transference of a very considerable sum of money to capitalise the
account so that it would begin to earn interest at once, otherwise the Fund would soon be
in the Bankruptcy Court. Here are a few figures:--
There are approximately 44,000 full male members in the Union, so
44,000 full members at 3d. weekly would bring in (48 weeks) £26,400
per annum
£132,000
Five years
:
Estimating 7 per cent. of members would claim benefit, say
3,000 at 5s. per week would cost, annually
£39,000
So in Twelve Years the Fund would be bankrupt.
At a contribution of 4d. per week, annual income
In five years
Estimated cost as in first case, annually, but at 6s. per week
So in Eighteen Years the Fund would be bankrupt.
At a contribution of 6d. per week, annual income
In five years
£35,184
.. £175,920
£45,000
£52,800
.. £264,000
Estimated cost on same basis as first case, but at 10s. per
week, annually
So in Twelve Years the Fund would be bankrupt.
£78,000
In these examples no allowance has been made for Bank Interest ; but no allow-
ance has been made for administration costs, which would be a considerable amount.
You will see when we had figures of this kind, we felt it would be unfair, unless we asked
for a considerable sum of money to commence. It would not have been courageous for
the Council to say the Fund can be run for some years, and if it did not pay levy the members.
We felt as far as possible we should work out a scheme by which the expenditure would
not exceed the income, otherwise it would soon go into bankruptcy. You will see we say:
"In order to finance the scheme, a capital sum of not less than £150,000 will be
required to make it financially sound and self-supporting, and we, therefore, suggest
that £100,000 be transferred from the Central Sick Fund, and that the members of
the branches be approached, at special meetings, with a view to securing £50,000
from Branch Funds, payments to be made in equal proportion to the full membership."
I suggest it is worth full consideration of the branches who are fairly wealthy to help the
scheme to be started. It would be useless to start a scheme without a capital sum, other-
wise it would not run longer than my lifetime. I don't want it to be said mistakes have
been made by those who supported it. The Council has spent a good deal of time on the
matter and the scheme is worthy of your consideration.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser) : I disagree with the words " in equal proportions
to the membership."
THE CHAIRMAN : If there is going to be any different method than proportions
then we shall have to reconsider it. London Metro. only have £1,500 and they would be
called upon to pay £2,200; Norwich would pay £3,800; Leicester £6,000; Higham and
Rushden £5,000-out of branch funds for this purpose. I do not think one branch is
likely to be more generous than another. I think we should have some guidance on the
point.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): I interjected because I knew you could not have
proportionate amounts, because some branches cannot pay their quota. I do not want a
wrong impression to be made. If £50,000 is forthcoming there will have to be a generous
view taken by some branches. All branch funds are the funds of the Union--that is
clearly laid down by rule. It is not easy for some branches to save money; for others
t is not possible to prevent it if they tried. (Laughter.)
This is a very important part of the scheme. It has been submitted to the Con-
ference, because some branches asked for a members’ scheme. Unless you subsidise the


---
152
fund by this capital amount, the benefit will be very nominal indeed, and far more
from 4s. to 6s., so you must keep this in mind if the scheme is wanted by o
The income derived from the interest on £150,000 is sufficient to turn the
lative
You could not offer for 3d. wote
The Conference in accepting the principle
It cannot be done unless £150,000 is forthcoming.
4s. per week, unless it is insolvent.
I think the Conference should accept this sche
scheme should have clearly in their minds that you cannot give a reasonable bepe
tribution as low as possible, and make the benefit as high as possible. It was felt
return for a low contribution. Attempts here show that we have tried to keep the
impossible to go above 3d contribution, but unless you have £150,000 to start the !
satisfactory one in its general outline, leaving to the Executive the task of going
to relatives of members who die before receiving superannuation benefits has also
again, and putting more details before the Delegate Conference. The question of Ba
the benefit will be very nominal.
Mr. G. CAMPBELL (Kettering): The report says :
considered.
for this class of member the scheme should be COMPULSORY. We do, hos
suggest that FULL WOMEN MEMBERS should be allowed to join the scher
The Fund we propose should be for FULL MALE MEMBERS only, an
If it is compulsory for every member, what becomes of aged members like myself
they so desire, i.e., for full women members the scheme is optional."
not serve the probationary period.
Mr. A. J. DOBBS (Council Member): They would be exempt.
The scheme was then approved.
Out of Work Benefit.
Mr. H. FRAZER (Norwich) proposed Item 25:
Norwich.- Rule 214-Add " Unemployment benefit in respect of holida
(see definition, Rule 216) shall not be paid to any member making a
If circumstances obtain in other centres as they do in Norwich then we feel an altera
in the rule is required. In Norwich we have men stood off a few days before the holida
application on any of the three preceding days to such holidays."
but they are re-engaged soon after the holiday at the same factory.
Mr. T. W. LAWN (Norwich) seconded.
Mr. A. MASON (London Metro.) : A week's notice is served in London and
men finish up on the Friday or Saturday before a holiday. Does this mean a man car
have benefit? I shall vote against it.
he takes his Holiday Pay, and I suggest we should safeguard the position up to a poi
Mr. W. HINDES (Norwich): We claim this will not do members any harm beca
We are not arguing that any man on the funds should not be entitled to claim during
holiday week.
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood) : Does this proposal refer to unemploymen
benefit or suspension ?
THE CHAIRMAN: Unemployment or discharge.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Council Member): I hope the Conference will reject this
resolution. Our friend who moved it on behalf of Norwich set me thinking. He st
a number of men were discharged before the holiday, and taken on after the holiday
the same factory. We should be very suspicious of such cases in Leicester; it locka
very much like connivance.
Mr. G. AMOND (Norwich No. 2): The Norwich No. 2 Branch disagree with the
Norwich Branch on this matter. This resolution deals with Rule 214, and they sugges
you apply the instruction contained in 216 to it.
The Resolution was heavily defeated.
Item 26 was proposed by Mr. W. WYMAN (Wellingborough):-
Wellingborough.-Rule 214.-Delete first three lines to "Month," and add:
"Members out of employment after the payment of 52 contributions only
shall be entitled to 2s. 6d. per day or 15s. per week for ten weeks. After
the payment of 104 contributions they shall be entitled to 3s. per day or
18s. per week."
The reason we bring this forward is because we found there was a huge deficiency between
the income to the centre, and the unemployment benefit drawn out. We suggest a man
who has paid 52 weeks and less than 104 contributions should not receive the full rate
of benefit. It does not apply to the young member.


---
Mr. C. MAYES (Kettering) seconded, and did so to oppose it. Every branch
has hundreds of members who have been years with them and never received out of work
benefit.
Mr. T. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): I hope this Conference will reject the
suggestion. We have a graduated scale in our National Agreement and at times we have
to go into firms in order to get the proper rates for a youth. A young man at 16 or 17
years of age has to pay 104 contributions before being entitled to benefit. If that is so,
then we shall have a job to get them into the Union. I appeal to the Conference to reject
this resolution.
The resolution was declared lost.
Mr. J. HEADFORD (Bristol) proposed Items 27 and 28:-
Bristol No. 1. - Rule 216, Line 2. Delete "Twelve," and insert "Three."
Bristol No. 1. - Rule 216, Line 5. Delete "Thirteenth," and insert "Fourth."
I propose this because men get suspended for 9, 10, 11 or 12 days and then get back to
work for a few days and then are suspended for another period and we claim it is not fair.
Mr. H. C. ATTEWELL (Northampton) seconded.
THE CHAIRMAN: You are increasing the out-of-work by 75 per cent., and you
should think whether our funds will stand it. I do not think it is a wise proposition.
The vote was taken and the resolution defeated.
Item 29 was proposed by Mr. A. KELMAN (Glasgow No. 2) :-
Glasgow No. 2. - Rule 216, Line 11. - Delete "Twelve," and insert "Six."
We had one or two firms last year where the operatives did the twelve waiting days, and
then went to work for an odd day or so, and had to stand off for a further twelve days.
We thought that was too bad, and so make this suggestion. Notwithstanding the fact
that we are going in for a superannuation scheme, this is one of the things with which we
should have some sympathy. I suggest after once serving 12 days' waiting period and a
man returning to work, he should only serve a second period of six days.
Mr. W. WHYMANT (Desborough) seconded.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): Do I understand our friend from Glasgow to say
that a member shall serve 12 days, and if he returns to work for a period and is again
suspended he shall then only serve six days?
Mr. A. KELMAN (Glasgow No. 2): Yes.
Mr. A. STOTT (Heckmondwike): I am afraid if this is passed it will increase our
liabilities and I can see some difficulties. I think the Council should give serious attention
to this matter. I think the application of the present rule is very even.
The vote was taken, and the CHAIRMAN reported there voted :-
For the Resolution
Against
the Chairman declaring the resolution accepted.
Item 30 was submitted by the GENERAL SECRETARY and agreed to :-
The Council. - Rule 217, Line 2. - After word "Weeks," add "From the time
of receiving his full benefit."
Item 31 was proposed by Mr. J. HEADFORD (Bristol) :-
Bristol No. 1. Rule 217, Line 2. - Delete from the word "Benefit," the
remainder of present rule.
You get a man out of work who pays his shilling and draws ten weeks' benefit. He con-
tinues to pay his shilling and is not entitled to further benefit unless he has worked for
three months.
Mr. J. OSBORNE (Bristol) seconded. In spite of members drawing their out-
of-work pay they continue to pay their contributions, and I hope the Conference will look
at this from a liberal point of view and then accept the suggestion.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): I have every sympathy with the unemployed,
and years ago we tried to force the Government to deal with the unemployed, but you
cannot keep paying £9 benefit for 13s. contributions.
Mr. T. CAMPBELL (Kilmarnock): I support Bristol. What Mr. Pitts says is
quite true. The Union have under the rule to pay £9 benefit for 13s. contributions,
providing he has worked for three months. You should give some consideration to these
people.
THE CHAIRMAN: Some of you refer to the old man. What about the man
who has drawn £45 in unemployment benefit? What about those men who draw unem-
ployment benefit after 52 weeks contributions only? We had nothing at all when some
of us were out of work, and had to pay our contributions. If you stop now, you get
payment. You should go very cautiously in the light of our financial position.
62
48
---

---
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I did not imagine the Glasgow No. 2 resolution
was going to be carried or I should have had something to have said against it. I had
every sympathy with the unemployed members, but to ask for this to be accepted
The General Secretary Surprised.
asking for too much.
it may mean a good deal.
burdens on the funds.
No one can say our contributions
all the benefits we pay
will vote this resolution down.
It may appear to be a small increase in itself, but in the aggregate.
If these things are agreed to you will have to consider whether
or not you can go on with the Superannuation Scheme, because you are adding additional
Whilst we may lament the position of our members, I hope you
contributions are excessive having regard
Mr. A. CROUGH (Higham and Rushden): How many members are there in
this position?
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester) : I should say we could put on 150 or 200 men
Leicester at once if this is carried. You will get men who can draw twelve weeks
pay, and then ten weeks' out of work, and they can be on the funds for ever. There is
be entitled to benefit. In Leicester we have over 200 thirty-year members they can
no limit for unemployment benefit. If a man works three months at anything he wa
pay their shilling contribution and be entitled to this benefit.
The proposal was defeated.
Item 32 was withdrawn.
Glasgow. Rule 217, Line 3.--Delete "Having in the interval worked at the
trade three months."
Item 33 was proposed by Mr. E. BATCHELOR (Higham and Rushden:--
Higham and Rushden.--Rule 217, Line 6.--Delete "Three months" and
insert "Nine weeks."
This does not affect many members, but it does a few, some of whom have been members
for twenty-one years. I hope the Conference will give it consideration to-day, as it was
defeated at the last conference.
Mr. F. UNDERWOOD (Higham and Rushden) seconded.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: This would apply to the same members as named
in the last resolution.
Mr. J. WHEELER: In Leicester we have scores of men who have worked nine weeks
and if this is adopted they would be able to draw eighteen weeks' benefit every two years
I hope the Conference will turn it down.
Eleven delegates only voted for the resolution, and the CHAIRMAN declared it
Mr. J. HEADLAND (Bristol) : I beg to propose Item 34 :--
Bristol No. 1.--Rule 223, Line 2.--Delete words "Or other misconduct."
We take it that " other misconduct " also applies to a man who has spoken to the foreman
or works manager.
Mr. J. OSBORNE (Bristol) seconded.
THE CHAIRMAN: That is not the intention of the rule, nor its meaning. It is
the first time we have been asked to remove it. There is such a thing as theft, but we
did not want to name it. Some men who have occupied positions of trust in our Union
have done time.
The resolution was lost.
Item 35 was submitted by Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow) :-
Glasgow.--Rule 228, Line 4.--After "Funds," add "The Branch Committee
to have discretionary power to continue this benefit in bona-fide cases of
unemployment."
As usual, we are asking for something which may be refused. A man gets his contribution
paid for 13 weeks after having had his out-of-work pay. We feel the Council should
agree to this, and I ask the Conference to pass it as we feel it would be beneficial.
Mr. T. ROBERTSON (Glasgow) seconded. There has been a great deal said about
the unemployed member and we should do more for him. We ought to assist these
members.
Mr. J. WHEELER (Leicester): You will put the Executive in an awkward position
if this is carried. Who will be given the benefit, and who will be refused? The most
popular man will be lorded up for giving this benefit.
Mr. T. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): Here are four members going before the
Branch Executive. Something can be said for two of them, and the other two are refused.
At the present time branch officers have power to mark cards of members not in receipt of


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

155

any income. If you are going to give this power to mark cards, you will be marking cards
of members who are receiving more in benefit than some of your members at work.
Only two voted for the suggestion, and it was declared lost.

Item 36 was proposed by Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow):
Glasgow. Rule 228. Add "All members shall draw their State Unemploy-
ment Insurance Benefit through the Union."
We may tell members they can draw their State benefit through the Union, but you
cannot force them. Some men go to the Exchange and then want to transfer to us.
I refuse these people.

Mr. T. ROBERTSON (Glasgow) seconded, and added this was one of the objects
of the Union.

Mr. C. MAYES (Kettering): We shall be up against an Act of Parliament.
Mr. H. PERKINS (Leicester No. 2): I can see great difficulty if this resolution
is carried. We have had some experience of this in our office. If our officials have to
administer for everyone all their time will be taken up for State purposes, and we shall
want double the officials.
The proposal was unanimously defeated.

Item 37 was proposed by Mr. M. PARKER (Leicester) :-
Leicester No. 1.-Addition to Rule 229." Any continuous full paying member
to the Union for a period of 50 years, and whose card is clear, shall be exempt
from paying any further contributions, and shall be entitled to all benefits;
Out-of-Work Benefit ceasing if the member retires or is totally incapacitated.
This rule to apply in the case of a member who is still being employed."
This resolution was brought forward by one of our members. He was born with the
Union and considers when members have belonged to us for 50 years they should cease to
pay contributions and have benefits.
The resolution was formally seconded.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: If this is passed it may be a serious matter. All
fifty-year members in future will come on the funds without paying contributions. I am
not going into the question of free membership.
The resolution was defeated.

Item 38 was proposed by ALD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2) :-
Leicester No. 2.-" To ask that the few members now on the books as Half
Sick shall be entitled to Full Sick Benefit."
We put this resolution down, not because it means much benefit, nor add greatly to the
financial side of the Union. Those of us who have been members any length of time will
remember it was possible for men of 40 to join the Union and pay the same rate of con-
tribution as those under 40, but only receive half sick pay, and I suggest we put the matter
right.
Item 40 was taken in conjunction with Item 38 and proposed by Mr. M. A. PARKER
(Leicester) :-
Leicester No. 1.-" That all members who are paying 1s. per week contribution
shall be entitled to full sick pay.
Some members had paid full contributions for twenty years and they are only receiving
half sick pay. I suggest you pass this resolution.
Mr. A. WORTH (Leicester) : There are about twenty of these men in the Leicester
Branch, and about twenty in the No. 2 Branch.
Mr. A. H. FOLKARD (Norwich No. 2): We have one in Norwich who joined
under this clause, and he has been a member for 23 years.
The resolution was accepted.

Mr. G. CAMPBELL (Kettering) proposed Item 39:-
Kettering No. 1.-Rule 234, Line 2.-Delete "12 weeks," and insert "14
weeks."
A member at our branch meeting said, "If the Council have so much money to start a
superannuation fund, surely to God they can give us poor devils a couple of extra weeks'
benefit." This was seconded and carried There are some people who could do with
the two extra weeks to help pull them round, and I suggest this is worthy of your con-
sideration.
Mr. W. YEOMANS (Kettering) seconded. I hope this will be carried. It will
place me in a position to go back to Kettering and say we have done something for you.


---
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I hope the Conference will realize the ex
position this places us in, especially after the superann iation scheme has been propo
The resolution was declared lost.
Item 11 was proposed by ALD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2) -
Leicester No. 2. Rule 245. "That in each instance where the amoun
'76' to read 17 10s., 3' to read £4,' and ' £1 10s.' to read 12
I want to move this although I do not want to go back, like friend Y
I say"
have done something. The funeral allowance has been the means of helping the
of our members during a trying experience, and just as it costs a great deal more for po
to come into the world, it costs a great deal more for them to pass out. If yoll agree
this, 17 10s. Od. will not be sufficient. The other day I called at an undertaker
I suggest the Sick Fund can carry this extra, burden
The widows of our members are fine
(loud laughter) and was told a funeral cost 18.
it hard to meet the situation.
Mr. A. MARTIN (Leicester No. 2) seconded and hoped the same would be care
Mr. W. HINDES (Council Member): I feel, Mr. Chairman, it would be
to hold this up pending the superannuation scheme being brought forward, as there
suggestion to do something for members there.
The resolution was declared lost.
THE CHAIRMAN said: I will now call on Herr Simon to address you.
Herr Simon having intimated that he must leave on Friday morning.
Herr Simon's Farewell Speech.
HERR SIMON: I am very sorry and so is Dr. Schenk that these beautiful day
over now, and that we have to go home again. I beg to express the strong feeli
thanks for the beautiful stay that we both have had at your Conference. We did.
by strong sympathy. Although we speak different languages, we felt united with a
feel like strangers here we felt we were surrounded by friends with whom we are
you in pursuing the same aim and in the same spirit.
aim to increase the happiness and the well-being of the operatives employed in our t
Everywhere, whether in Great Britain, or in France, or in Germany, we have the sa
take place. But we are only able to reach our aim by building up strongly the differe
For this purpose we have assembled here, for this purpose our International Congre
National Unions, and binding all together in a strong International.
been carried forward in this spirit, and what I especially appreciated was to see so man
I am very pleased to have been able to state that the Conference proceedings ha
women delegates attending the Conference. This shows that the British female operatives
take a strong interest in the business of the Union. It is so much the more importa
as the women have the education of the children in their hands. To bring up our childre
in the spirit of solidarity, of brotherhood among the nations, is an extraordinarily importa
matter.
You will have, to-morrow, another day of Conference, and we present to you our be
wishes for carrying forward as successfully as before your Conference business to help th
Union to maintain and to increase your alrea ly powerful position. (Applause.)
Mr. A. H. FOLKARD (Norwich No. 2), speaking with great emotion, said: "As
doorkeeper of the Norwich Conference in 1912 where Simon attended, I well remember
him. We have passed through a terrible time. I lost a boy in the War, but any feelin
there was then has passed away. I am not sure whether I shall be able to meet you a
again. I was not at the last Conference owing to illness, and my late colleague, Segen,
was in the same position. I don't even know whether I shall be at the special conference
I have made a lot of friends at conferences whom I shall never forget. I have not been able
to give much towards the debate of a conference, but I claim to take an intelligent interest
I shall be 70 next birthday, and should like to thank all for their fellowship and goodwili.
and wish the Union every success."
(Applause.)
to-night, as they return to Germany to-morrow.
THE CHAIRMAN: The Council are entertaining Herr Simon and Dr. Schenk
The Conference adjourned at 5 p.m.
A farewell dinner was given to Herr J. Simon and Dr. Ewinger Schenk, at Clifton
Hotel, Blackpool, on Thursday, 27th May, 1926. In addition to the guests of the evening
there was also present: Mr. T. F. Richards (General President), Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P.
---

---
157
Mr. A. J. Dobbs, J.P.,
(General Secretary), Mr. W. R. Smith, J.P., Mr. D. McCarthy, Mr. Len. Smith, and Mr
P., Mr. R. White, Mr. W. Warner, Mr. W. R. Townley,
J. H. Baum
Baum (Organisers), Mrs. M. J. Bell Richards, Mr. E. Law, Mr.
Mr. J. Manners, Mr. W. Hindes. J.P.,
Mr. Alex. Smith was prevented from attending owing to
J.P., Mr. L. Poole, Mr. J. Wheeler, Mr. C. Bates, J.P. (Comcil Members), and Mr. Ernest
Bordoli (Confidential Clerk).
stress of business. The following is a resume of the speeches made:
country.
International.
I should
Mr. RICHARDS said it was pleasurable to meet Simon for the third time in this
We feel he will never be content until all Boot and Shoe Operatives are in one
The great disturbing feature to Simon are the Communists.
I am delighted to
like to repeat we believe in arbitration, and ask: Is there brain enough in the Union and
Manufacturers to arrive at an agreement without it? We have never had to ask our
Umpire to decide any point when a National Agreement was made.
think Simon acts in a similar manner on the Continent. Mr. W. R. Smith and I attended
an International in 1897 and there was nothing but pandemonium, but I hope we shall
I believe at the next General Election we shall be able to return a
I am sure we all feel very happy to have Simon with us if for no
be able to get closer.
Labour Government.
other reason than to unite the workers of the world. (Applause.)
HERR J. SIMON said: I take this opportunity of saying how I appreciate the
good organisation of trade unions due to better improvement. The English workers
have strong phases in their constitution. There have been frightful conditions in Textile
Industries, where many children have been employed. The British workers have succeeded
in getting their places; they have been recognised by the employers and can arrange
their agreements by arbitration. The German constitution is one of the most free in the
world on paper only. You have the democratic idea; the German democratic idea
is not put into practice, but Germany is ruled by capitalists. Mr. Richards stated there
must be all sorts of reforms secured, which can be done through Parliament. The Com-
munists tried to establish Governments in several countries which will make all sorts of
trouble. It is impossible for German people to live without raw materials and food from
abroad, and the Communists tried to prevent it. If the Socialist Party had tried in 1918
to socialise Germany, we should not have succeeded, because the Government would not
allow it. The Russians hate the Germans because Germany will have nothing to do
with them. I am persuaded that the Germans will continue to repulse all attacks
by the Communists. I stayed in Norwich in 1912 and have been several times,
and I admire the discipline shown by English workers, which is due to the fact that they
live in a much more salubrious atmosphere. We are very sorry to have to go away; we are
satisfied you are prepared to stand with the German workers. I trust the good feelings
will grow and that the International will grow also, and liberty for all be realised. The
next International Congress will be held in England in 1927. (Applause.)
FRIDAY.
Morning Session.
The delegates assembled at 9.30 a.m., Mr. T. F. Richards presiding.
The General Secretary read the Roll, and reported all delegates present.
Messrs. Len. Smith and W. R. Townley gave a satisfactory explanation of their being
late at the Thursday afternoon session.
The Minutes of Thursday's proceedings were read and endorsed, the Chairman signing
the same.
Readjustment of Wages.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY intimated that the following letter had been
received from the Manufacturers' Federation:-
7 TAVISTOCK SQUARE,
W.C. 1.
27th May, 1926.
DEAR MR. POULTON,
NATIONAL CONFERENCE (SEPTEMBER, 1924) AGREEMENT.
CLAUSE 8.
The General Purposes Committee of the Federation met on Thursday, 27th May,
and after careful consideration of the invited views of local associations, it was agreed
that Clause 8 of the National Conference (September, 1924) Agreement should become
operative on the first full pay day in June, viz., 9th, 10th or 11th, in accordance with
the joint circular letter issued to manufacturers bearing your signature and mine,
copy of which I enclose for your reference.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
158
I should acquaint you and your Executive Council officially as to the position
character, my Committee considered it desirable in the interests of both sides
In view of the fact that this matter has received wide publicity of an

E. L. POULTON, ESQ.,
Central Library, Blackpool.
34 GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C.1
DEAR SIR,
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) RUTH TOMLINSON,
7 TAVISTOCK SQUARE,
LONDON, W.C.1
19th April, 192
NATIONAL CONFERENCE AGREEMENT. COST OF LIVING
Agreement, wherein provision is made for a readjustment in the wages of ope
We beg to draw your attention to Clause 8 of the September (1924) Na
when the index figure of the cost of living as recorded in the April or Septe
issues of the Ministry of Labour Gazette falls to 70 full points above that of Jak
The figure as published in the April issue of the Ministry of Labour Gazette sho
the cost of living figure has now dropped to 68.
The change will become effective on the first clear pay day in June, that
say, on 9th, 10th or 11th June.
provision is made for MALE OPERATIVES EMPLOYED IN HEEL BUILD
We would further point out the arrangement under B of Clause 8.
attention to the wages detailed under Column 3 of Schedule A headed "After
DEPARTMENTS OR IN THE STOCK OR SHOE ROOMS, and would direct
Index Figure falls to 70."
to male operatives in all departments, whether the index figure is over or under
It should be particularly noted that the rates set out in Table A. will now a
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary to Operatives' Union.
(Signed) RUTH TOMLINSON,
Mr. W. WESTLEY (Northampton) proposed Items 42 and 43 :–
Secretary to Boot Manufacturers' Federation
Northampton. Rule 203, Line 10.- Substitute the sum of “One Pound "
the place of "Ten Shillings."
Northampton. Rule 203, Line 12.—Substitute the sum of "Two Pounds "
instead of "One Pound."
This is in connection with members who secure work in other towns. The expendit
was under £10 last half-year so it cannot be a serious matter.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton) seconded.
THE CHAIRMAN : I wish this rule was not in the rule book. It places our secre
taries in an untenable position, and rather than foster it we should delete it altogether.
It would be unwise to make it more palatable.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): Some of our people have been out of work and
wanted to go to Liverpool. Ten shillings is not enough to enable them to go, and I sugges
it is more economical than keeping them on our funds.
Mr. T. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): We have not had very much trouble over
this. Every member must clear his card before he can draw travelling assistance, and
whilst rail fares have increased this amount has remained the same.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): It would be interesting to know whethe
any case can be given of members who have been offered a job and could not take it because
of lack of funds.
The Resolution was carried.
Item 44 was formally introduced by THE GENERAL SECRETARY and endorsed.
The Council. Rule 200, Line 11. After word " Weeks," add " If unemployed
for that period."
Item 45 was unanimously endorsed.
The Council.-Rule 197, Line 5. - Delete " 1s. 3d." and insert " 1s. 8d."


---
Items 46 and 47 were taken together.
The Council. - Rule 250, line 2. Delete 1,000 and insert £3,000.
The Council. - Rule 251, Line 1. Delete £5,000, and insert £10,000.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY pointed out this was necessary owing to the rapid
growth of the Union's work.
Agreed.
Item 48 was proposed by Mr. W. WYMAN (Wellingborough):
Wellingborough. The Council shall have power to lend money upon mortgage
to local branches, who desire to purchase their own offices.
I ask all the delegates to endorse this resolution to enable branches to borrow money from
the Council to build their own offices.
Mr. T. RABBITT (Wellingborough) seconded.
Mr. A. MASON (London Metro.): I hope this will be passed to enable the London
office to borrow money to build offices; at present we are in a private house and have
cramped quarters.
Mr. T. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): If this resolution is adopted what would
be the position of the Union should we require the money urgently?
THE CHAIRMAN: We invest our money in Corporation Loans. We invest the
money for the benefit of other people, but not for our own. We know the position of
Wellingborough. Metro. is awkwardly placed. Just as the Council loan money, and before
doing so make enquiries, they would make enquiries before lending money to branches.
We are not prepared to build palaces. I only know of one branch likely to make early
application, and that is the London Metro. Wellingborough got out of their difficulty
by the kindness of the Higham and Rushden Branch. For the welfare of the Union
I think this should be carried, as our branches are not likely to peter out. You could
leave the matter in the hands of the Council.
The resolution was adopted:
Item 49.
The Council. Rule 130.- The Branch Officers must be insured with the Union
Fidelity Fund at the following minimum premium for each official of the
Branch -
Branch with weekly income under £25
£50
£75
£100
£150
£200
Amount
Per annum. Insured For.
2/6
£12
5/-
£25
10/-
£75
£1
£100
£1 10
£150
£2
£200
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: There is no alteration in this rule, but we have
added the amount insured for, rather than just leave it on the regulations.
Agreed.
Item 50 was proposed by Mr. A. W. LYNE (Northampton No. 2) :
Northampton No. 2.- Rule 130, Line 2.-After "Fund," add "Or any other
responsible insurance company."
Mr. H. GREEN (Northampton No. 2) seconded.
Mr. H. FOUNTAIN (Northampton No. 2): Our branch brought this forward
because they wanted to know how these rates vary with those of other companies.
THE CHAIRMAN: You will find these are much better.
The resolution was lost, only one voting in favour.
Items 51, 52 and 53 were then discussed.
The Council. Rule 127, Line 18.- After the word "Secretary" add "Within
eight weeks after the end of the quarter."
The Council. Rule 127, Line 12. After word "Week," add "Or pay the same
into the Bank every week."
The Council. Rule 127. - Add new sentence, "All correspondence relative to
members must give the branch and registered number of the member
referred to."
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: In Item 51 it just states the period when we think
The balance sheets should be sent to the Central Office. Eight weeks is not an unreasonable


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**160**
Mr. A. MARTIN (Leicester No. 2): Have the Council experienced any diff.
in getting balance sheets? If so can we have their names?
THE CHAIRMAN: All delinquents, either for balance sheets or other w
are pilloried in the Monthly Report following the offence.
Agreed.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY: In Item 52 we suggest that the contributie
banked every week.
Agreed.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Item 53 is to help with the corresponde
The correspondence at the Central Office is very heavy. It sometimes happe
when we have dealt with a question we find it was for a non-member, because of the a
of a branch secretary.
THE CHAIRMAN: In addition we found out two cases recently of secretarie
appointed who are only trade members. We cannot allow that.
Agreed.
Items 54, 55 and 56 were taken together.
The Council. - Rule 129. Line 3. - After "General Meeting," add "The T
of accounting and the Balance Sheet must be drawn up on any
system, and to the satisfaction of the Central Office."
The Council. - Rule 129, Line 4. - After word "Vouchers" add "Bank
books, paying-in books, deeds of investment, and cash in hand."
The Council. - Rule 148. - Add "Any contributions taken after Monday
must be booked for the following Saturday."
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: We want as far as possible to get the kee
branches and also in the checking at the Central Office. It is only to simplify matter
accounts and the balance sheets drawn up the same way; this saves time both
We are a big Union, and have a large turnover, and this suggestion will help both..
branches and the Central Office.
Agreed.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: We sometimes find that important matters
been omitted at the branch audit, or they have not been fully complied with and
suggest this addition.
Agreed.

**Weekly Contributions.**
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: In Item 56 we submit what we have be
endeavouring to do for years. I know that many branches already carry this cut.
submit, as an old branch secretary, that this will help the work of branch officers
feel, however, it should now be put into black and white. It is said some members wi
like this, but it is in the best interests of all concerned. I hope the delegates will suppo
the Council.
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member) formally seconded.
Mr. M. GAMBLE (Glasgow): I carry this out rigidly, but frequently I get pas
orders on Tuesday and Wednesday from the country. Are they to be carried forward
THE CHAIRMAN: I have been astounded to find some big branches allow ther
collectors to pay in once a fortnight. In Leicester you can go into any of the three branches
and see the weekly balance sheet every Tuesday morning. Leicester close down::
Monday for the previous Saturday. One branch I knew only entered up the contributies
each quarter. We want to put in our regulations as suggested here, which we hope yo
will support.
Mr. A. REYNOLDS (Northampton. 2): I support the Council's resolution.
We have had cases at Northampton which has raised these matters.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): The position in Northampton has been the sam
for a good many years. We take money up to Wednesday night, as it is impossible to de
with everybody on Monday. There are eight sections in the Leicester Branch, whilst i
Northampton we have 6,000 members in the town to deal with from one office. Even the
best of us would not give our Saturday afternoon up, and many of our members want t
go to the football match.
Mr. G. PARBURY (Leicester): If Mr. Pitts only knew the advantages of this
system he would adopt it at once. We cash up every Monday night and the money is
afternoon up how is it they do it in Leicester as they are very fond of football too Many
banked on Tuesday before 12 o'clock. Mr. Pitts says they will not give their Saturday


---
161
It is not fair for one town to carry
shop presidents bring their cash in on the way home.
this out and not another. I have received a card this morning from one of the clerks on
which he says - Wednesday, 25th May, 1926, 5 p.m.
Dear George.
All O.K. Cashed up for week, both cash account and levy. Both in order, and
banked this afternoon.
Yours,
W. G. BAILEY.
A DELEGATE: He looks like getting the sack when he gets back to Leicester;
they can do without him. (Loud laughter.)
Mr. G. BROOKS (Leicester): As a member of one Union I resent preferential
treatment. Why should one man be on the safe side on Wednesday morning and another
only on Monday. I have never held over money until Monday even. I pay in every
Saturday before I go to dinner.
Mr. W. KENDALL (Leicester): Fancy a secretary of the Northampton Branch
coming along and saying it cannot be done. I should think they have a loose system in
Northampton. It is the weakest thing I have heard. It is about time some of the officials
to do their duty. There is an idea among some officials that they can do as
were made to
they like. That has gone on too long. Then when they have work to do they call in
extra assistance to get the work done. I hope you will pass this resolution.
Mr. A. W. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): All the arguments from Leicester might
have been used in the opposite sense from other delegates. Local custom and methods
of members. as well as branch officers, cannot easily be broken down. I should like to
see the system adopted, but there are a lot of difficulties to be got over. I have nothing
to say against the Council's recommendation. I think it should be left to the discretion
of local people.
THE CHAIRMAN: I wonder whether Mr. Pitts can tell us how many conferences
it is since Northampton was pilloried over this. He said the system had been in existence
ever since our General Secretary was there. I remember going to London Metro. and the
late Tom O'Grady saying it was one of the best things the Council ever did. You should
try and get the shop presidents to pay in the same day as it is dangerous for people to
hold other people's money.
Mr. T. CAMPBELL (Kilmarnock): I hope the Conference will support this reso-
lution. Two years ago when we had a change of secretary we adopted this system, and
now the secretary will have the backing of rule.
Mr. A. MASON (London Metro.): Will this mean that shop presidents must
pay in each week? We have shop presidents who do pay weekly. Others live five miles
away and pay in once a fortnight. Some are six miles away and how can they pay in weekly.
I have never heard of the suggestion made by the Chairman. We take contributions until
Wednesday in the Metro. Branch.
THE CHAIRMAN: With postal facilities there is no excuse. We want to release
men from holding other people's money. I am astounded Mr. Mason does not know of
what happened in Mr. O'Grady's time.
Mr. S. BETTS (Northampton): It is all very well for some shop presidents to
say the money should be paid in. How can you get one hundred contributions and pay
in each week. It is not so easy as you suggest.
The resolution was carried unanimously.
Item 57.
Northampton No. 2.-Rule 123.-Add " Where new Branch Secretaries are
appointed, the General Secretary or a member of the Central Office Staff
shall inspect the branch accounts at least once a quarter during their first
year of office."
Mr. A. W. LYNE (Northampton No.2): I think it will assist the General Secretary
and the Central Office Staff in the system they are trying to secure for a uniform method of
bookkeeping and balance sheets. I believe it is absolutely necessary. I know the
General Secretary and the permanent staff do all they can to help branches, and I think
this should be passed to allow the system to be properly introduced.
Mr. E. LAW (Council Member) formally seconded, and the resolution was
carried nem. dis.
Item 58.
Administration Allowances.
The Council.- Rule 26.-Add " All administration allowances to be paid to
the credit of the branch."
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: To those who took part in the framing of the
Health Insurance Acts administration they will remember the difficulties we had to get
L


---
Over.
162
ence has shown to the Council that whatever system w
shown to this. was in operation in
ng to-day. V
the bash
be some
We had to set up fresh machinery. Some of it has been improved
been scrapped, but the methods we adopted then are practically in bein
branches, the time has arrived when the administration allowance should be cre
the branch, and not received by any individual officer. There may b
The Council believe, having regard to the period of time which ha
the branch account, and if there is too much work for one officer then efficient
and the advantages the Council believe will accrue, that administration should
with it all. There is no personal feeling entering into the matter. The Counal
That would be much better than one individual de
to say so far as the branches are concerned, that they hope if this is carried and
I know it will help some branches if this is adopted. Therefore, on behalf of the C
trust it will be that officers shall not be subjected to reductions in their salary a
sequence. There are bound to be some adjustments when this is put into ope
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member) seconded the resolution
assistance should be granted.
I beg to propose this addition to the rule.
incorporated Item 59:
Leicester Women's. Rule 26. Add
"
M
That National Health Insurance
National Unemployment Benefit be paid under the sole control of B
Executives and administered as part of the work of the Union through
Secretary of each Branch, and all administration allowances be credited
the branch funds."
what it means to the small branches. I know the extra work it creates. The a
I do not want to minimise the work which has to be done for Health Insurance. Wow
this resolution is put into effect the better. What is fair and just for one officer she
fair for others. It would be better to give a rise in wages and let the administr
officer is the agent, the second officer does not take any interest, because he gets no es
allowance go to the branch rather than one person have it all and create jealousy je
and I appeal for this to be passed.
has been on the supplementary system.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton) I know there has been some opposition to
Agents for some time. I claim the same right as a workman. Whatever we have
upon us, and I would not go through that experience again for any money. Now we ne
made it a success the Council want to rob us in exactly the same manner as the Governm
We had the Health Insurance work thr
tries to rob societies.
THE CHAIRMAN: No; we are stopping emoluments.
Mr. W. PITTS (Northampton): In my case we have a clerk for insurance wors
I pay the salary: 2d. for each card rent, and rather more than half the sick visitica
I suggest present conditions should prevail until fresh arrangements can be made. The
is no offer in this resolution of recompense for all the trouble taken. The president c
branch generally speaking gets on the Council, and the secretary is entitled to some com.
sideration.
this matter will not be personal, but I was elected to the Council by the members of th
Mr. W. R. TOWNLEY (Council Member): I object to that statement. I hor
branches.
THE CHAIRMAN: Is it true you were an alderman of Northampton Town Counc
whilst doing this work?
Mr. W. PITTS: Yes.
THE CHAIRMAN: Then you were not overworked.
(
t
Mr. H. C. ATTEWELL (Northampton): As a member of the branch of Comrade
Pitts I rise to support the Council's recommendation. I believe I am expressing the wish
of the greater number of our members on principle. Any office a man holds such as this
should have the administration paid to the branch funds. If the remuneration from the
office is high, it means the branch is losing money which should go to its coffers. If it is
low, then we have scab labour. There is a difference between the smaller branches, and
their officers should have consideration. In Northampton a fair wage is paid to the
officials. When we engage a man in our movement it is not for eight hours a day, but for
all time. Why one comrade should have (2 per week more than another without putting
in extra work is not fair. No man should receive extra remuneration because his name
is used, and then he employs someone else to do the job.
The resolution was endorsed.


---
Item 60.
163
Outworkers.
Kingswood. — Rule 7. Line 3. "To ask Council to take steps to make this
object effective."
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood): Most of the delegates will consider the
Council has done all possible in connection with this resolution, but we should like the
Conference to pass it. There have been some articles in the trade journals recently calling
attention to the bad conditions in Kingswood, due to outdoor labour.
not been idle in endeavouring to get manufacturers to provide workshops, a large propor-
tion still work outdoors. There are about ten per cent. outdoor workers in our area.
I thought if this Conference expressed their approval of our request we feel the Council
will be enabled to bring their influence to bear upon the Manufacturers' Federation, which
is also a powerful influence. There is a tendency for manufacturers to leave the Federa-
tion in our district and we want to try and stop it.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member) seconded.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Mr. Randall occupies a responsible public position
I should like to ask him whether he gets any assistance from the Medical Officer. We have
been able to get much assistance from medical men generally.
THE CHAIRMAN: The Trade Board sent a deputation to the Home Secretary.
What we want is every place used as a workshop to come under the Factory Act. One
member of the deputation who went with us admitted he had never been asked to fill up
the proper schedule for three years giving the number of outworkers he employed.
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood): Every assistance is rendered by our Medical
Officer of Health.
Mr. H. PERKINS (Leicester No. 2): Don't you think our organisers could do
something in this connection. They could do valuable work when visiting various places.
I should like to know whether the rule is still in force for the examination of children
before entering a factory after leaving school.
THE CHAIRMAN: Yes.
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): The organisers have called attention to this
matter from time to time, because of the state of some factories, and we have been able
to secure some alteration.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): The great difficulty in Kingswood is to
get the full conditions established. No one who knows anything of our district will forget
that we produced heavy grade footwear which was made outdoors. Whilst we have a
few manufacturers who have built factories, many have the old domestic system. Whilst
this system prevails, there is always suspicions that conditions are not carried out. This
adds to our difficulties. We have instances where employers have offered work at a certain
price; when refused, the employer says Mr. So-and-so is doing it. Upon investigation
we find no truth in the statement. We have had a slump for four years. The astonishing
thing is that we have been able to hold on as well as we have done. We hope to abolish
the outdoor system, and sweep away half the so-called factories in the district and have
up-to-date factories erected in their places.
The resolution was unanimously adopted.
Item 61.
Kingswood.—Rule 10.—" To ask Council to press for the inclusion of this
object in the next National Agreement.!"
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood): We have some trouble when workmen are
asked to work overtime, and it is then difficult to get manufacturers to pay. We think
overtime should be abolished.
Cries of "Agreed."
Education.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: Paragraph 7 of the Council's Address is to be
read in conjunction with this resolution. I cannot add much to the report because just
when we were negotiating with Lady Warwick, we were plunged into the mining dispute.
It has already been reported through the Monthly Report that the General Council were
getting out a scheme in connection with the existing colleges—Ruskin College and the
Labour College—and I believe Mr. Pugh has been on this work for four or five years. After
many difficulties which have been overcome, the General Council was getting the scheme
together. When this offer of Lady Warwick's was made to us, it altered the whole position.
With the exception of a few rooms at Easton Lodge, which Lady Warwick requires for her
own use, the whole of the building will be placed at our disposal with the land. The pro-
posals of Lady Warwick are such that the General Council felt this unique offer for the


---
development of our educational work could not be refused. The only stipulation her Tu
to either develop it as farms, or for building purposes, reserving much for the Lodge
ship makes is that the Park land should be preserved, and after her death we shall
Council will be able to present a complete report dealing with the question. We are
ing in unity with the Ruskin College, Labour College and the W.E.A. So far as it is n
00 students there. I hope at the September Congress
assume will be so much per member affiliated to the Trades Union Congress.
Trades Union Congress schemes. We can quite easily do that because the machinery
Our Executive Council feel we ought to put down schemes in conformity with
of which Mr. Pugh is chairman, which suggests schemes, and if this recommendation
question of it having to be put into operation. There isatud:
scholarships. Others prefer to work in conjunction with the W.E.A. I do not see ak
we could not work the two methods. The Council are not committed to any particul
be money well spent in helping to increase the influence of our members. Mr. Bauma
been our representative on the Trades Union Congress Committee dealing with the matt
give a considerable proportion of the money to one district, and say to another it is all
When the scheme is presented to Congress it may be that we shall be asked for a much lar
1 propose this sum of £200 be spent, relying upon the delegates to give the Co
said: " Since the Stafford Conference he had been serving on the Trades Union Cong
Mr. J. H. BAUM (Organiser) speaking in support of the Council's recommendati
with some amount of diffidence that he attended those meetings, because he know
Advisory Committee, as the representative of the Union on Adult Education.
there was a conflict between the various bodies that catered for working-class educat
The purpose of calling the Committee together was, because the Trades Union Com
bodies concerned could be more effectively directed towards a common objective.
felt that the time had arrived when a definite policy should exist, and the efforts
societies represented on the Committee were Ruskin College, Labour Colleges, Co-opera
He was somewhat surprised to find that there was such a deadly conflict on the obiect
Union, National Council of Labour Colleges, and the Workers' Educational Associat
of education, and while there was a general agreement on the need of co-ordinatio-
endeavoured to give to each body represented the right to pursue their own policy
policy, the objects revealed a fundamental difference in outlook. The scheme cutlic
the General Council as the supreme authority, who would make a grant of £2,000
year towards carrying on the work. That scheme was approved of at the last Tra
Union Congress, but as the General Secretary had stated, it had not been put into
tion owing to the magnificent gift of Easton Lodge. The General Council's opini
as stated on the Advisory Committee, was a broad and generous policy, bearing in
that it was their aim not to cater for the few, but as far as possible for the general avera
member of the Unions. They also had to bear in mind the financial side, and the cos
embarking on a large scheme, not that the financial side only were they considering
that they had a right to take full advantage of state funds, which already existed, provi
that a scheme could be prepared that would meet with acceptance by the author
The law with regard to Universities was equal to schemes of adult education, provid
that such schemes were not connected with a definite political party, and the Trades Un
Congress could well prepare schemes which would find acceptance, because it was nc:.
definite political body. So with this idea in mind, the Advisory Committee prepared
memorandum, which found ready acceptance to the Committee, except the objects. T
National Council of Labour Colleges insisted that the object of education should be,
the purpose of the abolition of capitalism,' with this idea he did not think anyone ce....
disagree. But the Committee felt that this definition of education was too limited, a.
further, the scope of education should be upon broader lines of development. Fina
a Sub-Committee was appointed, from the educational bodies represented, to see if othe
words were not more suitable, and more in conformity with educational ideas could
formulated. Thus an agreement was reached upon the following lines, that the obje
of education should be, 'to assist the workers in their social and industrial emancipation
This, he maintained, was a sound conclusion, to what appeared to him would eventuall
meet the expanding needs of the Trade Union Movement. They needed to take a bre...
outlook on this matter, and get away from the purely definite policy which the Nation
Council of Labour Colleges advocated. It might mean that an organiser viewed thi
problem from a different point of view, and his experiences gave him another outloc
thin veneer, and it may be possible to cover the mind with a thin veneer, only to find that
something very soft exists underneath. He had heard men preach revolution and
foreman. He did not claim to be an educated man, because he often acted unconsciously,


---
165
and many men after calm reflection often feel sorry for what they have said, and done,
and many men after calm reflection often feel sorry for what they have said, and done,
afterwards. Therefore he resented that type of mind which claimed degrees, and only
trained their mind to deceive their less fortunate friends, who had not had the same oppor-
tunity. They needed to develop these fine qualities of manhood, whatever that may
mean, and at least they could say that those who were responsible for building up our
organisation, possessed those qualities.
No one could be really satisfied with the general average of response for a thorough discipling of the mind,
improvement, but the general average of response for a thorough
was not so great as the circumstances of the times demanded.
by the General Council recognised this point of view, and the branch secretaries could
play an important part in stimulating the mind of their members to equip themselves
for those larger responsibilities, in the great task of controlling more effectively, their own
lives and conditions. The Council's recommendation would therefore lay the foundation
upon which they could build, according to the circumstances and needs of each district,
and the amount suggested, he felt, would adequately meet the needs. They all needed
at times to discipline their own minds, so that they could still exert that spirit and will
which determine all human motives. This then, should be their task, to evolve those
great qualities which are the foundation of their movement, and as a result of attempting
to cater for the minds of their members, they would gain in energy, strength, and wisdom,
to carry on the work of the Union." (Applause.)
Item 62.
Leicester No. 2. Rule 15.-" To enable the Union to more fully comply with
the Objects of the Union re Education, this Conference empowers the Council
to make provision for the education of its members, so far as it is obtainable,
through the agency of the Workers' Educational Association. Further,
the Council shall make provision for the members to receive such education
at the expense of the Union, by the payment of students' fees, and providing
all requisite books, &c. This only to apply to students recommended by
the various Branch Committees."
Mr. T. H. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): The reason our resolution appears on
the agenda is because of the circular which was issued from Head Office some time ago.
Having heard the statement of the General Secretary we withdraw the resolution.
The suggestion of the Council was endorsed.
Mr. T. CAMPBELL (Kilmarnock) also withdrew Item 64 :-
Kilmarnock.- Rule 23.- After "University," add "And to provide for our
members independent working-class education through the medium of the
National Council of Labour Colleges under the scheme adopted by the
British Trades Union Congress."
Mr. T. CAMPBELL (Kilmarnock) proposed Item 63 :-
Kilmarnock. - Rule 23. - Add "And to use all means to further the cause of
independent working-class education and operate in conjunction with the
National Council of Labour Colleges a system of education for members of
the Union."
No one hearing the recent remarks would come to the conclusion that the Labour Colleges
carried on work outside the trade union movement. I do not think such statements are
correct. If you come to the Scottish Labour College you will find the president is secretary
of the Scottish Trades Union Congress. In this country the trade union movement has
not put in so much for education as on the Continent. During my residence of twenty
days in Sweden and Denmark I came into contact with men and women from most of the
important education centres in Europe, and I think we should give every support to the
recommendation.
The Item was then withdrawn.
Item 65 was formally moved and adopted.
The Council. - Rule 69.- Add "The Branch Committee shall meet from time
to time, as occasion arises, to conduct business in accordance with the rules
and regulations of the Union, and at the end of each quarter the Secretary
must lay before them a statement of accounts, together with all books and
vouchers. The cash in hand shall also be certified by the Branch President
at least once each quarter, or more often if desired."
Women Officers.
Miss E. A. TIMMS (Leicester Women's): I beg to move Item 66:-
Leicester Women's.-Rule 69.-Add "That in order to further the better
organisation of women in the Union, branches should endeavour to make
it convenient to have women members on the Branch Executive and where
possible to have at least one woman permanent officer."
I feel the time has arrived when women should take on their own responsibility. The time
is not far distant when our women will awaken, and they will feel they ought to have their


---
own representatives with greater numbers. I hope our women will talk about this ame
that could be done.
themselves. I do not wish to suggest that everything has not been done by the
What would clickers and finishers say if women went to fix thon
prices and rates, or to cater for them? On the other hand we women feel we should
allowed to have officers who can fix our prices.
Miss E. SHERWIN (Leicester Women's) seconded.
Mr. H. FRAZER (Norwich) : I cannot imagine any opposition to this re
so ably put by Miss Timms. I should like to say a word about the first two lines o
resolution: "That in order to further the better organisation of women in the t
Are we to say because mere men have run the Union that the organisation of wome
not good? Norwich is the best organised branch in the country so far as women
one thousand refused to leave the Leicester No. I Branch, so evidently they think menc
concerned. There should be a larger number of women in the Union in Leicester. Alva
THE CHAIRMAN: The members in No. 1 Branch are not Leicester women: th
do something.
are in the country. The Women's branch does not cater for the county.
Mr. H. FRAZER (Norwich): I do not agree that it is necessary to have Nor
to organise women. We like women on the Committee and think they do good work
we feel about this, and every male member knows how he would feel if placed in the wa
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): Every delegate knowGW
the males had done at the beginning what I have told you before-not worked with wom
There are plenty of men outside the Union in all districts. I
non-members things would be better. For the past few years our male officials a
done good work for the women in Norwich and Northampton. I have tried very
The Council remind you from time to time that there are women in your branches, and
not to bring discord into these branches. It will creep in because prejudice comes alory
put up for the Standing Orders Committee, and you did not vote for one out of five renaired
The cream of the Union have forgotten there was a wo
you to nominate women.
We want you to remember we are on earth. (Laughter.)
in sympathy with the resolution, and unless we make some agreement we shall not mem
any headway. The time of most women in industry is short. They are looking.
married bliss. If it is necessary to have women officials in every branch, then it is necessar
brighter times. (Laughter.) They leave industry between 20 and 30 years of age
to have a permanent officer who is a clicker, pressman, laster and finisher. You can
have it both ways. You elect people because of their outstanding ability.
Mr. L. POOLE (Council Member) : I have nothing to say against women.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): Norwich decided to support this resolution because
favour of equality but not preference. I would not vote for a girl because she was ag
its literal interpretation, but in the evidence it seeks to give feminist preference. I am
but I would vote for a girl if she were better qualified for the position than a man.
are in industry for life, but females are in for a temporary period only. This distincti
accounts for a lack of consistent interest on the part of females. There is another point
Women do not attend meetings so well as they might do, because, as they say, they have
complete confidence in men.
(Laughter.) That is what they say at all events, and I am
not going to be discourteous enough to disbelieve them. (Laughter.) There does not
appear to be a great desire to take on men's responsibilities, and I hesitate to support the
resolution if it really means giving preferential treatment to women.
Upon a show of hands the CHAIRMAN reported there voted :-
For the Resolution 64
Against 58
and he declared the same carried.
The Conference adjourned at 12.24 p.m.
Afternoon Session.
The delegates reassembled at 2 p.m., the General President being in the Chair.
those officers who had returned for branch duties.
The General Secretary read the Roll, and reported all the delegates were present except
Item 67 was endorsed without comment.
The Council.-Rule 69, Line 6. - Delete " A Treasurer and."


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

**167**

**Permanent Officers & Parliament.**

**Item 68.**
Higham and Rushden. Rule 67, Line 3 Delete all words after "Parli-
amentary Agents," and add: " Any Parliamentary Agent (not a National
Officer) being elected to Parliament shall receive an allowance of £150 per
annum, with third class season ticket to and from his (or her) home to the
House of Commons (to be paid from Union's Political Funds). Any National
Officer being returned as a Labour Member of Parliament shall attend the
Council Meetings, and act as a member of the same."

Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): If you look at Rule 24 it says
"To make provision for the Union being represented in Parliament by Members,
who shall pledge themselves to work for the realisation of the Union's objects,
and carry out the decisions of the Trades Union Congress and National
Labour Party."

I should like you to know we have many Labour M.P.'s drawn from trade unions. If our
members select national officers, and they get elected to Parliament, it should be the duty
of the Executive Council to provide them with clerical assistance to allow them to go to
Parliament.

Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden) seconded.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): I feel this Conference should know what they are
doing before passing this resolution. Parliament is a full time job if a man does his job
properly. So far as our Union is concerned they look after their officials all right, and I
do not see any necessity for a change of rule. More and more time-if Parliament is going
to serve the people-must be given to the work, and more calls will be made upon men in
Parliament. If during the recess the Union wanted the services of one of its M.P.'s,
they can address either political or industrial meetings. I am fully persuaded that it is
not practical for one officer to hold too many positions. I do not think any Parliamentary
representative should hold two positions.

Mr. A. CROUCH: Why not?

Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): If so, then one of your representatives would be
having £800 a year and I ask, do you consider it is fair?

THE CHAIRMAN: When I was in the House of Commons I was amongst the first
seventeen members for four years' attendance. One could run for the L.C.C., accept a
J.P.-ship, go on the London Board of Guardians, and you would not object. I am a
London resident, and a London voter, so could stand for any of those positions. You allow
members to hold several positions, even if you are M.P. This objection only applies to
permanent officials. I know the Labour Whip said you should attend to your duties.
We have members of Parliament anxious to take part in our work, simply because it is
convenient. There has never been a General President or General Secretary who has been
removed from his position, because the big thing is the lack of security of employment,
and I am glad we have now got over that.

Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden): We had in mind our General Presi-
dent and General Secretary, and agree they should take their position in Parliament
without forfeiting their position as general officers. If another union allows its General
President and General Secretary to go to Parliament why should we not do likewise
Our local officers go on to the councils and we should let the general officers have this chance

Mr. H. REYNOLDS (Northampton No. 2): There is no analogy of being a J.P.
and going to Parliament. You do not have to go to London to be a J.P.

THE CHAIRMAN: As I said before I am a London resident and London voter,
I could accept the position of J.P., and could stand for the L.C.C., which would take three
days each week. I have never heard anything said, or any protest made against either
Mr. Poulton or myself taking on this class of work.

Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): It is equally true the organisers when elected
had to relinquish their local offices and connections.

The resolution was lost.

**Item 69**
Wellingborough. - Rule 60.-" The Council shall take such steps as are necessary
to place the Political Fund upon a sound basis. If that is found to be
impracticable they shall reduce the number of Parliamentary Agents to a
number that the fund can carry."

Mr. L. P. POOLE (Wellingborough): The object of the Wellingborough Branch
was not to get this carried, but to bring up a discussion on the matter. We feel the Con-
ference should seriously consider the matter. As a Union we undertake political work
with as much zeal and enthusiasm as any organisation in the country. Due to the fact


---
168
Mr. T. RABBITT (Wellingborough) seconded.
I should have thought this resolution would have been withdrawn.
it would be a good thing to ask for a levy.
It is the tail wher
part of the week that a levy might be suggested. I do not think that would be
and no one knows whether this Government will be in office for a long time or not.
that we have had several elections the funds are depleted. Mr. Poulton stated in the
THE CUAIRMAN: The mover of the resolution did not recommend anything
the sting is. I would rather double the number of candidates than reduce them. I thi
Mr. H. FRAZER (Norwich): It was stated by the General Secretary this
important matter. The resolution is a very serious one. I submit there is necessity Ve
our union to place more candidates in the field. Our fund is administered too generowy
We place candidates and immediately take over the Labour Party lock, stock and barrel
purpose. Look what we did in Norwich. There were two candidates; we ran St
and the Union paid all the expenses Miss Jewson was the other candidate and we hai
The workers should be prepared to pay for their politics. I disagree with a levy for
made £150 profit. It is the duty of the Council to place the fund on a proper
We collected the money in a fortnight; cleared the expense
to pay her expenses.
not carry Labour Parties about.
The resolution was then withdrawn.
Item 70.
basis a
Leicester No. 2. " Nominations for Officers as per Rules 55, 57, 58, 59 and
shall be taken in September. Voting to take place in October."
have sparsely attended meetings in August when the vote is taken, and we feel there short
Mr. G. SMITH (Leicester No. 2): Our reasons for asking for this is because w
and August for voting; we suggest they be put on; curiously enough there is no mentio
Mr. T. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2) seconded. July is the month for nominatist
be a bigger vote for union officers.
at present in the rules as to when this voting should take place.
Unanimously agreed.
THE CHAIRMAN: The only thing we are now faced with is that this rule will
that you pass such a resolution instructing the General Secretary to put it into operat
benefit us for two years unless we pass an extraordinary resolution. I suggest, there...
forthwith,
The suggestion of the Chairman was unanimously agreed.
Items 71, 72 and 73.
represented at this Congress."
Kilmarnock. - Rule 62. - Delete "Scottish branches will not be eligible to
Kilmarnock. Rule 63. - Delete "Voting to be confined to the British Trade
Union Congress districts."
Kilmarnock. - Rule 64. - Delete.
Mr. T. CAMPBELL (Kilmarnock) : These items were put on the agenda before the
great industrial crisis. We feel that as a result of the work of the Scottish Trades Unic
Congress in connection with the stoppage that the resolutions should be withdrawn.
Permission was given for this to be done.
Item 74.
σε
Northampton No. 2.-Rule 70.-Add
place of meeting pay due regard to the travelling expenses incurred by the
delegates."
The Council shall in selecting such
Mr. H. GREEN (Northampton No. 2) proposed. Since this resolution was sent
along certain information has come to our knowledge, and I propose moving the resolution
and speaking later.
Mr. S. BETTS (Northampton No. 2) seconded.
If we cannot get more fresh air than in the Midlands then what are we to do.
THE CHAIRMAN: I hope the Council will always pay full regard to the expenses
coming here.
Mr. W. WHYMANT (Desborough): I think the Council did the proper thing in
Mr. A. REYNOLDS (Northampton No. 2): In fixing the place of the Conference
the factory my shopmates said they wished they could come with me.
you should take into consideration that we are a boot and shoe industry. When I left
The resolution was lost.
(Laughter.)


---
Item 75 was withdrawn.
Kilmarnock. Rule 71. Delete word "All," end of third line. Substitute
"May" for "Shall" on fourth line. In a consultatíve capacity only unless
rest of sentence and substitute in the usual manner
Item 76 was proposed by Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich):
Norwich. Rule 71. Line 5. After word "Representation," add "And shall
be subject to the same instructions and directions as elected delegates.
There are several of our members in Norwich who feel the officials should not come here
by virtue of their office, but that has been decided by past conferences that we should
I hope the Conference will support this resolution.
Mr. T. CAMPBELL (Kilmarnock) seconded. I do not suggest that permanent
officers do not do as their members wish, but I think this is necessary
THE CHAIRMAN : No one is big enough unless he takes the risk of his actions
unless you go contrary to your members. Some of us feel we are governed sometimes;
other times we think otherwise. We have to take the risk of our actions. If any of our
members think they should not be advised what to do, then I think we should tell them
that they ought to be prepared to take advice. I do not agree they should be tied to such
an extent as to prevent them having an opinion.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I should like to know from Mr. Jex as to the
real purport of this. I hold with the General President strong views of delegates coming
to the Conference with hands tied. There are some things which members cannot decide
until they have heard the discussion. When I was Secretary of the Northampton Branch,
it was attempted to prevent my being nominated because I would not commit myself to
a certain course until I had heard the evidence. I went to the conference and the delegates
after hearing the case said they were bound to move the resolution, and vote against it.
I submit it is a wrong policy to tie delegates down. On some questions delegates should
come here unfettered until they have heard the evidence. I trust Mr. Jex will give us
more information.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): We are simply saying that where branches decide
beforehand, then their branch officers should be in the same position. We do not insist
upon branches instructing their delegates, only if they desire.
ALD. A. HILL (Leicester No. 2) : I agree with the General President. No officers
should be too big to take advice. We always have a special meeting and go through the
agenda, item by item. We make notes and see where we can agree, and on other matters
have open minds. The officers who are here claim no preference over the elected delegates.
(Hear, hear.)
The resolution was carried, 68 voting in favour.
Item 77.
Glasgow.-Rule 91, Line 5.-Delete "Which must be apart from any factory."
Mr. T. ROBERTSON (Glasgow): We think the voting stations could be fixed
in places suitable, and suggest the deletion of the above words.
Mr. A. KELMAN (Glasgow No. 2) seconded.
THE CHAIRMAN: We understand there is a mess room apart from the factory
at the S.C.W.S. works. How can it be said to be in conjunction with the factory when it
is away from it? That, I understand, is their difficulty. I think the Council have power
to take these circumstances into consideration.
Mr. W. KENDALL (Leicester) : I understand they have a mess room apart from
the factory. I object to that being used as a voting station. Suppose there are 300 or
400 men in a dining room and I am there. As a consequence of a big vote being given
to me, it may be claimed I used undue influence.
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): You can only make factory arrangements at the
big factories. You cannot have it at everyone and you give the big ones a preference.
I think it should be turned down.
The resolution was lost.
Item 78 was agreed without discussion.
The Council.-"All nominations should be accompanied with the registered
number of the member so nominated."
Item 79.
Kilmarnock. Rule 113, Line 11.--After the word "Rules," add "The Council
shall not restrain any branch from subscribing from Branch funds towards
any bona-fide working-class political trade union or educational organisation,
provided such subscriptions be passed at a full branch meeting after due
notice of motion."


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
Mr. T. CAMPBELL (Kilmarnock) : We saw visions that some branch
prevented from subscribing to other organisations, and desire this to be put in the
THE CHAIRMAN : We have already taken action in one branch, and refu
79 and 80, seeing what has been done regarding education and the prospect of
allow them to spend union or branch money to send delegates to the Communist
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I appeal to Mr. Campbell to withdraw
advance at the Trades Union Congress.
Item 80.
Kilmarnock. Rule 153. Should be substituted by a national r١١١٥٧٨٨
allowances for a complete national educational scheme.
Mr. T. CAMPBELL agreed to do so.
Item 81.
Conditions of Membership.
Higham and Rushden. Rule 32. - Add: "Or who is not employed in
manufacture of boots and shoes."
Mr. W. LANGLEY (Higham and Rushden) : We have no objection to allo
any person to come into our Union who comes within the scope of the industry,
object to taking men who might belong to the Leather Workers' Union, as they show
try and get into our ranks.
Mr. E. BATCHELOR (Higham and Rushden) seconded.
trician into membership. I don't think they should have done so. If we are
union. We exclude electricians from our agreement.
THE CHAIRMAN: I am in possession of information that a branch took a
hide these cases because it may be hurtful, all well and good. Ours is a boot and
Mr. A. CROUCH (Higham and Rushden): He drew £9 out quickly, too
tell you we have leather dressers belonging to our Union and they have done for
time. We should not try to keep such members if they had a proper union, or ti
could do better for them. I don't know what Mr. Rowan, of the Electrical W
would think if he knew an electrician had joined our Union.
Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester) : I found a man who had been a hosiery ham
into our Union.
Mr. T. VALLANCE (Leicester No. 2): I beg to call your attention to Rule
"The Union shall consist of any number of males and females working at
Boot and Shoe Trade, organised into branches in the United Kingdom
which says:-
I contend if any branch deliberately has accepted into membership any man or wom
Great Britain and Ireland and the Continent.
contrary to that rule they should be dealt with.
Mr. LEN. SMITH (Organiser): The leather workers at Street belong to
Street Branch. Mr. Smith explained the reasons why they were taken into the
and the advantages which had been secured for them.
The resolution was lost.
Mr. T. ROBERTSON (Glasgow): On Item 82:
Glasgow. Rule 38, Line 19.-After word "Benefit," add "Branches sh
have power to claim 3d. per week additional contribution until the card
brought into compliance with the eight weeks' arrears period."
All I can say is I have been instructed to move the resolution.
There being no seconder the resolution fell through.
Item 83 was agreed.
The Council. - Rule 39.-Delete.
Item 84 also agreed.
The Council. Rule 302.-Add after the words "General Secretary," " With:
eight weeks after the end of each quarter."
Item 85.
The Council." Any member, who, for the purpose of defeating the Rule i
to ten weeks' out-of-work benefit in twelve months refrains from declaring
Union. Any such case being found out by a Branch Committee, such
On the Out-of-Work Fund shall be dealt with as breaking the rules of the
Committee shall forward on the particulars to the Council, who shall have
full power to deal with the case and the member as they think fit."


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**THE GENERAL SECRETARY:** We felt this should be put into the rules in a
similar way to that obtaining in sick cases
Unanimously agreed.
Item 86 was withdrawn

Higham and Rushden.
Item 87 agreed.
The Council.
Rule 301
Delete.
Items 88, 89 and 90 endorsed.
The Council.
Rule 99, Line 14.
Delete word "General.
The Council. Rule 99, Line 17.
Delete word "General."
The Council. Rule 99, Line 19. Delete word "General."
Items 91, 92 and 93 were also endorsed.
The Council. Rule 29, No. 7. Add "London Sew-Round."
The Council. Rule 29, No. 10. Delete "Eyam and Lincoln," and add
Liverpool No. 2."
The Council. Rule 29, No. 12. Delete "Hereford."

**Terms of Settlement.**

Item 94.
Norwich. - Delete Items A, B, C, and D of Resolution 5, as follows:-
a. No board shall require an employer to employ any particular workman,
or a workman to work for any particular employer, or shall entertain
any questions relating to such matters except for the purpose of enabling
a workman to clear his character.
b. No board shall claim jurisdiction over the conditions and terms of em-
ployment of workpeople outside its district, provided that no actual
work shall be sent out of a district which has been the subject of an award
in that district.
c. No board shall interfere with the right of an employer to make reasonable
regulations for timekeeping, and the preservation of order in his factory
or workshop.
d. No board shall put restrictions on the introduction of machinery, or the
output therefrom, or on the adoption of day or piecework wages by an
employer in cases in which both systems have been sanctioned, subject
to the conditions prescribed in resolutions 2 and 3. No question referred
to in sub-sections a, b, c, and d shall be made a matter of dispute by
the Union.

Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): The Terms of Settlement provide for arbitration by
which the Agreement is governed. We find in working these terms of arbitration shall be
the basis of discussing certain questions, but there are exceptions also. The Union should
use either the strike weapon or arbitration. but our Union has not been able to say we shall
have arbitration upon every occasion. You cannot negotiate with an employer under a
certain set of circumstances. We feel that we ought to be able to do this because if there
is discontent in a factory, and the employer refuses to see the men, or the union officials,
as was the case in Norwich recently, what is there left to do but strike. We claim we should
have the right to deal with such cases in a constitutional manner, and I hope you will
adopt this suggestion.
The resolution having been seconded,
THE CHAIRMAN said: There are some clauses we should like softening a little.
We have already softened some of them, and we shall certainly try with others the next
time we meet the employers in Conference. Lord Buckmaster asked in the enquiry over
the Norwich case why the employer refused to see the men? If the employer had seen the
men the stoppage would have been prevented, and it saves a lot of internal trouble. The
operatives have more confidence in the head of the firm than a manager or foreman.
(Hear, hear.) I think you should support this resolution.
Agreed.
Item 95.
Wellingborough. - Rule 142.-Add: "That in the case of a non-federated
firm where the National Terms of Settlement have been violated, the local
Officials in consultation with the General Officers shall have power to take
such action as may be deemed necessary."

Mr. L. P. POOLE (Council Member): You all know there is such a thing as a
non-federated firm. Negotiations go on because there are violations of the Agreement,
but before sanctioning a strike we have to get permission of the Council. We suggest


---
that the local officials in consultation with the General President and General Secr
resolution.
Mr. A. G. RANDALL (Kingswood) seconded.
Mr. J. H. BAUM (Organiser): Does this mean placing the responsibility s
Mr. L. P. POOLE: That is the intention.
never instructed me that I should not strike a shop if that point was reached
hands of the General President and General Secretary between Council meetings.
THE CHAIRMAN: This resolution is absolutely unnecessary. The Counel
what we find even in Wellingborough. They sometimes want a strike, and we don'
I have had a case at Mansfield for over nine months, and it
be unwise if I struck that shop. Take the last strike we had at Jackson & Josephat
East End. We had 50 members out on strike, and 300 working. What is the good of
I should not strike a shop if that point was reached
In spending Union money we have come to the conclusion that
is lost by negotiation.
them have one.
know of a case where my colleagues have refused to help.
we have been able to improve matters in the East End.
case.
Mr. A. MASON (London Metro.): As a result of the strike at Jackson & Jo
good as that one in the East End. You have a type of individual in the East Fod
Mr. LEN. SMITH (Organiser) : There has never been a strike which did
London you cannot get behind. The very people who speak on boxes at the corner
the street are the people who beat you in the workshop. The operatives beat
No Organiser has been to London and come away satisfied. No man woraw
in a branch of this Union than Albert Mason he has the most terrible job of any
officer. I hope we shall be able to get through without strikes, but they are nece
on some occasions. I have never had a refusal either from the General President
General Secretary when I thought it necessary to place a case before them for strike ars
very valuable from time to time. When we have all the facts named in the rule it is 30~
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: I have found the rule relating to these mar
of evasions before the General President and I, we give authority for them to ac
times proven that a strike would be a mistake.
invariably the Council endorse our action.
If any of the Organisers place a bad
I can say there was never any delay on the part of the General President and Gere
Mr. C. MAYES (Kettering): Asa member of the Executive Council for six
Secretary in giving action where necessary. I hope this resolution will be withdra
Upon being put to the vote, only Two delegates voted in favour.
Item 96
Norwich No. 2. " That the Norwich No. 2 Branch is of the opinion
Clause 17 of the National Conference (September) 1924 Agreement sho
be amended so as to include the Boy Labour restrictions in the Fitting
and Preparing Departments, and it be an instruction to the Executu
Council to press for same in future negotiations with the Manufacture
Federation. And that it be placed on the Agenda for discussion at
next Conference."
Agreed without discussion.
Mr. A. MASON (London Metro.): What department is it where putting
stiffeners and tacking on insole is performed ?
THE CHAIRMAN: In the lasting department. Send to the Central Office and v
will get full particulars.
Item 97.
Norwich No. 2. - Ask the Council whether they would look into the matter:
the conditions prevailing on those firms who cater for the trade in Blocke
Stiffeners and Toe-Pieces, as to whether it is possible for anything to t
done re the importation from America of Sole Stuff which comes over
squares, as it is reported that over 1,000,000 pairs of soles came into Norwich
last year from different sources, which render it very difficult to keep our
members employed in the Bottom Stuff Department, and when once out:
is almost an impossibility to get them in again.
but there is not time.
THE CHAIRMAN : 1 had intended giving you many details about Czecho-Slovakia
The General President has paid a great deal of attention to this matter, and we hopell
Item 97 having been proposed, Mr. NORMAN (Northampton No. 2) seconded
will not be long before all these firms observe the conditions.
---

---
Mr. W. R. SMITH (Organiser): There are a number of sole-cutting firms estab
lished in this country. They advertise in the Press in shoe centres for operatives. If
every branch who had a member go there was to inform the Central Office, we could make
enquiries in the early stages rather than wait until conditions are bad.
THE CHAIRMAN: I had forgotten for the moment that they make board stiffenings
in Street.
Two of my colleagues have been there and fixed up conditions.
to every other stiffening making factory in the Kingdom.
If you have the name of a firm
then send it on to the Central Office, when I will attend to the matter. The Leicester
No. 2 Branch have been very interested in this matter. Mr. George Smith and his
colleagues, together with myself, have on several occasions seen these manufacturers.
have consulted our solicitor about certain firms, and when his advice comes along we
shall act upon it.
Item 98. 48-Hour Week.
Street. - "That a local adjustment of working hours per week be allowed even
in excess of 48 hours during certain weeks provided the 48 hours as con-
tained in the National Agreement are not exceeded on the average over the
period of one month, in order to provide for a holiday or half holiday when
desired."
Mr. E. HANSFORD (Street): Some delegates may feel this proposition will lead
us into difficulty, but we are on safe ground as it has been tried for about two years. When
our national officers fixed up an agreement they tried to get the best conditions for the
members. When that is done, it should be left for local branch officers to make any
adjustments to fit local circumstances. I do not think there will be any objection to this.
It should only apply by local arrangement between the employers and the local officers.
Our employers have asked the workpeople to go in on a Saturday morning after working
45 hours, and the operatives have had time-and-a-quarter.
Mr. W. PAINE (Kingswood): I hope the Conference will oppose this. Only this
morning a resolution was adopted asking for the abolition of overtime. That should be
sufficient for the delegates to oppose it.
THE CHAIRMAN: For three weeks these people work overtime without pay.
I went to the firm because a man was given notice because he refused to work overtime.
I found those who believe in football wanted half a day off, and those who wanted to go to
work could not as a consequence. Then the firm wanted this time making up.
If we are
going to do that kind of thing it breaks our agreement whether it is 48 or 44 hours week.
As soon as orders drop off and orders are slack, why not close the factory on Saturday
morning? I find those factories who adopt this method when trade is poor get no grumble
from the operatives.
Mr. F. C. JEX (Norwich): If you turn this down it seems to me within the Terms
of Settlement that there are provisions for it to be done as time to be worked for holidays
requested by the workmen. This three hours in one week could be claimed to come under
that clause.
THE CHAIRMAN: I have consulted other manufacturers. We do not think
the narrow interpretation as given by Mr. Jex could apply. The reason that clause was
put in was because during the war people lost time to see their friends off. Tavistock
Square think they are breaking the Agreement when this thing was done at Street.
Mr. J. MANNERS (Council Member): You are dealing with a branch in an
isolated part of the country, all on its own. It does not break the spirit of the Agreement.
The operatives there feel it is a great advantage to have Saturday morning off. It may be
argued, as the President put it, that firms should give Saturday off when they are on short
time. With that we shall all agree. It is a different thing to meet a firm to get them
to give up the right of working on Saturday and this suggestion from Street. I venture
to say members in that area are as strong as ever they were. The esteem by which our
Union is held has never been so high.
Mr. A. BUTCHER (Norwich) opposed the recommendation. The hours may be
extended to 49 or 50. They could easily work 48 hours in five days.
The recommendation was eventually withdrawn.
Item 99. Wages.
Leicester Women's. - " That the Executive Council of the Union, when con-
sidering the next National Agreement, press for ONE minimum wage for
all operatives in the industry."
Mrs. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS (Council Member): The Leicester women want
to propose this resolution. (Cries of "Agreed.") We are not going to be put off like
that. We want to come up to the men's minimum, and not bring the men down to our


---
made.

174

minimum. We know it will be difficult to obtain it, but we think an effort should
As I have sat on the platform this week. I have come to the conclusion that
the men: some of the men came on to our operations, and went out quickly. The L
day rates. Our women are earning as much as s
(Laughter.) We have the
men are not worth 24s. per week more than we are.
to gain from a high minimum on
has come when we should get a little nearer.
creep up to your minimum.
we have done a lot for ourselves.
minimum.
Although there has been a good deal done for us in the p
There are so many women on meu's jobs in the country at our rate which
With all its difficulties we should get nearer
that we want to stop it. We are not out to lower w
We shall always stand by that. After all, wages make your tra
women have made the shoe trade. If we had elastic leg shoes to-day we should
before the present ones are worn out that trade is good, due to changing fashion. A
It is because we have so many pairs of shoes, and buy another p
to the manufacturer's advantage
standard of the trade.
and the wome
have so much work.
I am speaking of the women who earn money
Delegate: The men pay for them).
themselves, and not those women who have to wait on men.
We are economically inde
It is with the money we earn that we can afford to buy better shoe
pendent in our trade.
I feel the Conference will agree with us this time.
Cries of "Agreed."

Item 100.
Branch Debt.

to the Conference re the Debt that is owing by the above Branch
to appe
Sileby. "The Executive Committee of the Sileby Branch wishes to
Union. They feel that good and straight members should not be t
success as we intend and mean that this Branch in future shall be carre
enfranchised through no fault of their own. Hoping we shall meet
on strict and better lines."
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser) : I propose that the debt of the Sileby Brare
should be remitted. If you can agree to do this it will help the members in the district
better lines. The General President has spent a lot of time in the district; we have
they have members in Sileby, Syston and Mountsorrel, and I feel they will now go
new secretary who is putting his heart and sole into the work.
Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester) seconded.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The Conference should know more than it b
and Organisers have been at Sileby without stint. For some years they were subsidiser
yet heard. The Council have been very generous to this branch. The General President
by the Council to the tune of £2 per week, and then f1 per week, so it should be know
to wipe sufficient off the debt to bring the Branch into benefit. If you do this you
what we have done. I think, if we do anything at all, the utmost that should be dores
sider what the Council have done before you vote. Their present debt is over 173
may get applications from branches who are in a similar position. I trust you will com
The most we should do is to reduce that debt to bring the branch into benefit.
Mr. D. MCCARTHY (Organiser): I agree with that, Mr. Secretary.
The Conference agreed to carry out the suggestion of the General Secretary.

Item 101.
Wolverhampton.---" That there be an annual clearance week for all members.
Mr. LEN. SMITH (Organiser) : I propose Item 101.
THE CHAIRMAN: Have you been instructed to do so?
Mr. LEN. SMITH: No.
THE CHAIRMAN: You are out of order again. (Laughter.)
Next business was carried.
Item 102.
Higham and Rushden. - Rule 137, Line 3.- Delete sentence after "Hand."
Item 103.
Wellingborough.-Rule 137, Line 3.- Delete after "Hand."
Agreed without discussion.
Item 104.
The Council. - Delete Rules 206 to 213 inclusive.
have grown out of, and should be deleted from our rules.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: The Council feel this is one of those things we
Mr. A. MASON (London Metro.): I appeal for it to be left in, Mr. Chairman.
I did so the last time, and do not think it can do any harm if it is left for another two
years at any rate.


---
THE CHAIRMAN: Are there any Bond Notes used now?
Mr. A. MASON could not give any definite information.
Mr. L. SMITH (Organiser): The idea of both the London Metro, and London
Sew-Round Branches is, if this is kept in it may be used as an organising measure. I do
not think it will do any harm.
THE CHAIRMAN: All those in favour of it being left in.
Unanimously agreed.
Item 105.
Glasgow. Rule 2. Suggest the name of the Union be "The National Union
of Leather Workers.
Mr. T. ROBERTSON (Glasgow): Some people have said there are too many
unions, and too little unity. Our members consider if this resolution is passed it will be
an incentive for those other unions to amalgamate with us.
Mr. T. CAMPBELL (Kilmarnock) seconded. There is only one difficulty that I
can see and that is what would happen to the canvas workers?
THE CHAIRMAN: Of all the terms I should choose, it would not be this one.
We have made many attempts to get unions to amalgamate. I have taken the trouble
to call all the unions catering for the trade together at one of the congresses of the Trades
Union Congress. We tried to get them to amalgamate with us; they said our number
was too great for them. We have done all we can to get them to amalgamate, but they
do not seem to cotton on with it. Our name may sound big, but it is not much when you
see it printed.
Only Three delegates voted in favour of the change, and the CHAIRMAN declared
the vote lost.
Mr. J. GREAVES (Leicester) proposed, and Mr. G. BROOKS (Leicester)
seconded :—
"That the Council take the necessary steps to amend the Rules in accordance
with the various resolutions passed; to register the same with the Registrar
under the necessary Acts of Parliament, and that the new Rules should come
into force on and from Saturday, 4th September, 1926."
Unanimously agreed.
Closing of the Conference.
THE CHAIRMAN: That brings us to the end of our Agenda. With all the heat
which has been shown, it has not been much. (Hear, hear.) This is one of the best
Conferences we have ever had. The amount of work we have got through, and the import-
ant work we have attempted to get through, is to our credit. We have endeavoured to
create something permanent and lasting for the men and women of our industry, not for-
getting those who built up our organisation. It is pleasurable to think that we have
spent this week in such important work, in lovely surroundings. I hope you will not
forget the words of Herr Simon. As a Continental he feels, as secretary of the International,
and as President of the Boot and Shoe Workers of Germany, that the workers themselves
will have to work out their own salvation. It is only the regard we have for each other
that we shall benefit as a result of this week's work.
At our One-day Delegate Conference to be held later, I should like the Council to
submit a resolution on War, and let all boot and shoe operatives in the world know what
we think of war. We could give our membership a lead on the subject.
I shall ask the Council to bring a resolution before you on that occasion, so that we
might all agree upon the subject and broadcast it to the world.
I hope you all feel the benefit of spending the week at the sea. When our work was
done, we have been able to get some hours in the fresh air. If the Council can get a more
salubrious place than Blackpool for the Conference in 1928 I am sure they will get it.
I want you to work with heart and soul, night and day, to bring our membership up to
120,000. I declare this Conference closed. (Applause.)
This concluded the business of the Conference, but before the delegates retired, they
lustily sang "Auld Lang Syne," followed by three hearty cheers for the National Union
of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
The Conference closed at 4.49 p.m.
Ε.Β.
After going to press with the Conference Report, a letter was received by the
GENERAL SECRETARY from Mr. C. L. Baine, General Secretary-Treasurer to the
Boot and Shoe Workers' Union of America, to whom the Council of our Union extended
an invitation to attend the Blackpool Conference.
The letter expresses regret that they were unable to accept the kind invitation to attend
our Conference, owing to pressure of business on the officials of the Union in America.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy,
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, up
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

N
NAT TEL: MUSEUM 4438
LONDON
TEL ADDRESS NATUMISHOP
PHONE, LONDON"
Nearest Post Office:
ATIONAL UNION OF BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Sort of Gortenment, 34.GUILFORD ST LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts.
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 246.
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY
MOF BOOT & SHOE OF
Copyrigh
3
General President
T F.RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L.POULTON.J.P.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
REPORT.
22ND JUNE, 1926.
TRADE
is, owing largely to the Mining situation, in a somewhat unstable condition,
a very considerable number of members being on short time, apart altogether
from those out of employment. We have paid out from the Union funds
for Out-of-Work Benefit during the month the sum of £14,368 5s. od., and from
the State side the sum of £10,561 5s. 3d.
The figures of the Ministry of Labour Gazette are as follows :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment, which is usually at its busiest just before Whitsuntide, was seriously
affected in May, 1926, by difficulties of transport consequent on the general strike, and by
shortage of fuel and power owing to the coal dispute. Many orders were cancelled during
the general strike. Some firms were fairly busy in the third week of the month, endeavour-
ing to overtake arrears before the holiday; some firms on the other hand who closed
during the general strike did not re-open until after Whitsuntide. Many firms stopped
for a whole week at Whitsuntide. The heavy boot trade remained very depressed.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 19.5 on the 24th May, 1926, as compared with
7.2 on the 26th April, and with 10.1 on the 25th May, 1925.
Employment was reported as fairly good in London, except during the actual strike
period. At Leicester and Northampton there was a great increase in unemployment
and short time. During the general strike, manufacturers found much difficulty in getting
supplies and in delivering goods owing to lack of transport. After the strike was over
some firms worked full time, and even a little overtime, to expedite deliveries before the
holiday; but the Whitsuntide holiday was extended to a week by many firms. In the
Northamptonshire country district (except at Raunds, where employment was good)
there was a great increase in unemployment and short time; many firms closed entirely
during the general strike, and some were still closed at the end of the month. At Kettering
many firms worked half time or less before the holiday, and closed for a whole week at
Whitsuntide. At Stafford employment was poor. At Norwich it was reported that at
least three-quarters of those who were working were on short time, some working only half
time. In the Bristol and Kingswood district employment in the heavy boot industry
remained very depressed; the light shoe trade, which had been steady before the general
strike, also showed some decline, and much short time was worked. Employment at
Leeds, especially in the light shoe trade, was less affected than in some other districts;
on the whole, however, it was poor. Much short time was worked in the Rossendale
Valley; there was little or no increase in total unemployment, however, and some firms
at Bacup were working at the end of the month to the fullest extent that their coal supplies
permitted to complete orders for seaside and holiday footwear.
B


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

313

Returns from firms employing over 40,250 workpeople showed that 44 per cent.
of these workpeople were on short time in the week ended 22nd May, losing, on the average,
about 13 hours each.
The following Table shows the increases and decreases as compared with 3rd May,
1926:-

Department.
Temporarily Stopped.
Wholly Unemployed.
Men.
Women. Total.
Men.
Women. Total
Total.

Boot and Shoe Manu-
14
250
946
502
431
1,619 1,623
3,685 3,767 4,138
3,417 3,371
41
448 2,472 2,416
315 408
269
facture:
Preparing
Depart-
ment
+685
11
70
Rough Stuff De-
partment
64
7
71
14
1,010
488
Clicking Department
+
3
1
1
100
211
371
82
Closing Department
+ 02
10
40
3.370
Making Department
44
Finishing Depart-
ment
120
70
50
53
Slipper Making
Clog Making
+ 208
Repairing and Hand-
sewn Work
+32
TOTAL
+ 843
+311
+1,154+7.932
1
1
452
39
71
+
4.587
12,519 + 13,673

The exports of boots and shoes in May, 1926, amounted to 80,514 dozen pairs, or
34,997 dozen pairs less than in April, 1926, and 21,835 dozen pairs less than in May, 1925.

AT THE BLACKPOOL CONFERENCE
a good deal of business was transacted which will have important results so
far as the members are concerned. Questions relating to education, finance,
and unemployment were dealt with, they being treated from both the National
and International aspect.
The Mining situation and the General Stoppage in support of the miners
was also fully discussed, and the policy pursued by us, whether in relation to
the grant of £20,000 from the Union funds to the General Council Relief Fund,
or our method of dealing with payment to our own members, was generally
upheld.
The Conference is now a thing of the past. It may fairly be said that
it was one of the most successful conferences the Union has ever held. Amongst
the more important decisions arrived at by the delegates were :-
A Superannuation Fund has been created for permanent (full time) officials
and clerks of the Union and Branches.
A Superannuation Fund was adopted in principle for members. It was
decided that this scheme, which will be published at the earliest possible moment,
should be brought before the members at their branch meetings and amend-
ments thereto submitted to the Council, after which a Special Delegate
Meeting will be held for one day, preferably in Leicester.
We wish to emphasize the importance of this matter and trust it will
receive earnest consideration of members at their branch meetings.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
314
Other important matters are, in future all administration allowances
must be paid to the credit of the Branches which they receive for the Un
employment and Health Insurance Act administration. The Council ex
pressed the hope that those secretaries who have hitherto drawn such allow
ances for themselves should have the consideration of the Branch Committee.
Nominations for the General President, General Secretary, Organisers,
Health Insurance Manager and Council Members will not take place until
September, and voting in October instead of July and August as previously
All nominations must be accompanied with the registered number of members
so nominated.
Any contributions taken after Monday night of any week must be booked
for the following Saturday.
The Travelling Assistance has been increased to £1, with a maximum for
any year of £2.
Suspension Benefit.-After the member has served a waiting period of
12 days and received benefit it will be necessary for him to serve a further pro
bation of SIX DAYS only before again being entitled to benefit, i.e., in
accordance with conditions set forth in Rule 214.
The Council have been authorised to loan money to branches (upon Mort.
gage Loan) desirous of purchasing their own offices.
Branch Balance Sheets must be sent to the General Secretary within
eight weeks of the end of the quarter.
The Health Insurance Report also revealed a considerable surplus of
Income over Expenditure, allowing of increased benefits being paid to the
members. These new benefits will be as follows :-
INCREASES IN CASH BENEFITS, enabling the following rates to be paid :-
Sickness Benefit (Men)
دو
..
(Women)
..
Disablement Benefit (Men and Women)
Class "K" Benefit (Special Married Women)
Maternity Benefit
..
..
17s. od. a week.
14s. od.
8s. 6d.
""
8s. 6d.
دو
44s. od.
"
NON-CASH BENEFITS :-
100 per cent. Dental Treatment and 50 per cent. Dentures up to £3 5s. od.
100 per cent. Optical Treatment and up to 15s. for Glasses.
Convalescent Home Assistance.
Hospital Treatment Assistance.
Surgical Appliances.
These Benefits will be provided in accordance with the terms of the Scheme.
Before commencing any treatment members must apply in writing to the
Society.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**315**

The following table shows the dates on which members will become entitled to additional benefits:-

If date of joining or transferring to the Society was:

*   On or before 1st January, 1923
*   During 1923 (after 1st January)
*   1924
*   1925
*   1926

The right to receive additional benefits will begin:

*   5th July, 1926.
*   4th July, 1927.
*   7th January, 1929.
*   6th January, 1930.
*   5th January, 1931.

On changing his Society a member loses the right to additional benefits and has to begin a new waiting period.

In connection with this part of our work the membership is not growing as rapidly as we should like, the present membership being 33,295. We appeal to the members to do their share in looking after the young people who come into the industry, and induce them to join the Insurance Department as well as the Trade Union side, thereby still further increasing the usefulness and influence of the Union.

**OFFICIALS AND STAFF SUPERANNUATION SCHEME.**

There appears to be some misunderstanding regarding this Fund, it being mixed up with the proposed members' scheme, and comparisons are being made between the payments of benefits of the two schemes. In our judgment they cannot be so compared; one scheme is for those in our employ, and the other for the membership of the Union.

Moreover, in the proposals for the members the amount suggested as a contribution from the members is threepence per week, whilst those who will contribute to the scheme for Officials and Staff will be anything from two shillings to six shillings per week; thus, if the matter is looked at impartially, it will be seen that for the benefit proposed to be given, the members' scheme for the threepence weekly gives a greater ratio of benefit.

We feel confident the members will endorse our doing what many firms and trade unions are already carrying out, and thereby prove that our words as to assisting one another are really meant to be applied as and when the opportunity occurs.

**THE MINERS' POSITION.**

The Mining situation is still in a deplorable state. Despite the Prime Minister's statements from time to time as to peace and goodwill it does appear to us that he woefully falls short in action to ensure peace and goodwill. Here is a dispute which not only affects mine owners and mine workers, but has a vital effect upon the industry of the country, seeing how dependent the nation is upon an adequate coal supply. Despite this fact the Prime Minister allows week by week to go by and matters to drift along, producing a paralysing effect upon the trade of the country, and causing suffering, privation and pain, beyond calculation.


---
On 15th June in the House of Commons, the question was once more
debated, and the Prime Minister made a long statement about the position
as he conceived it to be, and said among other things, the following: "We have
come quite definitely to the conclusion for a return to a longer working day."
He regarded this form of sacrifice as one which, in his opinion, was a
preferable alternative to the greater sacrifice of wages.
"We intend to leave the Seven Hours Act on the statute book,
but to introduce legislation to enable an extra hour to be worked during
a period of time.
"This does not prescribe longer hours of work, but it does permit
serious negotiations to be entered into upon the basis on which it is obvious
that a far better scale of wages could be paid than upon the existing
basis.
"We have in preparation a Bill which we hope to introduce in a
few days to give effect to the Commissioners' recommendations re-
quiring legislation which we think it may be possible to pass into law
this Session, and which are likely to have an immediate effect on the
industry. The responsibility for settlement rests, as it always has rested,
on the two interested parties."
The report of the proceedings in the House of Commons shows some amount
of interruption, and no wonder, when there was shown as in the above state-
ments such a lack of what is required at the present time.
Mr. Hartshorn, as a Miners' representative, who followed the Prime
Minister, after making a very effective speech outlining the miners' position,
finished up by stating he had intended to ask the Prime Minister some questions
and to make some suggestions as to the line on which he thought they might
have proceeded. But after listening to the Prime Minister's speech he thought
the situation was pretty hopeless. Legislation on the question of unification
or amalgamation was not to come into effect for three years. A settlement
which was not possible without that step being taken was deferred indefinitely.
If the Prime Minister had represented the policy which the Government
intended to pursue, he regretted to say that he did not see the end of the
stoppage. (Cheers.) It would be prolonged for goodness knew how long;
he did not. If anybody imagined that the leaders were going to call off this
strike on the speech to which they had just listened, whether at the end of three
months or six months, he was very much mistaken. There would be no
settlement within the industry. The House had to settle the matter, and the
sooner they got down to beating out a solution the better it would be for all
parties.
Other Labour members followed upon the same lines. Their appeals
were, however, not complied with. Thus the nation is forced to this unnecessary
suffering because of an attitude being taken up which means that once more


---
317
the workers must endure this agony because of failure of those in authority
to rise to their proper responsibility. Yet once again we must emphasise the
need for putting into authority those who will make an honest effort to put
into practice the programme of the Labour Party, and thereby usher in that
better era which is so badly needed.
POLITICAL.
The political work in the House of Commons by the Labour Party brings
out clearer and clearer the absolute necessity for a strong opposition against
the present Government. Time after time, apart from what may be termed
the routine work, proposals call for action against the policy being carried
out by the party in power. The following are amongst some of the outstanding
questions dealt with during the month :-
LEAD PAINT BILL. Friday, 4th June, for regulation instead of
prohibition of white lead. For the Bill 131; against, 56.
THE MINING POSITION.
BUDGET. Tea Duty; 7th June. Mr. Alexander moved to reduce
the duty from 4d. per lb. to Id. There voted for 105; against, 241.
SAFEGUARDING OF INDUSTRIES. 8th June.
In connection with the Lead Paint Bill, this was introduced by the Home
Secretary for regulations in connection with the matter, as against the Con-
vention passed in 1921 at the International Labour Conference, for the prohibi-
tion of white lead. Despite the fight put up at the second reading, the Bill
was carried by 131 votes to 56. Lord Henry Cavendish-Bentinck, a Conserva-
tive member, described the Bill as a "dud" Bill, and went on to say-
"I am really more annoyed than I can say that the Home
Secretary, in a Conservative Government, should have brought in such
a useless and rotten Bill as this. All that I can say is, that I feel
very strongly that it is in the vested interests which have advised
him to bring in this rotten and absolutely piffling Bill."
The duty on tea was again taken in hand by the Labour Party, and attempts
made to secure a reduction of the same, more especially having regard to the
fact that this duty falls the heaviest upon the poorest class of the community.
The voting for the reduction was 105; against, 241.
A strenuous fight was also put up against what is termed "The Safe-
guarding of Industries Bill." In connection with this Bill it becomes clearer and
clearer that it is
PROTECTION
as generally understood that is emerging from the policy which is being pur-
sued, and one, moreover, which will ultimately develop into reprisals from
other countries.
The need is, therefore, to keep in being in all parts of the country the
political machinery and propaganda to inform the public that when the next
appeal is made to the electorate, it may result in a majority being returned
to the House of Commons of those who support the Labour Party and its policy.


---
LEICESTER FINISHING STATEMENT.
The following award has been made by the Umpire of the Leicester
Board of Conciliation and Arbitration, Mr. W. A. North :-
IN THE MATTER OF THE ARBITRATION upon the Claim of the No. 1
in connection with Women's Rodeo or Cossack High Leg Boots.
Branch of the Operatives' Union for extras in the Finishing Department
I, THE UNDERSIGNED, THE UMPIRE to whom the Arbitrators to the
Board referred the above claim for settlement or determination under
Rule 7 of the Board, having heard the representatives of both sides
and duly considered the evidence placed before me in relation to the
claim, DECIDE AND AWARD :-
That an extra of Ten per cent. (10%) shall be added to the State-
ment Prices for all operations done in the Finishing Department
in connection with Women's Rodeo or Cossack High Leg Boots.
AND I further determine that the extra fixed by this Award shall come
into operation and be paid from and including the working week commenc-
ing on the 20th, 21st or 22nd May, 1926.
DATED this 26th day of May, 1926,
(Signed) W. A. NORTH,
Umpire.
No. 84.
THE CONFERENCE REPORT.
The Official Report of the proceedings of the Blackpool Conference is now
obtainable and can be secured through the Branch Secretaries. Members should
secure a copy to read the discussion and decisions arrived at at the Conference.
BALANCE SHEETS.
We beg to call attention to the fact that Cork Branch has failed to
send their Branch Balance Sheets for the quarter ended February last to the
Central Office, despite the fact that FOUR APPLICATIONS have been made.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We hope that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg


---
Here are the bounding box detections:
```json
[
  {"box_2d": [585, 37, 601, 208], "label": "SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT."},
  {"box_2d": [591, 375, 609, 638], "label": "OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT."},
  {"box_2d": [382, 339, 400, 433], "label": "W. WARNER."},
  {"box_2d": [652, 37, 673, 177], "label": "To December, 1925"},
  {"box_2d": [563, 39, 582, 129], "label": "Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union"},
  {"box_2d": [269, 160, 285, 431], "label": "TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES."},
  {"box_2d": [468, 341, 490, 577], "label": "E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary."},
  {"box_2d": [672, 37, 688, 231], "label": "January, 1926"},
  {"box_2d": [524, 281, 540, 401], "label": "BENEFITS."},
  {"box_2d": [180, 216, 195, 414], "label": "TRADE UNION STAMP."},
  {"box_2d": [379, 125, 697, 656], "label": "has paid out:-\n\n"},
  {"box_2d": [636, 377, 657, 513], "label": "To December, 1925"},
  {"box_2d": [639, 36, 661, 188], "label": "£\ns.\nd."},
  {"box_2d": [587, 379, 609, 501], "label": "£\ns.\nd."}
]
```

---
Here's the extracted text from the image, with some adjustments for readability:

**320**

**THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.**

60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, N.W.5.
18th June, 1926.

**FELLOW MEMBERS,**

**MINING DISPUTE.** In addressing you this month, one is bound to deplore the continued struggle in the coal industry. As a human being, I can do no other than sympathize and support the miners to the best of my ability. It is unfortunate that the Government permitted a stoppage to take place. The Trades Union Congress, and Ministers of the Gospel of all denominations, asked for the old conditions to prevail as were in working during the month of April last. Had this position been created and the men allowed to go on as they had been going on, the subsidy could have continued for a short period, at least until such time as the trade had rehabituated itself. There are those who say that the subsidy ought not to be given to any industry; to that I entirely agree the alternative being that the Government, if the product of that industry is essential for the life and well-being of the nation to be continued, should be taken over and controlled in the name of His Majesty's Government. When we speak of subsidies we want to realize whether it is not more just to pay the subsidy to an industry from the Taxes of the country rather than from the Rates and through the Poor Law Guardians, which in itself is often demoralizing to the recipients, as 90 per cent. of the people in this country much prefer to earn their income rather than to receive it from such a source and under such conditions. One cannot help but hold the Government responsible for championing the claim of the mineowners and against the humane demands of the miners themselves, although the miners have to make a declaration that they cannot extend the hours or receive a reduction in wages. I have yet to meet the individual person who considers, and will vouch for the fact that mine workers are getting sufficient to live a life of comparative decency. Regarding the earnings of the miners, according to the statement made in the House of Commons, for several years the average rate of the miners has varied from 48s. 1d. to 53s. 2d.; a definite statement which stands unchallenged, made on the floor of the House of Commons by Mr. Vernon Hartshorn, a Miners' Agent. We have had occasion to take no small part in this matter by the fact that the conditions of employment governing our industry were likely to be broadcast by the Chairman of our Con- ferences, but owing (says the Postmaster-General) to "the matter being controversial," other people might ask for similar privileges. Without claiming too much, I venture to Miners' Executive have already agreed to the suggestion that they would meet the mine- owners and endeavor to work out a settlement with an "Independent" Chairman, provided the independent chairman only acted or gave a decision when both sides asked him to do so. This has ever been the policy that has governed our own Union during the past 31 years, and to all who have had this matter explained, whatever industry they have been connected with, compliment the Boot and Shoe Operatives Union on what they describe as a common-sense policy in dealing with trade matters. I am still of the opinion that this is the most binding method that can be adopted. Both sides, after weighing up each other's strength, wit, wisdom and desires, mutually agree to govern the trade for a further period of time, and as nothing succeeds like success, we have been enabled for the period above-mentioned to work in comparative harmony with our employers—may such a policy continue.

It will be of interest to the members to know that approximately ten thousand and thirty-six members were stopped as a consequence of the General Stoppage and the Mining Dispute, and for this the Union paid £10,163 7s. 9d. as Suspension Benefit. Since writing the above I have induced the Right Hon. T. Shaw, M.P. to take up our case, as follows:—

THE RT. HON. T. SHAW, M.P.,
House of Commons,
London, S.W.1.

15th May, 1926.

DEAR MR. SHAW,

Enclosed please find the case of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Opera- tives as mentioned to you a few days ago. The Manufacturers' Federation and ourselves drafted a memoranda for Broadcasting. The Government refused to allow it to be broadcast, because they say it is controversial. I say they refused because we do not allow our Chairman, appointed by the Minister of Labour, to decide in any case until we ask him, which we have never done yet, and as the Government want the Miners to accept a Chairman with compulsory powers, our conditions if broadcast, would show the Government as trying to impose compulsory arbitration.

We would not accept the offer of the Government.


---
321
I have written the Postmaster-General, see my letter enclosed marked A. You
have almost all our case there; see also the reply of the Postmaster marked B. I also
enclose copy of reply from the Secretary to the Post Office marked C., and copy of
letter marked D. from Lord Buckmaster. The letters marked C. and D. were
addressed to the Secretary of the Employers' Federation.
I am sending these by hand from our Head Office as I am for the present detained
on important business.
One cannot complain, even if as I know the Miners' Executive have already
expressed themselves as willing to agree to arbitration with an independent chairman
who will only act when mutually asked to do so. This is our position, and the
Government do not intend to agree to mutuality; compulsion is their theme.
Yours fraternally,
T. F. RICHARDS.
EXTRACT FROM Hansard, DATED 17TH JUNE, 1926.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE (CONCILIATION SCHEME).
MR. T. SHAW (by Private Notice) asked the Postmaster-General if it is a fact
that the employers and the workers in the National Boot and Shoe Trade had agreed
to broadcast a description of their conciliation scheme, which had prevented any
general upheaval for upwards of 31 years; whether the Independent Chairman of
the Conciliation Board in the industry had agreed to broadcast; and for what reason
the Postmaster-General refused to allow the broadcasting to take place ?
THE POSTMASTER-GENERAL (Sir William Mitchell-Thomson): The facts are as
stated. The only point of such a broadcast at this moment was that it should imply
the advocacy that a similar scheme could and should be forthwith applied to the
Mining Industry. A suggestion of this nature may or may not be desirable, but it is
undoubtedly controversial, and consequently was not permitted as a broadcast.
MR. SHAW: May I ask if there was a single word in the message which it was
proposed to broadcast, which in any way even gave the impression that the scheme
might be applied to the mining dispute ?
SIR W. MITCHELL-THOMSON: If that be the fact, then I do not think the broad-
casting will suffer by being delayed a little.
MR. RAMSAY MACDONALD: Will not the Postmaster-General reconsider his
decision in view of the fact that this is interesting information which the country
ought to have; and if it is prevented from being broadcast, does not that show that
the broadcasting company is being controlled for political purposes.
SIR W. MITCHELL-THOMSON: There is not a shadow of foundation for that
suggestion. I have to do the best I can to try to keep matters of political controversy
out of broadcasting. May I remind the right hon. Gentleman that this matter is
very closely allied to a Debate which took place a couple of years ago upon the
Industrial Councils Bill, which was very largely supported by those who sit on this
side of the House, and opposition to which, if I remember aright, came entirely from
the right hon. Gentleman's side of the House. There is no doubt whatever—and I
do not think the right hon. Gentleman will dispute this—that arbitration which is
compulsory to the extent that it depends upon the forfeiture of a guarantee is a subject
of political controversy, and in my judgment so long as the rule about subjects of
political controversy stands I must enforce it.
MR. SHAW: In view of the unsatisfactory nature of the Postmaster-General's
answer, I give notice that I shall raise this matter on the Adjournment at the earliest
possible date.
My very best thanks to Mr. Shaw for his kindness.
For further information see pages 340-343.
BLACKPOOL CONFERENCE.—Our Conference was as usual, a decided success; the
attendance of delegates as is their custom being all that could be desired. The only bone
of contention which is very controversial throughout the Union with all whom I have
come in contact, is the question of Superannuation. The Conference decided to adopt
the recommendation concerning superannuation for officers and clerks. The voting on this
particular subject was entirely satisfactory, and the Council recommended a referendum
vote to be taken on the question of members' superannuation.
Our visitor to Blackpool was Herr J. Simon, who brought friendly greetings from the
German Trade Unionists and the Boot and Shoe and Leather Workers' International.
He and Dr. Schenk, who acted as interpreter, gave us some valuable advice, but the great
theme was, and is, co-ordination of the workers of the world, more confidence, more sym-
pathy, more unity. It was well that Herr Simon was with us because we have interested
him in the discussion that we are having to take up on behalf of our membership regarding
Czecho-Slovakia and other nations. For the moment we can only say that the conditions
as we see them look as though conditions are best in our own country, but at the same
time we are broad-minded enough not to come to a definite decision until we have sufficient
evidence. In this respect the President of the Federation and myself have challenged
---

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
as soon as our evidence is complete.
322
goods should not be permitted to enter into competition in our own land.
COUNTY BOARD,
finishing.
Leicestershire Association who have failed to exhibit our
resolution when requested to do so.
Organisation of Industry"
the statement that the conditions of Czecho-Slovakia are equal to anything in this country.
We hold very strongly that the industry, economi
and political freedom of the operatives in any country if they are worse than ours, their
This, of course, is a matter we are taking up with the Bata firm, and shall be able to report
We have had several meetings of the County Board of Leicester.
shue and deputations to factories in regard to Louis Heel work and prices for making and
We have arrived at conclusions which my colleagues think very satisfactory
in other words, we are getting a to per cent, increase on wages earned for all Rodeo and
Cossack work. The Louis Heel work we have agreed to prices which again our members
think are fair, and in this connection it was our duty to take to task two firms of the
These two firms were taken before the Committee
advice was tendered which has brought about the desired result. There are many firms
of Enquiry for the particular district, and in both instances, to the credit of the employers,
of their operatives belonging to the organisation which make for the peace of the trade
and when these employers have as a body agreed to grant their operatives one week's
and the members of the Union generally to find that there are some who would wish to
in the industry where employers belonging to the Federation fully appreciate the necessity
holiday pay per year (at the request of the operatives' side), it is very hard upon the Union
of employment in some of the factories there, and as a consequence we found that in many
instances the employers themselves are not responsible for the state of trade which has
DESBOROUGH. It has been my duty to also visit Desborough regarding the conditions
has been any legitimate departure from the National Agreement, consequently it is only
great amount of unemployment, and we have no occasion to think that there
by making one's self acquainted with the actual position, that confidence is maintained
SILEBY. We have held recently a very good open-air meeting at Sileby in which we
meeting was arranged, great attention was given, and we believe that the two factories
had the co-operation and assistance of the Hosiery Union of Leicester. A very good
in that town will see their way clear to join up with their shopmates in other firms.
MOUNTSORREL. - Another meeting was held at Mountsorrel, this time on a Sundar
hold a meeting, which was addressed by two of the organisers and myself. A very good
morning, when we were led to understand that this would be a most timely occasion to
Whilst one does not wish to have any more Sunday work if they can possibly help, we are
meeting was held here, and we hope that good results will accrue from this kind of action.
of the opinion that Sunday morning meetings are the most successful meetings we can
evade this reasonable response and become members of the Union.
caused a
in our various branches.
hold in these country districts.
diDREIGN LEATHER, &c. - We are still making enquiries regarding the importation
leatheroins as our own, and those stiffenings, &c., will certainly have to be objected to
leather into this country from abroad, which is we believe not produced under as good
if the conditions of employment of those makers are lower than the workers of this country
TRADE BOARD. - Has again occupied two days of my time, in which we have had to
carefully consider many times in connection with the industry. It is pleasing to note
that after several years of pressure which we have brought to bear upon the Ministry of
Labour, refusing to be content with anything less than the Attorney-General's personal
opinion, we have at last obtained that opinion regarding the position of Managers in branch
shops, and as that opinion entirely coincides with the view we have taken up, it is to be
understood in the future that any person employed in a Boot and Shoe Repairing Shop,
is looked upon as being engaged as a Boot and Shoe Repairer, and all time must be counted
at the rates governing that industry. This is entirely in accord with the views expressed
by the Board itself. The administration of the same we hope will receive the support
and encouragement of the Ministry of Labour as we think it deserves. If it receives
that we shall have no complaint to make.
We still hope that all our members, if they cannot get boots stamped and made under
the National Union conditions, will get a branded boot and endeavour to find out who
produces the same. We are still of the opinion that it is to the interest of the Union as
a whole that we should encourage National and Home productions, in preference to those
articles that come from abroad produced under conditions worse than our own.
reliable.
Read the Daily Herald diligently-your own paper.
Yours fraternally,
For that reason the most
richerh
General President.


---
323
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
My report was minus in the May Monthly Report. There was little for me to
report owing to the bulk of the factories running only a few hours a day. I spoke at
several big meetings in Leicester and County during the memorable strike. Those who
say the great strike was a failure may be put down as lukewarm friends of trade unionism
or actual enemies of it.
The Leicester No. 1 Branch made a claim last season for extras on the finishing of
the Russian or Rodeo Boot. The Leicester Board, so far as the employers' side went,
turned it down, and the matter was referred to Mr. C. H. Roberts, as representing the
employers and myself as the nominee of the Leicester branches. We had several meetings
on the matter, but failed to come to any conclusion satisfactory to me. We asked Mr.
W. A. North to act as Umpire. He consented, and heard both sides of the case. I am
pleased to report that Mr. North has awarded an extra of ten per cent. on all operations.
Since the Conference Mr. Baum and I have been working round Sileby, Derby and
Mansfield. It was gratifying to us when we went to the latter town on 2nd June to hear
that sixty-six non-members had joined as a result of our previous visit.
On 10th June we had a big open-air meeting at Sileby representing the Leicester
Hosiery Union and our own. Mr. T. F. Richards presided. Alderman Chaplin and a pro-
mising young hosiery worker spoke for their Union. There was no croaking here about
the General Strike being a failure. It gives one an opportunity to put the political side
of our cause as well as the trade union side at meetings like this.
On Sunday, 13th June, the General President, Mr. Baum and I went to Mountsorrel
and held a fine meeting on the Green. It was a delightful morning, and we were well
repaid for our labour by the good attendance and sympathy shown. The recent reduc-
tions in our minimum wages and piecework prices need not have taken place if the employers
were more farseeing men when making the terms with us a few years ago. We pressed
again and again that the £3 minimum and the £1 16s. should not be lowered till the cost
of living dropped to point 60. We even tried point 65 when we failed at the 60. The
manufacturers as a body say that they gain little or nothing by the change. The public
gain nothing by it, but our people on the minimum suffer more than the position warrants.
Had point 65 been accepted there would be no disturbance in costing or debating with
factors, and no fair employer would be any the poorer for it. The organisers have many
questions put to them on the cost of living, and the why and the wherefore of proof for the
need of a reduction. I know the branch officers get similar posers. The worst of it is
that the get-rich-at-all-cost type of employers who give the blind eye to increases when
officially announced, are the first to spot the winner on the slide down.
I am pleased to say that the Sileby Branch is gaining in membership and strength.
The Conference in remitting portion of its debt, and thereby enfranchising the branch,
will have evidence at the next Conference, I believe, that the new Secretary, Mr. Waring,
was worthy of the sympathy shown to him.
D. MCCARTHY.
21st June, 1926.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
My work during the past month has been in various Branches and Sections of North-
amptonshire. Following the Conference there were many questions, varying in their
importance, which members required more information upon, and by attending the Branch
meetings I was able to take the questions asked, which were mainly superficial, and give
the background upon which such matters had been decided. The Six-day Suspension
Period was the question at issue, particularly where our members had been hit the hardest
during, and since, the General Stoppage. No doubt there were many cases of personal
hardship, but when the history of the application of Suspension Benefit was explained,
the reason and the cost in 1921-22, without exception, those who complained agreed that
the Council had dealt with the matter generously. The question of the Levy also came
under discussion, and here again the seriousness of the position had not been realised.
Although the E.C., on behalf of the members, had made a large grant towards the T.U.C.
Relief Fund, it is still essential that all individual members should subscribe to the common
fund. How many are there that remember the Miners' dispute of 1921 ? How few realise
the accumulative results of that dispute? All Settlements of Terms in all trades, including
our own, felt the effects. Without very substantial financial support is forthcoming,
as it was in 1921, so it may be in 1926. "Verb Sap" (a word to the wise is sufficient).
The question of Superannuation has been discussed at all meetings, and many suggestions
have been made, which have been taken note of and, no doubt, will prove useful to those
who have the task of building up the general scheme. No opposition to the principle of
Superannuation is apparent, and questions of detail will be for future discussion.


---
324
Finedon, trchester. Wollaston and Bozeat have
at a time when our Terms of Settlement called for a readjustment in wages. It was neces-
ve all been of an encouraging nature, coming
The meeting I have addressed at Wellingborough, Kettering, Rushden, Raunde
the position with a hope that with tighter organisation and a larger membership that not
sary to go back into the not very recent past in order to show the interdependence of one
industry to another, also to reiterate the circumstances under which our negotiations
had taken place from one time to another. Generally speaking the members have accepted
only can we retam but improve our present position and stabilise wages and conditions on
ceeded, men and women in this district realising that by the full application of Industrial
Organisation and Political Sagacity great things can be accomplished for the workers.
a level which will do credit to our industry.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Sileby district.
On this note of optimism the meetings pro-
LEN SMITH
During the past month, with Mr. McCarthy, I have again been engaged in the i
Visits have also been paid to Derby and Mansfield. It has been fairl
apparent that the protracted dispute in the mining industry is having its effect upon our
industry, and full advantage has been taken at our meetings, in pointing out to our members
the cause of the present dispute. With Ald, Chaplin, J.P.. of the Hosiery Union, who have
generally agreed amongst the inhabitants that it was the best meeting ever held in Sileby
the same difficulties in the Sileby District, we co-operated by holding a mass meeting. Our
General President attended, and for two hours we kept the meeting going, and it was
President attending. This again was a very successful meeting, a large crowd assembled
By request we held a further meeting at Mountsorrel, on a Sunday morning, the General
unfortunately is weak, so far as our membership is concerned. We have visited all the
and we were asked to pay another visit. These meetings should certainly have some effect
in furthering the cause of trade unionism, and helping us to consolidate a district which
continued interest has been added. It is indeed very interesting to meet operatives,
factories in this area and good meetings have been held. and in view of the reductions
who are not members, seriously questioning one about the cost-of-living figures, almost
with a knowledge of an expert economist, which proves after all that they are interested
unionists that the employer generally gets as near as possible to our standards, and though
in the Union if only when reductions take place. One has had to remind these non.
he is very slow to recognise any increase of wages, he quite readily seizes every oppor-
in wages, according to the scales in the
tunity to take full advantage of all reductions in
Union. This has been a gentle reminder to non-members that their conditions are
outside the Union. We have carefully watched three firms in this district, because our
governed by the standards of the trade, in which they are not playing their part by remaining
conditions are not observed, and two of these firms up to the present have deemed it
have put the reductions into operation, and as no statement is observed, the matter wil
advisable not to interfere with the wages. But one firm, Willett's, Seagrave Road, Sileby
have to be dealt with by the Board of Arbitration. It certainly appears to me that there
is no justification for any reductions (according to the National Agreement) where the
firm does not recognise the statement governing the district, especially where piecework
paid. These conditions inevitably arise where our organisation is weak, and
those who are more affected soon begin to realise the strength of organisation. The
Secretary is still doing good work, and reports further progress, which will eventually
place the branch on a more satisfactory basis.
rates are
Our visits to Mansfield at once brought us in touch with the realities of the mining
dispute. We met the operatives at the Mansfield Shoe Company, and the Secretary
reported that since our last visit 66 new members had joined. The result of the negotia-
tions with this firm, and the satisfactory working conditions that have followed, is no
doubt a responsible factor for our progressive increase in membership. There are still
a number of girls at Faire Bros. who remain obstinate, and strange to relate they are
nearly all of them the eldest girls working on the firm. Many of these girls have received
increases in wages as a result of the Union's activities. They all work in one department
and the chief offenders have a dominating influence over the others. All the other girls
are remaining loyal, and as these are nearly all daughters of miners, they have expressed
their appreciation of what the Union has done in raising the wages of the girls.
A visit to Derby found two of the firms not working, but we again met the operatives
working at Maden & Ireland's. The Shop President reported that our position was still
being maintained. There are still a good number of girls that are not members, and
we endeavoured to persuade them to join. The men are anxious for us to open up negotia-
tions with the firm, but quite understood that owing to the present industrial position
hopeful that when an opportunity occurs that the Union will endeavour to negotiate,
this is hardly possible. The conditions at this firm are far from satisfactory, and I am
so that a better system of working will follow, more in keeping with the standards of
our industry.
J. H. BAUM.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,

Since reporting last several things of importance have taken place. We have
passed through the first General Strike that has been attempted in this country.
This
is a weapon that has frequently in the past been advocated as the one that would bring
the opposition to their knees. We can now judge as to the accuracy or otherwise of that
forecast. It would be impossible to say that it was a success for the object it presumably
That
had in view, viz., the saving of the miner from reduced wages or increased hours.
is an issue which has still to be decided. The miners are still locked out, as determined
as ever in their resistance to these proposals, while the mine owners are apparently equally
determined to impose their will on those whom they may employ. No, the General Strike
did not achieve what was its immediate object, but it would be sheer nonsense to say on
the other hand that it was a failure.

As a demonstration of working-class solidarity it was wonderful, it was splendid.
The greatest optimist never expected such a response to the call as was given by all sections
who had to take their place in the fighting line. There was no difficulty in getting men
out; it was, on the other hand, not easy to keep them in where the orders were in that
direction. But mass action of this kind is difficult to maintain; there are so many factors
entering into the situation that are not easy to overcome. The sheer weight of the thing
was too much to carry, as in all kinds of war we must punish ourselves in the endeavour
to punish others, and in a way our very success brings with it difficulties almost as great.
It was so in this case, and concessions must be made in the interest of the general com-
munity. That weakens the whole position, and it is practically impossible to maintain a
situation that implies almost a complete stoppage, when it becomes necessary to decide
whether this or that section shall remain at work or come out.

Still, notwithstanding all that may be said to the contrary, it will in the long run
be the means of helping our movement. Such a manifestation of whole-hearted deter-
mination to sacrifice everything to defend a standard of comfort in life, which has been
won in the past, cannot but bring in its train greater strength and power for our work.
We shall better understand what our real power is, we shall obtain a clearer idea as to what
is the best method to concentrate upon, we shall better understand what the obstacles
are that have to be overcome, we must in the end shape ourselves in a way that will lead
to greater and yet greater success. It has been an experience that was perhaps worth
while, if we can only learn the real lessons that evolve therefrom. In the meantime we
must concentrate upon helping the miners, and those who are the victims of the strike
itself. We claimed they were fighting for us all, it is our responsibility to sustain them now.

The Blackpool Conference of the Union is also now a thing of the past. It was on
the whole a useful and pleasant gathering. If one were to raise a discordant note it would
be in the direction of regretting that in certain respects a broader view was not taken in
the discussion of some questions; but even in that respect nothing of real serious import
took place. One can only hope that the decisions reached will add to the power and useful-
ness of the Union for the purpose and object that lies in front of us. It is pleasing to meet
as Conferences come round the old familiar faces from the different areas where our
branches exist, we are all better for the contact it gives. We miss some who have been
with us at past gatherings, we wonder who we shall miss at the next. This should bring
home to us all that the opportunities given to any of us are none too great, and should
be used to the full to render what service we can to help in the work necessary to bring
about the changes that are essential for those whom we would serve. Much that has to
be done is purely ambulance work; it must be done, but let us not in the doing of it fail
to realise that basic and drastic changes must also be made, new foundations must be laid
upon which shall be built the new order: let us try to give to the full that individual effort
necessary for its earliest realisation.

So far as organising work goes this has been rendered somewhat difficult by the lock-
out, creating as it has an uncertainty that is not good for regular running of the factories,
but useful work has been accomplished in the helping of Mr. Mason, of the London Metro.
Branch, in the establishing of statements in some of the factories in the London area.
It is, I believe, the opinion of all who helped in this district that this is a most desirable
and essential step to take. After all, it is the best basis to rest the wage-earning position
upon: it is a guarantee that cannot be well attained in any other way. By this means
we value the amount of work done so that wages shall accrue in proportion to the effort
made. We hope during the next few days to complete some of this work, which should
be extended to other firms at the earliest moment.

A visit has been made to a firm who cut soles, &c., for the trade. This is a develop-
ment that must be watched. Where firms start in a shoe centre they can easily be dealt
with, and the same control and influence can be obtained as in the boot factories, but the
danger lies where they start in more or less isolated places, and have a tendency to establish
It is possible for a boot manufacturer
labour conditions on a lower standard than our own.
to buy in a great deal of his requirements so far as bottom stuff is concerned, but none


---
Here's the extracted text from the image, with some structural improvements for readability:

**326**

ought to enter that is produced under conditions worse than our own. We must seek to prevent their use in the factories. control the new business, but if they escape us then we must see what can be done to.

One regrets that an amount of time has had to be given to a Federated firm in London during the past two months that should not be necessary in face of the clearness of the conditions laid down in the Terms of Settlement. It is useless for the Federation to complain of firms outside their influence if their own members take up so much of our time in dealing with matters that ought not to arise. At the firm in question the operatives have on at least three occasions left their work, and our officials have had to persuade them to return, but the grievance still goes on, the operatives cannot obtain the satisfaction to which they are entitled, and it is impossible to maintain the policy of no cessation of work unless there is another way to deal with difficulties that arise in the factory. We have given up the right to strike, but only on condition that we have the right to discuss fully and properly the grievances of our members, with the right to arbitrate when agreement is not possible. We believe this is the better way, but it must be loyally observed by both sides if it is to be effective and stoppages prevented. I am glad to say the local Secretary of the Employers' Federation in the area has given us his help, and one can only hope this irritation will soon be a thing of the past.

WALTER R. SMITH.
26th June, 1926.

**T.U.C. RELIEF FUND.**

The following amounts have been received from members to 28th June, 1926, and remitted through the branches named. These sums have been remitted to the T.U.C. Relief Fund. The Council also understand that some branches have remitted money direct to the Miners' Federation or local Relief Funds, and the Council hope to be able to publish a complete list later.

**Branch.** | **Amount.** | **Branch.** | **Amount.**
---|---|---|---
Aberdeen | £ s. d. 5 17 0 | Mansfield | £ s. d. 11 0 0
Ayr | 5 4 0 | Maybole | 10 0 0
Belfast | 8 14 6 | Midsomer Norton | 4 10 0
Bishop Auckland | 1 12 0 | Norwich | 700 0 0
Bristol | 27 10 6 | Norwich No. 2 | 309 5 3
Bristol No. 2 | 21 10 0 | Northampton | 113 0 0
Bromsgrove | 10 18 6 | Northampton No. 2 | 900 7 7
Chesham | 0 5 0 | Plymouth | 13 2 0
Chesterfield | 0 6 0 | Reading | 0 8 0
Colchester | 1 8 6 | Sheffield | 2 17 0
Cork | 7 0 0 | Sileby | 15 18 6
Daventry | 14 13 0 | Stafford | 147 0 5
Desborough | 48 8 0 | Stone | 16 10 0
Dundee | 14 0 0 | Street | 154 16 9
Edinburgh | 30 12 0 | Waterford | 1 14 0
Glasgow | 10 6 6 | Wellingborough | 26 0 0
Glasgow No. 2 | 22 9 6 | Wolverhampton | 36 12 6
Higham and Rushden | 21 4 10 | Worcester | 20 0 0
Ipswich | 5 13 6 | Yarmouth | 3 0 0
Kendal. | 69 9 9 | York | 8 7 3
Kettering | 135 5 8 | General Secretary and C.O.
Kettering No. 2 | 105 5 8 | Industrial Staff
Leeds No. 2 | 26 1 0 | Insurance Manager and Insurance Staff | 16 13 0
Leicester | 517 12 9
Leicester No. 2 | 190 18 1
Leicester Women's | 141 13 7
London South | 12 1 9
Manchester | 9 19 0
**GRAND TOTAL** | **£4,994 2 10**


---
327

BRANCH REPORTS.

CHESHAM.--Trade here is still very bad.
DERBY. Trade in Derby is very poor, the C.W.S. have nearly been
closed down for about six weeks, Clemson's only making half time with a
number standing off.

EDINBURGH. One of our factories was made to stand off owing to
the want of material during the General Strike, but are now at work again.
The Branch has started to help a local fund in place of the national levy, which
we expect will receive a hearty response. Certainly there is need for financial
assistance to help the miners to fight their case. As usual there are some who
don't see eye to eye with the Miners' Federation, but they are fighting a working-
class battle at this time. We think we are correct in saying that the last time
the miners had a reduction in their wages the general case was most other
workers had also to suffer reductions. However, if this fight continues long
there will be somewhat more people thrown out of work. However, let us
hope that both sides will get round the table and show by good reasoning that
they can overcome any difficulties which are in the way of a settlement. At
the same time we don't think the miners can afford to have any reduction of
their wages. This is the general feeling of all workers who have taken any
interest in the dispute. Good luck to the miners in their splendid fight.

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.--The Branch has been seriously affected
by the General Strike, about 2,500 being unemployed on benefit as a result:
Rushden, 1,300; Higham, 80; Irthlingborough, 300; Finedon, 300; Raunds,
69; Stanwick, 13; Ringstead, 12; Wollaston, 200; Bozeat, 75; Irchester,
93. Reckoning probationary members and members who had previously
drawn 10 weeks during the year, there must have been 2,600 members out of
work. At the moment, however (except at Finedon), trade is as good as can be
expected under the present conditions, and manufacturers are trying to keep
factories running. Len. Smith (Organiser) is at present in the district and
rendering good service. He attended two of the four monthly meetings held.
There is a certain amount of criticism by the members who never attend
meetings of the £20,000 grant to the Trades Union Congress Relief Fund, but
the Rushden meeting approved the grant, and also granted £5 as first instalment
to the local miners' relief funds.

LONDON SOUTH. A joint meeting of the Arbitration Board met on
the 17th May, in connection with Sewround Statement and the Indoor Work-
shop question. The employers' side agreed with the findings of the arbitrator
in favour of the workers' side. The employers want such a great reduction
for the use of the place provided, also for the finding of light and grindery.
The workers' side wanted the men inside first, to see if they could get a living
wage before any reductions could be entertained, for we believe on our side
of the Board the men will want an increase of wages, because they would be
working under factory conditions. Of course we could not agree so the question
was referred back to the employers, together with Committee appointed by
both sides, to see what terms can be arrived at to be brought before the next
meeting. Other items on the agenda were adjourned until next meeting.
The London South Branch during the strike have been holding meetings every
Tuesday at the Club House. The meetings have been well packed. We have
had great help from several speakers, including Dr. Dick Connolly Beech, of
the Strike Committee. Everyone enjoyed themselves because he drove home
to some of the weak ones the true principles of trade unionism. We shall try
to get the Branch to have these meetings once a month for educational purposes
for the members.
C


---
Here is the extracted text:
LONDON SEW-ROUND. Trade is very quiet in the Sew-Round work,
but fair in the Louis XV. heel work. The Umpire's award in reference to factory
workshops for Louis XV. heel makers is now before the Board
and is to be dealt with by joint meetings of the Board of Arbitration and
for both branches of the trade at the same time. We have not made much pro-
gress as yet, only that present statements are to remain for out-workers.
The employers are asking for a revision of Statements to compensate them for
cost of grindery and accommodation they will have to provide, but have not
come forward with any suggestion in reference to same. We stated we are
prepared for revision of Statements if earnings call for same three months after
makers have been in the factory.
LIVERPOOL.-During the past month the General Council of the Trades
Union Congress thought fit in their wisdom or otherwise to declare a
General Strike, with the avowed intention of helping the miners. The question
now is, was it a success? Did it help the miners in any shape or form? We
leave it to our members to judge for themselves, and refrain from expressing
an opinion as we can all be wise after the event. We hope our members will
read their Monthly Report, especially pages 275, 276, and then refer to Union
Rules-page 54, Rules 253, 254, 255. Referring to Half-yearly Report issued
in January last, we find that the aggregate of money in the Trade and Sick
Funds was no less a sum than £340,749 17s. 8d. Our reason for quoting these
items is because as soon as a General Strike was declared a few of our members
"got the wind up," and threw up the sponge, refusing to pay any more con-
tributions. Evidently they were like the rats, thought the ship was sinking,
and did not intend to be sucked down in the vortex. We have a few copies
of Union Rules which can be obtained on application to local secretary, also
Union Buttons, 6d. each.
NORWICH. Trade in Norwich has been seriously affected by the Coal
Dispute, many firms being unable to overcome the difficulties of the present
industrial situation. Toward the last days of April the numbers of unemployed
fell to the lowest point for many months past, but by the end of May the
numbers had increased in an alarming way. The firm of Phillips & Son (late
of Leeds, 1919) were declared bankrupt very suddenly, throwing out some
three hundred operatives, and with restricted work at neighbouring factories,
very little opportunity is offered for fresh engagements. The Norwich members
responded splendidly to the levy, even when very slow time was being worked.
Three hundred and fifty pounds have already been sent with expectations of
a similar amount to complete the month's collections. We are continuing a
voluntary weekly collection for the miners' wives and children, and our members
are giving from small earnings wholeheartedly, eighty pounds being realised
the first week. The miners are fighting splendidly with almost a unanimously
united country behind them. We hope most sincerely sufficient financial
help will be given to enable the men (however long the dispute may last) to
succeed in spite of the combined forces of private owners and Government
interests.
NORTHAMPTON No. 1.-Trade continues slack which it is bound to
with the continuous lack of earnings of the workers, amounting to several
million pounds per week. In spite of the serious drop in earnings our members
have contributed £750 to the Relief Fund, which in very many cases has been
a real sacrifice. Let us hope the end will be in favour of the miners, and the
solution of future difficulties by the nation coming into their rights by the
ownership of mines.
PLYMOUTH.-The General Strike is now off, but the miners continue
their heroic struggle against a miserable wage and extended hours of labour.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
329
We are asked the question, "What has been gained"? How this question is
answered largely depends upon our political and industrial make up. An
editorial of the Daily Mail would answer one way and the Daily Herald another,
but are there no facts apparent to the intelligent mind, which would lead to a
correct conception of an event unparalleled in industrial history? We think
there are. First of all we must set it down that the General Strike was not for
gain. It was purely defensive a great effort to maintain the established
rates and conditions for the miners. Whether or not this was successful
must of necessity remain unanswered until the miners return to work. The
General Strike was thought to be a very powerful way of helping, but there
are many more, if silver bullets were found for the defence of England,
surely they may be found for the defence of miners, their wives and children,
fighting against a miserable existence. Three million men ceased work in a
most dramatic and astonishing manner, and the attention of the country was
focussed on one of the first principles of a Christian State a fair living for all,
no sweating and no slavery. Certainly if the constitution of our land stands
for anything it stands for this. When over a hundred years ago we abolished
slavery, and nearly twenty years ago we placed an Act (Trades Board Act 1909)
upon the Statute book, declaring it to be a crime to pay working men less than
the established rates. Further, we have such things as "The Fair Wages
Clause," and we have sang for many many years, "Britons never shall be
slaves." When our great lawyers talk so eloquently about an attack upon
the constitution we suggest they try their legal skill in making out a case
against the mine-owners who sought to establish a miserable wage by a lockout,
and thus lower and degrade the standard of life dear to an Englishman.
SILEBY.-Trade here is fair considering the mining dispute. What we
want is more solidarity amongst the workers to fight the problems of the day
that are constantly coming along. Our General President (Mr. T. F. Richards),
with Mr. J. H. Baum and Mr. D. McCarthy, have made their presence felt at a
meeting here. Mr. Baum and Mr. McCarthy also addressed another open-air
meeting in connection with the miners' lockout, which was considered the best
every held in our district.
WATERFORD.-Trade shows a falling off during the past month.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914: All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light,
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926
10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78 77 80 75
15 35 65-70 90 130 130 151 88 77 79 79 73
15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 86 76 78 79 72
15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 81 74 73 75 68
20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 81 71 70 73 67
25 45 75-80 100 105-110 152 119 84 69 70 73 68
25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 71 71 73
25 45-50 80 110 115 161 120 79 73 72 74
25 50 80-85 110 115 164 110 78 75 76 76
30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 176 103 80 75 80 76
30-35 60 85 120-125 125 169 99 80 77 81 77
35 65 85 120 125
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922) Agreement, September
(1924) Agreement, and present date.


---
333
Trade Union leaders to obtain a settlement of the mining problem on the basis of the
Commission Report should end in failure. What more could they do than they had done?
They had striven, up to the very hour when the lock-out notices were due to take effect,
to obtain from the Government some positive and material contribution to a settle-
ment.
They had pleaded with the Government to secure a withdrawal of the lock out notices in
order that negotiations might continue. Their plea
would first agree to accept a reduction of wages. At midnight
when the Trade Union leaders faced the executives of the unions at the Memorial Hall
conference, they had absolutely nothing to show for all those hours of pleading, of argument,
and appeal addressed to the Prime Minister and his colleagues the Govern-
nothing to say but that the miners must agree to a reduction of wages.
was met by a refusal, unless the miners
on Friday, 30th April,
That was the position on Saturday morning, 1st May, when the responsible executives
of the Trade Unions decided upon the grave step of calling a general stoppage in the railway
and transport services, the printing trades, and the metal industries. But even then the
Trade Union leaders continued their efforts, although they knew that the Government
had already prepared for war, and a proclamation had been issued declaring that a state
of emergency existed. They declared that even at that critical hour they believed an
honourable settlement could be reached. They again approached Ministers and pressed
for a withdrawal of the notices, and were again faced with a refusal unless they were ready
to give an assurance that the miners would accept wage reductions. On Saturday night,
Ist May, after renewed discussions with the representatives of the Industrial Committee,
the Prime Minister felt himself able to say that if negotiations were allowed to continue--it
being understood that the lock-out notices were withdrawn-" the representatives of the
Trades Union Congress were confident a settlement could be reached on the lines of the
Report within a fortnight." The Trade Union leaders were considering in a joint meeting
with the miners' representatives the meaning of this declaration, preparatory to further
discussion with the Government, when, at midnight on Sunday, 2nd May, the blow fell.
Summoned from the meeting by the Prime Minister's secretary, the leaders returned with
the announcement that the Government would not continue negotiations until the General
Council had unconditionally withdrawn the instructions for a general stoppage and had
repudiated "overt acts," of which they had then heard for the first time. No oppor-
tunity was given to the General Council to ascertain the facts about the "overt acts."
Before any reply at all could be returned, in fact, when the ultimatum was delivered, the
Prime Minister and his colleagues turned out the lights and went off to bed. So the strike
came-because the Government made no genuine effort to pursue the path to an honourable
settlement that the Trade Union leaders had opened out. - Labour Magazine, 19th June,
1926.
DENMARK AND SHODDY SHOES.
New Regulations for Marking Imports.
It is announced by the Board of Trade that the Commercial Secretary to H.M. Legation
at Copenhagen has forwarded copy and translation of a law regarding the use of paste-
board, artificial leather, artificial leather board or chemically prepared fibre board in
footwear made in, or imported into, Denmark.
The provisions of the law as regards imported footwear are in the main the same as
those formerly in force, but it is provided that the marks "A" or "B," the word "Unden-
landsk," with the name and the address of the importer, and the identification mark allotted
to him, must be effected in the following manner:-In the case of footwear with leather
soles the mark "A" or "B" and the identification mark must be placed on the hollow
of the sole close to the heel, and the other marks are to be placed where they are visible
in the uppers, or on the outside of the sole or by means of a steel stamp in the hollow of
the insole.
"
Rubber footwear may be marked by means of engraving or vulcanising on the inside
or outside of the hollow of the sole, or by means of a coloured stamp on the inside of the
hollow of the sole or on the lining.
The following have been exempted from the provisions of the law by a Ministerial
Notice, effective as from 1st May:--
Children's footwear, 16 cms. or less in length; felt, silk straw and wooden footwear;
leather and textile footwear, with soles of other material than rubber and without heel,
even having a layer not exceeding 1 cms. in thickness including the sole; turned foot-
wear with leather soles, footwear entirely of rubber lined or not; goloshes and rubber
overboots (snow boots).
Textile footwear with a heel piece (Bagkappe) of artificial leather, artificial leather board
or chemically prepared fibre board, may be imported into Denmark until further notice,
when it fulfils in other respects the requirements of the law. -The Shoe and Leather Record,
18th June, 1926.


---
25.
Act las
T WHICH
TENTION
parently
accord
ment.
335
A representative of the applicant's Union stated that payment of wages to com-
positors during the holiday season, which extended between the 31st March and 30th
September, was governed by an agreement dated 30th January, 1919, between the Master
Printers' Association and the Printing and Kindred Trades Unions, in which the Master
down that each man should receive a week's holiday during the holiday which it was laid
to receive pay in lieu of holidays in the proportion of one day's pay for each two entitled
pay. In the case of temporary engagements a man, when leaving an employeerson with full
completed service subsequent to June 30th. It was stated that a holiday between 31st
March and 30th September was compulsory under the agreement
aployed
e could
Id who
or her
ssion,
1, and
V the
ourt
the
the
Ito
Fen
Pr
The Court
Recommended by the Court of Referees that the claim should be allowed.
were of the opinion that the payment of a sum of money in accordance with the holiday
agreement was not within the scope of Section 1 (4) of the Unemployment Insurance
(No. 2) Act, 1924, since the two days' pay was not in respect of the days of unemployment
d
The Insurance Officer did not agree with the Court's recommendation. He considered
that the case was governed by Decisions 119/25 and 1650/25. A hearing took place
before the Umpire on 30th April, and the following decision was given:
following his discharge.
Decision. On the facts before me my decision is that, if the above-named employed
person had made a claim for unemployment benefit, the claim would have been disallowed.
"The hours and holiday agreement under which the applicant received two days'
pay follows closely, but not exactly, the agreements which were considered in Decision
No. 8820, and in some later cases which have not been printed.
The agreement in this case provides that every employce should be granted one
week's holiday per annum, to be paid for at the ordinary rate and to be taken (unless
otherwise agreed) between 31st March and 30th September, and that in the event of any
employee leaving his employment such employee shall be entitled to a pro rata allowance
in respect of the week's holiday, on the basis of one day for each completed two months'
service. When the applicant left his employment he received, in accordance with this
agreement, the equivalent to two days' wages. I am satisfied that that sum was 'wages,'
but it is not clear in respect of what days it was paid. It was contended before me that
it was paid in respect of some unascertained two days between March 31st and 30th Septem-
ber, when the applicant may be taking a holiday. If there were anything to show that
the payment was expressly appropriated at the time of payment to any particular period
of two days I should have held that it was paid in respect of those days, but in the absence
of such appropriation I must hold, as in previous cases, that the two days' wages were
paid in respect of the two days immediately following the loss of employment, at about
which time the payment was made, and that the applicant continued to receive wages in
respect of those two days."
*Volumes containing the collected decisions of the Umpire are published by H.M.
Stationery Office. Decisions given prior to 31st December, 1924, have been published in
pamphlet form and later embodied in bound volumes and either separate pamphlets or
bound volumes may be purchased through any bookseller or direct from H.M. Stationery
Office. Decisions given subsequent to December, 1924, are printed in pamphlet form and
may be obtained as and when issued, on payment of an annual subscription. All enquiries
and applications should be made to H.M. Stationery Office at any of the addresses shown
on the front cover of the Gazette.
Case No. 1069/26. (11/5/26.) Section 8 (2) of the Principal Act-Employ-
ment left voluntarily.
APPLICANT LEFT REGULAR EMPLOYMENT TO JOIN HUSBAND WHO HAD OBTAINED CASUAL
WORK IN ANOTHER TOWN.
The applicant stated that she had left her employment as a box maker in Bradford
on the 9th March, 1926, in order to join her husband, who had obtained work in Liverpool.
Her claim for unemployment benefit made on the 16th March was accordingly disallowed,
on the ground that she had voluntarily left her employment without just cause.
It was elicited that the husband, whose employment was of a casual nature, had
secured rooms in Liverpool and had sent for his wife a week after he found work.
Recommended by the Court of Referees that the claim should be allowed. The Court
were of the opinion that the applicant was justified in leaving her employment.
The Insurance Officer did not agree with the Court's recommendation. In his opinion
the applicant had not shown just cause for leaving.
Decision." On the facts before me my decision is that the claim for benefit should
be disallowed.
The applicant, who had regular work in Bradford, left her employment because
her husband obtained casual work as a builder's labourer at Liverpool. It would have
been otherwise if he had obtained regular work and was taking a house in Liverpool."
-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1926.
---

---
336
SCOTTISH TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
The Congress met this year during April in Inverness, and the undersigned attended
on behalf of the Union. The difficulty of getting to such a place seems to suggest that
undue inconvenience. So far as the Capital of the Highlands is concerned, it is a splendid
to the early season. A large number of delegates were in attendance, and when reported
on, it seems that Trade Union interest is increasing North of the Tweed.
After the customary welcomes, and certain routine machinery elected, the Chairman
delivered his presidential address, Mr. Joseph Duncan can be relied upon to put down
sane and intelligent handling of the vexed matters he had to refer to in his opening state-
ment. No doubt since then, he and others have had occasion to think back, and it would
be interesting to get his views now in the light of recent experience. It was eviden
from the start that the Council of Congress was to steer a sane course through the troubled
waters of the Agenda, and that early impression was confirmed as the days went on
Glasgow Trades and Labour Council served up the "hot stuff" in a number of resolutions
but never at any time did they seem likely to carry the delegates with them. Their
Congress, and resolution after resolution failed. It is true the Glasgow Trades Council
resolutions were well enough argued, but the Council managed to put a better case befor
men were not the only ones to favour out and out methods, but still the substantial majority
were not that way inclined.
The Council's Report was a splendid document, stating clearly and concisely the
attitude adopted on the issues which had confronted Council throughout the year, and
also explaining the important new scheme for trade union organisation which was sub-
mitted to Congress for approval.
This produced the best discussion of the week. The task of submitting the scheme
fell to the Congress Secretary, Mr. Wm. Elger, and as everyone expected, his statement
was masterly in its temper, in its form, and in its ideas. Without referring to a single
note, he dealt with the complex question of existing organisation in Scotland, what had
been accomplished; what had still to be accomplished; what were the difficulties; how
they could be overcome; what new organising principle should be introduced on the lines
of the Council recommendation, and throughout giving facts and figures to drive home
splitting his infinitives was noticeable from first to last.
with life. Such is his rather extraordinary ability in fact, that his care to avoid even
enthusiastic is Mr. Elger on the matter, that he made the material facts literally pulsate
every argument. A subject of this kind does not usually lead to brilliant talking, but 30
w.
la
to
1
ex
th
great deal
te
is
in
Co
da
ca
pr
th
P
ar
W
CC
ex
th
Sc
gr
de
ar
in
fa
A
of
Needless to say the proposal to set up new committees to function in place of Trades
Councils, was hotly resisted, but many of the delegates made caustic criticism of the
political enthusiasms of these bodies which stultified their industrial work. There is a
great deal of truth in that criticism of course, but the feeling persists that the weakness
of Trades Councils lies not so much in their failure to do things, but rather in the fact
without a clear knowledge of procedure. The complaint was made that information
that officials of such bodies are working men without office conveniences, and sometimes
required was often not furnished, but after all that is not surprising when the position
of working men officials is taken into account.
For a time the hostility to the Council scheme seemed to be gaining ground, but at
the finish when Mr. Elger came to reply, it was quickly evident that he had discerned
many weaknesses in the attack, and he went from triumph to triumph in repelling his
opponents. An overwhelming vote rewarded his efforts, and the Congress is now author-
ised to proceed with the plan of new industrial committees to promote and ensure the
growth of Trade Union organisation throughout Scotland.
The resolutions dealing in detail with important aspects of democratic industrial
and political aspirations followed each other throughout the week of Conference, and
always the temperate view prevailed. Unemployment came in for a great deal of attention,
and in some ways the matter of representation of Labour Exchange Committees was
voiced. In spite of lack of interest in this administrative work, it deserves special attention
from organised Labour.
Defence Corps for the workers; stabilisation of all the conditions of the Washington
Convention; emergency resolution re miners' rights; national schemes of work for
workless; and an ambitious scheme of social insurance which would yield a complete
provident shield between the worker and all the evil possibilities of this age, were all before
Conference and crystallised in findings.
through a good Press managed to attract a great deal of attention, and strong was the
A fine, enthusiastic gathering, and up to the best standards of such, the Conference
ev
re
eig
th
ag
H
fo
ac
GI
1
th
(as
un
wh
ou
be-
оц
La


---
337
interest of the good people of Inverness. All that has passed since, has been a scathing
commentary on the mental attitude of present-day gatherings of workers’ representative
Orderly and sensible handling of questions appeals to most, and the belief is held that the
downright sense of our work will win the day. But alas! the slightest real threat to
capital and property sees all pretence swept aside, and exposes the ruthless monster
prepared to crush democracy in whatever way, or by whatever means.
JAMES P. REID, No. 100.
TARIFFS DO NOT HELP.
British boot manufacturers catering for the Irish Free State will be interested to learn
that the Government has appointed a Tariff Commission. The new body is to be com
posed of three civil servants, whose duty it will be to investigate claims for protection
and present recommendations to the Cabinet. This procedure is not approved by those
who are anxious to secure "safeguarding" without a preliminary public inquiry, but it is
consistent with the policy of the Free State Government. The latter has all along regarded
existing tariffs as experimental, and until it has been proved that they are beneficial to
the industries concerned it is not intended to impose any additional protective duties.
So far, according to an Irish correspondent, the duties already in existence have proved a
greater boon to the Minister of Finance than they have to consumers. For instance,
despite the tariff of 15 per cent. on boots and shoes, the imports of footwear
are said to be as large as ever, while the prices charged to wearers have
increased by 25 per cent. The Irish Free State Government is keenly alive to the
fact that the agricultural section of the community is hostile to the safeguarding of industries.
And in Ireland it is, in the last resort, the farmer's vote that will dominate the fiscal policy
of the country. - The Shoe and Leather Record, 4th June, 1926.

AGRICULTURE.
Conditions of Agricultural Labour in Russia.
Congress of Agricultural Workers.
During the Congress of the Russian Union of Agricultural and Forestry Workers,
which was recently held in Moscow, considerable discussion took place on conditions of
labour in agriculture.
Agricultural workers employed by the peasant proprietors are in general paid according
to the minimum rates fixed by the State, and not only do the peasant proprietors rarely
exceed these rates but often, especially when they feel themselves free of supervision,
they reduce them. Workers on Soviet farms also complain of being greatly underpaid.
Conditions of labour in general leave much to be desired. The non-observance of the
terms of collective agreements by the employers, who are subject to little or no control,
is a source of great hardship to the workers.
Woodcutters and other workers employed in the forests have in many cases never
even heard of the eight-hour day, and there is no legislation in force to cover them in this
respect. Agricultural labourers, for whom a prolongation of the working day beyond
eight hours is allowed by law, complain that the employers abuse this right and compel
them to work from 12 to 14 hours a day, and in some cases longer.
Nor is the position of workers on Soviet farms much better; numbers of skilled
agricultural workers are leaving these farms on account of the low wages paid.
HOUSING.
Complaints are rife on all sides concerning housing conditions. The workers are
forced to accept the accommodation offered them by the employers even when that
accommodation, in spite of the law, is practically uninhabitable.
GENERAL CONDITIONS.
Large numbers of agricultural workers, and the majority of the workers employed in
the forests, have no weekly rest-day, while the indemnity for annual holidays not taken
(as is generally the case) is never paid, although provided for by law.
One of the assessors' delegates stated that the assessors could not continue to work
under present conditions, a remark that was repeated by one of the forestry inspectors,
who added that each inspector, besides being required to do a thousand and one things
outside his competence, was entrusted with the supervision of about 200,000 hectares.
It was further stated that each of the agricultural experts and land assessors had
between 100 and 200 villages under his supervision, and could not possibly hope to carry
out the work assigned him. -Extract from Industrial and Labour Information, International
Labour Office, Monday, 24th May, 1926.


---
GERMAN BOOT WORKERS' CONFERENCE.
The General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., attended the Twenty-first General
Conference of the German Boot and Shoe Makers, held at Frankfort-on-Maine, fro
rst to 2oth June, 1926. In his address to the Conference as a fraternal delegate, Mr.
Poulton said:
I desire, in the name of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives of Great
Britain to offer congratulations to this delegate meeting of the German Boot Operatives
and to wish you, not only success in the Conference itself, but ever-increasing success is
your efforts in all your districts to improve the working conditions of the members.
present times are very difficult and full of anxiety, an anxiety which is increased by th
fact that at present the outlook is full of obscurity and it is indeed hard to say what is th
At such a time it is fortunate that you have, especially in Herr Sim
and Weickets, two such experienced and wide-visioned men, who can, and do, outd
best line to pursue.
At such a time it is fortunate that you have, especially in Herr Sim
their long association with the movement give not only of their best, but out of the
mature judgment can so advise, as to ensure the best being made out of a very intricat
which they are subjected.
We also, in Great Britain, have many difficulties to contend with. Restricted trad
uncertain world movements, economic depression, and the present big Mining stoppage
which not only from its magnitude, but also because of its being one of the basic industr
of the country, is having a very serious effect upon the trade of the country. It is sincere
to be hoped that one of the results of the said stoppage, with its resultant suffering, wa
method of settling differences than what at present obtains, relying as it does, not upo
and privation, will be to so mould public opinion, as to insist upon some more huma
right or equity, but upon how long can men, women and children endure the privation v
to be hoped that one of the results of the said stoppage, with its resultant suffering, wa
and privation, will be to so mould public opinion, as to insist upon some more huma
situation.
which they are subjected.
Despite, however, all these drawbacks, we have maintained our membership, whic
stands to-day as follows:---
Financial Members- Males
Probationary
Females
Males
Females
Total
53,322
22,442
6,253
82,017
We have also maintained an unbroken front, so far as our Agreements with th
Employers' Federation is concerned, and our relations with the Manufacturers' Federatic-
is of such a character, that in one of our recent disputes with a Non-Federated firm, the
Employers' Federation sent to us, week by week, sums of money to increase the Strik
Pay to the members on strike. We are expecting in the near future a revision of o/
Agreements, and hope that we shall be able to improve upon the existing one.
In this connection I would explain that we have very few strikes owing to our method
of Arbitration. This does not mean, however, that the workers case is in any way injured
on the contrary, by Conciliation and Arbitration, adjustments and settlements take place
day by day by National and Local Officials without the members being called upon to lose
any time, the following being an extract from the Rules controlling Arbitration Boards:-
Extracts from Standard Rules of Arbitration in connection
with the Trade.
The procedure in cases of disputes between an employer and his workmen should be
as nearly as possible the following :---
(a) The workmen shall first bring the matter before the employer or foremar.
(b) Should they not be able to agree, the representatives of the Employers ard
the Employers' Association and the representatives of the Workmen's
Union shall endeavour to settle the matter in dispute.
(c) If the representatives referred to in sub-section (b) are unable to arrange
terms, the Secretary of the Board shall forthwith advise the Committee of
Enquiry of the dispute.
(d) In the event of the Committee of Enquiry being unable to settle the dispute,
it shall be referred to the Board, and failing a decision, then to the Umpire
or Arbitrators, who shall be asked to give their decision within seven days
from the date of hearing.
When a dispute cannot be settled between an employer and his workmen, or the repre-
sentatives of both, the same rate of wages, or hours of labour, or conditions of employment
that obtained prior to the dispute, shall continue until a decision is given by the Committee
of enquiry, or Board, or Arbitrators, as the case may be. If there be no precedent as to
wages, hours, or conditions, a provisional resolution on these questions may be given by
the Committee of Enquiry, or Board, or Arbitrators, and must be observed, but without
prejudice to either party to the dispute.


---
339
There must be no suspension of work, either at the instigation of the employers or
workmen, the main object of the Board being to prevent this. If any suspension of work
takes place, the Board may refuse to enquire into the matter in dispute till work is
resumed; whilst the fact of its having been interrupted will be taken into account on
considering the question. That in order that the complainant or complainants may not
lose through waiting, any recommendation of the Committee of Enquiry, or any decision
of the Board, shall be made to date back to the time of the complaint being sent in.

A great deal of Unemployment and short time has existed with us for some time
past, though we have not such a high rate as many trades, arising from the fact that we
have an understanding with the employers that short time shall be resorted to rather than
dismissals. This policy is very generally adhered to. Despite this fact, however, we have
paid out from the Union Funds since our 1923 Conference in London, on the 21st 26th
May, to the Conference in Blackpool recently, for unemployment, no less a sum than
£133,107 19s. 6d. In addition, to keep members in benefit, the sum of £4,822 18s. 5d.
has been paid to the members in the form of paying their contributions over the same
period of time.

In addition, as showing the further help given to the members for the same period,
there has been paid to them from the Union Funds for Sickness, £96,594 16s. 4d. and for
Funeral Benefits £9,807. Thus in these four benefits the big sum of £244,332 14s. 3d.
has been paid to the members in the short period stated to help them in their time of need.
This is one of the very real and practical ways in which day by day the Union shows how
valuable an organisation it is to those belonging thereto.

In connection with the Repairing of Boots and Shoes we have what is known as a
Trade Board-that is a Board set up by the Ministry of Labour. This Board is composed
of representatives from the Unions, from the Employers, and by "Independent" members,
appointed by the Ministry. This Board has also done very good work in raising the
standard of wages, shortening hours of labour, regulating apprentices and generally
dealing with the business of the Repairing side of the industry. This Board's decision
have the force of law behind them, and if an employer refuses to comply with the con-
ditions laid down, an Inspector goes into the complaint, and if there is still refusal to
comply, the matter is reported to the Board and prosecutions may be ordered. During
last year 1,836 inspections were made and many cases of infringements of the law were
found out, with the result that many hundreds of pounds were ordered to be paid to workers
who had been improperly paid. Thus in this way also, the use of the organisation is proven
to the workers.

The Conference of the Union recently held at Blackpool was a very successful one
and marked another stage in development, apart from the general survey and instructions
to its officers, it decided upon a scheme of Superannuation for its full time officers and
staff, thereby helping to make the latter days of one free from those cares and worries
financially, which usually beset one. The Scheme is one wherein the Union intends to
put aside a sum for starting the Fund, and those who join up under the scheme will pay
into the same 3 per cent. of their salary, the Union contributing a like 3 per cent. from its
Fund; the age of retirement being 65. It is hoped by this method to meet a situation
which will enable one, when past their best, to have some leisure time in the evening of
life, with an assured income.

The International situation is one causing continual worry, nevertheless, we must not
only continue this work, but make it increasingly effective. In this connection we were
very pleased to see at our recent Conference, J. Simon, along with Dr. Schenk; his presence
was much appreciated, as also were his statements dealing with the International outlook
and the need for courage and steadiness in the face of the present situation. I would
like, therefore, to emphasise that it is imperative for a real understanding to be not only
arrived at internationally, but also that the spirit of real comradeship should be cultivated
along with the full determination to so act, one towards the other, that a policy shall be
pursued which, allowing for differences in method in the various countries, shall be such
a policy as will ensure that the lives of the workers be amply safeguarded and their em-
ployment be of such a character as to assure to them such a wage as will enable a reasonable
standard of life to be maintained. The need for this spirit of real comradeship is greater
than ever, having regard to the general outlook, whether in the political, social or economic
sphere. The world has greater need than ever for its resources to be so conserved and
thereby enable the clamant needs of the workers to be met. We cannot afford to have
division in our ranks, the cry for Unity must be real, and one which is shown by acts to
be sincere. The word "Unity" is a good word; it must not, however, be allowed to be
used as to really hinder unity and progress. Let us determine that for ourselves we will
act in a real spirit of unity and goodwill, making the world a fit place for all mankind to
dwell in, a place where Right and Justice will prevail, where the only wars to be waged
will be against sickness, against unjust treatment, against ignorance, vice and militarism,
and more and more the hand of fellowship shall be grasped in friendship and goodwill,
nevermore to be relaxed between all the peoples.


---
340
BROADCASTING (Boot Trade Conciliation Scheme).
Motion made, and Question proposed, "That this House do now adjourn." - [Com.
Mr. L. SHAW: I desire to draw the attention of the House to a reply which was
given me by the Postmaster-General a few days ago. I asked if it was a fact that the
boot and shoe trade, employers and employed, and the Chairman of the National Board
of that body, had agreed to broadcast a statement as to the organisation which existed
in the trade, and which had for 31 years prevented any dispute of a general character
taking place, and if it was true, what reason the Postmaster-General had for refusing
to me to be quite inexplicable. There can be no question at all that this was a matter
The facts are admitted, and the action of the Postmaster-General seems
of great public interest. When a big trade has secured some arrangement whereby it
arrangement made, there can be no doubt of the public interest in the matter, and the
public has a right to know, through broadcasting or by any other means, exactly what the
The British Broadcasting Company, if my information is correct,
agreed to accept this message for broadcasting, and it was only through the exercise by
the Postmaster-General of his censorship that the message was not delivered. Let me
briefly describe some of the features of the arrangement which exists in the boot and shoe
arrangements are,
trade.
scheme itself is based upon conciliation and arbitration. The organisation of this scheme
For 31 years there has been no general dispute in the trade. The local disputes
took place after the big dispute 31 years ago, and the machinery employed is a national
conference, on which there are equal numbers of employers and employed, with a chairman
appointed by the Minister of Labour, local conciliation or arbitration bodies, which sit
These organisations have to settle delicate questions that arise in the boot and shoe trade,
which is an extremely complicated and technical trade, where piecework rates vary accord.
and even deals with the holidays of the operatives, and it is arranged generally that the
operatives shall have one week's holiday every year, with pay. Breaches of agreements
ing to the type of work done. The organisation settles questions of prices and conditions,
country, when important industrial experiments are made, have a right to know the facts,
at all as to whether the organisation is good or bad. My case is that the people of this
are dealt with by this organisation in a very interesting way. I am expressing no opinion
and how any trade, whatever it may be, has succeeded in keeping peace in its industry.
and determine and settle locally and
I want that to be definitely stated.
Whenever there is a breach of an arrangement this trade has a system of action which
jointly deposit a sum of money into a pool. When a breach of an arrangement is alleged
I think is absolutely unique. The employers' organisation and the workers' organisation
the matter is submitted, if the local arbitration committee and the national conference
cannot agree, to an umpire who decides, and if the lock-out or strike which has resulted
owing to an alleged breach of an agreement lasts more than three days, the party which
is aggrieved, according to the decision of the umpire, has a right to demand a payment
absolutely unique in negotiations between employers' and workers' organisations. This
trade is not a trade in which the possibilities of dispute between employers and employed
are smaller than in any other trade. It has to face a fairly intense international com-
petition as an exporting industry, and also it has to face competition, because boots and
shoes are imported into this country, so that in neither the external market nor in the
home market has the trade any peculiar advantage which would give it, so to speak, a
favoured position among other trades, and a guarantee of peace and good understanding
more than any other trade could hope to have.
damages for the losses sustained.
It was to the broadcasting of this scheme that, for a reason which was given but which
I fail to understand, the Postmaster-General objected. It is rather important in these
days, when liberties seem to be a diminishing quantity, that we should avoid all methods
of censorship which, in the hands of a less courteous and accomplished Postmaster-General,
might lead to some little tin Napoleon censoring news that was really of public importance,
simply because he wanted to assert his little, individual, momentary authority. That
would be a thoroughly bad thing in this country. Broadcasting on matters of public
interest has been a fairly common procedure. For instance, the Prime Minister has
broadcast, and many other political leaders have broadcast, and surely there ought to be
an overwhelming case to refuse to allow a message of this kind, absolutely non-political
and non-controversial, to be broadcast.
What becomes of all our talk of the necessity for industrial peace when an organisation
which has secured industrial peace is not allowed to tell the rest of the country how it has
done it? It is a thing that, to my mind, is simply beyond comprehension, and I am raising
this question on the Motion for the Adjournment in order that the Postmaster-General


---
341
may have an opportunity of telling us exactly why the censorship has been exercised in
this case. Liberty of expression in this country is, has been, and ought to be a very
precious possession, and if once we have this kind of governmental censorship in broad
casting there is always a danger that broadcasting will finally become, not an instrument
for distributing knowledge of a useful character to the people, but a means of conveying
ordinary party propaganda according to the nature of the Government that is in office,
and I think that any Postmaster-General ought to be very chary indeed about exercising
a censorship on matters of public interest that have no concern at all with party politics
and that raise no question, I think, of controversy.

It seems to me that the Postmaster-General has strained his inventive resources to
the fullest extent when he claims that this message was not allowed to be broadcast because
of the danger that somebody might take it as a suggestion for the ending of the mining
dispute. It may may be that that is the way in which the Postmaster-General looks at it, but
I feel quite certain that there are very few people in the country who will look at it in the
same way. I think it is against the public interest to censor messages of this kind, and I
think the the Minister made a great mistake in doing it. I hope the House may have an
assurance that in future it is not the intention of the Minister to attempt to censor declara-
tions which are of public interest, unless he has a very clear case indeed that the message
will lead either to disturbance or to some serious public inconvenience. It will be simply
insufferable if broadcasting is to be subjected to the censorship, possibly, of officious
rather than official persons-I draw a distinction--and if broadcasting has to lose all its
liberty and has to be censored on things that have no more to do with party politics than
I have to do with the throne of China.

This is a case in which, at the present moment, a declaration could have been made
to the country of very great interest. This scheme is a matter that the country ought to
understand and know about, and I have taken this opportunity of trying to give to some
part of the public the information that the Postmaster-General refused the public through
the broadcasting service. I hope he will reconsider his decision, and in view of the fact
that, if my assurances are correct and I have them from the highest authorities-that
there is not a word in this proposed message that has to deal either with politics or with
parties or with suggestions to others, and in view of the fact, if my information again be
correct, that the declaration is simply a description of very interesting machinery that has
been devised and that has been successful, I hope the Postmaster-General will drop this,
if I may say so with due respect, rather petty interference with an organisation that ought
to be beyond politics, and give to the people of this country information which is of value,
as I suggest this information would have been.

THE POSTMASTER-GENERAL (SIR WILLIAM MITCHELL-THOMSON): I make no com-
plaint whatever, either of the fact that my right hon. Friend the Member for Preston
(Mr. T. Shaw) has raised this question or of the tone in which he has raised it. On the
contrary, I am glad to have this opportunity of speaking on the question, and the House
will understand that it is no part of my duty as a Minister to express either approval or
disapproval, on behalf of the Government, of any particular method of settling trade
disputes or dealing with trade matters. That lies in the province of my right hon. Friend
the Minister of Labour, and he, of course, is the proper channel of communication for the
Government in these matters. But I may observe that, personally, I have never concealed,
in this House or elsewhere, my own very strong advocacy of conciliation and arbitration
as a means of settlement, and I have not concealed my view that the party opposite were
not paying enough attention to the experiments that were being made in the Dominions
in regard to this particular method of dealing with trade disputes.

I am very glad to hear what the right hon. Gentleman said about the methods of this
particular trade, the boot and shoe trade, and I do not differ in the slightest degree from
him. I do not join issue with him at all upon that point. The fact that these methods
have secured peace in this trade for over a generation is the best testimony to their efficacy,
and I will only add to what he has said that if hon. Members in all parts of the House are
interested, as I hope they will be, in seeing a fuller description of how the methods are
worked, they will find one in the publication which has just been issued in the last Report
of the Balfour Committee on Trade and Industry, in the volume entitled "Survey of
Industrial Relations," the new volume. They will find on page 276 of that volume a full
description of the methods of conciliation in force, and they will see there how the principle
of district settlements enforceable under a guarantee has worked out in practice. [An
HON. MEMBER: "Is a copy available? " ? If the hon. Member asks the Minister of
Labour or the appropriate authority, I have no doubt whatever that, if it is not already
available for the use of Members, a copy will be made available for their use in the Library.
Personally, therefore, I am glad to hear what the right hon. Gentleman has said, and I
would only add that I hope that at some time or another the resolution which was passed
by the Trade Union Congress in 1923, I think it was, at Plymouth, is going to be regarded
as open for reconsideration.

My right hon. Friend asked me whether at this moment the broadcast by the British
Broadcasting Company of a description of this machinery, which, as I said, could not fail
---

---
342
Company. I would like to say plainly-although the
ters of the British Broadcasting Co
our practice I was acting rather as Chief Ci
Commissioner than as Postmaster-General, that that is not the case.
vien that this would be a transgression of our
Since the general
Civil
by the Leader of the Opposition the other day-in regard to the suggestion that in taking the
to be a eulogy, i or is not a transgression of the rules which ordinarily govern the opera
segetion was not made by my right hon. Friend, it was partly made by implication
strike was over the right hon. Gentleman should take this from me, and I know he will.
over the operations of the British Broadcasting Company. This action which I took
was enforcing the understanding under which there is a rule that topics which relate to
the Government have exercised no control whatever, under the Emergency Regulation,
in the mining industry, that the suggestion was underlying that it would be a good thing
I judge that the implication would be, at a moment when all our minds are full of the dispute
was taken in the ordinary way, in my ordinary capacity as Postmaster-General, and
matters of political controversy shall not be broadcast by the British Broadcasting Company.
Could this proposed broadcast be held to be related to a matter of political controversy:
similar methods were applied to the mining industry. The right hon. Gentlema
says I am wrong, and that that is not a fair implication that could be drawn. He says
that in fact the broadcast has no relation to the existing dispute in the mining industry
I say to him, as I said the other day, that if that be so, then what is the particular hurr
about a broadcast at this moment? This is not a new thing. It has been in existence
answering supplementary questions. I heard some of the colleagues of the right hon
only a very little while. But is it so that that implication would not be drawn? Am
wrong in thinking that it would? I am perfectly certain that it would be drawn. Of
course, it would be drawn. It was drawn. The question was hardly put before, as I wa
31 years, and it will not hurt if the broadcast has to wait a little while longer-we hope.
saying "Government control of broadcasting. The Archbishop over again." Unles
Gentleman 1 could not help hearing them-making interjections from that bench, and
those hon. Members who made that interjection thought that this broadcast was capable
if this or simu
of being related, and intended to be related to the mining dispute
MR. BATEY: It was.
SIR W. MITCHELL-THOMSON it was absolutely devoid of all meaning whatever.
and if that inference was drawn, and is being drawn now by hon. Members in this House,
how much more certain is it that it would also be drawn by listeners outside? How can
decisions divided the Trades Union Congress itself from top to bottom, in spite of the
I say that this could not be held to relate to topics of political controversy? When I
reflect that the whole of this question of the legalisation of the joint industrial council
fact that it was pressed on the Congress by the whole of this trade, masters and men alike.
how can I say the subject is not related to political controversy ? I have no animus
whatever in the matter. I have only to exercise what is rather an unpleasant discretion
as I can, having regard to all the interests concerned, and taking that into account I could
to have to exercise. I have to try to administer the understanding and practice as fairly
not do anything else than give the decision which I did give.
by this interesting public experiment. The more publicity the experiments have the
MR. HARRIS: I just want to say one word. I. like the Minister, was rather attracted
better it will be, but I do think it is important that wireless should be kept free from any
tainly keen on its use in the proper way should support the Minister in keeping as far as
taint of political propaganda. From its very nature, wireless is propaganda. Anyone
possible broadcasting to two things (1) amusement and (2) news-news pure and simple.
As soon as you allow wireless to be used for any kind of propaganda, so soon arises the
danger of its abuse. The Minister is on very safe ground in keeping out anything of a
controversial character. If there is a difference of opinion, the right way to thrash it out
is not through the wireless but through the Press and on the platform. I hope the right
hon. Member for Preston (Mr. T. Shaw), who brought this matter forward, will not think
I am unsympathetic to the particular machinery to which he referred for settling industrial
disputes, but I do say that the Minister is right, and will be right, to keep that machinery
from being used for anything of a propaganda nature.
MR. J. BAKER I think the Minister is wrong in suggesting that this message had a
political implication that might last for ever. He might be wise in avoiding the present
situation, with all the disturbed atmosphere in the minds of the workers of the country.
As he was speaking he led me to believe for a moment that after this dispute was over we
might get the message broadcast, but he ended by saying that it was of a political nature.
To my mind it is not of a political nature and is not to be classed with the resolution that
was before the Trades Union Council. It is a voluntary arrangement entered into between
side was compelled to accept it. Fortunately, there has been a large measure of agreement
moment. Arbitration is not compulsory, and if they did not like the settlement, neither
the workers and employers-a contract between two parties, that can be set aside at any
War amounting to 4s. a week. I believe this is the better method. I have never brought
and it has been accepted. These people have actually had reductions of wages since the
myself to the point of agreeing that we should make a deposit and pay a fine for any breach


---
Here is the extracted text:
343
of agreement, although that is done in certain trades. This agreement under discussion
has been broken half a dozen times in the 31 years and the fines, if my memory serves me,
total less than 1,000, but they have been paid in the spirit of the agreement. The fine
comes out of the common fund but has got to be made good by the delinquent. Personally,
I think the more information of that description that we get the better. The cotton trade
itself has similar machinery, minus the fine. The iron and steel trade has similar ma
chinery.
One of the regrets of the recent trouble was that we smashed up all the machinery
we had built up in 50 years, but like common-sense people we have got together again
and are attempting to restore that machinery from a given date. I hope this message
will be distributed when we get calmed down.
Question, "That this House do now adjourn," put, and agreed to.
Adjourned accordingly at Seven Minutes after Eight o'clock. House of Commons
Debate, 22nd June, 1926.
Leicester Boot and Shoe Trade. Board of Conciliation and Arbitration.
FINISHING STATEMENT.
UMPIRE'S AWARD.
IN THE MATTER OF THE ARBITRATION upon the Claim of the No. 1 Branch of the
Operatives' Union for extras in the Finishing Department in connection with Women's
Rodeo or Cossack High Leg Boots.
I, THE UNDERSIGNED, THE UMPIRE to whom the Arbitrators to the Board referred
the above claim for settlement or determination under Rule 7 of the Board,
having heard the representatives of both sides and duly considered the evidence
placed before me in relation to the claim, DECIDE AND AWARD:-
That an extra of Ten per cent. (10%) shall be added to the Statement Prices
for all operations done in the Finishing Department in connection with
Women's Rodeo or Cossack High Leg Boots.
AND I further determine that the extra fixed by this Award shall come into operation
and be paid from and including the working week commencing on the 20th, 21st or 22nd
May, 1926.
DATED this 26th day of May, 1926.
(Signed) W. A. NORTH,
Umpire.
Leicestershire and Rutland Board of Conciliation and Arbitration for the
Boot and Shoe Trade.
RUSSIAN or RODEO HIGH LEG BOOT.
(Unopen Leg).
FINISHING DEPARTMENT.
DECISION of the FINISHING STATEMENT JOINT COMMITTEE upon the claim of the
Operatives' Side for an extra in connection with the Finishing of the Rodeo or Cossack
Boot.
At a meeting of the Committee held on June 16th the following resolution was adopted :
That an extra of Ten per cent. (10%) shall be added to the Statement
Prices for all operations in connection with Women's Rodeo or Cossack High
Leg Boots."
Dated this 16th day of June, 1926.
Signed-
For the Manufacturers' Side.
J. H. BOTT.
G. A. BURTON.
GEORGE WARD.
F. WAIN.
21 & 22 Corridor Chambers,
Market Place, Leicester.
For the Operatives' Side.
D. ASTLEY.
J. WHEELER.
G. PARBURY.
J. H. OSBORNE.
E. MALIN.
T. F. RICHARDS, Chairman.
H. A. FLAVILL, Secretary.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
344
REPORTS OF INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF
BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES & LEATHER WORKERS
WILHELM BOCK,
May, 1926.
NURNBERG,
THE GERMAN BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES' MOVEMENT, 80 YEARS OLD.
In the Schuhmacher, the Journal of the Zentralverband der Schuhmacher Deutsch.
Land, O. T., states:
On 28th April, the Senior of the German boot and shoe operatives, Wilhelm Bock,
This is a memorial day for our movement as a whole. for the histor
was so years old. This is the history of W. Bock's life.
W. Bock was the chief creator of the German Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union
of the Union is the editor of our Journal and had a very great influence on th
Daring 45 years he was the editor of our J
In 1884 W. Bock was elected member of the Reichstag. In 1893 he became membe
Union members.
of the Gotha Landtag.
We hope that he, being still of unimpaired strength, will be able to enjoy the succe
of his work for many years.
This International, too, has to thank this stalwart of the movement. He was 62
of the creators of the first International Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, in 184
Bock reported on the International Boot and Shoe Operatives' Movement. This Co
At the Conference held at Stuttgart, in 1907, where this International was founded.
from that new and weak organisation, the development of which could only temporar
W. Bock is able to-day to enjoy the fact that a strong International Union issued
Whenever the position of this International is sound and stable at the time beinz
be stopped by the Great War.
this pioneer of the movement is entitled to a good deal of our gratitude.
INTERNATIONAL SECRETARIAT.
AFFILIATION FEES RECEIVED.
AUSTRIA.
Boot and Shoe Operatives. Fees for 1926
DENMARK.
Leather Workers. Fees for 1924/25/26
SWEDEN.
Boot and Shoe Operatives. Fees for 1926
GERMANY.
Boot and Shoe Operatives. Fees for 1926
Leather Workers. Fees for 1926
AUSTRIA.
Saddlers. Fees for 1926
Marks
300
" 84.52
" 479.20
" 4.361.70
" 1.947.65
" 70.35
GERMANY.
LEATHER WORKERS. CONDITIONS IN THE LEATHER AND LEATHER GLOVE INDUSTRY.
No earlier period of unemployment had ever so fatal an influence on the trades grouped
by our Union than the existing one. Until October, 1925, unemployment and short time
were moderate, since that time they increased immensely.
WORKERS UNEMPLOYED AND ON SHORT TIME, 31ST MARCH, 1926. In Tanneries:
On Short Time, 16,089; Unemployed, 8,179. In the Tawing and Dyeing Trade: On
Short Time, 515; Unemployed, 807. In the Leather Glove Industry: On Short Time,
2,093; Unemployed, 1,792.
Two-thirds of workers unemployed or on short time in the Glove Industry were females.
This widespread unemployment and short time was of great disadvantage for the
financial position of the Union. Our income decreased, in addition we had to pay large
sums as out-of-work benefit.
This industrial depression also stopped the development of the Union as to member
ship, as the following figures show:-
ANALYSIS OF MEMBERSHIP, 31ST DECEMBER, 1925. -Males, 30,907; Females, 8,046;
Total, 38,953.


---
345
In face of the
That means a decrease of 2,767 members at the end of the year.
continual industrial depression this decrease is not very considerable.
Thus, this period is a very hard one for our members and we have to apply all our
forces to surmount these difficulties
SADDLERS.
CONFERENCE OF THE GERMAN SATTLER, TAPEZIERE UND PROTEFEUILLER VERBAND.
HAMBURG.
On 12th to 15th April the Union Conference was held at Hamburg. Blum reported
on Union work during the last three years. He pointed out that the Union had to surmount
enormous difficulties. Since the exchange rate has become stable the exportation of
leather goods has decreased to a minimum. Consequently unemployment is as widespread
as ever, especially in the first quarter of 1926. The percentages of members unemployed
and on short time were:-
End of 1925
End of January, 1926
February, 1926
March, 1926
60.5 per cent, unemployed, 35.2 per cent, short time.
68.7
67.5
62.8
34.7
31.0
29.0
These figures show that the intensity of the industrial depression remained nearly the
same, consequently our financial position was heavily engaged.
The Conference did excellent work and showed that trade union discipline had
strengthened, to be appreciated so much the more under the existing circumstances.
BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
UNEMPLOYMENT AND SHORT TIME IN THE FIRST QUARTER, 1926.
The figures indicated surpass by far those registered for December. Of all Trade
Unions furnishing returns we occupied the second place as to unemployment. Regarding
short time we reached the maximum percentage in January, viz., 46.9.
The following figures indicate the number of members wholly unemployed in January,
February and March, 1926 :-
Percentage of
Unemployed
in
January
February
March
Percentage of
Percentage of
reported
reported
Males.
members.
Females.
members.
Total.
reported
members.
15,370
37.8
12,565
37.7
27,935
37-7
17,698
41.6
13,147
38.6
30,845
40.3
15,251
37.2
11,030
34.0
26,281
35.8
These figures show a slight betterment, but nevertheless, there is little hope that
employment will improve in the boot and shoe industry as a whole. The period from
March to June being normally the best did not bring about any change.
ROUMANΙΑ.
LEATHER WORKERS.
The Agenda of the Conference contains among the usual items one of special interest:
Amalgamation with the Clothing Workers.
In connection with this question the Council present to the Conference the following
motion :
The new Council was charged to enter into negotiations with the Clothing Workers'
Union regarding the amalgamation of the two Unions and to realise it if it serves the
interests of both.
MEETING OF THE SECRETARIAT OF SCANDINAVIAN BOOT AND SHOE
OPERATIVES IN STOCKHOLM.
In connection with the precarious situation in Norway and Finland the President
of the Secretariat of the Scandinavian Boot and Shoe Operatives called a meeting for the
20th March.
From Norway, A. E. Gundersen was present; from Denmark, N. J. Larsen; from
Sweden, Ragnar Luther. Finland informed the meeting that the Union was not able to
attend it because the dispute had already commenced.
After thorough discussion the following resolution was adopted :-
The Secretariat of the Scandinavian Boot and Shoe Operatives assembled in Stock-
holm to discuss the situation in Norway and Finland decided to assist the Norwegian


---
346
boat and shoe operatives by all means disposable, seeing the dispute cannot be avoided.
to enable them to repulse the demands of the employers relating to reductions of wage
"The Boot and Shoe Operatives of Sweden and Denmark will accomplish their duty
and debasements of conditions of employment.
of solidarity and are prepared to help them by all means they are capable of.
As to Finland, we are willing as well to assist our colleagues there to sustain the
truggle they are engaged in at Helsingfors. We declare our solidarity with them and
state that their fight is ours."
Later information of the newspapers states the lockout has taken place in the meantime.
time.
Copenhagen, 24th April.
The lockout announced by the manufacturers already
the beginning of April, has now come in operation in the steel, mining, textile and bo
and shoe industries; 30,000 to 35,000 workers are involved.
Operatives.
HUNGARY.
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF THE BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
by 141 delegates. The following fraternal delegates from abroad were present :-Simo
Nurnberg, for the International, and Angeli, representing the Austrian Boot and Sho
At Easter (4th and 5th April) our Thirteenth Union Conference was held, attended
Secretary Hubai reported on trade conditions and certain events that happened within
The Report on Union work was handed over in writing. In connection with
the Union. For more than two years unemployment has been very considerable. The
number of workpeople unemployed continually varies between 1,000 and 2,000.
There had been serious troubles caused by some members, who upset the work con-
tinually, so that the Union was forced to exclude them.
to the exclusion of these members, condemned their attitude and demanded the main
With one exception, all speakers approved the proceeding of the Council relating
tenance of Union discipline and unity. A respective resolution was unanimously passed
The contributions in operation at the time being were maintained. A new fund wa
created for the payment of old age benefit. The entrance fees were increased from 6,00
The payment of sick benefit was suspended, instead the weekly out of work
benefit increased. The introduction of widows' and orphans' benefit shall be considered
to 12,500 cr.
by the next Conference.
GENERAL NEWS.
THE BALKAN TRADE UNION CONFERENCE.
The Balkans have been for centuries the battlefield where the imperialistic interests
collided and innumerable conflicts and wars occurred, involving their peoples in continual
revolutions. This is an essential cause for the backward state of industry and civilisation
there.
compared with pre-war times. In addition the Trade Unions still existing are split into
The number of organised workers has considerably decreased in the Balkan countries,
to push forward "the World Revolution" there from the east to the west, tried to win
The Communists being of opinion they would be able to forward their purposes and
the masses of workers who joined the Trade Unions after the Great War. They easily
succeeded, indeed, for these workers were without any industrial and political education.
The Communist tactics lead to all sorts of disturbances and conflicts with the authorities
the Unions were suppressed, the leaders imprisoned. Consequently, most of the workers
became indifferent again and the organisations were unable to accomplish their tasks.
How fatal the Communist tactics were, results from the fact that in 1920 there was in
Yugo-Slavia one united organisation and about 200,000 organised workers. In 1924
there were only 28,000 in two split organisations. Conditions are similar in Bulgaria,
Greece and Roumania.
From these thoughts the Balkan Conference sprung, called by the I.F.T.U. and held
in Sofia. It was preceded by a meeting in Belgrad, where the directive rules for the
Sofia Conference should be discussed. It was agreed that only delegates representing
the Amsterdam platform should be admitted. On the other hand the representatives
of the Moscow orientation should not only be entitled to attend the Conference as fraternal
delegates, but the several Commissions too.
There were represented:-Bulgaria, by 10 delegates; Yugo-Slavia, by 10 delegates;
Roumania, 3 delegates; Greece, 3 delegates.
---

---
347
The Hungarian Federation of Trade Unions was represented by two, the Czech
Federation by one delegate. Vice-President Mertens and Secretary Sassenbach repre-
sented the I.F.T.U. In addition the following International Secretaries attended the
Conference: Smit, Employees' International; Fimmen, Transport Workers' Inter-
national; Wilhelm, Food and Drink Trades; and Simon, Shoe and Leather International.
The Trade Union Centres of the four Balkan countries had presented reports which
described the trade conditions there and the position of the organisations. From these
reports the delegates were able to become acquainted with the Balkan conditions.
After the opening of the Conference three Commissions were set: One to settle the
demands regarding the right of coalition; the second to work out the directive rules for the
Trade Unions; the third to lay down the industrial demands.
The International Secretaries were principally interested in the work of the Com
mission II., which presented the following two resolutions:
PRINCIPLES OF TRADE UNION ACTIVITIES.
Trade Union organisation is a necessity for the manual and non-manual workers in all
countries where capitalism rules.
The task of the trade union movement is to protect and promote the economical
social interests of the workers, to strengthen the national and international solidarity
of the working class, and to support any action, both nationally and internationally, in
the struggle against their exploitation.
The most immediate task of the Trade Unions in the Balkans is to improve the material
and cultural position of the workers by:----
a. Shortening the working hours.
b. Raising the wage rates.
c. Creating social institutions such as insurance against illness, old age, un-
employment benefit, &c.
d. Raising the intellectual level of the workers.
Strikes should in general be undertaken only for economic reasons and only after
most careful consideration.
Efforts to establish a more equitable social order are primarily the task of the political
parties. It is desirable that the class-conscious worker belong both to the political and
the trade union movement. Political strife, however, should not be introduced into the
trade unions.
ON UNITY.
This Balkan Trade Unions Conference urges all trade unions of the Balkans where
unity has not yet been established, but which accept the policy of the I.F.T.U., to enter
into negotiations at the earliest possible moment under the auspices of the I.F.T.U. with
the object of achieving unity. The negotiations shall be conducted separately in each
country, and shall have as their object the formation of a single National Trade Union
Centre.
The other two Commissions also worked out respec tive resolutions which were adopted
by the Conference after thorough discussion.
In connection with my visit to the Balkan Conference, I took care to have conversa-
tions with several officers of Leather Workers' Unions. I am very sorry to have to state
that in all these countries the Leather Workers' Unions are very much weakened by
splitting, sometimes they are mere names. On the other hand I am glad to be able to state
that both orientations understood the urgent necessity to create united organisations.
It is understood that I tried to support this opinion.
In Sofia I addressed a Conference of tanners, attended by about 120 persons, reporting
on the position of the movement and the International.
At Belgrad I made a rather disagreeable discovery. You all know that the Paris
Conference was attended by a representative of Yugo-Slavia. I now was told that this
J. Manojlovich, who was registered as a tanner, was no leather worker at all; but an
employee of the COMMUNIST METAL WORKERS' UNION in Yugo-Slavia. This shows anew
how the Communists work. How can mutual confidence grow when such deceiving
methods are continually applied.
Let us hope that the relations I established with our colleagues in the Balkans will
bring about good results.
Yours,
J. SIMON.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
349
CHANGES IN RATE OF WAGES DURING MAY, 1926.
Boot and Shoe Repairing, &c. (Great Britain).
Classes of Workpeople.
IST MAY.
Workpeople employed in boot
and shoe repairing, &c. :
Male and female workers
wholly or mainly employed
in making bespoke hand-
sewn leather footware (in-
cluding bespoke hand-sewn
surgical work).
Male learners (other than in-
dentured apprentices); also
female learners employed
on benching and/or finish-
ing.
Male workers 21 years and
over employed in operating
power sole-stitchers and
Blake or other sole-sewing
machines on the Blake
principle.
Male workers employed as
pressmen who are respon-
sible for cutting and cost-
ing.
Male and female workers em-
ployed as foremen and
managers.
All other adult male workers;
also female workers em-
ployed on benching and/or
finishing in the repairing of
leather footwear.
All other female workers
Male indentured apprentices
Pieceworkers
14TH MAY.
Timeworkers :-
Male workers under 21 years
of age (other than learners
and indentured appren-
tices).
Male indentured apprentices
starting apprenticeship at
18 years and over who are
indentured for a period of
three years.
Pieceworkers
Particulars of Change.
Decreases* in the minimum rates fixed under the Trade
Boards Acts of the following amounts for the classes
named respectively :
Decrease of 3s. per week. Minimum rate after
change: 62s.
Decrease* of 1s. per week for those 14 and under 17
years and of 2s. per week for those 17 and under 21
years. Minimum rates after change: 12s. at 14
years, increasing to 41s. at 20.
Decrease* of 2s. per week for those employed in
operating power sole-stitchers, or in operating both
power sole-stitchers and Blake or other sole-sewing
machines on the Blake principle (74s. to 72s.), and
of 3s. per week for those employed in operating
Blake or other sole-sewing machines on the Blake
principle (70s. to 67s ).
Decrease* of 3s. per week. Minimum rate after
change: 67s.
Decrease* of 2s. per week. Minimum rate after
change: 72s.
Decrease* of 3s. per week. Minimum rate after
change: 57s.
Decrease* of 1s. per week for those 14 and under 17
years, and of 2s. per week for those 17 years and
over. Minimum rates after change: 12s. at 14,
increasing to 40s. at 21 and over.
Decrease* of from 3d. to 2s. per week.
Decrease* of 2 1/2 per cent. on piece prices for bespoke
hand-sewn, bespoke hand-sewn surgical, bespoke
pegged and bespoke riveted work and certain classes
of surgical repair work, leaving wages 7 1/2 per cent.
below list prices, and of 5 per cent. for repairing
(including surgical repair work other than the above)
and for work preparatory to rounding and chan-
nelling machines, leaving wages 12 1/2 per cent. below
list prices.
Scale of minimum weekly rates fixed under the Trade
Boards Acts starting at 18s. 6d. at 14 and increasing to
35s. 6d. at 18, and to 49s. 6d. at 20 years. (See p. 355)
Scales of minimum weekly rates fixed under the Trade
Boards Acts varying from 18s. 6d. to 37s. 6d. for those
starting at 18, from 23s. 6d. to 42s. 6d. at 19, from 28s.
to 46s. 6d. at 20, and from 37s. 6d. to 51s. 6d. for those
starting at 21 and over. (See p. 355.)
New general minimum piece rates fixed for certain opera-
tions. (See p. 355.)
; Under cost-of-living sliding scale arrangements.


---
```text
351
STATE TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS.
A Memorandum prepared by the Advisory Committee on Public Health.
Thirty-five years ago one person in seven died of tuberculosis in England and Wales,
to-day only one in fourteen so dies. In 1800, 183 deaths from tuberculosis of all forms
occurred per 100,000 persons living; to-day only about 100 per 100,000. Fifty years ago
240 per 100,000 died every year from consumption; to day only 80. The age at death in
pulmonary tuberculosis has gradually advanced, especially in the towns, so that now the
commonest age at which death occurs from consumption is between forty and fifty. This
possibly means that more efficient treatment applied earlier has an effect to carry on to the
later ages a considerable proportion of the persons affected. The total number of deaths
in England and Wales from tuberculosis of all forms in 1000 was 61,302; in 1924, 41, 103.
Notifications of all forms of tuberculosis in 1913 in England and Wales were 117,139, and
in 1924 81,158.
The anti-tuberculosis measures undertaken by the State, which began about twenty
vears ago, are probably acting better, or as well as anything else, in bringing modern
medical science and a large understanding of hygiene to the people as a whole. Hence such
schemes can be credited in large measure with the improved death rates. Health pro-
paganda and the educational value of the sanatorium have done much to broaden the
appreciation of the open window and of adequate bodily amd mental rest. In other lands
where the State has intervened to provide treatment, the decline in the death rate from
tuberculosis is marked; whereas in such places as Japan, where little State action has
taken place, the reverse holds good. Labour Bulletin, June, 1926.
[The above statement is confirmation of statements made in earlier years that with
proper treatment consumption can be prevented. Therefore, insist upon the municipal
authorities putting into operation their full powers, and thereby still further lower the
sickness and death rate. - E.L.P., G.S.]
WAGES IN SOUTH AFRICA.
Government Board to Hold Investigation.
It is notified in the "Union of South Africa Government Gazette" of 21st May that
the Government Wage Board appointed under the Act passed last year is about to in-
vestigate and report to the Minister of Labour upon the wages, hours and conditions of
labour of persons employed in the leather industries and persons employed in the packing,
despatch and delivery of the products of such industries in the Union of South Africa,
who are not subject to the provisions of the Industrial Conciliation Act, 1924.
Employers and employees, or registered trade unions or employers' organisations
affected, or likely to be affected, by such investigation, are notified that they will be afforded
the opportunity of making representations, either orally or in writing, on any matter
covered by the enquiry. Any written representations or notifications of oral representa-
tions are to be in the hands of the Registrar of the Wage Board by 21st June.
The final paragraph of the Government Notice is of a premonitory nature. It reads :-
"The attention of employees and employers is drawn to section 13 of the Wage Act,
which makes it a criminal offence, subject to substantial penalties, for an employer to
dismiss or otherwise injure an employee for giving evidence or information on matters
dealt with under the Act. In addition to such penalties as the Court may impose upon an
employer under this section, it may award to the employee such damage as he can prove
that he has suffered through the action of the employer." -Shoe and Leather News, 17th
June, 1926.
TARIFFS.
Textile Mill Owners Deceive Congress.
Washington, 12th June.-The owners of the textile industry of the United States
begged Congress to give them a high protective tariff on imported textiles so that they
could pay high wages and then deliberately pocketed outrageous profits themselves and
pauperised the workers, according to Edward F. McGrady, legislative representative of the
American Federation of Labour, in a statement made before the Senate Committee on
Labour in support of the resolution for an investigation of the wages paid in tariff-pro-
tected industries.
"The textile workers of New England are being pauperised," McGrady said. "These
mills broke their word to Congress, yes, to the Republican Party.
"They were given a high protective tariff so that they could take care of their
workers as American workers should be employed, but they did nothing."-American
Federation of Labour News, 12th June, 1926.
```

---
352
SELLING BOOTS UNDER COST.
of the firm of Messrs. Phillips (Norwich) Ltd., the Shoe and Leather News
We have no desire to anticipate the work of the liquidators or of their committee.
The creditors at the statutory meeting were unanimous in expressing the view that the
company's transactions required the strictest investigation.

We agree, and if in the process it be found possible to make the various members of
the Phillips' group, who are liable to the company, repay to the utmost of their capacity
the last penny they owe it, we believe it is only a measure of elementary justice to the
company's creditors that the full power of the law should be called into operation for
that purpose."

Referring to the same subject in the Shoe and Leather Record for the 11th inst., the
Editor says :-
"The Company which has now gone into liquidation was registered in 1919, and it
had a nominal capital of 40,000 shares of £1 each, all of which were issued. How much
real money was paid into the business is not clear. It was a family company, and most
of its tangible assets seem to have been mortgaged for a considerable time. Meanwhile,
the directors were drawing substantial sums from the business, which they should have
known were not being earned out of profits. To account for the loss which was made
creditors are asked to believe that goods were SOLD AT A LOSS OF 4S. A PAIR, SPREAD OVER
A LARGE TURNOVER. An analysis of the costings showed wages at 42 per cent. on selling
prices, which is very far above the average of any shoe factory I know. If the directors
could be examined in bankruptcy, as they might be if they were not protected by the
Companies Acts, a few searching questions might be directed to them regarding their
payments on wages account."

The Leather World, 10th June, 1926, says:-
"The disclosures made at the recent meeting of the creditors of Phillips (Norwich)
Ltd., support the view that we have long held, that the multiple shoe concerns often
profit at the expense of the manufacturer. In this case, it was revealed that a loss of four
shillings per pair was made on no less than 228,946 pairs of shoes-and from a perusal
of the list of creditors, and the remote prospect they have of getting any sort of substantial
dividend, it seems certain the cheap shoes produced by the firm means that the leather
trade has helped the buyers to a biggish gift. It was, in fact, stated at the meeting that
prices of goods supplied to multiple houses had been cut in order to obtain their support.'
Such support, however, is a costly business for the suppliers of the material to make shoes,
and the admission throws rather a lurid light on the way in which struggling firms are
handicapped by the methods of the big shoe buyers."


---
353
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR CONFERENCE.
Opening of Ninth Session.
The ninth Session of the International Labour Conference of the League of Nations
opens in Geneva to-day.
The International Labour Conference meets annually and each of the 56 states (includ-
ing Germany) which are members of the International Labour Organisation is entitled
to send four delegates, two representing the Government, and one each the employers
and workers.
This year two consecutive Sessions of the Conference are being held, the eighth which
has just closed being of a general character and the ninth being devoted exclusively to
maritime questions. Among the subjects to be particularly discussed are the codification
of rules relating to seamen's articles of agreement and the inspection of the working con-
ditions of seamen.
The British delegates to the ninth Session are:-
Government. Viscount Burnham, who has already been President of the Inter-
national Labour Conference in 1921 and 1922. Mr. Humbert Wolfe, Principal Assist-
ant Secretary, Ministry of Labour.
Employers. Mr. Cuthbert Laws, General Manager of the Shipping Federation
and Member of the Joint Maritime Commission of the International Labour Organisa-
tion.
Workers. Mr. Arthur Pugh, President of the General Council of Trades Union
Congress.
GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS AND THE
MINERS' FEDERATION OF GREAT BRITAIN.
JOINT STATEMENT.
The General Council of the Trades Union Congress had called a Conference for 25th
June, 1926, for the purpose of reporting to its affiliated bodies on its policy in the recent
national stoppage. In consequence, however, of the attacks which the Government and
the employers are making to reduce the standard of life of the workpeople, and in particular
the decision of the Government to pass legislation for increasing the hours of labour in
the mining industry, in direct opposition to the Report of the Coal Commission, the General
Council and the representatives of the Miners' Federation of Great Britain have fully
discussed the situation created by the Government action, and have mutually decided
that it is in the interests of the Miners and the movement as a whole that the Conference
called for 25th June, 1926, should be postponed until after the mining dispute is settled.
The General Council and the Miners' Federation consider this imperative so that a united
policy may be adopted to resist to the fullest possible extent the Government's action.
It must be clearly understood that neither the General Council nor the Miners' Federation
desire to postpone unduly the Conference, but they regard the design of the Government
and the coal-owners to increase hours of labour as being of such fundamental importance
to the working-class movement both nationally and internationally as to make it essential
to concentrate upon the present position rather than to devote attention to past events.
The General Council and the Miners' Federation regard it as of the greatest importance
at this juncture that all sections and parties should avoid statements, either in speech
or writing, which create friction, misunderstanding and divert attention from the purpose
in view.
The General Council and the Miners' Federation feel assured that the affiliated
organisations and rank and file of the movement generally will appreciate the importance
of this declaration, and in the circumstances with which the movement is now faced will
accord this agreed policy their fullest approval and support.
The foregoing statement was signed on behalf of the General Council of the Trades
Union Congress :-
ARTHUR PUGH, Chairman,
A. B. SWALES, Vice-Chairman.
W. M. CITRINE, Acting Secretary.
And on behalf of the Miners' Federation of Great Britain :-
HERBERT SMITH, President.
THOMAS RICHARDS, Vice-President.
W. P. RICHARDSON, Treasurer.
A. J. Cook, Secretary.


---
ORGANISATION OF INDUSTRY
HIS JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL
supports Clause 6 of the Preliminary
for the Boot Manufacturing Industry
Conference Agreement, September, 1913, viz.:
For the more effective enforcement of any
agreements, awards or decisions, as well as for
the general advantage of the Industry, the
Federation and the National Union equally
recognise the importance of their respective
organisations being as numerically strong and
as fully representative as possible of employers
and operatives in all centres of the shoe trade,
AND IS OF OPINION THAT THE BEST
INTERESTS OF THE INDUSTRY WILL
BE SERVED IF
ALL MANUFACTURERS CAN BE
ENCOURAGED TO JOIN THE BOOT
MANUFACTURERS' FEDERATION, AND
ALL OPERATIVES ENCOURAGED
TO JOIN THE NATIONAL UNION OF
BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
T. F. RICHARDS, Chairman
(President of the Union).
H. J. BOSTOCK, Vice-Chairman
(Vice President of the Federation).
November 24th, 1925.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

355
TRADE BOARDS ACTS.
Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board (Great Britain).
Order D (32), (33) and (34), dated 11th May, 1926, confirming general minimum time
rates, general minimum piece rates, and overtime rates, and the variation of general
minimum piece rates for certain classes of male and female workers, and specifying the
14th May, 1926, as the date from which such rates shall become operative.
Copies of the Order D (32), (33) and (34), which contains all the rates at present
effective in the trade (including the rates mentioned above), may be obtained from H.M.
Stationery Office or through any bookseller, price 3d.
Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board (Northern Ireland).
Order N.I.B.S. (14), dated the 10th May, 1926, confirming certain minimum rates of
wages as fixed for male and female workers in the boot and shoe repairing trade in Northern
Ireland, and specifying the 24th May, 1926, as the date from which these rates become
effective. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1926.
BOOT AND SHOE REPAIRING TRADE BOARD (GREAT BRITAIN).
Report of Proceedings against a Boot Repairer.
At the Prestatyn Petty Sessions, on 11th March, 1926, Arthur Langley, Boot Repairer,
Caradoc Road, Prestatyn, was summoned for paying less than the General Minimum
Piece Rates fixed by the Trades Board.
Mr. Langley was inspected in February and June, 1925, and on each of these occasions
it was discovered that workers employed by him had been paid at less than the General
Minimum Piece Rates fixed by the Board. There were difficulties in the way of a pro-
secution on these occasions on account of the imperfect character of the piecework records,
but he was warned as to the consequences that would attend any further infraction. In
October, 1925, a further inspection was made and it was found that two workers were under-
paid, and that arrears amounting to £7 7s. od. had accrued since the date of the inspection
in June, 1925.
Proceedings were instituted against Mr. Langley in respect of two charges of under-
payment. He pleaded not guilty, and stated that the workers were inexperienced and
not worth the Trade Board minimum piece rates. He was convicted and ordered to pay,
within 14 days, the following amounts:-Fine of £2 on each charge, £4; Arrears, £7 7s. od.;
Costs totalling £4 5s. 6d. Total, £15 12s. 6d.
BOOT TRADES' ASSOCIATION CONFERENCE.
At the Annual Conference of the National Federation of Boot Trades' Association,
held in Blackpool during the week commencing 14th June, the following resolution was
passed by the delegates.
Mr. W. C. Alderton moved:
THE SHODDY EVIL
"That in view of the great volume of evidence in the possession of the Federation,
received from Medical Officers of Health, school medical officers and other public authorities
in all parts of the country of the dangers to health-especially to children-arising from
the manufacture and sale of shoddy footwear, this conference registers a strong protest
against the continuance of this trade and directs the executive council to ask the President
of the Board of Trade to receive a deputation from the Federation, and to hear repre-
sentations on the urgent need for Government action in some form or another to restrict,
in the interests of public health, the manufacture and sale of shoddy footwear."
He went on to say they intended to follow the resolution up very vigorously, and it
was hoped that in the near future the Government would take this matter up in a serious
manner. Mr. Bellsham seconded. He suggested that a petition would be better than
lobbying or approaching a department.
Mr. Mundy supported the motion. He had taken the matter up in 1904. Things
were better now, but they still had too much shoddy.
Mr. Talent (Leeds) thought it would be better to act in conjunction with the other
sections of the trade. Mr. Alderton, in reply, said the manufacturers and the operatives
had approached the Minister, and had been told he wanted to hear what the distributors
thought about it.


---
Here is the extracted text:
357
Of the 604 disputes beginning in 1925, 580 had been finally settled at the time of
going to press. The principal methods by which these disputes were settled are shown
in the Table below.

Methods of Settlement.
Number
of
Per-
centage Workpeople
of all directly
Dis-
Dis-
involved.
putes.
putes.
By direct negotiation between the parties
or their representatives
By Conciliation
423
72
104,800
44
By Arbitration
44
7
26,200
7
without negotiation
By return to work on employers' terms
10
2
105,900
44
68
12
9,700
3
Otherwise
44
7
7,500
2
Total
580*
100
374,100*
100
*In 15 disputes, directly involving 27,400 workpeople, no final settlement has
yet been reported (June, 1926).

Nearly three-quarters (423) of all the final settlements were effected by direct arrange-
ments or negotiations between the parties or their representatives without the intervention
of third parties. Only ten disputes were settled by arbitration. Nevertheless, as the
chief dispute of the year (that in the wool textile industry) was settled through the medium
of a Court of Investigation (the parties having agreed to be bound by the recommendations
of the Court), the number of workpeople directly involved in disputes settled by direct
negotiations and by arbitration respectively was approximately the same, or 44 per cent.
of all workpeople directly involved in settled disputes. Seven per cent. of all settlements,
involving seven per cent. of all workpeople, were effected by means of conciliation, in most
instances through the instrumentality of an officer of the Ministry of Labour. The largest
dispute in this group (involving over 15,000 employees of London bookbinding and printing
firms) was, however, settled through the agency of the Joint Industrial Council. Return
to work on the employers' terms without negotiations was recorded in the case of 12 per
cent. of the disputes, involving three per cent. of the workpeople. Of the 44 disputes
settled by methods other than those mentioned above, strikers were replaced by other
workpeople in the case of 29 disputes, the strike of seamen, of whom 5,000 are estimated
to have been involved in British ports, being the only case of any magnitude which was
so concluded; in the case of three small disputes the establishments or departments
concerned were closed down. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1926.

HOUSING??

Eight Living in One Room.

Appalling Conditions at Village Near Ashby.

Appalling overcrowding conditions in the village of Blackfordby, near Ashby-de-la-
Zouch, have been reported to the Ashby Rural Council by the Sanitary Inspector, who
states that a small bedroom, eight feet long, seven feet wide, and six feet nine inches high,
was occupied by a man, his wife, and a girl aged six.

The larger bedroom, 13 feet long and II feet six inches wide, was occupied by a man
and wife, two girls 14 and seven, and four boys, aged nine, six, four and three years, making
a total of eight persons in one room.

Both rooms were badly lighted and ventilated, and one daughter had
already been sent to a sanatorium suffering from tuberculosis.

It was stated that the man with the larger family had been turned out of an Ashby
Council house, and the problem was what would happen if the family were disturbed
from their present abode, suffering as they were from consumption.
It was decided to serve the owner of the house with a notice to abate the overcrowding.
- Leicester Mercury, 9th June, 1926.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
359
HOSIERY INQUIRY.
The Demand for British Goods.
The Board of Trade Committee, which is inquiring into the application for a duty on
imported hosiery and knitwear, met again at 5 Old Palace Yard, yesterday, when further
evidence was called Sir James Calder presided. Mr. Barnard Faraday appeared for
the applicants, and Mr. Entwistle for the appellants.
Mr. Arthur Burns, departmental manager of F. W. Millington (1920) Limited, Dale
Street, Manchester, said that English manufacturers NEED FEAR GERMAN COMPETITION
LESS THAN THAT OF ANY OTHER COUNTRY TO-DAY. Since the war he himself had paid
visits to various Continental countries, including Holland, Belgium, France, Germany,
Czecho-slovakia, and Austria, and had just returned from a visit to those districts in
Germany where most of the German hosiery and knitwear were made. It was no exaggera-
tion to say that the German manufacturers were in a very bad way indeed. In Germany
at the present time there were upwards of 500 bankruptcies each week, and the mills and
factories which had to close down in the underwear and hosiery-making districts could be
numbered in hundreds.
The lost trade in woollen underwear, particularly for women, he held, was due not to
foreign competition, but to the popularity of silk and artificial silk. ANOTHER FACTOR
CONTRIBUTING TO BAD TRADE WAS THE HIGH PRICES CHARGED BY RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
FOR HOSIERY AND KNITWEAR. A GREAT STIMULUS WOULD BE GIVEN TO TRADE IF SHOP-
KEEPERS WOULD BE SATISFIED WITH REASONABLE PROFITS. The public would be able
to buy more. Complaints on this score were heard on all sides among manufacturers,
the witness said, and he suggested that publicity would do good.
Mr. G. R. Timmis, hosiery buyer for Messrs. J. and N. Phillips & Co. Limited, Manches-
ter, said his firm did a much bigger trade in British goods than in foreign before the duty
was put on. His purchases in 1925 were approximately 70 per cent. British and 30 per
cent. foreign. The ratio of British purchases was increasing every month. The British
manufacturers were simply concentrating on the most profitable trade and leaving the
foreigner to supply low grade goods.
Mr. H. R. Burns, buyer for Messrs. J. & N. Phillips, gave the names of four British
manufacturing firms which, he said, had concentrated on cotton and art silk goods, and
could now beat the German and the Swiss manufacturers except in the very lowest qualities,
for which there was only a small demand. In 1913 his purchases of underwear were 45,
per cent. British and 55 per cent. foreign ; in 1925 they were 80 per cent. British and 20.
per cent. foreign. The Times, 4th June, 1926.
SHOE MANUFACTURER'S BEQUEST.
£12,000 Legacy for Stafford Infirmary.
Under the will of the late Mr. David Hollin, a former boot and shoe manufacturer im
the town, a legacy of £12,000 has been left to Stafford Infirmary for the purpose of erecting
and, as far as possible equipping and endowing, a "Nurses' Home," to be called the "David
Hollin Nurses' Home." The bequest is conditional upon the erection of the Home being
completed in two years after the death of testator's widow, Mrs. Emma Hollin, who passed
away on Thursday last at her residence, "Highfield Manor," Newport Road, Stafford, at
the age of 84.-Shoe and Leather News, 6th, 13th, 20th May, 1926.
FREE STATE IMPORTS MORE.
Two years ago the Free State Government imposed a 15 per cent. tariff on imported
boots and shoes, but the imports, instead of showing a decrease as a result are increasing.
substantially. For the whole of the year 1925 the imports of boots and shoes into the
Free State exceeded those for 1924 by 48,540 dozen pairs. For the first quarter of this
year there was an increase of 934 dozen pairs, and in the month of March there was an
increase, as compared with the corresponding month in 1925, of 9,626 dozen pairs.
The value of the imports in March was £247,723 against £236,307 for the corresponding
month last year. The value of the hides and skins exported from the Free State in March
last was £34,414 against £56,526 in March, 1925.-Shoe and leather News, 6th, 13th, 20th
May, 1926.


---
THE EIGHTH INTERNATIONAL LABOUR CONFERENCE.
The Eighth International Labour Conference opened at Geneva on May 25th, 1926,
thirty-seven States being represented. His Excellency Mgr. Nolens-Chief Government
Delegate of the Netherlands was elected Chairman.

BRITISH DELEGATION.
Government Delegates. Mr. Humbert Wolfe, Principal Assistant Secretary, Ministry
of Labour.
Employers' Delegate. Mr. G. E. Baker, Assistant Secretary Mercantile Marine
Department, Board of Trade.
Workers' Delegate. Mr. R. Snedden, National Confederation of Employers'
Organisations.
Mr. Arthur Pugh, J.P., Chairman of the General Council
of the Trades Union Congress.

Decisions of the Conference.

(1) SIMPLIFICATION OF EMIGRATION REGULATIONS.

The Conference adopted
(a) A Draft Convention providing that the inspection of emigrants on board
ship should be undertaken by not more than one Government which should
be, as a general rule, the Government whose flag the ship flies. The in
spector should be in no way dependent on or connected with the shipowner
or company, and should concern himself solely with regulations for the
protection and welfare of emigrants on board. He should report to the
Government whose flag the ship flies on the termination of each voyage,
copies of this report being sent to other Governments concerned, if desired.
Voting 73 to 35.
(The British Government and workers' delegate voting in favour;
the British employer against.)
(b) A Recommendation providing that, where 15 or more women or girl emigrants
are travelling unaccompanied by a responsible person, a woman inspector
should be placed in charge of their welfare.
Voting 89 to 19.
(The British Government and workers' delegate voting in favour;
the British employer against.)
(c) A Resolution recommending that, where 50 or more emigrants speaking a
language other than of the country whose flag the ship flies are on board
an emigrant vessel, an interpreter shall be provided.
Voting 48 to 37.
(2) ENFORCEMENT OF CONVENTIONS. - Article 408.
The Conference adopted a Resolution providing machinery for a more adequate
examination of the Annual Reports submitted by Governments on the enforcement of
ratified conventions. (Article 408 of the Peace Treaty.)
The Governing Body is requested to appoint for a period of two or three years a
small committee of six or eight experts in international law and international labour
conditions which shall examine these reports in detail; and after requesting such additional
information as is required from the Governments concerned, shall forward an explanatory
statement as to the methods of enforcement in each country to the Director of the Office.
This report shall be submitted each year to a special committee appointed by the Annual
Conference from among its delegates.
Voting 66 to 36.

(3) DOUBLE DISCUSSION PROCEDURE.
The Conference adopted a Resolution proposing an amendment of the Standing Orders
to allow of a double discussion of the terms of each Convention adopted to avoid unnecessary
delay in ratification due to small faults of drafting of the Conventions. It recommends
that each question placed on the Agenda shall be discussed in general principle at one
Conference on the basis of a comparative survey on the existing law and practice on the
subject prepared. A questionnaire on the subject shall then be drawn up in the light of
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
361
this discussion and circulated to the Governments in the intervening year. In conformity
with their replies the office shall draw up a Draft Convention for submission to the succeed-
ing Conference.
Adopted unanimously.

(4) HOURS OF WORK.
The Conference adopted a Resolution declaring the agreement reached at "the Con-
ference of Governments held in London with a view to the ratification of the Eight Hours
Convention" to be " a progressive step," and whilst expressing no opinion as to the inter-
pretations of the Washington Convention reached on that occasion, urging the Director
of the I.L. Office to continue his endeavours to obtain speedy ratification of the Convention
by the States' Signatories to the agreement, as it appeared that as far as these Powers
were concerned objections to ratification no longer existed.
Voting 64 to 21.

(5) UNEMPLOYMENT.
The Conference adopted a Resolution expressing the hope that the forthcoming Inter-
national Economic Conference would discover effective methods of mitigating unemploy-
ment.
It requested the I.L.O. to increase its efforts to secure adoption of the measures
against unemployment adopted at previous sessions of the Conference (communication by
Governments of information concerning unemployment; creation and extension of un-
employment insurance systems and admission of foreigners to these systems on conditions
of reciprocity; creation and extension of public employment exchange systems, placing
the recruiting of foreign workers solely under their care; and the organisation of public
works so as to counteract fluctuations of private business).
It decided to place unemployment insurance on the agenda of the 1928 Conference.
It recommended that the work of the Joint Committee on Economic Crises should
be actively continued with a view to the development of the series of statistics known as
"Economic Barometers" with a view to studying the best methods of preventing trade
fluctuations leading to periodic crises of unemployment.
Voting 78 to 0.

(6) SCIENTIFIC MANAGEMENT.
The Conference adopted a Resolution requesting the I.L. Office to devote special
attention to questions of the scientific organisation of industry and to carry on its studies
actively in this sphere.
Voting 84 to 1.

(7) NATIVE LABOUR.
The Conference adopted a Resolution welcoming the decision of the Governing Body
to undertake an enquiry into conditions of native labour, and hoping that, as a result of
the labours of the Committee of Experts which it was proposed to establish it would be
possible to present a preliminary report on the matter to the Conference of 1927.
Voting 78 to 3.

(8) NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT IN INDIA.
The Conference adopted a Resolution requesting the Governing Body to come to a
decision as to the appointment of a national correspondent in India as soon as possible.
Voting 79 to 0.

(9) DIRECTOR'S REPORT.
During the debate on the Director's Report it was announced
(a) that Belgium had ratified unconditionally the Washington Hours of Work
Convention.
(b) that Japan intended to enforce the terms of her Factory Amendment Act
of 1921 as from July, 1926.

(10) DELEGATIONS.
One hundred and thirty-one delegates were present including 71 Government dele-
gates, 29 employers and 31 workers, with 8 substitute delegates and 106 advisers. The
number of incomplete delegations was 6, a smaller number than at any preceding Con-
ference.


---
Here is the extracted text:
362
EMIGRATION AND IMMIGRATION PROBLEMS.
Important Findings of World Congress.
Migration Offices. How Every State Could Help in Solution.
As a result of four days' deliberations, the World Congress on Migration came to
important decisions at the Holborn Restaurant, London, yesterday-decisions which will
demonstrate to the world that Labour is solid in its determination to see that the people
who make wealth shall enjoy the fruits of the earth.
It was emphasised that emigration is a phenomenon which is inevitable as a result of
Capitalism, and that all Governments should provide for the solution of migration problems
in the manner best conducive to international peace and goodwill.

Freedom of Migration.
In the earlier days of the proceedings, considerable divergence of views had been
expressed as to the right of people of all nationalities to go where they willed, and the
fundamental principle of Labour in this respect had been emphasised ; but at the con-
cluding session yesterday Mr. F. Adler, secretary of the Second International, pointed out
that a proposed resolution demanding complete freedom of migration had been dropped in
order to secure unanimity.
Dr. Evat (Australia), who had previously made a strong speech against absolute
freedom of migration, said Australia and Canada and the other new countries would help
in the effort to improve the conditions of the workers throughout the world.

Steps Forward.
The resolutions adopted by the Congress proposed that every country should establish
a State Migration Office, on which the trade union organisations should have adequate
representation.
In addition, it was determined that an International Migration Office, also with
adequate trade union representation, should be created within the framework of the Inter-
national Labour Office, to draw up international conventions and recommendations con-
cerning migration and to provide reliable information on the subject.

The habit of Governments and private agencies of persuading people
to migrate was discussed and it was resolved that all propaganda in this
direction should be abolished.
Another resolution demanded that all Labour bodies should co-operate to secure for
immigrant workers complete equality of treatment in all forms of social insurance
established by law.
This resolution had particular reference to the fact that in New Zealand, natives are
barred from the enjoyment of old age pensions.—Herald, 26th June, 1926.

CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st JUNE, 1926.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included.. .. .. .. .. 68 per cent.
Food only .. .. .. .. .. 58
"
FOOD.
At Ist June the average level of retail prices of the principal articles of food was about
the same as at Ist May. Bacon, fish, flour, bread, sugar and potatoes were all slightly
dearer than a month earlier, but these upward movements were counterbalanced by
decreases in the average prices of milk, butter and cheese.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of
food included in these statistics was about 58 per cent. at 1st June, the same as at Ist May,
as compared with 66 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1925.—The Ministry of Labour
Gazette, June, 1926.


---
363
BACK TO THE LAND!
Thirty-one per cent. of the beef and veal, 36 per cent. of the mutton and lamb, and
36 per cent. of the pig meat consumed in Great Britain is supplied by home bred animals.
- Labour Press, 24th June, 1926.
[Why not utilise the land of our country to better advantage than much of it is utilised
to-day, and thereby increase employment and our own supply of food. EL. P., G.S. ]

TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. -Membership of Unions reporting at end of May, 1926,
82,179. Unemployed at end of May, 1926, 11,079; percentage, 13.5. Increase in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 9.9; In rease as compared with
a year ago, 9.3.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1926.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-(Great Britain and Northern Ireland):
Wholly Unemployed (including Casuals)-Males, 6,974; Females, 1,717; Total, 8,691.
Temporary Stoppages-Males, 12,469; Females, 7,132; Total, 19,601. Total-Males,
19,443; Females, 8,849; Total, 28,292. (Great Britain only): Wholly Unemployed,
Temporary Stoppages, and Casuals-Males, 19,136; Females, 8,839; Total, 27,975-The
Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1926.

NUMBERS INSURED AND PERCENTAGES UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-Estimated Number of Insured Persons
at July, 1925 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,940; Females, 51,890;
Total, 144,830. Percentage Unemployed at 24th May, 1926 (Great Britain and Northern
Ireland): Wholly Unemployed (including Casuals)-Males, 7.5; Females, 3.3; Total, 6.0.
Temporary Stoppages: Males, 13.4; Females, 13.8; Total, 13.5. Total-Males, 20.9;
Females, 17.1; Total, 19.5. Increase as compared with 26th April, 1926, 12.3; 25th
May, 1925, 9.4; 26th May, 1924, 11.2. Total Percentage Unemployed at 24th May, 1926
(Great Britain only): 19.5.- The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1926.

SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.-Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 22nd
May, 1926, 49,550. Decrease on a month ago, 5.4 per cent.; Decrease on a year ago,
4.8 per cent. Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 22nd May, 1926, £108,499.
De.rease on a month ago, 15.5 per cent.; Decrease on a year ago, 9.8 per cent. -The
Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1926.

EMPLOYMENT OVERSEAS.
SHOE: Membership reported at end of April, 1926,
GERMANY.-BOOT AND
68,318. Percentage Unemployed at end of April, 1926, 32.3; March, 1926, 35.8;
April, 1925, 6.0 - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1926.


---
364
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS,

Important Statement by the Belgian Minister of Labour
on the Eight-Hour Day.

THURSDAY, 17TH JUNE, 1926.

Wanters, the Belgian Minister of Labour and Industry, who has long consci-
ously aimed at the unconditional ratification of the Washington Convention for the eight-ho
ur day, made a remarkable speech on the working of the eight-hour day and the consequence
of ratification generally on the occasion of the general debate which took place in the
Belgian Chamber before the ratification was agreed to. In the course of his speech he
made the following remarks :-

It has frequently been maintained that the eight-hour day is injurious to production.
If we ask ourselves whether there is a single industry in which conditions have been worsened
as a result of the existing eight-hour day in this country, the answer is that production in
Belgium is generally on the upgrade. Our industrial activities were never so extensive
as at the present moment, and our agricultural production is also growing. We have the
smallest unemployment of any country (4.5 per cent.). In short, the application of the
eight-hour day has not had the results feared in one quarter or another. It is therefore
not necessary to wait for the conclusions of another enquiry. We know in advance that
there are arguments both for and against. It must, however, be pointed out particularly
that there are elements among the industrialists still in a state of mind of complete apath-
who do not take steps to introduce improvements into their concerns. These are the people
introduced the eight-hour day immediately after the war and adapted themselves to the
new conditions.

When industrialists grasp the fact that the eight-hour day, like compulsory education
is here to stay, they will have to turn their attention increasingly to the improvement of
their works. The eight-hour day therefore is not a danger, it is a factor in social
progress.

Further, we must not neglect to take into account the moral and intellectual position
of the workers. They can only produce to the extent that they are enlightened and
educated. From the social standpoint we are concerned in their fitness for and under-
standing of their trade. They cannot improve in this respect if the length of the working
day leaves them no time for study.

It is a matter of importance that the number of those attending trade and technical
schools is increasingly notably, while the number of public-houses has decreased by 110,000.
This marks a long step forward.

It is noticeable what efforts the workers are prepared to make to get better houses,
and to have them better furnished ; how libraries are being built, and how the circulations
of our newspapers increase in proportion as the workers become better educated. All of
this is largely the result of the eight-hour day law. Never before has a legal enactment
worked out in so gratifying a manner as this law, whether from the economic, the social
or the moral standpoint.

The ratification of the Washington Convention runs for ten years from 1st June,
1921. Countries such as Czecho-Slovakia, in a more difficult situation than ourselves,
have preceded us in setting a good example. The Convention does not impose upon us
greater obligations than those already enforced under our eight-hour law. This alone is
a sufficient reason why we should proceed. The Ministers of Labour at the London Con-
ference undertook to submit to their parliaments Bills in accordance with the Washington
Convention, and we know that in Germany the matter is already under way.

Special conditions were duly taken account of at the London meeting. Nobody
supposes that a single human being in time of great need, as, for instance, floods or drought,
&c., would fail to do everything possible to come to the aid of his fellow creatures. The
Act includes certain exceptions it is true, and one member has already charged me with
frequently forgetting the interests of the workers. One must, however, not leave certain
needs out of account. If the workers are going to oppose exceptions required in the interests
of industry, then I must tell them plainly and openly that they are wrong.

It is our duty to ratify the Convention. It will be a significant step forward in this
era of social progress if all people of goodwill will do their best to promote good relations
between employers and workers, and to raise the level of our economic life.


---
Here is the extracted text:
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely: should, however, any errors creep into them, on the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Mothe
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
IN
MAT TEL MUSEUM 4438
LONDON
TEL ADDRESS MATUMISHOP
PHONE LONDON"
Seat of Government, 34. GUILFORD ST LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts.
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 246.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
OF BOOT & SHOR
ERATIVE
Copyright
General President
T.F.RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L.POULTON.J.P.
Nearest Telegraph Ofice:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
20TH JULY, 1926.
TRADE.
Trade continues slack largely due to the Coal Stoppage; the amount of
money paid out by us during the month for Unemployment Benefit was:-
Union
State
£7,540 12S. 3d.
£12,869 175. 8d.
The Ministry of Labour figures are as follows :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment in this industry was poor, especially in the heavy boot trade, and worse
than a year ago; and in nearly all localities a great deal of short time was worked. Diffi-
culties of transport in some centres, together with a fairly widespread curtailment of power
supplies, restricted employment. As has been the case for many months, employment
was worse in the heavy boot factories than in those producing medium and light footwear.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 13.6 on 21st June, as compared with 19.5 on 24th
May, and with 10.2 on 22nd June, 1925.
Returns from firms employing nearly 50,000 workpeople in the week ended 26th
June, 1926, showed an increase of 0.6 per cent. in the numbers employed as compared
with the corresponding week of the previous month and a decrease of 1.5 per cent. as
compared with June, 1925. The total wages paid by these firms showed a decrease of
2.7 per cent. in June, 1926, as compared with the previous month and a decrease of 8.6
per cent, as compared with June, 1925.
In London employment was fair on the whole, though not so good as a year ago.
At Leicester there was a decline, and most factories were on irregular short time or were
working only three days a week. At Northampton, on the other hand, the power supplies


---
Here is the extracted text:
380
of their normal output, with a few firms working full time. In the Higham and Rushden
were generally sufficient, and factories maintained, on the average, almost two-thirds
at where also the power supply was generally fairly good, employment partly recovered
there was an increase in the numbers totally unemployed, while those at work were almost
hom the low level of the previous month but the majority of factories were still on shor
Employment in the Wellingborough district was poor, and worse than in May
The majority of firms at Kettering worked short time, often only half
finir
all on short time
time.
and employment was poor.
ole employment sho
plovment.
on the whole
time.
AM Statford, the majority of firms were on short time, but there was little total uncm.
At Norwich conditions varied greatly, some firms being well employed, but
showed a decline, and many of the workpeople were on short
employment, largely owing to the restrictions on coal and power consumption, was still
There was a marked improvement in the Bristol and Kingswood arca, although
pored by the rationing of power supplies. Employment was somewhat better than in
poor, it was worse than a year ago, especially in the heavy boot trade. At Leeds there
depressed, bat employment in factories making lighter footwear was fair, although hani-
May in the Rossendale Valley; at Bacup the factories were busy, and little short time wa
was a severe decline and much short time was worked the heavy boot trade was very
worked.
slight improvement was reported, and at Kilmarnock employment was reported as still
slack at Glasgow, Dundee and Arbroath, and was quiet at Edinburgh. At Aberdeen a
There was a further increase in short time working in Scotland: employment was very
fairly good.
The following Table summarises the information received from those employers who
furnished returns for the three periods under review:---
Number of Workpeople
Total Wages Paid to all
Workpeople
Inc. (+) or
Week
Week
ended
Inc. (+) or
ended
Dec. (-) on a
26th June,
Dec. (-) on a
26th June,
1926
1926
Month ago Year ago
Monthago * Year aga
Per
Per
Per
Per
cent.
cent.
£
cent.
cent.
ENGLAND AND WALES:
1,997
9.5
6.2
4,344
3.0
London
8,936
42
2.8
19,587
- 10.2
-17 2
- 12.0
Leicester
Leicester Country District
1,980
0.9
5.7
4,146
- 6.3
5.922
+ 4.6
3.1
14,708 +12.4
5.4
2.0
Northampton
Northampton Country
7,624 +3.8
0.4
15.787 + 5.8
District
3,081 +7.4 + 1.0
7,011 +0.5
- 8.5
Kettering
Stafford and District
2,720 +0.3
+ 1.9
5,652
-7-7
1.0
Norwich and District
4,121
1.8
+ 3.6
8,670
Bristol, Kingswood and
8.7 + 2.4
-10.7
-10.7
District
1,706 + 8.5
- 10.9
Leeds and District
1,779
0.3
- 6.3
3,188
2,886
+27.0 -17.1
Lancashire (mainly
-25.9 -32.7
Rossendale Valley)
5.062 +2.9
+ 2.6
Birmingham and District
11,074
826
+ 8.5
4.1
- 4.0
3.1
Other parts of England and
Wales
1,558
6.5
2.7
1,646 +0.5 +4.2
2,917 +2.7
ENGLAND AND WALES
0.4
47,391 +0.7
-
SCOTLAND
1.4 101,528
-2.2
8,0
2,446
- 0.8
-
GREAT BRITAIN
49,837 +0.6
-
4.2
1.5
4,152
105,680
-12.3
-22.1
-2.7
8.6
* Comparison of earnings is affected by changes in rates of wages.
workpeople were on short time in the week ended 26th June, losing, on the average, about
Returns from firms employing 41,300 workpeople showed that 55 per cent. of these
each,


---
Here is the extracted text:
382
We are, by Rule 249, explicitly instructed how to deal with the Union
Funds as to the banking or investing of same. The said rule precludes us
from agreeing to a loan "unless a vote of the Union determine otherwise."
We feel that we should come to the aid of our fellow trade unionists by making
a Loan of £50,000. We therefore ask for your authority by vote of the Branch,
members at the August Monthly Meetings, to say whether such authority
This Branch Meeting of members of the National Union of Boot and Shoe
be given us. The form of the authority being as follows:-
Operatives hereby authorises the Council on our behalf to Loan to the Yorkshire
Miners' Association the sum of £50,000. For; Against.
The result of the vote, stating the numbers who voted for and against,
must be sent along to the General Secretary by the 15th prox. The document
must be signed by the Secretary and the President of the Branch certifying
to its correctness.
HALF-YEARLY STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS.
The Half-yearly Statement of Accounts is presented herewith. It will
be seen that the Union expenditure has exceeded the Income by £22,744 5s. 4d.
This is due to four causes :-
1. The Grants to the Trade Union Congress Relief Fund in connection
with the Coal Mining Industry and the General Stoppage, and the
developments arising therefrom.
2. The abnormal amount of Unemployed Pay.
3. The expenses of the Biennial Conference, and
4. The double contributions to the Labour Party from the Political
Fund.
We, nevertheless, feel that under the circumstances our financial position
is one that is fairly satisfactory. The Sick Fund shows a small gain; this
however, is brought about by the interest all being allocated to this Fund.
This method which has been adopted to put the fund into its present position,
is one which from now will be altered, and the interest will be divided up as
between the funds in their fair proportions.
The note appended to the Auditor's Report is being dealt with by Circular
No. 375, and branches will act according to the instructions named in such
circular.
Total Trade Income
TRADE DEPARTMENT.
For the
half-year ending
30th June, 1926.
£ s. d.
.. 38223 19 4
59696 3 7
"
Expenditure
"Funds, Trade Dept... 149731 17 0
For the
half-year ending
30.h June, 1925.
£ s. d.
34079 8 10
.. 32198 16 6
..173187 3 10
Increase on the
corresponding
half-year.
£ s. d.
4144 10 6
.27497 7 1
Decrease on the
corresponding
half-year.
£ s. d.
..23455 6 10


---
385
MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNION.
Financial Members
Males
Females.
Probationary

Financial
Probationary
Totals
GRAND TOTAL
1920. 1925. 1925. 1924. 1924. 1923. 1923. 1922. 1922.
DEC. JUNE. DEC. JUNE. JUNE. DEC. JUNE.
75802 75325 74105 72047 70494 69112 68403 68787 69174
6214 5003 6400 6008 7250 6553 6772 7019
82010 81318 80595 78745 77744 75665 75175 75097 76193

INDUSTRIAL AND POLITICAL.
The Industrial and Political situation continues to be overshadowed by
the Mining situation; despite efforts made during the month to bring the same
to a conclusion, such efforts have not been successful; in fact, the Government
have passed into law an Eight Hours Bill in connection with Mining. This
has really aggravated and intensified the opposition of the Miners to proposals
for settlement, once more pointing out the absolute necessity for seeing that
on the Political as well as on the Industrial side, we are adequately represented
in the place where laws are made, viz., the House of Commons, and thereby
prevent on the one hand reactionary legislation being passed; on the other
hand promulgating progressive laws which will enable the people to more fully
develop their lives and to enjoy more of the real amenities of life. The business
in the House of Commons during the month has been of such a character as
to call not only for constant attendance by the Labour Party, but for vigilant
watch and constant fight, which though carried on under adverse circumstances,
nevertheless has kept ever to the front Labour's aspirations and demands.
The need is for more members, therefore, keep the machinery in order so that
when the appeal to the country does take place, we shall be ready.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION CASES.
We are pleased to report that the following cases have been settled by our
Solicitor, Mr. Evan Barlow :-
Mr. S., Shepshed, £475 and £21 costs.
Mr. D., Kettering, £300 and £21 costs.
Mr. S., Kettering, £150 and £15 15s. costs.
Mr. S., Leicester, £465.
Mr. S., Kettering, £10 and £3 3s. costs.
Mr. I., Kettering, £225 and £10 10s. costs.
Mr. S., Kettering, £75 and £5 5s. costs.
We would again call the attention of members to the fact that lump sums
are not obtainable by law, and only by agreement, and members should report
any accident to their local officers immediately, as a solicitor cannot be engaged
until consent has been obtained from the Central Office.


---
Here is the extracted text:
386
THE PROPOSED SUPERANNUATION SCHEME FOR MEMBERS
appears on page 390. We suggest serious consideration be given to this
matter in accordance with the instructions set out therein. We suggest special
branch meetings be held to deal with this subject.
DEATH OF WATERFORD SECRETARY.
It is with regret that we have to record the fact that MR. J. NICHOLSON,
Secretary to the Waterford Branch, passed away on the 25th June, after
an illness lasting only eight days. Although Waterford was only one of
our smaller branches, Mr. Nicholson did all he could to improve the lot
of the workers in that area. We beg to tender our expressions of sym-
pathy to his wife and family, and hope that the work of the Branch will
not suffer as a consequence of this loss.
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We hope that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."


---
Here is the extracted text:
387
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
R. WHITE.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.

OVERSEAS TRADE IN JUNE.
The Board of Trade Returns for June, issued this week, allow a survey to be made
of our imports and exports during the first half of the present year. Although the general
strike in May affected export business, the shoe and leather industries have not, apparently,
suffered a serious setback. Indeed, but for the loss of business experienced in that month,
the figures for the past half-year would compare favourably with those of the corresponding
period of 1925. If our exports of leather footwear can be maintained at the total reached
in June, this year will end showing an improvement on its predecessor. The probability
is, however, that the increase recorded last month was due partly to the despatch of ship-
ments held up by lack of transport in May. The table below shows the quantities and
values of leather footwear exported in June and in the corresponding months of 1924
and 1925-
EXPORTS OF LEATHER BOOTS AND SHOES.
June, 1924
June, 1925
June, 1926
Quantities.
693,288
830,976
916,140
Value.
£287,538
£315,949
£364,252
The increase last month over the exports of May amounted to 273,288 pairs, valued at
£110,526. This brought the total exports for the six months nearly up to the quantity
shown at the end of June last year. The figures for these two periods are:-To June 30th,
1925, 5,603,592 pairs, valued at £2,160,750; to 30th June, 1926, 5,432,004 pairs, valued at
£2,075,788. In 1924 the quantity was lower, and the value was slightly higher.
There was a small increase in imports of leather boots and shoes last month, but on
the half-year there has been a decrease as compared with 1925 The following table
shows the position at the end of June :-
IMPORTS OF LEATHER BOOTS AND SHOES.
Six months ended 30th June, 1924
Six months ended 30th June, 1925
Six months ended 30th June, 1926
Quantities.
1,286,400
1,637,196
1,462,932
Value.
£661,917
£851,661
£871,846
It will be noted that the value of the goods imported this year is higher than was the case
in the previous year. This probably accounts for the slight decrease in the number of
pairs purchased abroad. Imports of footwear made of materials other than leather
(excepting rubber) were smaller in June than in the corresponding month of either of the
two preceding years, but on the six months' trading there was an increase of 477,228
pairs in quantity and £61,593 in value as compared with 1925. The total value of the
imports of this class of footwear is, however, no more than £234,177 this year. The Shoe
and Leather Record, 16th July, 1926.


---
388
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, N. W. 5.
23rd July, 1926,
FELLOW MEMBERS,
CONTINENTAL CONDITIONS.
Probably the most important event during the
month has been a deputation by the President of the Union and Mr. W. R. Smith, at
the request of the Council, to visit the boot and shoe factories in several continental countries
for the purpose of comparing rates of wages, methods of working and conditions of employ.
ment. It was our purport to visit Prague, Czecho-Slovakia, and to call upon a certain
large firm in that particular district, situated about an hour's train ride from Prague,
in a small town known as Pard-u-Beatz, where we met a gentleman who had spent a number
of years in Leicester, at Messrs, T. Brown & Co. He is managing the firm of Propphets,
Crudin. From there we went to Messrs. Bata & Co., of Zlin, Czecho-Slovakia, and from
there we travelled all night to Vienna, where we visited the firm of Beka, Boot and Shoe
Manufacturers, at Moddling, about an hour's run from Vienna itself. We were shown all
over the factory with the greatest courtesy from both these firms. We were also shown
over the factory of Bally, of Vienna; here again the greatest courtesy was shown to us
and we left Vienna, better known as Wein, at 7.30 p.m., and arrived at Zurich, in Switzer.
land, the next day. We then approached the firm of Bally's, whose offices are situated
in Zurich, and here the Manager kindly made arrangements for us to visit the great factory
of Bally's at Shoenwernd (pronounced Shooenwent) the next day (Saturday). We left
early in the morning and were met by a motor car at the Station at Aarau (pronounced
Arrow). We were met at the station by Mr. Cumbar, the General Manager of Bally & Co.,
and were conveyed to the factory, where we were introduced to Mr. Euvan Bally himself
which is situated in the most pleasant surroundings it has ever been my lot to find a
Here, again, every consideration was shown us, and we went over the whole of the factory
factory in. The firm left off at 12 o'clock, and we saw as much as it was possible at this
particular firm. After visiting the firm we returned to Zurich, and we left on the Sunday
afternoon for Stuttgart, in Germany, where we arrived in the evening. The next morning
we journeyed to the firm of Salamander, one of the largest shoe firms in Germany. Here,
again, both the Chairman of the Company, his Nephew and Staff, made us very welcome.
with whom we spent the whole of the day looking round the firm. We left Stuttgart
at midnight, and arrived in London at midnight next day, after a very strenuous period.
At the time of writing, our report is not yet available for presentation to the members,
which will be the case very shortly. If there are any of our members interested in Boot
and Shoe production, it would be well worth their while to read the statement made by
Bata in the Shoe and Leather Record, of 16th July, 1926. The firm there makes an interest-
ing statement, which it is the intention of myself and colleagues to reply to at a very early
date.
There are many things in the Boot and Shoe Industry on the Continent of which we
do not approve, and also in some instances at home. We congratulate no man or men
who interferes with the personal freedom and independence of the working man and
woman. We do not appreciate men investing money in the factory in which they work.
I am speaking for myself in this matter, and do not appreciate men who are compelled
to invest money in businesses before they can get employment. A man is at a disadvantage
who lives in an employer's house; he is at a disadvantage if he does not belong to a Trade
Union, but is at a greater disadvantage if he has not a voice in what remuneration he shall
receive for his labour by being represented by some person who is not subject to the will
and pleasure of his employer. He is at a disadvantage if he lives on the employer's pre-
mises; he is at a disadvantage if he has a share of the profit, but has not a share or a voice
to the amount of profit that has been made and its distribution; he is at a disadvantage
when work is given out to him, he has to finish that day's work before he can go home.
✔ese are some of the disadvantages which we see among men who do not belong to a
ade Union and who cannot very well remove from a particular area owing to the fact
hat their eggs are all in one basket.
MANSFIELD. We are still in communication with Messrs. Faire Bros.' Mansfield
factory, and hope with the assistance of at least one gentleman who is interested in our
welfare that we might bring some pressure to bear upon this particular firm to meet the
wants and requirements of the trade.
LEICESTER. I have had occasion to call upon two of the largest buyers in Leicester
who have signified their intention to attend, all being well, the next meeting that the
Federation and ourselves are calling, to discuss ways and means to press upon the workers
of this country the suitability of Boots and Shoes made in our own particular country.
We hope this will meet with some approval from the general public, if adopted, as I believe
it ultimately will be.
---

---
389
EARL SHILTON.—I have had occasion to visit Earl Shilton for the special purpose of
obtaining information that would help us in our troubles above referred to.
SUPERANNUATION. Two special Sub-Committees have been held to further consider
the Superannuation Scheme. The result of our deliberations will be before the member-
ship in this month's Report.
COUNTY BOARD. We have also had several meetings of the Leicestershire County
Board with the object of arranging prices and conditions for semi and Louis Heel work.
I hope our members will see that they do not under any circumstances purchase any
other than British made Boots and Shoes and that they will not only purchase, but read the
Daily Herald regularly.
This report is rather short owing to the fact that our visit to the Continent has taken
the major portion of the time, and we did not return until Wednesday last.
Yours fraternally,

General President.
NORWAY BANS SHODDY.
Adulteration of Shoes and Leather Prohibited.
The text of the regulations dealing with the Norwegian Government's campaign
against shoddy shoes and leather are now available. H.M. Minister at Oslo has forwarded
to the Board of Trade the following translation of the new law:-
The importation, manufacture or sale of footwear of the following kinds is prohibited:
I. Footwear in which ordinary cardboard is used. II. Footwear in which artificial leather,
artificial leather board or chemically prepared fibre board is used for purposes other than-
(1) for filling of bottoms, for arches, toe stiffening and strengthening and strengthening
of the upper leather under the heel; (2) in the heel, but at least 12 mm. from the top piece
in men's footwear and 15 mm. in women's footwear; (3) in turned footwear for inlaid
soles and in the heel, without the restriction mentioned in (2).
Imported goods must be marked with the word
"Utenlandsk," and also with the
name of the importer. They must also be marked with the letter "A" or "B" at least
6 mm. high. The letter "A" is to be used if no artificial leather, artificial leather board
or chemically prepared fibre board has been used in their manufacture or if they have
only been used to the extent indicated above in II. (1). The letter "B" is to be used if,
in the manufacture of the goods, artificial leather, artificial leather board or chemically
prepared fibre board has been used to the extent indicated above in II. (2) and (3).
In the case of footwear with leather soles the marking must be imprinted with a steel
punch on the inside of the uppers, on the arch and also on the outer sole, and in the case of
rubber soled footwear the marking is to be effected by cutting or vulcanising inside or
outside on the arch or by coloured stamping inside on the arch or on the lining.
The following classes of footwear are exempt from the regulations, viz. :-1, Children's
footwear up to 16 cm. long (No. 24); 2, footwear of silk, felt or other cloth; 3, footwear
of straw; 4, footwear with wooden soles; 5, footwear wholly of rubber, with or without
lining, goloshes, and golosh overboots; 6, leather and stuff footwear without heels or with
lists the height of which, including the sole, does not exceed 17 mm.
The weight of sole leather, upper leather, cow leather or belting leather must not be
increased by the aid of materials which are not necessary for the tanning or for the further
preparation of the leather. Tanning materials must not be added to such leather with the
sole object of increasing its weight.
Barium salts, magnesium salts, lead salts, tin salts, and other mineral salts, as well as
glucose, dextrine, molasses and similar organic stuffs may be used in small quantities
for bleaching and sizing. These regulations apply also to leather of the above-mentioned
kinds used in footwear.
Each piece of leather of the kinds mentioned above imported into Norway must be
marked with the word "Utenlandsk" and with the name of the importer.
Leather and footwear which do not comply with the regulations regarding weighting
of leather are prohibited to be imported or sold.
The regulations referred to above were to come into force on 7th June, but it is under-
stood that certain exemptions and exceptions will be temporarily allowed. The Shoe
and Leather Record, 2nd July, 1926.
C


---
390
PROPOSED SUPERANNUATION SCHEME FOR
MEMBERS.
July, 1926.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Further consideration has been given to this question in accordance with the
proposal at the Blackpool Conference.
1.
made to members at 65 years of age (after 25 years' membership with the Union) for a
We suggest that a payment of FIVE SHILLINGS superannuation benefit
contribution of 3d. per week, with a rising scale giving 6d. extra benefit for each five years
2.
additional membership. That is to say:-
for the number of years enumerated, would receive the following rate of weekly pension
Members with a continuous membership as shown below, after paying to the Scheme
Continuous Years'
Membership.
25 years
30
35
40
45
"
50
Payments in years
to the Scheme.
5 years
10
15
20
25
30
Weekly Rate of
Pension.
S. d.
50
5 6
6 0
6
6
7
76
NOTE.-The above table showing the number of years' continuous membership will auto
table would then fully apply; the table showing "years of membership" being
matically cease after the scheme has been in operation 30 years, as the contribution
inserted as an illustration.
3. We further suggest that NO benefits be payable before 1st January, 1932, to
enable the Fund to get on a sound financial basis.
4. The Fund we propose should be for FULL MALE MEMBERS only, and that
for this class of member the scheme should be COMPULSORY, except upon those members
who have attained the age of 65 on the 1st January, 1927, for whom it shall be optional
In order to finance the scheme, a capital sum of not less than £150,000 will be required
to make it financially sound and self-supporting, and we, therefore, suggest that £100,000
be transferred from the Central Sick Fund, and that the members of the branches be
approached at special meetings, with a view to securing £50,000 from Branch Funds
5. We suggest when Superannuation Benefit is payable to members at 65 years of
age, it can be claimed whether members are continuing at work or not, it being understood
that members having once drawn Superannuation Benefit, they shall only be entitled to
legal assistance (in case of accidents in a factory) and funeral benefits.
6. Any member ceasing work at 65 years of age and being in receipt of Superannuation
Benefit shall not be entitled to receive any other benefit except funeral pay.
7. All members in receipt of Superannuation Benefit and continuing at work will
pay a contribution of SIXPENCE per week only, 3d. of which shall be placed to the credit
of the Superannuation Fund and 3d. to the Funeral Fund.
8. Funeral Benefit. We suggest that in the event of a member contributing to the
Superannuation Fund, and death supervening before receiving such Superannuation
Benefit, his dependants shall receive an extra £2 Funeral Benefit, in addition to the sum
named in the Rules, making a total of £8 for men and £5 for women.
9. Women Members shall be allowed to Voluntarily join the Superannuation Scheme
if they desire.
Amendments to this proposal must be sent to the Central Office before 30th September
1926, to enable the Special Conference to deal with the matter on 21st October, 1926.
Yours fraternally,
T. F. RICHARDS, General President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
THE COUNCIL,
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
R. WHITE.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
301
THE AUDITOR'S REPORT.
THE CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LIMITED,
AUDIT DEPARTMENT,
99 Leman Street,
London, E. 1.
The Executive Council,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
Gentlemen,
I beg to report that I have examined the Accounts of the
Union for the Half-Year ended 30th June, 1926, and have obtained all
the information and explanations I have required, and am of the
opinion that they exhibit a true and correct view of the Union's position
according to the information given and as shown by the Books. The
Deeds of Investments have been examined and found to be in order.
It is with pleasure that I state that the whole of the books have been
accurately and neatly kept, and a complete and accurate Balance
Sheet was presented to us for audit.
Yours faithfully,
A. E. NEWMAN,
Public Auditor.
15th July, 1926


---
129
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Following up the work of previous months, in conjunction with Mr. McCarthy,
Sileby District, Anstey, Derby and Mansfield have been visited. It is fairly apparent
in visiting the firms in these areas, that the continuance of the Mining Dispute is having
a very serious effect on trade. Despite this fact very good meetings have been held, and
a continued interest added to the work of the Union. All the firms in the Sileby District
have been visited, and I am convinced that with a return to anything like normal con
ditions, a further progressive increase will be recorded. There is undoubtedly a better
spirit existing in this district, due in a large measure to continuous work, and the new
Secretary attending to detail work, which is an essential feature of all administrative
work. There are two firms in this district that need attention, but unfortunately they
are not so well organised as one would desire, and in both cases pressure is brought to bear
on the operatives, by all the well-known methods, to convince them of the paternal welfare
of the management, and the awful disaster that will result if they join the Union. One
of these firms are federated, and have fairly impressed it upon the operatives, that if the
minimum wage is paid, they have the right to demand considerably larger quantities
from them, than the wage calls for. We have continually pointed out to them their folly,
but with that blind obstinacy, and with a willingness of putting complete confidence in
the management, they still continue. This represents an aspect of our work which
inevitably results, where the operatives are not well organised. In other firms, one finds
a department where they are all members, and they, having asserted their will, statement
prices are fully complied with, while in other departments on the same firm, when the men
are not fully organised, so long as they are near the minimum, very little notice is taken
of statement prices. These men are fully conscious of this fact, but nursing up some
imaginary grievance in their own mind, still go on, disgruntled, waiting for something
to turn up which will not call for any sacrifice on the part of themselves.
A few visits to Anstey at once revealed quite a different spirit so far as our membership
is concerned. Though it is in the same county, the difference in mentality is most marked.
The girls in this district are not so well organised as we would desire, and a number of
youths were rounded up as a result of our visit. Acting on the advice of the local Secretary,
who informed us that a number had joined, we followed up our work by holding a meeting
in the centre of the Village, Mr. J. Wheeler and Mr. G. Parbury (Leicester No. 1), attending.
It was a splendid meeting, and for upwards of two hours we kept the meeting going, and
judging by the questions asked at the close of the meeting, it was fairly evident that a
good number of our members are fairly well informed in the Union's activities, and were
desirous of extending the progressive influence of the Union.
Though trade has been very bad at Derby, we were pleased to learn that there was
some slight improvement at the firms that we visited. We attended the Branch Meeting,
and despite the bad trade, the Secretary reported that the increased membership was
keeping up well. The policy of keeping their members well informed by a wise distribution
of the Monthly Reports, is having a good effect on the members.
In visiting Mansfield, one at once realises the awful effects of the Mining Dispute.
The poverty and distress in this area is fairly apparent, yet in the midst of it all, the
courageous stand of the miners, which the passing of the Eight Hours’ Act has not dimin-
ished, is a magnificent display of human solidarity. Our firms in this district are working
short time, and our position is fairly satisfactory. One of the firms which employs nearly
all girls, and who have been induced to pay a majority of them our scales, don't seem to
appreciate the effective power that the girls might have if they belong to the Union. The
Managing Director, who by his actions, don't quite convince one of his capacity to fill
such a position, because of his earnest desire to interfere with the efforts of those who
belong to the Union, makes our position very difficult. But I suppose that some people
would not think that they were performing their duty, unless they asserted their authority.
It seems to be a special virtue for some men to play the part of a tyrant, but they can only
last so long as they can find persons who they can tyrannise over. Such is the power
which an individual can wield under the present commercial system, and where our organisa-
tion is strong, we can effectively curb an individual's power, and so make the conditions
of our operatives more tolerable. J. H. BAUM.
The work of the past month has been of an exceptional character in the sense
that three weeks of same has been taken by a visit to factories abroad.
The first week of the month was spent in London, where as a result of further negotia-
tions, certain quantity statements have been completed. This should be a great help
to both operative and official, and Mr. Mason, who as President of the Branch, has been
largely responsible for the compilation of these prices, will be able to better assist the mem-
bers concerned if there is close co-operation between the factory and the office of the branch.
The merit of our various statements lies largely in the correct application of same,
and this cannot take place unless the official responsible is placed in a position to advise
on points that generally arise, more especially in the early stages of the operating of the


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
4.30
to our members, keep in touch with your officials.
prices fixed. It will pay you to do so.
variation of the method of working often alters their value. Therefore, I suggest again
They have strict relationship to conditions that obtain at the time, and
report which will be issued later.
It is not possible here to report upon the visit abroad — that must be done in a special
the visit I was able to obtain some further information regarding the accuracy of
I trust it will be interesting and instructive. Duri
Statement I made at the Union Conference at Blackpool re the action of the Red Union
I learned that I had correctly repeated the statements made at Dresde
We have no knowledge in this country so far as actual experience is concerne
and general objective have no doubt in their minds but that these other bodies are broug
disruptive and reactionary, and by their actions and methods make unity a mere by-
as to the conditions that exist abroad, but the Unions that correspond to our own in polic
To those who would question any statements I have made I would add I have nothing
to withdraw or apologise for: I can easily substantiate what has been stated, and can
on the Continent.
in 1923.
as against a realisable ideal.
add other statements to them of a similar character.
24th July, 1926.
of this better spirit.
a good effect.
WALTER R. SMITH.
Leicestershire, Derby and Mansfield. In the face of adverse times the membership i
ditions have been dealt with. It is over five years since I first went round these districts
keeping up and increasing in these areas. Complaints of members on wages and c
During the past month I have been organising in company with Mr. Baum
and the feeling towards trade unionism and Labour is better now than I ever found it before
Had trade been normal the increase in membership would have been much greater becaus
(President, Leicester No. 1), Mr. G. Parbury (Secretary), Mr. J. Baum and I spoke to a good
The four public open-air meetings recently held at Sileby and Mountsorrel have had
On 22nd July we had an open-air meeting at Anstey, Mr. J. Wheeler
This meeting all agreed would be beneficial to Anstey.
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives in arbitration should not be tried in thi
Many of our members cannot understand why something like the methods of the
1845, wrote feelingly on the miners' position as it was then. The great gulf betwee
mining industry. Disraeli in his great novel, "Sibyl, or the Two Nations," written
mineowners and miners was pointed out. This gulf has never been bridged since, rather
have the owners' hearts hardened and their minds become more cunning. There ar
effectively, to cause the Government to change its attitude towards bringing about a far
sufficient people of goodwill in this country, if they could only bring their influence to bea
women who voted the present Government into power never intended that this power
The hundreds of thousands of working men and
should be coldly and calculatedly used to lower the miners' standard of life.
meeting of mostly young men.
settlement for the locked-out miners.
26th July, 1926.
D. MCCARTHY.
Rothwell.
visiting Rushden, Higham Ferrers, Irthlingborough, Raunds, Ringstead, Little Addington.
During the past month I have again been engaged in the County of Northampton,
ally slowing down and members are feeling the loss of wages as a result, very good interest
has been taken in the meetings held. I have endeavoured to bring home the facts relating
to the present industrial crisis, always pointing out how necessary it is, especially at the
present time, to maintain, and still further develop industrial organisation, economic
circumstances operating against most of the heavy industries in the country, are bound to
have their effect upon all other industries which are in a somewhat subsidiary position,
and it is essential that we, being in the latter position (taken as an industry) that we should
be completely organised, and all members should take a greater interest in the work of
the Union, by the very fact that our labour power has to be expended in conjunction with
each other, necessitated by the division and sub-division of the processes which go to
make up the finished product. It is all the more necessary that there should be a com-
plete understanding between the whole of the operatives working at the industry. Many,
and varied, are the ways in which unscrupulous employers attempt to nullify our Terms
of Settlement. Therefore, it is up to our members to be ever vigilant in seeing that all
engaged in the industry should get the full benefit of the Terms.
interest taken, although not everything that could be desired, is growing, and progress
Our organisation and membership in the town and county is very good, and the
is being made. I am looking forward to the time when our Branches will have to engage
the largest halls obtainable to hold our monthly meetings. The Union has been built up
by the interest and enthusiasm of men and women whose names may never appear in the
limelight, and it is up to our younger members to-day to follow in the footsteps of these
old pioneers. There is still work to do, still building to be done, with the ever-changing
economic circumstances. Our old slogan is still applicable, "Agitate, Educate, Organise."
LEN. SMITH.


---
431
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. Trade remains very poor in this quarter, and so far as
shoemaking is concerned, our members have come to regard it as a
accessory in their lives. The big stoppage, combined with the plucky fight
of the miners, has helped to make a great impression here as elsewhere. The
National Stoppage was a gesture on the part of Labour which cannot be ignored,
and while it was not persisted in, still the demonstration was needed. It is
evident, however, that something more is required, and all the strength of
industrial action be effective until a much greater political power is wielded
organised labour must be concentrated on the political weapon.
It is pitiful to read all the tosh about a "threat to
the nation," "threat to the constitution," and "threat to everything," except
what it really was, a threat to the greed and selfishness of the governing class.
How long will a fourth of the nation be able to impress its will on the other
three-fourths? Certainly that wretched fourth holds the reins of government, the Press and all other forms of publicity, but in enlightened days like
the present, it hardly seems credible that the thing is done. And yet since
the "victory" of wealth, one finds supporters of things as they are, showing
an ill-concealed hostility and impatience towards representatives of labour
who are engaged in administrative work. Some day the great "submerged,"
three-fourths of the population will waken, and then woe betide the praters
who mouth smooth phrases about "illegal action," "menace to the nation,"
"attack on constitution," and such like, when the downright justice and
sense of labour's demands will brush aside such irrelevancies. Our members
have been going through a purgatory of another kind in connection with idle
benefit. Headquarters of the Ministry took exception to the way in which
short time extended benefit was being paid to our members, and for about two
months that benefit was in jeopardy. However, we have got a fairly good
arrangement again, although it seems temporary. Our members have been
unable, through long continued idleness, to pay a levy to the miners, but those
who can are paying on local sheets, and the Branch has voted a first payment
of £10 to the relief funds.

BELFAST. There is very little of an encouraging nature to report.
Trade still remains in a deplorable condition, many of our members finding it
impossible to obtain work and most of those who are employed are working
short time, and have been for a considerable time past. We are pleased to
report that the Managing Committee of the Belfast Co-operative Society
has granted to those employed in the Society's Boot Repairing factory an
additional ten working days' holiday with pay. This with the six statutory
holidays and the Co-operative general holiday, makes seventeen days' holiday
in the year. We regret that when the additional holidays were granted the
Manager of the Boot Factory suggested giving them in such a way as to be of
little benefit or advantage to our members, with the result that the Secretary
had to write the Managing Secretary of the Co-operative Society on the matter,
who has sent a satisfactory reply.

CHESHAM. Trade here remains quiet.
DERBY. Trade in Derby is very bad, the C.W.S. having had about a
third of their employees suspended for over two months, which has been a
very heavy claim on the Out-of-Work Fund.

DESBOROUGH. Trade with us is bad and is gradually getting worse.
Many of our members have not restarted work since the General Strike. About
eighty members are on the books drawing unemployed benefit (suspension).
This has been a great help to our members, and shows the wisdom of joining
the Union to prepare for any bad times that may come.


---


---
PLYMOUTH. Trade with us is still very quiet, and although our members
are all on short time, the 5 per cent, reduction in the Trade Board Rates has
been made effective throughout the district. We must call attention to this
matter as on previous occasions, and point out that this further wage reduction
has not been accompanied by any reduction of the charges for repairs. We
remind them that there is generally acknowledged to be two partners in the
business one the emplover, the other the worker, and if one is going to pocket
all the overplus obtained from the purse of the customer, the other fellow will
sooner or later begin to peep around the corner, especially when he is missing
from his own pocket several shillings each week. We are reminded of the
pleaded with the employers for a three pound minimum, and they declared
days just prior to the establishment of the Trade Board when we very earnestly
ther were eager and anxious to reduce the price of repairs, just to recover
with an united voice. "Impossible!"
their good name with the public, and they were looking forward to some
reductions in wages, so that they may show their customers they still followed
in the footsteps of St. Crispin.
SILEBY - Trade here is being affected by the Coal Dispute, which is
retarding our progress in this district. Two of our Organisers, Mr. J. H. Baum
and Mr. D. McCarthy, are still in our midst, doing good work at the different
factories during dinner hour. We wish to thank the Conference for remitting
a portion of our debt, thereby enabling our members to use their vote again
in anything connected with Union business, which ought to make them take
more interest when it is solely for their own benefit.

NOTHING LIKE LEATHER.
Some of the Stuff that Boots are made of. Shoddy Scandal.
Union Official on a Menace to Health.
What we say is that nobody should make such stuff in the trade. It is no good to
anybody and gets us a bad name."
In these words, to a Daily Herald representative yesterday, Mr. E. L. Poulton, General
Secretary of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, indicated the attitude
which has inspired a big campaign which is being waged against the manufacture of shoddy
footwear in this country.
Samples of the stuff were produced for the inspection of our reporter at the head
office of the Union in London.
A pair of heavy boots, with uppers like boards, had as soles a thin layer of leather,
filled up with odd bits put in anyhow, kept together with a piece of cardboard and a layer
The sole looked thick and durable, and was heavily hobnailed. Priced
of poor canvas.
at os. 3d. a pair, and advertised as miners' boots, it was obvious, from their make-up,
that they would not last a fortnight for practical purposes.
"Rasher" Soles.
A woman's pair of shoes, with high heels and a "rasher" of leather as a sole, which
would suck up wet just as those "suckers" did which amused schoolboys 25 or 30 years
ago, were priced at 3s. 9d. and described as "genuine leather footwear, ladies' glacé shoe."
No reputable firm of manufacturers deign to turn out such products, but, at the same
are the
time, there is a tremendous amount of it on the market. It is useless for outdoor wear
and is fit only for the house.
"The people we are particularly concerned about," said Mr. Poulton, "
children, for whom a tremendous quantity of shoddy footwear is made. A large pro-
portion of children can have only one pair at a time, and shoddy is such that once it gets
wet it never dries.
"Shoddy, in short, is misleading and injurious to health."-Daily Herald, 30th June,
1926.


---
NORTHAMPTONSHIRE JOINT DISTRICT COUNCIL.

Minutes of Quarterly Meeting held in the Assembly Room at the Trades Club, Church
Street, Wellingborough, on Saturday, April 17th, 1926, commencing at 2.30 p.m.

PRESENT. In the absence of the President, Mr. J. E. Chapman presided, and was
supported by Mr. Langley and a full representation of delegates from Branches. The
Chairman, in opening, apologised for the absence of the Secretary through illness.

MINUTES. - The Minutes of the previous meeting having been circulated, it was resolved
that same be accepted as read.

The Minutes of the last meeting of the Executive Committee were then submitted
These were approved. Mr. T. F. Richards complained that the Central Office had not
received any notification of the meeting, and it was only by accident that he got to know
that the meeting was to be held. Mr. Campbell explained the difficult circumstances
arising from the illness of the Secretary, and also stated that he had informed Mr. Richards
of the meeting when he met him the previous week. Mr. Richards then moved that a
vote of sympathy be sent to the Secretary in his illness, and said that it would be a good
thing for their own sakes if some officials could be compelled to rest occasionally, so that
their health should not suffer. Mr. E. Law seconded the resolution, which was carried
unanimously.

* [NOTE. Notice of the meeting, also the minutes of the previous meeting, was
sent to the Head Office, directed to the General President at the same time as the other
minutes were sent out. -G.C.]

BUSINESS. - The Chairman having again called attention to the Agenda, asked for
an opening to the discussion.

MR. PENDERED (Northampton No. 2) was the first delegate to speak, and he said
he wished to discuss the Resolution submitted by the Norwich No. 2 Branch with regard
to Mass Production (page 116, February Report). He stated that the Northampton Branch
had had the matter under discussion for a long time and they had tried their best to get
the matter brought forward. He thought that mass production was bound to come in
and they should welcome it because they welcomed progress, but we must take care to
organise it as it comes along, because it is a part of our trade and should be organised in
our Union. It was immaterial where the soles were cut if trade union conditions were not
being observed we must try and get our terms of settlement introduced. It is the duty of the
Council to investigate these factories, and I should like to send a resolution asking one or
two organisers to be told off to look after this question of mass production.

MR. T. F. RICHARDS said that he and the Council were quite in the dark as to the
complaint of the Norwich Branch. They knew nothing about it until they saw it on the
Conference Agenda. He said that many months had been spent in trying to organise
these people in mass-production factories. He gave numerous examples of what was being
done in this respect, remarking that he had been in communication with firms in America
and Canada. He said that we must insist that our members should not work for non-
union employers, and it was the duty of all members to give the Council full information.
We could not, however, concentrate solely on this particular work, but if the information
was given they would do their best. One method would be to report to the General
Purposes Committee of the Federation and tell them that they must not buy stuff produced
under improper conditions, and we had the right to see the firms and tell them of the
conditions under which the stuff was produced, but if they still used it the members of the
Union must refuse to work it up.

MR. E. LAW (Northampton No. 2) said that everything possible was being done
with the position. Most of these mass-production factories were outside the usual boot
and shoe centres, and those members who worked in the cutting-up departments were in
danger of losing their jobs. He said it was the fault of the people who worked in these
factories; our officials and organisers could not be blamed. Let us as a District Council
vote for the resolution of the Norwich Branch, asking for greater power to be exerted in
the organisation of these people.

MR. LANGLEY (Rushden): Rules 111-114, Rule 67, Line 3.

"No member shall hold more than one Union Office at one time."

The feeling of the Rushden Branch is that this clause shall be deleted. We feel
that the General Officers should not be prevented from being Parliamentary Agents or
even becoming Members of Parliament. It is felt that men who have sufficient ability,
and who have the confidence of the members of the Union, are the type of men who could
stand for Parliament. If our Resolution is carried at the Conference, Rule 267 will cease
to exist.

* This notice came to hand ten days late due to an error on the part of the Post Office
as the letter had been delivered at the wrong address. -E.L.P., G.S.


---
438
for them.
MR. ATTEWELL (Northampton): There is no doubt that the General Officers are quite
qualified to become Members of Parliament, but the boot and shoe operatives call for
elected to positions to give their undivided attention to that job. The Union business
would be sacrificed to the House of Commons, or else we must come to the conclusion
were submitted for each Office of the Union and probably at least 75 per cent. were capabil
of filling the Office, and those who were not successful were capable of standing for Parlia
ment. A man in Parliament had a full-time job if he was to do it properly, and the Office
make allowance for the defeat of a member at the poll, and such men should be take
of the Union must also give their full time to the services of the Union. The Rules should
that men are not giving too per cent. attention to the Union business.
MR. L. POOLE (Wellingborough): I agree with Attewell, but there is another poin
the five are permanent officials, Assuming that they are elected to Parliament, we should
into the service of the Union until such time as they were re-elected to Parliament.
of view I should like to put. We have at present five Parliamentary Agents. Three
under existing rules, have to elect three more organisers, and it might be that these fiv
would lose their seats at the next election, and as the rules are now, there would be nothing
organisers, two general officers and five Parliamentary Agents, who had previously bee
for them to do so far as the Union is concerned. Can we, as a Union afford to carry thre
full-time officials of the Union.
MR. CROUCH (Higham): I think it is ridiculous to say they cannot do two job
lose by it. We surely have efficient Clerks who could do their work whilst they are away
Let us give these men credit for what they have done, and if they can do the two jot
These men will be able to do us a good turn if they get to Parliament, and we shall ne
we ought not to ask them to risk their position with the Union.
of Local Authorities in the way you can Parliamentary work. Parliament called for full.
MR. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): I agree with Attewell. You cannot take the work
liamentary Agent who lost his seat. He thought they could be absorbed as organisers
time work, and no man could be reasonably expected to fill the two positions satisfactoril:
He hoped that a resolution would be framed to provide for the Union to absorb any Par.
as he felt there was room for more organisers than we had at present.
the Union from standing for Parliament. The risk of losing their positions was too great,
MR. TEBBUTT (Wellingborough) felt that the present rule debarred the best men in
and no man would be willing to sacrifice the work he had most at heart. He felt that
the Conference should make the alteration in the rule.
MR. RICHARDS: I can see no wisdom in depriving your general officials of the oppor-
tunity of standing for Parliament. Parliament did not start until 3 o'clock unless you
happened to be on a number of Committees. A man who was good enough to go to
organisers. We should have to obtain assistance because we did not want men to do two
Parliament should be good enough to serve the Union, and we could not have too many
jobs. You are applying to national officers what you do not apply to local officers.
MR. ATTEWELL (Page 116. - Resolution from Street): What we should aim at is a
shorter working week. I do not think that any factories are working at such a speed
that it is necessary for them to make up for lost time. The correct line is not by increasing
the length of the working day, but I believe we shall get our Saturday morning off without
working extra time another day. It would be a wrong policy to agree to the extension
for the shorter working week. I think that our best policy would be to work for the
of the working day as it would destroy some of the arguments we use when applying
eight-hour day.
MR. L. SMITH (Organiser): This resolution has come owing to the fact that there has
been a local arrangement where the men worked extra time each day so that they might
have Saturday off. The local secretary has been written to, telling him that they must
not have such an arrangement as it is a violation of the terms of agreement. In some
other districts they worked the 48-hour week in five days. The extension of the working
week is bad, and I think that the 48-hour week should be worked in the six days. It was
a surprise that such a resolution should be put on the agenda, and when the facts are
known, I think there will be no hesitation in voting it down.
MR. PENDERED (Northampton) also thought that it would be a step in the wrong
direction, and said that we ought to press for the complete abolition of overtime.
was not in favour of increased hours during the week. Those who were on piecework
MR. ROWLETT (Rothwell) said he would prefer to be finished on the Saturday, but he
carned very little on Saturday morning, and it would make little difference to them.
the 48 hours should be worked. The members of his Branch preferred to work a little
MR. ARNULL (Daventry) said he did not think there were any stipulations as to how
extra time at nights so as to have Saturday off.
of State Unemployment Benefit. He said that the matter did not arise on the Agenda
MR. HEWLETT (Bozeat) then raised a point as to the payments for the administration


---
439
explained the position as far as the Rushden Branch was concerned and said that the
Central Office ought to make some allowance in view of the exceptional circumstances.
but he felt he had a grievance and he wished to draw attention to it. Mr. Langley
MR. LANGLEY (Higham) (Page 11, Rule 32): The Rushden Branch felt that we ought
should be observed. He felt that these people should be in a Union which catered for them.
we had no authority to go into other than boot factories and demand that our agreements
not to take any members into the Union except those engaged in boot factories, because
as members are affiliated, we should insist that only those engaged in the manufacture of
The Rushden Branch was not opposed to affiliation with other Unions, but until such time
boots and shoes should be members.
MR. PITTS (Northampton) said that we had special privileges in our Union, and we
ought to be careful what sort of people we join.
MR. PENDERED (Northampton): If we carry this into effect we shall have many
people engaged in the production of boots and shoes who are not allowed to become mem-
bers of the Union. He would prefer to see all those engaged in the factories in any way
whatever, enrolled a member of the Union.
MR. L. SMITH (Organiser) also opposed the resolution. He said that we should lose
many very good members, who, whilst not exactly engaged in the production of boots and
shoes, were doing work in the boot factories. In Northampton they had many of their
old members engaged in last-making factories, and they obtained better conditions than
they could from any other Union. He thought that the rule was not wide enough. Every-
one engaged in connection with the production of boots and shoes should be members
outside a Union altogether. It was better to have them as members of the Union than to leave them
THE CHAIRMAN then declared the meeting closed, after expressing the hope that the
discussion would prove of some value to those delegates elected to attend the forthcoming
Conference. The delegates were then entertained to tea by the Wellingborough Branch,
to whom thanks were extended.
AGRICULTURE.
We have in this country considerable contrasts in the size of our farms in com-
parison with our neighbours. In England, we have 66 per
acres-these figures are from the Report of the Agricultural Tribunal-in France and
Holland, 90 per cent.; in Germany, 92 per cent.; and in Denmark and Belgium, 95
per cent., and some of those countries esteem so highly the advantage of small holdings
that they have been at special pains by their legislation to encourage their provision."
Statement of Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Guinness, on Friday, 16th July, 1926, during
discussion upon "Small Holdings " Bill.-Column 785, Parliamentary Debates.
AN AGRICULTURAL POLICY FOR LABOUR.
Labour's draft policy for dealing with Agriculture has been approved by the General
Council of the Trades Union Congress, the Executive of the Labour Party, and the Execu-
tive of the Parliamentary Labour Party. It will be submitted to the Trades Union
Congress in September and to the Labour Party Conference in October, and when adopted
by them will become the official Agricultural Policy of the Labour Movement. The draft
Report is an interesting and important document and covers a wide range of problems.
It declares for the public ownership of land on a basis of compensation to present holders,
sets out the procedure for the transfer of the land to the community, and outlines the
financing of the Compensation scheme. The proposed system of tenure, the public control
of the land, and methods of local and central administration are explained in detail. The
agricultural worker, and his right to a living wage, to increased responsibility in the farming
industry, and to easier access to land are all provided for, while in another chapter the
provision of new cottages with adjacent land and gardens, the improvement of existing
cottages, the abolition of the "tied" cottage, and the need for social amenities in the
rural districts are dealt with. Another principal Section is concerned with the importance
of marketing and contains a number of constructive proposals and practical suggestions
for improving the chaotic system. Transport, Credit, Currency, Insurance, Research
and Education are all covered as well as Rural Industries, Afforestation, Electric Power
for the countryside, the Game laws, and the future use of Deer Forests.
It will be seen from the foregoing that the draft Report is very wide in its scope,
and that care has been taken to produce a policy that seeks "to establish agriculture as
a prosperous industry and the countryside as a rural society enjoying the opportunities
and amenities which are the moral right of a nation's citizens."
The draft Report will be issued in a few days as a joint pamphlet by the Labour
Publications' Department, 33 Eccleston Square, London, SW.


---
TRADE UNIONS AND FREEDOM.
It is easy to find fault with the Trade Unions, but it is difficult to find remedies for those
faults, and the last person on earth we should expect to find remedies would be Lord Banbury,
whose Bill to repeal the Trades Dispute Act was discussed in the House of Lords yesterday.
Lord Banbury would practically make Trade Unions illegal or confine their activities
to those of mere Friendly Societies, for that would, in effect, be the result of depriving
Trade Unions of power over any member to sell his labour in any way he thought fit,
As a matter of fact, no wage-earner can, under any circumstances, be free to sell his
labour as he thinks fit unless he is in a position to decline to labour at all. A shoe operative
is not free in Northampton to work for any wages; the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union
sees to it that if he is an ordinary able man he shall not work for less than 50s. or thereabouts
a week, and, of course, the Liberty of that shoe operative is, it is true, restricted by the
Trades Union. But if there were no Trade Union and no minimum for which he should
work, would he be any freer?- would he be free to demand the wage and the conditions
which he desired? Of course not. His freedom in reality would be even less than it is
when he seeks employment as a Trade Unionist. He would be compelled either to starve
or to work for a wage which would be certainly very much less than the wage which he
now obtains. The only man who is able to sell his labour in the way he thinks fit is the
man who has sufficient income to refuse to labour at all if he thinks fit, and Trade Unions
do, to a limited extent, provide a man with a measure of liberty. The law itself does not
allow a man to sell his labour as he thinks fit. Conditions were so shocking fifteen years
ago in industries where this "freedom" existed that the Government was compelled to
interfere and establish Trade Boards. - Northampton Echo, 21st July, 1926.

TARIFFS.
Taxed Footwear.
Despite energetic campaigning by the opposition the Irish Free State Government
is adhering to its decision not to add to the list of imported goods on which a tariff is to be
imposed. The Government has adopted a "wait and see" policy. Last week in the
Senate it carried the second reading of the Tariff Commission Bill under which manu-
facturers who desire a tariff will have to show good cause. In the meantime the Govern-
ment is being pressed to increase the present tariff of 15 per cent. on footwear. Some of
the arguments put forward in support of this plea are curious. According to Senator
O'Hanlon, there will be no increase in the production of boots in the Free State until the
tariff is fixed at 65 per cent.! On the other hand, Senator Fanning pointed out that owing
to the 15 per cent. duty English importers had been compelled to reduce the quality of
the goods they shipped to Ireland. The result was that wearers were having to buy three
pairs where formerly two pairs sufficed. This, he said, accounted for the 50 per cent.
increase in the quantity of shoes imported from England. When the Irish farmer and his
labourers grip the fact that they are being compelled to pay higher prices for lower quality
boots they will, we believe, insist on a drastic revision of the existing tariff. -The Shoe
and Leather Record, 16th July, 1926.

CIVIC TRADING KEEPS RATES DOWN.
Municipal socialism in Birmingham continues to pay, and at the same time is helping
to keep down the rates.
Annual reports of Birmingham Corporation trading departments, presented to the
City Council show that the gas department had a surplus of £86,397 on last year's working,
£41,200 OF WHICH IS TO BE CONTRIBUTED TO THE RELIEF OF THE RATES.
The electric supply department has also had a most successful year. After providing
for all capital charges (including £202,455 for redemption of debt) there remains a surplus
of £184,011 on the year's working, as compared with last year's surplus of £89,370. £153,011
of the surplus is being put to the renewals account, AND £31,000 TO THE RELIEF OF RATES.

Increase in Business.
The revenue of this department last year was £1,323,831, an increase of £141,209
over the previous year. The increased revenue represents 16 per cent. more business,
but, in spite of this increase, the working expenses show a decrease of £9,318. It has
also been possible to reduce the average price for all classes of supply 3 per cent.
The tramways department will report a net revenue of £259,057, after paying working
expenses and sinking fund charges. This is an increase of £975 over the previous year.
£219,057 is being put to renewals and special expenditure account, AND £40,000 TO THE
RELIEF OF RATES.
Birmingham also claims to have the largest Corporation allotment site in England.
The area under the control of the Allotments Committee comprises 1,200 acres, bringing
in a rental of £7,000 a year from 14,000 holders. -The Daily Herald, 6th July, 1926.


---
Here is the extracted text:
443
Meanwhile every effort should be made to organise opposition to:
(a) The reactionary and anti-trade union policy of the Government:
(b) Deal with cases of victimisation and unjust police persecution, and
(c) Create public support for the constructive solution of the mining problem
embodied in the Labour Movement's own proposals.
The Council calls upon every trade unionist, every worker, to assist in this movement.
It calls upon the Trades Councils to work in their districts with the same care and the same
enthusiasm, as they organised during the National Strike.
Let the opponents of our Movement see that we are as united and as determined as
The General Council welcomes helpful criticism, but malicious and disruptive
ever.
attacks play the enemy's game. Do not let us divide our ranks and weaken our forces
in the present struggle.
The General Council appeals for the fullest financial support from its affiliated Unions
and the general public to its fund for the assistance of the Miners and their children and for
all victimised workers and for resisting the attacks on the Trade Unions and Trade Union
standards.
All monies must be sent to the Secretary, Trades Union Congress Relief Fund, 32
Eccleston Square, London, S.W. 1.
Help the Miners.
Care for the Miners' Children.
Agitate for the release of imprisoned workers.
Secure protection to the victimised workers.
Make the Trade Unions 100 per cent. strong.
Strengthen and develop the Trades Councils.
Unite for the Common Cause.
Yours sincerely,
ARTHUR PUGH, Chairman.
WALTER M. CITRINE, Acting Secretary.
TRADE BOARD PROSECUTION.
Bristol Repairer Fined.
On Monday, Arthur Elijah Chivers, of A. E. and A. J. Chivers, boot repairer, 3A
Berkley Place, Clifton, was summoned at the Bristol Police Court for paying wages less
than the minimum rates laid down by the Boot Repairing Trade Board; with having
produced a false record of work; and with having failed to keep a record of wages.
Mr. Coules, who prosecuted on behalf of the Board of Trade, said an inspector inter-
viewed the defendant in November, 1924, and discovered that no records of work done
were being kept. The defendant undertook to comply with the regulations, and did so
for a time, but when an inspector called in February last no records were again available.
In regard to paying wages which were less than the minimum, there were arrears
amounting to £38, for which sum the defendant had now signed a cheque. He had em-
ployed a man as a learner at 35s. per week, but there being too many learners in proportion
to the number of journeymen he was told that the man could not be considered a learner.
Dealing with the charge of having produced a false record of work, Mr. Coules said
that when the inspector interviewed the defendant in February last it was found that the
man concerned was being paid for a 28 hours' week. The defendant maintained that the
man worked that number of hours. The inspector, however, made further inquiries,
and saw the defendant again. The man, in defendant's presence, said that Chivers had
told him it would be well, when the inspector came, to tell a few lies. The man, whose
name was White, informed the inspector that he worked from 8.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. on
a full day, and from 8.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. on a short day, while his working week was
45 hours.
The solicitor for the defendant said White was simply a finisher and not an all-round
man. When he was engaged he was told that he would be employed as a finisher at 35s.
per week, with which he was content. White, while on the premises, was for periods
waiting for work, and his actual hours during the week were only 28. It was for that
reason that his time card stated that he did only 28 hours' work.
Chivers was fined £4 on the first and second counts, £2 on the third, and £1 1s. costs.
The Shoe and Leather Record, 9th July, 1926.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
as a whole.
always be one.
Movement,
445
the utmost energy must be given to this
Sections of local Labour Parties, But their ambitions do not rest there. They have
their eyes on the Trades Councils also. Referring to Trades Councils affiliation to the
question as Trades Councils affiliation to the T.U.C. would afford the Party untold value
Trades Union Congress, the Bulletin declares that
Every Fraction is ordered to report what has been done in this direction.
in extending our influence with greater force upon the General Council and the Central leadership
There has always been a Left Wing of the Labour Movement, and no doubt there will
driving force, which while loyally accepting the policies of the Movement, was only anxious
to speed up progress. Disunity and disruption were never its aims. The Left Wing
at, however, which the Communist Party is interested in is a horse of an entirely
different colour. It is to be the Communist Party, or a portion of it, under a less suspicious
title. But its aims are clearly the same to exploit if not to provoke internal dissensions
because it feeds on disgruntlement and dissatisfaction, whereas mity stifles it. It seeks
the purposes set out in the Constitution of the Labour Party, but for purposes that are
to divide and penetrate the Labour Movement in order to capture and control it
been badly rebutfed by the Liverpool Conference decisions, which, despite its derisive
seeking to crawl round or wriggle under them in the hope that the deception will not be
discovered at any rate until it is too late to make much difference. Local Parties should
assertions to the contrary, are being lovally enforced by the Movement as a whole, it is
delegates whose motives and loyalty and sincerity are above suspicion. People who will
beware of plausible mischief makers and see to it that they only confer credentials upon
not play the game honestly and straightforwardly when they are outside the Party are
not to be trusted to play the game when they get inside the Party.
But Labour's Left Wing has always been in and of the Movement, a
alien to it.
J. R. M. ON YOUTH'S ORDEAL.
Man's First Problem in Statesmanship. World's Endeavour.
not for
The first problem in statesmanship is not international, nor national, it is personal.
The man who is a great statesman begins by being a great statesman in his own life," said
Christian Endeavour World's Convention at the Crystal Palace.
Turning to the problems of the immediate future, the ex-Premier said :
"Our youth,
to-day perhaps more than ever-on account of the misery that has been wrought upon the
world, very largely by the failure of the Churches themselves, the misery that we have
been reaping now for the sowing of a few years ago-requires a discipline more severe,
more drastic, more hardening in spiritual things than has been called for by any generation
in the last century or so.
Acts, not Words.
We want acts, not words. Every act strengthens. Every word unsupported by
act weakens. Words, mere pious words with a scent and a savour in them, but no sub-
stance, are like tuberculosis on our moral being. They soften it, they deteriorate it, they
make men lazy.
"Anybody can imitate and quote, but action is difficult because you yourself have
to act. Nobody can act for you and you feel the benefit of the act. Do not be misled
by beautiful language. Rugged, honest, strong, powerful, faithful yet humble acts-
that is what we have to try to achieve in order to make our lives worthy."-Daily Herald,
22nd July, 1926.
FACTORY FIRE.
£5,000 Damage at Earl Shilton. Two Leicester Firemen Injured.
Damage roughly estimated at £5,000 was caused by fire at the factory of Messrs.
Marvin, Garrett and Marvin, wholesale boot manufacturers, Earl Shilton, on Tuesday.
The factory was completely gutted, and the whole of the machinery and stock was
damaged, despite the fine work of the local body of fire fighters and Leicester Fire Brigade.
The effort of the local volunteers was largely instrumental in saving a portion of the building
threatened with total destruction.
The office furniture and books were saved.
Two Leicester firemen were slightly injured, and a villager was severely cut about the
eye by falling glass.
The damage, it is understood, is covered by insurance. Leicester Advertiser, 26th
June, 1926.


---
MR. H. W. FAIRE'S WILL.
Mr. Harry Washington Faire, of 168, West Hill, Wandsworth, London, for ma
a director of Messrs. Faire Brothers & Co. Ltd., Rutland Street, Leicester
April last, left estate of the gross value of £28,057 16s., with net personalty £27,601 6s.
London, shoe mercers and boot and shoe lace, &c., manufacturers, who died on
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st JULY, 1926
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included
Food only
70 per cent.
61 "
FOOD.
At 1st July the average level of retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ire
level of July, 1914, as compared with about 58 per cent. at ist June, and 67 per cen
of the articles of food included in these statistics was about 61 per cent. above the pre
of June was seasonal in character, being due almost entirely to the prices of DOTA
the corresponding date in 1925. The rise in the percentage increase since the begin
(old potatoes having beer displaced by new potatoes at higher prices). None of
other articles of food included showed any considerable movement in average price.
Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1926.
UNEMPLOYMENT FUND.
outstanding on the 31st December, 1925, was £7,262,568 11s. 9d. There was no accr
The amount of the advances made by the Treasury to the Unemployment
The amount of "the 1925 debt" of the Unemployment Fund for the purpose of Secti
Majesty's Treasury to be £7,262,568 11s. 9d. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 192
4 (1) (d) of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1925, has accordingly been agreed by H
INSURED PERSONS RECORDED AS UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES. - Numbers recorded as Unemployed at 21st
June, 1926, as compared with 24th May, 1926: Males, decrease, 5,610; Females, decrease
3,015: Total decrease, 8,625.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1926.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of July, 1926,
81,537. Unemployed at end of July, 1926, 5,887; percentage, 7.2. Decrease in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 6.3; Increase as compared with
a year ago, 2.6. -The Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1926.
SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.-Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 20th
June, 1926, 49,837. Increase on a month ago, 0.6 per cent.; Decrease on a year ago,
1.5 per cent. Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 26th June, 1926, £105,680.
Decrease on a month ago, 2.7 per cent.; Decrease on a year ago, 8.6 per cent.-The
Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1926.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES (Great Britain and Northern Ireland):
Wholly Unemployed (including Casuals)-Males, 6,628; Females, 1,844; Total. 8.472.
Temporary Stoppages-Males, 7,205; Females, 3,990; Total, 11, 195. Total-Males,
13,833; Females, 5,834; Total, 19,667. (Great Britain only): Wholly Unemployed,
Temporary Stoppages, and Casuals-Males, 13.564; Females, 5,743; Total, 19,307-The
Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1926.


---
447
GERMAN BOOT WORKERS' CONFERENCE.
The Conference of the Boot and Shoe Operatives of Germany was held during the
week commencing 21st June - 26th June, at Frankfort-on-Maine, Josef Simon in the chair.
With eleven other fraternal delegates I attended the same, having been previously
at the meeting of the Executive Council of the International Boot and Leather Workers.
There were, apart from the officers and fraternal delegates, about 70 delegates, making
in all about 100 present. There were three women delegates.
I gathered that the Executive and Officers were appointed every two years.
The
country is cut up into nine districts and a permanent Organiser is delegated to each district.
These officers are not subject to re-election, neither do they attend the Executive Meetings,
their reports being sent to the Executive.
pursued.
The Council's report was not printed, but read by Mr. Lex. I gathered from the
discussion, up to the time of my leaving (Tuesday), that a good deal of trouble had been
created by the Communists, and it was evident some plain talk took place about the policy
A proposal was also made that Messrs. Simon and Lex, with Dr. Schenk, should
pay a visit to America and ascertain at first-hand what were the real conditions of employ-
made by employers that America was knocking them (the Germans) out of the market.
Some opposition was shown to this proposal by the Communist delegates, who wanted the
visit to be to Russia instead of America. The answer of the Executive was it is not
and they must ascertain what obtained in America. After a long discussion the proposal
necessary to go to Russia, they were not in competition with them, but America was,
This proposal was brought forward by the Executive because of many statements
ment.
was agreed to.
In addition to the address printed on pages 338 and 339 of the Monthly Report for
June, owing to the fact that there were a number of fraternal delegates present, I was
asked to convey the joint fraternal greetings of all the delegates, and in doing so, said:-
I do so with the greatest possible pleasure, and beg to assure you that my colleagues
hope your Conference may be the most successful one of your number. The outlook is
one of great difficulty for us all and one, moreover, which is beset with all kinds of obstacles.
Nevertheless, my colleagues wish to assure you that they much appreciate the good work
you have done in the past days.
The world is greatly in need of some power to lift it out of the present terrible mess
in which we find it at the present time. We are convinced that amongst the organisations
which will make for the solving of the troubles are the Trade Unions of the world, which
have not yet been properly valued as to the work they have done, and are doing, to put
humanity upon the right road.
We have, in the course of our work, encountered opposition from a certain type of
employer, and alas, from some workpeople also, who are always prepared to take what
the Unions secure in the way of advantage, and refuse to pay anything towards the cost
of the upkeep of the Unions which have done so much to help the workers in the struggle
for a better condition of life.
The work we are engaged in is a great humanitarian work and a work which is bringing
together the workers in all parts of the world.
The world is full of unrest, largely because of the World War, bringing, as it did, in
its train, such suffering, privation and pain. In the midst of the same we remain deter-
mined to do all that is possible to bring peace and goodwill amongst all the peoples.
We have a great task before us and one which, great as it is, we shall not shrink from,
nor shall we ever forget that we must aim more and more at securing good relations one
with another, no matter what part of the world we may happen to live in.
To attain this object we must have REAL UNITY IN OUR RANKS. Unity which in acts
and not words will prove beyond a doubt that the spirit is really intended of loyalty and
comradeship one to another.
The days are full of perplexity, clouds befog the issue, obstacles are around the path-
way; nevertheless, so sure as the sun which is now shining so brilliantly, having emerged
from clouds and having overcome the obstacles to its present glorious outburst, tells us
of brighter days in the physical world; so let it act as a spur to us in the economic and
industrial world, to put forth more and yet more effort in the determination to ensure
success.
We must not lose heart because of the apparently slow progress being made, because
we are making headway. I assure you my friends that my colleagues feel very strongly
about this important question, and I would remind you that in the International Labour
Office at Geneva, where 38 nations have recently been in Conference, and to which office
56 nations are affiliated, headway is being made in, and upon many questions affecting
workers in an International capacity. It is my pleasure and honour to sit on the Governing
Body of such Office, and my Italian, Canadian, Norwegian, Dutch, German, French,


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

448

into operation just laws whereby the lives of the workers will be enriched and made freer fro
and other friends who also have seats there, are doing all possible to ensure being
care and sorrow than they are at present.
Let us never forget we must have a world outlook, and while this week you will
matters from a national standpoint, nevertheless, I feel
naturally be looking largely at
all that is possible.
sure you will not forget the International side, and will, with my colleagues, do all that is
possible to make, through these meetings and greetings one to another, the day when
so far as can be done, the basis of Society will be of such a character as to give the people
In conclusion, therefore, I wish again to emphasise that my colleagues trust you will
not only have a good Conference, but that the permanent results may be to increase your
power and influence and to knit closer and closer together all sections of the peoples wherever
they may reside.
After the report of the Executive had been dealt with, an expert from another Uni
for increased powers under what is an Act of the Reichstag, equivalent to our Trade Board
Acts, being given to the community. So far as I could ascertain the German Trade Board
gave a long and interesting account of a proposal at present before the German Reichsta
workers. Those disputes relating to the conditions of employment are settled by the
Those Boards are competent to settle trade disputes between manufacturers and
elected by the employers and the workers of the district. The President is nominate
is a State functionary; in addition, there are workers' and employers' representa
Trade Boards in a faster and cheaper way than by the ordinary Courts. The President is
duration of employment, and dismissal, as well as claims for repairing damages.
This Board is competent for disputes relating to payment of wages, engagemen
have powers as follows:-
by the Municipality and must be appointed by the State.
Reichsta
cluded, while the Juridical Assistants of the employers and the Trade Union Officers are
The proceedings are similar to those of the ordinary Courts, but Advocates are ex-
I endeavoured to ascertain the facts about several countries, and secured the following
admitted.
statements:-
AUSTRIA.

Q. How many are employed in factories?
Ans. About 7,000.
Q. Also in Hand-Sewing Shops ?
Ans. 20,000.
Q. Working week in factories?
Ans. 47 hours.
Q. In Hand-Sewing Shops ?
Ans. 48 to 50 hours.
Q. Condition of trade ?
Ans. Bad.
Q. What is the rate of pay in factories ?
Ans. Men, 30-90 schillings (17s. 6d. to 53s.).
FRANCE.
Women, 20-50 schillings (11s. 9d. to 30s.).
Boys and Girls, 20-50 schillings (11s. 9d. to 30s.).
Hand-Sewn Shops, 30-45 schillings (17s. 6d. to 27s.).
Q. Is the 48-hour week in working order in the Shoe Trade?
Ans. Yes, thoroughly observed.
Q. The rate of pay weekly.
Ans. Men
240 francs.
Women
180
Boys
170
Girls
100
”
All wage rates paid in Paris.
Q. Is trade good in France?
Ans. The low rate of exchange favours the conditions for good trade. All factories
are on full time.
Q. Is there many out of work in France?
Ans. Unemployment since June, 8 per cent.
Q. Is the Union growing in France?
Ans. Membership increasing. From January to June joined about 1,000 members.

NORWAY.
1. 70 per cent. organised.
2. 48-hour week everywhere secured by law.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

45c
THE ATTACK ON TRADE UNIONISM.
Clear evidence is accumulating of a systematic campaign against the Trade Union
The adversaries of Labour are not waiting for the legal and Parliamentary attack
develop as foreshadowed by Lord Birkenhead and Viscount Cave.
They are preparing the ground beforehand.
SOWING THE TARES.
Articles and letters from correspondents are appearing in the newspapers with
picious frequency, all harping upon the same note.
This propaganda appears to emanate from a common source, and is distinguisha),
wherever it appears by a sly and malicious perversion and misrepresentation of the fas
about Trade Unionism.
PLAYING THE EMPLOYERS' GAME.
At the same time there is a sinister development of the tendency for small dissatis
sections of members of Unions to break away from their organisation and to form v
Unions.
Non-unionism also is insisted upon by some employers as a condition of employme
as in the case of Scottish newspapers.
And there is on foot among employers, notably in the printing and paper trades,
movement to establish "company unions" or "house unions."
THE OBJECT OF WHICH IS TO SEDUCE TRADE UNIONISTS FROM THEIR ALLEGIANO
TO THEIR OWN ORGANISATIONS AND TO SHOW THEM A WAY OF "BLACKLEGGING"
THE FELLOW-WORKERS IN THE TRADE. - Speakers' Notes, 23rd July, 1926.

INTER-ALLIED DEBTS.

Baldwin and Churchill Let the Nation Down.
A heavy price is having to be paid by the British taxpayer for the incompetence có
This applies especially to their mishandling of the whole question of Inter-Allied
Mr. Baldwin and Mr. Churchill in financial affairs.
War Debts.
THE REAL SOLUTION.
THE REAL SOLUTION LIES IN AN ALL-ROUND CANCELLATION OF
THESE WAR DEBTS.
BOTH FROM THE FINANCIAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL POINT OF VIEW
THIS WOULD BE ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE WORKERS OF ALL
THE COUNTRIES CONCERNED.

MR. BALDWIN'S FIRST BLUNDER.
But Mr. Baldwin made this policy far more difficult when, three years ago, as Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer, he concluded a settlement of our debt to America on terms that
were unexpectedly generous.
YEAR,
HE ARRANGED THAT WE SHOULD PAY AMERICA £38 MILLION A
Britain then had to see if something could be obtained from our debtors to help to
meet the payments to America.

MR. CHURCHILL'S WORTHLESS PROMISE.
Mr. Churchill promised that he would not commit this country to any settlement with
France and Italy which did not provide for those countries giving us terms at least as good
as the terms which they had given to America.
This he has not done.
IN BOTH CASES HE HAS COMMITTED BRITAIN TO A SETTLEMENT
IN WHICH FRANCE AND ITALY ONLY GIVE US TERMS HALF AS
GOOD AS THE TERMS WHICH THEY GAVE TO AMERICA.
Thus, by the standard which he set for himself, he has failed.


---
Here is the extracted text:
451
How Winston has Bungled.
The following comparison of the respective settlements that Winston Churchill has
countries, shows how helpless he is as a financial negotiator.
made with France and Italy, and the settlements that America has made with those two
ITALY'S DEBT.
The capital amount of Italy's debt to us is £550 million. It is to be repaid in yearly
payments extending over 62 years. The £550 million is therefore increased considerably
by interest that accrues during that period.
Yet Mr. Churchill has settled on a basis which provides that the total payments,
over the 62 years, amount only to £254 million.
FOR A SMALLER DEBT (1420 million) THE TERMS WHICH AMERICA
HAS OBTAINED FROM ITALY PROVIDE FOR REPAYMENTS
TOTALLING £495 MILLION.
FRANCE'S DEBT.
The capital amount of France's debt to us is £600 million. In the 62 years' repay-
ments, we only receive £775 million, which does not anywhere near cover the capital and
interest which will accrue in that period.
AMERICA, AGAIN, HAS OBTAINED TERMS NEARLY TWICE AS GOOD,
FOR IN RESPECT OF HER DEBT OF £680 MILLION, SHE IS TO
RECEIVE IN REPAYMENTS £1,370 MILLION.
WINSTON'S FAILURE.
Winston Churchill, the man who has made these two settlements, is the same man
who said in an interview with the Press after the visit of M. Caillaux in August, 1925;-
Any arrangements that the Government can come to with France must be
eventually make to
governed by the principle so often declared that they must receive from France
the United States in the settlement of her War Debt."
HE HAS FAILED BADLY, AND THE BRITISH TAXPAYER IS HAVING
One Surrender after Another.
TO FOOT THE BILL IN CONSEQUENCE.
The history of Mr. Churchill's negotiations with France represent one surrender after
another.
WORSE AND WORSE.
Originally he agreed that France should pay us £16 million a year.
Then he reduced it to £124 million.
Now he has reduced it still farther.
For the first year the payment is to be
For the second year
For the third year
For the fourth year
And only thereafter does the scale reach the 121 million basis.
THE SAME AGAIN.
nent.
The same thing applies with regard to the debt from Italy.
For the first year we only receive
For the next two years
For the next four years
For the succeeding years until 1987
For the year 1988
£4 million.
£6 million.
£8 million.
£10 million.
£2 million.
£4 million a year.
£4 million a year.
£4 million a year.
£24 million.
The sympathy of the Tory Party for Mussolini explains their generosity to his Govern-
WHO PAYS?
At whose expense has Mr. Churchill shown this generosity to France and Italy ?
Our continental debtors owe us £2,000 million.
That sum was borrowed from the British taxpayers. It is part of our internal debt,
on which we are paying 5 per cent. interest.
Therefore, we are paying £100,000,000 a year interest on it, every penny of which
mas to be raised by taxation.
£100,000,000 a year is equal to nearly 2s. in the £ on the Income-Tax.
And against this 100,000,000 a year, all that Mr. Churchill is collecting from the
-Notes for Speakers, 23rd July, 1926.
European nations to whom we lent the money is something less than £20,000,000 a year.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**468**

The following Table summarises the information received from those employers who
furnished returns as to numbers employed and wages paid for the three periods under
review

**Number of Workpeople**
**Inc. (+) or Dec. (-) on a**
**Total Wages Paid to all Workpeople**
**Inc. (+) or Dec. (-) on a**
Week
ended
24th July, 1926
Month ago Year ago
Per cent. Per cent.
**£**
Per cent. Per cent.
**ENGLAND AND WALES:**
London
1,843
+0.4
4.1
3,994
+ 1.7
+ 2.0
Leicester
7,965
+ 2.5
- 3.1
16,607
3.0
- 6.9
Leicester Country District
1,057
- 6.9
3,428
+ 1.0
0.6
6.736
- 0.6
- 1.0
16,447
+ 3.3
Norwich and District
Kettering
7,306
+ 0.6
- 1.8
15,061
+ 0.2
0.2
2,834
+ 0.2
6,973
2,254
+ 2.1
+ 1.0
4,719
+ 4.7
Stafford and District
1,254
+ 1.0
+ 2.5
8,731
+ 0.0
Bristol, Kingswood and
1,836
+ 5.4
- 6.0
3,700
+ 3.1
Leeds and District
1,771
+ 0.2
- 4.6
2,091
+13.8
Lancashire (mainly Rossendale Valley)
4,927
+ 2.7
+ 0.0
10,124
+ 3.6
Birmingham and District
1,048
+ 1.3
- 0.4
1,709
- 8.6
Wales
Other parts of England and
1,420
- 0.1
+ 6.5
2,537
- 12.8
**ENGLAND AND WALES**
45,851
- 0.9
- 1.5
97,021
- 1.0
**SCOTLAND**
2,415
- 1.3
- 6.0
4,668
+ 12.4
**GREAT BRITAIN**
48,269
- 0.9
- 1.8
101,689
- 0.9

* Comparison of earnings is affected by changes in rates of wages.

Employment varied as between different parts of London, but was fair on the average
At Leicester it declined, and was slack, and worse than a year ago; many operatives
were working only half time, or even less, this being in part due to the curtailment of
power supply. It was very quiet, and worse than in June, at Hinckley. At Northampton
the power supply was being maintained, and a few firms were able to continue full time
working, though others were on short time; employment, on the whole, remained fair
It was poor, with short time working fairly general, in the Higham and Rushden area
though there was no curtailment of power in this area. At Wellingborough employ-
ment was generally very poor, with nearly all factories working short time, with
reduced staffs. At Kettering most firms were on short time and made extended holiday
stoppages.

Employment at Stafford remained fairly good, with little total unemployment,
although some operatives were working reduced hours. At Norwich employment showed
a decline, but was not so severely affected as at some centres; there was, however, some
short time as a result of restricted supplies of fuel and power. There was a further marked
improvement in the Bristol and Kingswood area, especially with firms at Bristol making
the lighter class of goods; but employment in the heavy boot trade was generally poor,
and worse than a year ago, owing to cancellations of orders and to the curtailment of
power and fuel. Factories at Leeds producing sports footwear were fairly busy: at
other factories employment was again slack, and much below the level of July, 1925
staffs had been reduced, and a great deal of short time was worked. Employment in
the Rossendale Valley was irregular, and below the level of a year ago.

Short-time working in Scotland was still very prevalent, although slightly less general
than in the previous month. Employment was fairly good at Kilmarnock and fair at
Edinburgh; a great improvement was reported at Maybole : at Glasgow employment
showed a decline.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
469
The following Table shows the number of men and of women (other than casuals)
on the registers of Employment Exchanges in the principal centres of the boot and shoe
industry at 26th July, 1926.
Numbers (excluding Casuals) on the Register at 26th
July, 1926.
Department.
Wholly Unemployed.
Men
Women
Total.
Temporarily Stopped.
Men.
Women
Total.
Total.
Boot and Shoe Manu-
facture:
Preparing
Depart-
ment
138
27
165
124
56
180
45
Rough Stuff De-
partment
350
21
380
201
27
321
701
Clicking Department
771
3
774
1,306
16
1,112
2,186
Closing Department
21
785
806
20
2,315
2,335
3,111
Making Department 1.042
59
2,001
2,125
87
2,212
4.213
Finishing Depart-
ment
1081
329
1,410
1,614
382
1,996
3.400
Slipper Making
220
24
250
164
189
353
603
Clog Making
25
3
31
6
37
Repairing and Hand-
sewn Work
468
7
475
44
2
46
521
TOTAL
5.031
1,261
6,292
5.787
3,074
8,861
15,153
The following Table shows the increases and decreases compared with the 21st June,
1926.
Wholly Unemployed.
Temporarily Stopped.
Department.
Men.
Women. Total.
Men.
Women. Total.
Total.
Boot and Shoe Manu-
facture
Preparing
Depart-
ment
+ 73
-
2
+ 71
-
22
-
12
-
34
+ 37
Rough Stuff De-
partment
+ 87
+
8
+ 95
-
43
+
6
-
6
37
58
Clicking Department + III
+
4
+ 107
+
18
+
13
-
65
42
Closing Department
+
5
+ 266
+ 261
+ 11
+599 + 588
+ 849
+ 16
+ 115
+ 10+ 125
+ 486
Making Department + 345
+ 240
+ 125
+ 579
+ 819
Finishing Depart-
ment
+ 194
+ 46
+ 454
+ 162
+ 613
+ 587
Slipper Making
+ 19
+
7
+
26
+
3
+
3
+
8
Clog Making
+
5
+
3
+ 4
+
+
+
3
+
3
+
1
+
4
+
4
+
Repairing and Hand-
sewn Work
TOTAL
+ 833
+ 337
+ 1,170
+
66
+ 484
+ 550
+1,720
The exports of boots and shoes in July, 1926, amounted to 127,244 dozen pairs, or
28,550 dozen pairs more than in June, 1926, but 682 dozen pairs less than in July, 1925.
THE MINING INDUSTRY.
The circumstances surrounding the Mining Industry are of a deplorable
and tragic character; week by week passes with its increasing pressure of
want and suffering, not only to those who are engaged in such industry, but
an ever-increasing number, who, of themselves, have no voice or power in the
matter. This surely is in itself a condemnation of the present method by
which industry is carried on, and loudly calls for drastic treatment to end


---
Here is the extracted text:
470
once and for all the barbaric method of starvation and want for millions a
people due to lack of proper machinery for adjusting differences when the
arise, as arise they are bound to do. Meantime, our duty is to keep as far
is possible an united front and help to so mould opinion that ere long a just
and equitable way will be found to settle the question and thereby enathe
work to be resumed.

POLITICAL.

Parliament, despite the terrible mining position, has prorogued
November; this to us, and we feel sure to the membership generally, will
looked upon as clear evidence of the lack of appreciation of the country
need. Surely the supreme authority ought to have devoted its energy an
influence to bring about a settlement of the dispute before breaking off for such
extended holiday. This fact by itself ought to bring home clearly to
The Labour Party has during the Session done what is possible to pre
people the need for other representatives being sent to the House of Comme
anti-progressive legislation being passed. The Party, however, is in a hopeless
minority when the voting takes place-hence the Government are assur
beforehand of the vote being and going in their favour. Nevertheless, we
must keep on plodding away and bring before the country the real position
affairs. This will assuredly tell, as in fact in the recent By-Elections it has
done, and that in no uncertain way. Nevertheless, from present indications
and statements by supporters of the Government, it is pretty clear that attempts
in the not distant future may be made to curtail the sphere of activity of Trade
Unions, and to make more difficult the work of the Trade Unions. It is there-
fore of greater importance than ever for members to so use their influence
as to make it clear to the supporters of the Government that if attempts are
made to reduce the power and authority of the Unions, it will be met with
sustained hostility and increasing effort to thwart any such procedure from
becoming effective.

NOMINATIONS
must be taken at the September Meeting for :-
GENERAL PRESIDENT;
GENERAL SECRETARY;
ORGANISERS (Three);
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL (Twelve);
HEALTH INSURANCE MANAGER ;
TRUSTEES (Five);
and names sent to reach the Central Office by the 15th prox.

BALANCE SHEETS.
The following Branches, although they have had two applications, have
failed to send in a Balance Sheet for quarter ended 29th May 1926.
CORK.
DUNDEE.
HALIFAX.
HULL.
YORK.


---
Here is the extracted text:
471
THE VOTE AS PER CIRCULAR 375.
GRANT TO T.U.C. RELIEF FUND.
The vote was very largely in favour of the Grant, thereby fully justifying
the procedure we had pursued under the abnormal conditions obtaining at
the present time. Details of the vote have been sent along to the Branches
in Circular as follows:----
FELLOW OFFICERS AND MEMBERS,
The result of the vote taken at the August Branch Meetings has now been
tabulated, with the result as appended, and the Union Auditor informed accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
RESULTS OF VOTING FOR £20,000 GRANT.
Name of Branch.
For.
Against.
Aberdeen
9
Arbroath
76
Belfast
21
Bristol
7
Bristol No. 2
43
Bromsgrove
22
2
Burnley
53
Chesham
9
15
Chesterfield
5
Daventry
9
Derby
31
Desborough
17
Edinburgh
65
Glasgow
15
Glasgow No. 2
20
Higham & Rushden
19
Kettering
49
Kettering No. 2
14
Kingswood
36
Leeds
25
Leeds No. 2
22
114
Leicester
24
Leicester No. 2
60
Leicester Women's
"Nothing doing."
Liverpool
31
London Metro.
16
London South
19
98
Manchester
Maybole
Newcastle-on-Tyne
42
Norwich
17
Norwich No. 2
36
Northampton
37
Northampton No. 2
13
Nottingham
25
Plymouth
21
Sheffield
14
Shepshed
Sileby
23
Stafford
12
Stone
36
I
Street
Wolverhampton
Wellingborough
Up to the 18th inst, no reply had been received from Ayr, Bishop Auckland, Colchester,
Cork, Dundee, Halifax, Heckmondwike, Hinckley, Hull, Ipswich, Kendal, Kilmarnock,
Mansfield, Midsomer Norton, Reading, Waterford, Worcester, Yarmouth, York.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

472
somewhat different category. The result of the vote being in favo
Re the proposed Loan of £50,000 to the Yorkshire Miners, the vote
granting the Loan, we shall proceed to act upon the same.

THE NEW RULES.
10.26. The New Rule come into operation as and from Saturday, 4to Se
The New Rules have not been endorsed by the Registrar. The a
tions that need to be taken note of as operating on the above-named d
as follow

1. Travelling Assistance Benent will in future be up to fi
more than 12 per annt.

The rule governing Suspension Benefit will now read
member who may be suspended from work for more than THEM
SECUTIVE WORKING DAYS shall be allowed to declare upon the
Fund of the Union, payment from such Fund to the member to 02
as and from the THIRTEENTH WORKING DAY upon which the toem
not employed; it always being understood that the officials mast
selves be satisfied that the suspension is bona fide before benefit is al
under this rule. Holidays are not to be counted as entitling a w
to claim benefit under this rule. In the event of a member re
work, and again being suspended, he must serve a further probatic-
six consecutive working days before again being entitled to re-c
upon the Out-of-Work Fund under this special rule."
There are of necessity several other alterations, but as they are of a tech
nature it is not necessary to print them here.

SUGGESTED CONVALESCENT HOME.
We have had before us to-day the possibility of purchasing property
the Norfolk Coast as a Convalescent Home. We feel at present we have
authority to undertake this without the consent of the members.

We suggest, therefore, that at your September meeting a discussion shome
take place upon the subject as to whether we should undertake this wor's
and send on to the Central Office by the 15th proximo whether your members
are in agreement with us purchasing the property (offered at £2,500) for a
Convalescent Home. There would, of course, have to be added the cost ef
running any such home; it is difficult to say what the cost would be at present.

The property offered would accommodate about 18.

We feel that even if the cost was several thousands annually, it would
be such a benefit to members that such expenditure would be justified. We
therefore ask for your authority to undertake, on behalf of the membership.
such additional proposed expenditure.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
47.3
Branches will therefore take a vote upon this question at the September
meetings, and send along, with any remarks upon the question, NOT LATER
THAN THE 15TH. prox.
A circular has been issued to the branches relative
thereto.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We hope that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only " Union Stamped
make a success.
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President. W. WARNER.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
W. HINDES.
R. WHITE.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
B


---
474
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
THE MINING SITUATION.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, N.W.5
16th August, 1925
The Mining Dispute still lingers, due to the attitude of
the Prime Minister is interested financially, becaus
movement. It is a great pity that the Prime
Government, who have taken this industry as the whipping boy for the whole Trade Cris
cannot claim exemption from the dictum that "where your treasure is, there your heatt
is also." His Government's handling of the terms governing our organisation is a cal
The subsidising the mineowners whose mines pay, is to say the least, roblang
point.
poor Peter to pay rich Paul. Perhaps in the next Budget they will reintroduce the th
There is still only one just and fair way to settle the mining trouble, and that is old
on the supertaxers upon whom the Tory Party have to rely upon for electioneering fonds
been better if no one in the Government who had any financial interests at stake, had be
prevail until Clause 1 to 5 be operated before Clause 6 is considered, and it would han
I believe the Trades Union Congress could have done beto
kept out of it personally.
application. The future is not bright, but we can do much by reason to lighten the
had their advice been taken and the report fought clause by clause as to its meaning a
of our members. Brain counts in labour troubles-not brawn.
MANSFIELD. The position of the factory at Messrs. Faire Bros. Ltd., Mansfield, as
reached an acute stage, the Managing Director, Mr. J. E. Faire, having confirmed the
attitude taken up by the other Directors met by myself and Mr. Evan Barlow very rece
in which they said they could not see their way clear to pay women on presses either th
piecework rates or day labour rates as are paid to men, and they think we should be content
we may not be charged with acting unfairly to any auxiliary branch of the industry, but
with the situation as it is. We offered arbitration to settle this matter, in order that
this was respectfully declined.
It has been brought to our notice since that Mr. J. E. Faire is to be offered the Freedot
to send him the following letter :-
MESSRS. FAIRE BROS. LTD.,
[COPY.]
Rutland Street, Leicester.
DEAR MR. FAIRE,
6th August, 1925
In the interests of fair play I am sorry that I shall have to inform your
friends that are willing to confer the Freedom of the City of Leicester upon you, t
frie Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union have for twelve months tried to get your firm
the Mansfield to pay women the same piecework rates as are paid to men, or to par
them the same minimum, this being the custom of the trade. You have refused
although our Solicitor, Mr. Evan Barlow, accompanied me on the last occasion to see
your Directors, who heard and refused our claim: and this you have endorsed.
May I go to the other place if riches can only be obtained this way, and by these
methods, leaving out your firm's interference with our one hundred and twenty
members whose organisation could not be broken until 25 were dismissed.
The Freedom of the City was never meant for such services as the above.
Yours faithfully,
T. F. RICHARDS,
General President.
A copy was also sent to each Labour Member of the City Council and gentlemen
connected with the industry. It is very unfortunate that when we try to get everyone
to work in harmony with each other, there are some who think they should be exempt.
We shall leave this matter now where it is, although we shall have to face every time we
come in contact with a Stiffening making firm the criticism that we allow Faire Bros., of
Mansfield, to do what we will not allow any other firm to do. We certainly should not
agree to this state of affairs to continue, if we could otherwise prevent it.
I, with Mr. McCarthy, have been to Burton-on-Trent, where the operatives (so we gathered
BURTON-ON-TRENT. Since my last report, at the invitation of a few of our members,
from the meeting) are anxious to join up with our Union, but we have made it perfectly
connection with the organisation to which they used to belong, then we will consider the
wisdom of taking them in our membership.


---
475

This firm is the only one which appears to me, can hold its own with the same class
of Zlin, Czecho Slovakia, a reference to which I declass
voor brief way in my last report
replied to Mr. Bata's challenge about the wages paid in Zlin
to Mr. Rata average 27s ofd. per head, the average wages of Messte
be for the head, or 67 per cent, above Bata's, which Batough's Ltd.
statement must be far fetched that Zlin's conditions are equal to anything in the labited
time, perhaps our members will do well to read very carefully the report of their delegates
However, I suppose we shall be heating later from Mr. Bata
to this particular area
Kingdom

HINCKIEY
In the mean
We have also visited Hinckley district, where our Secretary, Mr. W.
Warner (Council Member) is far from well. We hope to be able to render him some assist
ance as we find upon inquiry that when officers are taken ill nowadays in small brassist
and they have no other colleague upon whom they can rely upon for the time being, of
doing the work to their satisfaction, it is necessary to transfer to the district some help
that will be of value.
To make matters a little embarrassing, we find it an unwise plan
to make one's home the office for Trade Union purposes. I am hoping that this method
Let us hope that Mr. Warner will soon be restored to normal health.
will soon be a thing of the past, even if the Union's exchequer has to pay a contribution
towards the rent.
NORWICH. At the request of the Council it has been my lot, with Mr. W. Hindes,
Mundesley, situated on the East Coast on very high ground, a building that would be
of Norwich, to visit a very fine building at Trimingham, Norfolk, between Cromer and
of great service as a Convalescent Home. It certainly is an ideal spot and an ideal build-
ing, and would be a lasting boon. We shall be reporting at the Council Meeting regarding
this visit, and it will then be for the Council to recommend what course we should adopt.

SILEBY-We have had to not only meet the operatives of Mr. Rowland Willett, of
Sileby, but have found it necessary to approach the Secretary of the Federation, who has
kindly undertaken to make enquiries into the conditions under which these operatives
work, and are paid. On a recent occasion when myself and the late Secretary interviewed
this firm, we were met with anything but pleasantness, and prefer to deal with the gentle-
man through their own Secretary. The Secretaries of the Federation can be of great
service to us, and are doing very useful work, if we only appeal to them, when federated
members are troublesome. It has been my lot to have another meeting of the operatives
to report, and we find a slight improvement has already taken place, not sufficient to be
content with by any means, and when the Secretary of the Federation returns from his
holidays we shall pursue this matter further.
Let us hope this will
It is interesting to learn that there appears to be a much better spirit and feeling at
Sileby at the present time, than has existed for many years past, the members having
greater confidence in their new Secretary than in the late ones.
continue. Still it is a sad commentary that Trade Unions cannot do more, because the
members will not give that assistance which is so necessary.
In conclusion, let us hope our members will do their best to abandon shoddy goods
Yours fraternally,
and support their own British products, and also support their own Daily Herald.
4. Tihend
General President.

POVERTY AND THE DEATH RATE.
In the Report by the Medical Research Council on Studies of Child Life in Cities and
Rural Districts of Scotland (Special Report Series, No. 101, H.M. Stationery Office, Ios.
net), we are told on page 117 that:-
The general Death Rate per 1,000 persons is 9 per cent. more in single room
houses than in four roomed houses.
The length of life in a four room house is on the average 20 years longer than it
is in a single room house.
The average Death Rate per 100,000 from diarrhœa, acute bronchitis, broncho-
pneumonia and meningitis, is in the case of a four room house 19.6, and in the case
of a single room house 59.8.


---
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
After the Council meeting of 26th July until the factories closed for the August
holidays, I worked with Mr. Baum in the Sileby district and paid a visit to Burton-on-Trent
with the General President, Mr. T. F. Richards. Many of the factories closed for fourteen
It was an opportune time for me to have my holidays and I had them. Our
members get a consideration for holidays that we used not to get in the past, but not
enough to meet the responsibilities of keeping home for nearly three weeks without any
I used to tell the foremen at the Wheatsheaf years ago that holidays we
pay meant a lockout for us. Holidays are necessary for all workers, but neither mind
or body can have the full advantage of them when wages are cut off. Some of us co
Association, take pride in the way we settle disputes and try to avoid them. But what
a revelation it would be if every case of wilful non-observance of agreements by Federate
manufacturers were published."
To-day, 24th August, Mr. J. Waring, Secretary of Sileby Branch, and I visited a
manufacturer over two of his operatives not being paid the minimum wage. The manager
said they offered themselves for what he was giving them. The men were to blame from
our point of view for engaging themselves for less than the minimum. Poverty, unless
men are strong in trade union ways, make men do things that they otherwise would not do
There was no excuse for this Federated employer for breaking a contract that he is a party
at a price. The old hireling economists of the employing class called this freedom of
contract. The miners are getting now some of this freedom of contract, and their leaders
are called impossible men for not paying homage to it. What an all-round earthly paradise
we would have if employers had a free hand in fixing wages and hours of labour. There
is to be said though for most employers, even mineowners, they believe in the workers
having a grand time in heaven when they die. I have heard them say so on Sundays.
D. McCARTHY.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
My work during this month has been in Northampton and Wellingborough.
During the week preceding the holiday I was able to address dinner-hour meetings outside
of several of the large factories in Northampton, and a considerable amount of interest
was taken, owing to the fact that the proposals for members' superannuation was published
in the local Press, and also the proposed modification of the present Terms of Agreement.
By these proposals being made public, it gave me an opportunity of drawing the attention
of our members to the objects of the Union, printed in the Rule Book, and to point out the
necessity of bringing those objects forward on every possible occasion, in order to realise
their attainment. Stabilisation of wages, shortening of hours, and abolition of overtime
are the most discussed items, and the pleasing feature in these discussions is the number
of the younger men who are eager to be informed on the various questions affecting the
industry. This is as it should be, as it is only by question and answer and ensuing dis
cussion that the facts can be brought out.
Trade in the Wellingborough area is still very slow, largely owing to the coal dispute.
Many of the manufacturers rely almost entirely upon districts where coal miners form the
major portion of the population for their orders. This shows clearly the interdependency
of one industry upon another, and that the state of poverty that exists in one large industrial
area, from whatever cause, must have its reflex in other areas. Therefore it is up to all
of us who are able to assist the miners in every way possible in their fight for a decent
standard of life and comfort. Realising all the time that in helping our fellow workers
in tines of distress, we are helping ourselves.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
LEN. SMITH.
Holidays, and the continuance of the Mining Dispute, has interfered with my
work during the past month. Many of the firms in the Sileby District have had extended
holidays, due, no doubt, to the Mining Dispute. With Mr. McCarthy I have met the
operatives at a number of firms in this area, and very good meetings have been held.
In one case we have met with a little difficulty on prices, and though it may appear a mere
detail, there is undoubtedly a principle involved, which cannot be accepted, and if accepted
it would soon be copied by other firms in the district. We are endeavouring to deal with
this matter, and I am fairly confident that matters will be adjusted satisfactorily.
We have experienced some difficulty in obtaining information from the operatives
in a non-federated firm, though the employer has promised consideration of the wages
paid. The manager exercises his power in terrifying the men of the awful consequences


---
477
that will result if he is called upon to pay the recognised scales. Consequently the timidity
is most pronounced so
with you near the factory. These conditions inevitably arise on these firms that are not
Well organised, and until the operatives realise the effective power that they have, the con-
ditions under which they are employed cannot be materially improved.
With the appointment of an Agent
I have paid three visits to Nottingham with reference to the East Divisional Labour
The Party is endeavouring to improve the organisation of the constituency,
J. H. BAUM.
and will contest the whole of the Wards in the forthcoming Municipal Elections. Lattedy
a large demonstration held under the auspices of the East and West Divisions, and a large
number of miners were present, who reside in the City.
I am fairly confident that a well-organised Party can be built up in East Nottingham.
Party.
JOINT MANIFESTO ON THE MINING SITUATION.
For sixteen weeks the miners have been locked out. They have endured hunger
and privation in a determined struggle to maintain their standards of life and working
conditions. Every day the lockout lasts adds to the distress and misery in the mining areas.
Actual starvation has invaded the miners' homes. Women and children are suffering
through the action of Poor Law authorities, with the connivance of the Government, in
cutting down scales of relief, and through the curtailment of school meals. In trying to
bring the miners to subjection the Government has not scrupled to endeavour to check
the generous impulses of the public in subscribing to the voluntary relief funds by which
the worst consequences of the tragedy in the coalfields have been hitherto partially alle-
viated.
The necessities
To-day the needs of the miners and their dependents are much more acute than in
the earlier stages of the lockout. With the breakdown of negotiations for a settlement
of the dispute contributions to the relief funds are more urgent than ever.
of the miners' position call for a redoubling of the effort to provide relief. If help is not
given now in greater measure than before, the sarcifices of the miners and of their wives
and children in resisting for so long the degradation of their standards will have been made
in vain. It will mean that the miners, just at the time when they need to be fortified in
resisting an enforced settlement on the mineowners' terms, will be weakened in the struggle.
It is already evident that the owners are determined to make no contribution towards an
equitable settlement. They refuse to make a national agreement and are adamant in
their demand to enforce brutal wages reductions and an eight-hours working day. Their
insistence can only be explained by their assumption that a continuance of the lockout
with the penury and hardships entailed, will weaken the resistance of the miners and compel
them to capitulate. If the miners are forced to settle now on the only terms the owners
are prepared to offer, all the sufferings and sacrifices of the past sixteen weeks will have
gone for nothing, and encouragement will be given to attacks on the standards of the
workers generally.
We earnestly appeal, therefore, to the organised workers in all trades and to the public
at large not to diminish their support but to give increased help to the miners at this
critical stage. The statement of the Prince of Wales in which he declared that it was wrong
that a struggle of this character should be decided by the starvation of women and children,
found an echo in the hearts of all right-thinking people. Help must be forthcoming
quickly to ensure that the workers shall emerge successfully from this struggle. STARVATION
MUST NOT BE ALLOWED TO DECIDE THE ISSUE. Through the generosity of the workers and
fair-minded supporters and sympathisers at home and abroad a strenuous fight has been
maintained against starvation. The struggle has now reached the stage where it is neces-
sary in the words of the American Federation of Labour " to give until it hurts" to save
the miners from defeat by starvation.
20th August, 1926.
Signed, on behalf of the
Trades Union Congress General Council :----
A. PUGH, Chairman.
WALTER M. CITRINE, Acting Secretary.
The Miners' Federation of Great Britain :-
H. SMITH, President.
T. RICHARDS, Vice-President.
W'. P. RICHARDSON, Treasurer.
A. J. COOK, Secretary.
1
C


---
ARBROATH. Trade is still very poor in Arbroath, although it has improved in Carnoustic. This is, by the way, to lead to a difficulty, as the increased business in that town is creating a demand for machinists, and which can be met only in Arbroath. All the latter machinists are signing at Em- ployment Exchange for part-time benefit, and so are available to be offered this work elsewhere. While no one would complain about them getting the offer of better employment, the question really is, what will Arbroath do if the trained machinists are taken away? Although the factory in Arbroath is working only two days per week, still the machinists are required, and if lost it is difficult to imagine how the factory would carry on. The matter will be found. Our members have voted on the question of the £50,000 loan to the Yorkshire Miners' Association, and the £20,000 grant made to the Council of the T.U. Congress. A large majority favoured the action of assisting the miners in these practical ways. The suggested Superannuation Scheme has been carefully considered by most of our male members, and while it will come up again later, the bulk of our members are of opinion that the scheme is im- practicable altogether. In view of the fact that superannuation requires such a long probationary period, with an addition to the contribution of 25 per cent., it is felt that the whole scheme should be dropped rather than be made compulsory. At present it would seem that a compulsory clause regarding it would lead to the loss of a great many members. Since Colin Grant's factory closed down in 1923 several shoe workers have failed to secure re-employment in the trade, and they are now being refused idle benefit at the Exchange, Even although they pass the local Rota Committees, who are satisfied they are genuinely seeking work, the D.O. in Edinburgh is rejecting the claims. All over Scotland this abominable practice is at work. Rota Committees pass cases and, in spite of local knowledge and experience, the officials in Edinburgh are refusing benefit on the ground of " not a reasonable period of employment during the past two years. This is leading to a dangerous situation.
CHESHAM.-Trade here is still quiet, and the prospect of working full time seems very remote unless the coal dispute is settled, which we all hope will soon take place and the miners obtain a just settlement.
CHESTERFIELD. -Trade is very bad here and most of our members are still unemployed, and those who are in work, except a few members, are not making much above two or three days a week.
DERBY. -Trade in Derby has not improved during the last month ; two firms are not making half time. Great dissatisfaction now operates at the C.W.S. at Derby. Every year up to 1926 they have paid a full week's wages to all employees with twelve months' service regardless of time lost by short- ness of work at the break up for the August holiday, but this year they have not paid for the weeks the operatives have been off, and in one case the deduc- tion was £I IS.
GLASGOW.-Trade with us is exceedingly bad, the effect of the coal crisis being that a large number of the members are suspended for a week or more alternatively. About 25 men in the heavy team at Shieldhall have now done 12 consecutive weeks. Other factories are working 10 to 4 p.m.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. -There is little to report in regard to trade. A slight improvement in some factories and less trade in others. Generally, trade is poor, except in Army District, which is fairly busy.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. -Trade in this centre is moderate, and in view of the industrial situation we are thankful for small mercies. Several


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
479
firms are working fairly regular time, and undoubtedly this is due to the enter-
prise of firms who have been catering for football
footwear, and a good trade is also being carried on by
boots. Sickness benefit has been heavy. We are
provement of conditions.
LEICESTER. Trade is very bad, no less than £1,537 5s. od. being paid
in Out-of-Work Benefit during the month, of which £800 15s. od. was owing
to members being suspended.
LIVERPOOL.-From reports to hand the boot repairing trade in this
district is very much on the quiet side without any prospect of improving.
Members will note page 300 July Report, proposed Superannuation Scheme,
amendments to the proposal to be sent to the Central Office before September
30th, 1926. Will members who have any suggestions to make please send
them in to the Branch Secretary so that they can be forwarded on to the Central
Office before that date.
MAYBOLE.-We are pleased to report trade very good, nearly all our
members working full time. We are sorry to report the death of one of
our members, James Kelly; also the wife of James Houston. To the relatives
of both we tender our deepest sympathy.
NORTHAMPTON.-Trade remains quiet, most firms working short
time in some departments. This is bound to continue with modern methods
of manufacture, coupled with the prolonged Miners' Dispute, to whom our
members have subscribed over £2,000. Let us hope a way of settlement will
be quickly found to give the industry reasonable conditions, and arbitration
machinery set up to ensure its permanency.
PLYMOUTH (REPAIRING).-We regret the death of two of our members
during the month, one from our little Bideford section, North Devon, and the
other from Plymouth. Our Bideford member was one of the gallant band who
has helped to keep the flag flying, without any assistance from our Union
Generals or even Branch N.C.O.'s, in the far North Country made famous by
the writings of Kingsley and the fascinating story of Westward Ho ! There
were men good and true in those days in the north country who knew how to
stand alone; men good and true are still there, and we have no doubt Bideford
Section has laid to rest one of the best. Our Plymouth member was a younger
man, and very popular with the Freemasons with whom he held important
positions. He leaves a wife and three children. We much regret the loss of
these members from our ranks, for members are difficult to get in the repairing
trade, and it would appear from our experience even more difficult to keep now that
the trade is under the Trade Board. Possibly the many years of bad trade and
short time has more to do with this aspect of the question than we imagine.
Certainly, during the long period of depression the Trade Board has only been
able to secure a bare existence for the workers, and many of our members are
of the opinion that Trade Unions have found it beyond their power to do more,
but were there ever a time in the history of Trade Unionism when advances of
wages were secured, or the workers' standard of life even maintained, while
trade floundered and sunk in the Slough of Despond ?
SILEBY.-Trade is very quiet with us, most of the factories closing very
early for the August holidays. We are hoping that when trade is more normal
and the Coal Dispute is settled we shall, with the great help of our Organisers
(Mr. J. H. Baum and Mr. D. McCarthy), make a decided improvement in the
membership of our Branch. When one sees the numbers working in the boot
and shoe trade having to wait at Labour Exchanges two hours to sign who,
by becoming members of our Union, can get all the benefits from us is deplor-
able from a common sense view.


---
Here is the extracted text:
480
£58,000 ALLEGED INCOME TAX FRAUDS.
Two Hinckley Manufacturers Charged. Statement by Prosecution.
Allegations that Big War Profits were not Disclosed.
Two well known Hinckley brothers, boot manufacturers, appeared before the local
magistrates to day to answer 37 charges, involving a sum of £58,000, of which they were
accused to have defrauded the Inland Revenue Commissioners between 1915 and 1924
The defendants were Louis M. P. Ney, "Hollydene," Earl Shilton, and John Reginal
Leicester Road, Hinckley. Rothesay, Nov.
The defendants appeared on 37 summonses to answer charges of conspiracy to defraud,
furnishing false business accounts, making false returns of the partnership income t
income tax and excess profits duty and making false personal returns.
Mr. R. Bernard Waterer, representing the Inland Revenue Commissioners, who p
secuted, said the defendants not content with substantial profits which they would ha
reaped as a result of the war, saw fit to defraud the country of a sum of nearly fo
at a time when their fellow countrymen were risking their lives and limbs for a shill
"It is difficult," he said, " to imagine a course of conduct which could be s
a day.
mean and more despicable."
THIRTY-SEVEN COUNTS.
On the Bench were Alderman B. Hurst (in the chair), John Powers and G. Kintor
The defence was in the hands of Mr. Arthur Ward, barrister, instructed by Me
Ingram & Co., Leicester.
Opening the case, Mr. Waterer said the defendants had carried on a business of two
The first charge accused the defendants of conspiring to defraud H.M. the King of
large sums due for income-tax and Excess Profits Duty by means of false accounts.
business of Ney Bros. for the years 1914-1923 inclusive. Nos. II to 18 were charges
Charges No. 2 to No. 10 were common law charges of delivering false accounts of th
under Section 5 (B) of the Perjury Act, 1911, i.e., of making false statements in the retur
of the income of Ney Bros. for the years 1916-1917 to 1923-1924 inclusive, which return
were required to be made by Act of Parliament. Nos. 19 to 35 were also charges under
ments in their individual returns which they were authorised to make by Act of Parliamen
Section 5 (B) of the Perjury Act. These charged the defendants with making false state-
and shoe manufacturers, at High Street, Barwell, as Ney Bros.
What Investigation Revealed.
J. R. Ney was charged for 1915-1916 to 1923-1924, and L. M. P. Ney for 1916-191-
Charges 36 and 37, also under Section 5 (B) were charges of making false statements
to 1923-1924.
in Excess Profits Duty returns for 1915-1918.
Describing the "startling proportion of the fraud," Mr. Waterer said in the
years 1914-1923, the taxable profits disclosed were £32,608. Investigations which
had taken place since then showed that the figure should have been £112,552.
Defendants "had fraudulently understated their profits by £79,914-they had
disclosed about a quarter of their true profits." The income tax had been £2,698 55. IId.,
whereas it should have been £11,788 5s. The figures in the case of Excess Profit Duty
were even more striking (continued the advocate). The duty paid was £3,557, and the
correct duty which should have been paid was £49,504 45. L. P. M. Ney had unpaid
interest on War Loan to the extent of £506, and the figure in his brother's case was 4316
6s. 2d."
The sums were such as to preclude the omissions being due to anything but a deliberate
intention to defraud. It was easy to omit small sums-but when it came to this case-it
was very striking.
Neither defendant had paid any super-tax at all. L. M. P. Ney avoided paying
£1,225, the other defendant £1,289.
"The grand total of the sums underpaid is the really staggering sum of £58,376 ós. 6d.
Practically all the figures have been agreed to with the defendants and the accountants
by the investigating officers of the Inland Revenue.
In the case of L. M. P. Ney, in 1917 he returned his income tax at £843, whereas it
should have been £1,244. In the following years the sums given, and those which should
have been given, were, respectively: £1,203-£2,477, £1,701-£3,775, £1,388-45,009,
£2,274-£8,094, £1,146-£4,406, £2,033-£5,852, &c.


---
In the books would be seen fictitious purchases totalling 128,000. Leather merchants
in London would say that the invoices for the sales were absolutely mythical. In fact,
some of the writing was that of one or other of the defendants. Cheques drawn on various
firms were paid, it would be said in evidence, to one of other of the defendants or private
The private accounts paid out of the firm included payments for a greenhouse,
The purchases also covered
silver cabinet, garage, motor car, and every sort of article. Private accounts totalled 10,486, included in the irregu-
two grand pianos of £165 each.
larities.

Fictitious Wages.
The next item was the striking, fictitious wages over the ten years totalling £24,000.
The method adopted in passing this through the books was a very ingenious one.
ants kept two books—for wages and staff wages. At the end of each week they added
wages and staff wages, and entered them up as wages. The real amount was then entered
up as staff wages. The effect was that the staff wages were entered twice and the defend-
ants kept the extra amount of staff wages and for 10 years the total was £24,000. At the end of
these books was written by one or other defendant, at varying times, “No mistake,” and
initialled by one of the Neys.

Continuing, Mr. Waterer said in 1915 the defendants valued their stock at £9,500,
and they wrote off for depreciation £3.500. In 1917 they valued their stock at £37,000, writing
at £22,000, and wrote off £15,000. In 1918, valuing their stock at £46,000, they wrote off the staggering total
of £33,000 for depreciation. In 1919 the figures were £78,000 and £44,000 respectively.
In 1919 the figures were £78,000 and £44,000 respectively.
At the interview, the defendants admitted that they were quite unable to justify
these figures for in fact prices were rising. During the investigations, on general
accounts, the defendants had paid over the sum of £25,000 and that left over £30,000
to be paid up.

Mr. Waterer asked for the men to be committed for trial at the next Assizes.
His speech occupied an hour and a half.
The first two witnesses, Harold Little, Malsbury Road, Woodford, London, assistant
manager of a leather firm, and James Norman Gamble, 27 Stoughton Street, Leicester,
secretary and a director of Robert Johnson & Co., of Leicester, produced invoices of goods
sold to the firm of Ney Brothers, and invoices on the paper of Ney Brothers of which they
could find no trace in their own books. The latter invoices purported to show that goods
had been sold to Ney Brothers by these firms.
Formal evidence was given by Richard E. Gresham, manager of the Earl Shilton
Branch of the Westminster Bank.
Other evidence was given during the afternoon by Inspectors of Taxes, who had
previously been stationed at Nuneaton, in which district were the firm of Ney Bros. as
well as the private addresses of the defendants.—Leicester Mail, 10th August, 1926.

Frederick William Gower continued his evidence. He said he questioned the
defendants with regard to staff bonuses and asked whether these bonuses were actually
distributed. L. M. P. Ney replied that the firm had been in the habit of giving bonuses
to the men and extra pay for the staff at Christmas, adding that it was quite possible
some of the money had been retained for their own use. The "little book” (suspense
ledger), he said, would show this.
On the question of stock values, J. R. Ney said there was a certain risk in stocks
of Army leather, but they could not substantiate the depreciation written off up to 1918,
but for later years they could. It was finally agreed that they should suggest what the
real value of the stock was up to 1922.
Witness pointed out that there was an additional liability as a result of the revised
figures, and asked what proposal they had to make with regard to payment of the sub-
stantial sums involved. Defendants suggested that the payment should be left over
until the following July to enable them to realise stocks.

Investments.
A discussion ensued with regard to investments, and the defendants were asked what
was the present amount of their investments in war stock and war savings certificates,
and the reply was "about £7,500." It was finally agreed that £10,000 should be paid
by the end of April, and a further £15,000 at the end of May on account of the tax due
generally. On 23rd May, 1925, L. M. P. Ney called at Mr. Hazelhurst's offices and left
certain invoices relating to private purchases, and the suspense ledger, showing the total
irregularities.
Mr. Gower spoke to a grouping of the various accounts of the firm, and said he found
that private accounts for £1,502 14s. 7d. furniture, &c., had been charged against the
business, as well as £2,214 for private motoring expenses and £117 13s. 10d. for coke and
coal, all charged against the business. This was for the period 1915-22.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
482
There were other items of fro for trunks, and £341 148. for a motor car. The figures
prepared were agreed with the defendant.
Witness added that under another heading capital revenue had been charged against
costs amounting to £800 had been booked as purchases, and yearly sums wrongly charged
revetiue other than that disclosed by the reports. Capital expenditure on knives and
forb, 150; 1017, 788 1918, £50; 1919, £100; 1920, £100; 1921, £180. Agains
some of these figures were certain allowances, however, under another heading. Omitted
sales amounted to £3,126 175. 11d.
Private Bank Accounts.
Defendants had been questioned regarding certain lodgments in their private bank
The suspense ledger contained a complete record of these omitted sales with
accounts.
His investigations revealed further fictitious travelling expenses amounting
the exception of a transaction with Green Bros.
Suspe
ledger showed were "booked as travelling expense
against which there was the word "aunt."
and
Another heading related to fictitious carriage items amounting to £209 75. 70. and
for cases amounting to over £000. There were also fictitious motoring expenses in the
book amounting to £234 18s. 6d., which amount had been wrongly charged to the busin
Heading it showed the drawing of the £196 for bonuses during the period of 191
1919, £195 158. of which was retained by the partners, and marked in the suspense ledge
"ourselves." Fictitious National Health Insurance payment amounting to £2 35. hal
also been passed through the books.
Witness also found that fictitious stock reserves had been created which had not
been disclosed by the accounts.
Cross-examined by Mr. Arthur Ward, witness stated that the matter was transferred
to London somewhere about February, 1925, and he immediately got into touch with
Mr. Hazelhurst. Witness was unable to meet the accountants at that time however,
owing to other business arrangements. The interview was therefore held about 21st April
Mr. Ward: Had you been informed that the defendants were desirous of producing
their books and papers for investigation by the Inland Revenue officials.
Witness: I cannot recall the fact.
Mr. Ward: When you met defendants did they not place all the books and documents
before you for investigation ?
Witness: Certain books and documents were placed before me.
Mr. Ward: When asked for, every book was produced for investigation?
Witness: Yes, when they were asked for.
Mr. Ward: You remember a question and answer in the House of Commons where
it was stated that a voluntary disclosure could be made by fraudulent taxpayers-Yes.
I suggest to you that on 22nd April the door was still open for them to make further
disclosures and which would have come within the meaning of that answer in the House
of Commons. I do not agree.
Mr. Ward: Do you not agree that it would have been better then to have said to
them, we shall take advantage of anything you tell us and you will not have the benefit
of the answer in the House.
Witness: No.
Mr. Ward: And they were then going to place in your hands a book containing the
whole of the irregular items ?
Witness: No, because no reference whatever to a suspense ledger was made until
that interview when they were asked for it.
Mr. Gower further stated that on 27th April, 1925, the defendants sent him a cheque
for £10,000 on account of duty payable in accordance with the arrangement, and a further
instalment of £15,000, making a total of £25,000.
A list of sales furnished at the interview on 22nd April was not complete, said the
witness. The disclosure given in Mr. Hazelhurst's report was not voluntary in the meaning
of the answer given by Sir William Joynson-Hicks in the House of Commons.
Evidence was afterwards given by Howard Walter Hazelhurst, chartered accountant,
of The Crescent, King Street, Leicester.
-Leicester Mail, 11th August, 1926.
WAR BONDS INQUIRY.
On the Bench were the same magistrates as yesterday, Alderman B. Hurst (in the
chair), John Powers and G. Kinton.
The public seats were again fully occupied.


---
To-day's first witness was Mr. William Butterworth, now Inspector of Taxes for the
Kingsway district, who was in the Nuneaton district between April, 1920, and June, 1924.
In April, 1920, he received a letter from Mr. E. Burrows, the defendants' accountant.
enclosing a balance sheet and profit and loss account of Ney Bros
asking them how the stock was valued, and the reply he received was that it was taken at
the total profits from all sources of L. W. M. Ney were given as £2,274,
partner's share was declared as £2,080,
and those of J. R. Ney as £2,375.
Mr. Butterworth gave details of the defendants' returns during the years while he
was in the Hinckley district and the computations of the taxes.
There had been con
siderable correspondence on one occasion with regard to War Bonds and eventually he
wrote to the accountants in March, 1924, asking them to come and see him. Mr. Hazel
hurst called and witness told him that he had been looking into the account and was unable
to account for the investments of the defendants by sums withdrawn from the business.
He pointed out their returns showed no other income than the business in 1914-5,
whereas in 1923-4, their other income was considerable.
Witness told him he wanted
particulars of the bank interest received for 1914 and 1910, also particulars of the bank
balance, 1913-23, and the list of investments in those years.
J. R. Ney had given him most of the information.
J. R. Ney's drawings during the
past ten years had worked out at about £7,000 and he estimated his household expenses
at £4,000, which left him with £3,000. His father died in April, 1917, and he had had
£1,500 from his will. The father had also left to the two brothers the sum of £1,200 in
trust for another lady-of which she received the interest. The investments income
was about £050.
Generous Contributions.
When he (witness) pointed out to Mr. Hazelhurst that he thought the household
expenses were small, the latter replied that J. R. Ney had been a private in the Army,
up to the opening of 1919, finishing up as a quartermaster-sergeant. The Neys said they
had done their own travelling, and that they were not able to save any money for their
travelling expenses.
"I questioned," went on Mr. Butterworth, "the adequacy of the household expenses,
and pointed out that both were connected with the chapel, and generally gave garden
parties in the summer. I said that from time to time they contributed rather generously
to the religious bodies to which they belonged. I pointed out to Mr. Hazelhurst that
there was no mention of the interest paid to the old lady, and Mr. Hazelhurst replied
that this was a purely family affair. I also said that taking their own figures there was a
considerable amount to be accounted for, and that the drawings of J. R. Ney up to 1922
inclusive amounted to £7,245, and from that £3,000 had to be deducted, as paid into the
business, and that left £4,275.
"Taking their own estimate of the household expenses as £3,600, this would leave
him with £645. I told Mr. Hazelhurst that I should want more detailed information
and it was arranged that the partners should come along."
Continuing, witness referred to his subsequent interview with Mr. Hazelhurst on
14th May, 1924. Witness then said that there was a discrepancy of £20,000. Mr. Hazel-
hurst said he was surprised. It was then agreed that both partners should come along
and see him.
At this interview on 21st May, when Mr. Hazelhurst called on witness together with
the Neys, witness began by warning them that they were not obliged to say anything
or answer any questions. If they did, it would be done voluntarily and their statements
would be put on record and might be used in evidence against them in any proceedings
that might be decided on. Witness gave them (the visitors) a brief outline of the case.
He told them there was a considerable discrepancy, and, that, even putting their living
expenses at the lowest possible figure, there was about £12,000 which could not be accounted
for.
L. M. P. Ney was the spokesman, and said he would like to see witness's figures-
this was done. Witness had not the slightest objection to this being done. Ney directed
his attention solely to witness's estimate of his household expenses which he pooh-poohed,
and said they were "ridiculously high."
Witness told him if he was not satisfied with
that statement, he (Butterworth) would be prepared, without prejudice, to take his (Ney's).
Ney said he wanted time to go into it fully and to think the matter over.
Examination of Books.
At this interview, witness was told by the defendant that they had a considerable sum
of money left them in 1911. When he asked them what " considerable " meant, the figure
---

---
484
of 11,000 was given.
Witness asked what became of that sum, and he was told that
12,000 was put into the business, the rest being spent principally in furniture.
He (Butterworth) said: " You would not have much money, outside capital, in
to which the reply he received was that the Neys came into more money when
1014?
their father died in 1917.
Subsequently they said that if, after checking the figures there appeared to be a
discrepancy, they would have no objection to the books being examined.
George P. Wiggins, formerly Inspector of Taxes in the locality and now Inspector of
District No. 1 at Oxford, referred to an interview he had with the defendants on the 15th
After some discussion with regard to investments, L. M. P. Ney, who was
the spokesman, admitted that the accounts put in in the past had been inaccurate.
July, 1921.
Witness asked by what method they had revised their profits and Ney said that they
had drawn cheques in their own favour and that they had in return given fictitious invoices
To this question as to whether there had been any other method of fraud adopted,
purporting to be purchases of leather.
Asked if they had directed to their own private account of
Ney replied there was none.
for private purposes any trade receipts, the reply was "No."
Disclose Everything.
Under the heading of "Travelling Expenses" they said there was something to be
admitted. "They definitely admitted," continued Mr. Wiggins, "that they created a
fictitious item for travelling expenses, and that this was based on a possible risk of physical
danger, wear and tear of clothes. It was fully admitted by them that this was an absolutely
hypothetical item."
In the course of further discussion J. R. Ney said he had given £150 to his local chapel
to be divided over three years.
The other Ney had not given any money.
Both said they had no cash hoards, but admitted that the gardener's wages had been
frauded the revenue, and told him it was their intention to disclose everything in order to
put through the business account. They also admitted that they had deliberately de.
close the matter.
Witness's comment to them at the time was that it was a pity they had waited until
disclosures were forced upon them. He gave them a sheet containing ten questions to
answer.
Cross-examined by Mr. Ward, witness said that in some cases, where the full initial
disclosure was made by the taxpayer the Inland Revenue officer assured them there would
only be a pecuniary penalty and the fact would be reported to the Inland Board.
Fredk. Wm. Dowen, of Wood Green, London, an advisory chartered accountant
to enquire into this case, and he subsequently informed Mr. Hazelhurst that the Board
to the Board of Inland Revenue said that on the 25th February, 1925, he was instructed
would regard the case as a very serious one, and that there were distinct possibilities of
a prosecution.
Mr. Hazelhurst handed over to him a list of the irregularities, and that one totalled
£66,531. By the method of fictitious purchase invoices £28,000 was accounted for. When
making investigation witness found that three methods were adopted with these invoices.
In some places Ney Brothers' own invoice forms were used, and on them was written at
the top "Goods by arrangement," giving also the name of the fictitious suppliers.
"Goods Supplied."
The second method was that by an arrangement with a relative invoice forms were
sent by him. The third method was to obtain a copy of an invoice form from a firm which
had been previously put through the books, to cross the word "copy" out, and alter the
date to about a month later, and put it through the books again. The invoices were
initialled as a rule by one or other of the defendants.
From the Business Account, invoices had been made out for goods supplied to J. R.
Ney, including a stone wall, a player piano, alterations to private house, greenhouse, &c.
-Leicester Mail, 12th August, 1926.
After a three days' trial, Louis Michael P. Ney and his brother John Reginald Ney,
boot manufacturers, of the Crown Imperial Works, Barwell, were last night at Hinckley
committed for trial to the Leicestershire Assizes on charges of defrauding the Inland
Revenue of large sums by means of alleged evasion of income tax and excess profits duty.
Concluding the evidence William Ogden, senior inspector of taxes, attached to the
Enquiry Branch of the Board of Inland Revenue, corroborated the story of Mr. Gower,
and said if the figures given in the original disclosures had been accepted the Revenue
would have lost over £20,000. In the course of the investigations they discovered that


---
underpaid was £58,376 0s. od.
485
divided between the defendants. The total amount
Mr. Ward (for defendants) quoted from a letter from defendants, and suggested that
the Neys were prepared to sell up almost "lock, stock and barrel" in order to settle the
matter.
The case for the prosecution having concluded, the defendants pleaded not guilty
and reserved their defence.
Mr. Ward said the defendants did so on his advice. They had been prepared to go
into the witness box that day, but the Court was bound to commit to the Assizes should
they think there was a prima facie case on the perjury charges, and he did not propose
to trouble them with the defence.
Mr. Ward added that it would be of great assistance to him to negotiate with the
Board of Inland Revenue for a pecuniary settlement if the Bench expressed the opinion
that the case came within the four corners of the circular issued by the Board of Inland
Revenue.
The magistrates "very much regretted" that they had no option but to commit
the defendants to trial at the next Leicestershire Assizes.
Ward must not ask them to express an opinion as to the effect of the circular upon the case.
Special costs of £100 were allowed.
---Leicester Mail, 13th August, 1926.
Defendants were granted bail in £1,000 each, with sureties of a similar amount.
SOUTH AFRICAN SHOE TRADE.
How Phillips (Norwich) Ltd., Undercut the Market.
[By Our Own Correspondent.]
Port Elizabeth, the shoe manufacturing centre of South Africa, is in a very flourishing
condition. And the footwear manufacturing concerns have in no slight degree assisted
in creating this favourable state of things, seeing that the wage bill of these factories
represents a very substantial amount-thousands of pounds per week.
Duty Free Materials.
The manufacturer here is certainly on a first-class wicket, for he has every encourage-
ment to make good-duty free materials and grindery, plus a 30 per cent. tariff. He is
not selling his products any cheaper than the prices at which overseas footwear can be
landed. The consumer is certainly not receiving any advantage from lower prices, as
the oversea products can be sold as cheaply as the local.
The winding up of the business of Phillips (Norwich) Ltd., has cleared the air so far
as this side of the water is concerned, with the result that those semi-wholesalers who
were buying shoes at 3s. or 4s. per pair less than producers' cost will now have to pay
reasonable prices for their requirements. Then, too, the agent who is carrying a 20s. in
the£ proposition in the way of samples will come into his own again. It puzzled him to
know how goods could be offered at Phillips' prices, because retailers were able to produce
invoices to prove that competing Norwich lines were quite out of the market. There
can be no excuse for such deliberate price-cutting by men of experience-by men who
could not claim to be ignorant in regard to costing methods. I hope the matter will be
sifted to the bottom and drastic measures taken to prevent such happenings in the shoe
trade. Or as far as this country is concerned, action will be taken to see that goods are
not dumped into the Union below cost of production.-The Shoe and Leather Record,
20th August, 1926.
EMPLOYERS' ASSOCIATIONS.
Membership, Income and Expenditure.
MR. T. KENNEDY asked the Minister of Labour how many employers' associations
are now upon the register; what is the aggregate membership; the total contributions;
the salaries paid; and the administrative expenses ?
SIR A. STEEL-MAITLAND: The number of employers' associations on the register in
1924, the last year for which information is at present available, was 94. According
to the latest return of the Chief Registrar of Friendly Societies the membership was 42,868,
income from the MEMBERS £107,336, MANAGEMENT AND OTHER EXPENSES £94,860. —
Written Answers, Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons, 3rd August, 1926.


---
```text
486
INTERNATIONAL INFORMATION
WORLD HOURS OF WORK REGULATION.

Belgian Move Forward.
A further step in the international regulation of hours of work has been taken by the
decision of the Belgian Senate this week in favour of the unconditional ratification of the
Eight-hour Day Convention, adopted by the first Session of the International Labour
Conference of the League of Nations, held in Washington in 1919.
This decision is the first important result of the London Hours Conference which
attended last March by representatives from Great Britain, France, Germany, Italy,
and Belgium, and which reached a comprehensive series of conclusions regarding a mutual
interpretation of the clauses of the Washington Convention.
At the eighth Session of the International Labour Conference, held at Geneva at the
end of May, the German Government representative stated that a Bill which had already
been introduced regarding ratification of the Hours Convention had been altered as a result
of the London Conference. He hoped it would be presented to Parliament this summer.
Germany's ratification would be dependent on ratification by other principal industrial
countries, but he hoped that this would take place at a very early date.
The British Government representative at the same International Labour Conference
said that, owing to conditions in Great Britain since the London Conference, his Govern-
ment had not had the opportunity of considering the result of the London Conference in
leisure and in calm, and for that reason they had not been able to arrive at a decision.
The Commercial Committee of the French Senate has recently approved a Bill for
ratification, dependent on ratification by Germany, which has already passed the French
Chamber of Deputies.

CHINESE WORKERS' CONGRESS.
A "Charter" of Working Conditions.
Interesting information regarding the aims of organised workers in China is contained
in the current issue of Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly publication of the
International Labour Office of the League of Nations, in an account of the recent holding
of the third Congress of Chinese workers in Canton.
Four hundred delegates, representing 1,240,000 organised workers belonging to 400
unions in 19 provinces, were present, as compared with 540,000 workers represented at
the second congress, in May, 1925, and 200,000 at the first congress, in May, 1922.
Reports were presented and resolutions passed on the following subjects: Organisation
of the labour movement: reorganisation and working of trade unions; objects and pro-
gramme of the economic struggle; strikes; the relations between workers and peasants;
workers' education; young workers and the trade union movement; unemployment;
co-operation; labour legislation.
The following resolution on the right of association and conditions of work was
adopted :-
(1) Workers should enjoy freedom of association and combination and of the Press;
(2) Workers should have the right to strike, but, under the Republican Govern-
ment, disputes may be submitted to conciliation procedure under the direction of
the public authorities or the interested parties;
(3) Workers' organisations should have the right to conclude collective agree-
ments with employers;
(4) Workers should be free to join a trade union;
(5) The working day should be limited, in principle to eight hours, or less where
unhealthy processes are concerned;
(6) Sunday rest and public holidays should be compulsory, and should not affect
the payment of full wages;
(7) Work done outside normal hours of work should require the consent of the
trade unions;
(8) Overtime should be paid for at double rates;
(9) The employment of children under 13 years should be prohibited, as well as
the employment of young persons under 16 years in dangerous or unhealthy pro-
cesses;
(10) Women employed in heavy work should be entitled to eight weeks' con-
secutive holiday on full pay before and after childbirth, and those employed on light
work, to six weeks' holiday.; rest periods for the purpose of nursing their children
should be granted to women during working hours ;
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
487
(11) Night work should, in principle, be forbidden for women and children;
(12) Workers should be paid a living wage, the non-payment of which should
involve the intervention of the Government, which shall be authorised to order an
increase of wages;
(13) Wages should be paid in legal tender, and neither partially nor wholly in
kind;
(14) A Labour Office should be set up with the collaboration of the workers,
to study labour questions
(15) The Government should institute social insurance for the workers, contribu
tions to which should be paid by the employers and the Treasury;
(16) Continuation education institutions should be created for the benefit of
workers of both sexes;
(17) The National Union of Chinese Trade Unions should be represented when
labour legislation is drawn up.
FORWARD MOVES IN INDIA.
The membership of the Indian Trade Unions has improved notably during the first
six months of 1020. The membership of Trade Unions in the Bombay Presidency has
gone up since the end of 1925 from 40.318 to 64,572, an increase of over 30 per cent. There
are now to trade unions in Bombay City, eight in Ahmedabad (the second cotton centre)
and 20 in the rest of the Presidency.
The figures are conservative estimates based on returns made by the more efficiently
organised trade unions. -Industrial News, Trades Union Congress, 3rd August, 1926.
RECENT PROFITS.
ABDULLA & CO. 1925. Ordinary Dividend, 10 per cent; Net Profit, £65,063. It
was stated at the annual meeting that the past year had been a record both for home and
export sales.
ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS. (Daily Mail, Illustrated Mail, Overseas Daily Mail,
Evening News and Weekly Dispatch.) 1925-26. Ordinary Dividend, 7 per cent.; Deferred
Ordinary Dividend, 40 per cent.; Net Profit, £953,655. A dividend of 40 per cent. has
been paid on the deferred shares for the last three years. Share bonuses of 50 per cent.
in September, 1920, 33 per cent. in November, 1922, 25 per cent. in April, and 20 per cent.
in October, 1923, have been distributed to deferred shareholders.
BARCLAY PERKINS & CO, 1925-26. Ordinary Dividend, 800 per cent.; Net Profit,
£214,266. In 1911 the ordinary shares were written down from £100 each to £1; the
dividend is, therefore, equivalent to 8 per cent. on the original capital.
CONSETT IRON Co. 1925-26. Ordinary Dividend, nil; Net Loss, £286,227.
CROMPTON & Co. (Electrical Engineers.) 1925-26. Ordinary Dividend, nil; Net
Profit, £16,446.
EBBW VALE STEEL, Iron and COAL CO. 1925-26. Ordinary Dividend, nil; Net
Loss, £345,378. No ordinary dividend has been paid for the last five years, and the
preference dividend is in arrear from March, 1923. The past year has been one of the
worst on record.
ILLINGWORTH MORRIS & CO. (Worsted and Artificial Silk Yarn Spinners.) 1925-26.
Ordinary Dividend, nil; Net Loss, £82,565.
J. LYONS & CO. LTD. 1925-26. Ordinary Dividend, 214 per cent.; Net Profit,
£754,960. The Company has distributed share bonuses of 10 per cent. in preferred ordinary
shares in 1909 and 1910; 100 per cent. in "A" ordinary shares in 1921; and 33 per cent.
in "A" ordinary shares in 1925.
JOHN BROWN & Co. (Ship Builders and Colliery Proprietors.) 1925-26. Ordinary
Dividend, nil; Net Profit, ₤91,419.
LIPTONS. 1925-26. Ordinary Dividend, nil; Net Profit, £30,844. No ordinary
dividend has been paid since 1924, and no preference dividend is being paid.
MOND NICKEL. 1924-25. Ordinary Dividend, 12½ per cent.; Net Profit, £403,784.
OHLSSON'S CAPE BREWERIES. 1925-26. Ordinary Dividend, 7½ per cent.; Net
Profit, £66,654. A share bonus of 25 per cent. was distributed in 1921.
-Labour Bulletin, August, 1926.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
488
IRISH FREE STATE TRADE.
98% Export Trade is with Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
An Adverse Balance of £6,750,000,
The Free State trade returns for the first three months of the present year disclose an
adverse balance of £6,750,000, a slight increase on the figures for the corresponding perio
of last year. Ninety-eight per cent, of the Free State's export trade is with Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, and while its foreign imports are increasing there is no compensating
improvement in Free State sales.
For instance, Algiers sends the Free State goods to the value of £32,000 and buys
nothing. Poland's imports from the Free State amount to the value of £5 note, but she
sells goods to the amount of £82,000 to Irish customers, Other countries reap even
richer harvest. Rumania's exports to the Free State for the first quarter of this year
came to £85,000. Her imports from this country were worth exactly £1. With countries
like Germany, France, Belgium, and the United States trade is slightly better, but in all
these cases the Free State's purchases exceed its sales by enormous sums.
To all intents and purposes the Free State's only customers are Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, and Irish business men recognise the fact
that the country's adverse balance never will be adjusted until the Govern-
ment's efforts are concentrated on the encouragement of trade with its
neighbours.
For that reason there is a growing belief that the executive council's policy of pro-
tective tariffs (on boots and clothing, &c.) is doing more harm than good to the national
economy. The demand for free trade within the British Isles is (says the Dublin corres-
pondent of The Times) likely to play an important part at the general election, which will
be held next year, for the economic situation is beginning to cause considerable anxiety
throughout the country. — Shoe and Leather Record, 6th August, 1296.

AUSTRIAN CUSTOMS.
Increased Duty Imposed on Footwear.
VIENNA, 28th July.
The Austrian Parliament finally approved to-day the new Customs Tariff increasing
duties chiefly on iron goods, textiles, boots, butter and frozen meat. Commercial interests
strongly opposed the higher tariff contending that it would raise the general cost of living.
Iron and textile industries, however, declared that higher duties were necessary for their
very existence.
Only a few of the new duties can be introduced immediately as the greater part are
fixed by various commercial treaties.
The new tariff is regarded as indicating that Austria is forced to pursue a policy of
high protection so long as neighbouring countries continue to maintain their present trade
barriers. Reuter. — Shoe and Leather Record, 6th August, 1926.

TAXED FOOTWEAR.
Unbearable Increase in the Cost of Living.
At last week's meeting of the Westmeath County Council, Mr. Thomas Glynn moved
a resolution expressing the opinion that the duty on boots imported into the Irish Free
State had caused an unbearable increase in the cost of living (particularly
on account of the present depression and scarcity of money and the large
amount of unemployment) and calling on the Government to defer placing
any tariffs on imported goods until the people were in a better position to
bear them.
Mr. P. Brett said he was not in favour of Mr. Glynn's motion, but, at the same time,
a lot of tariffs had been put on purely for the purpose of getting in revenue.
On a division the motion was defeated by seven votes to five. — Shoe and Leather
Record, 30th July, 1926.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
490
PROPOSED SUPERANNUATION SCHEME FOR
MEMBERS.
July, 1926.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
1. Further consideration has been given to this question in accordance with your
proposal at the Blackpool Conference.
We suggest that a payment of FIVE SHILLINGS superannuation benefit be
members at 65 years of age (after 25 years' membership with the Union) for
2.
contribution of 3d. per week, with a rising scale giving 6d. extra benefit for each five year
additional membership. That is to say:
Members with a continuous membership as shown below, after paying to the Scheme
for the number of years enumerated, would receive the following rate of weekly pension:
Continuous Years'
Membership.
25 years
30
"
35
"
40
"
45
"
50
Payments in years
to the Scheme.
5 years
10
15
20
25
"
30
"
Weekly Rate of
Pension.
s. d.
5 0
5 6
6 0
6 6
7 0
7 6
NOTE.-The above table showing the number of years' continuous membership will auto
matically cease after the scheme has been in operation 30 years, as the contribution
table would then fully apply; the table showing "years of membership" being
inserted as an illustration.
3. We further suggest that NO benefits be payable before 1st January, 1932, to
enable the Fund to get on a sound financial basis.
4. The Fund we propose should be for FULL MALE MEMBERS only, and that
for this class of member the scheme should be COMPULSORY, except upon those members
who have attained the age of 65 on the 1st January, 1927, for whom it shall be optional.
In order to finance the scheme, a capital sum of not less than £150,000 will be required
to make it financially sound and self-supporting, and we, therefore, suggest that £100,000
be transferred from the Central Sick Fund, and that the members of the branches be
approached at special meetings, with a view to securing £50,000 from Branch Funds;
payments to be made in accordance with the financial resources of each Branch.
5. We suggest when Superannuation Benefit is payable to members at 65 years of
age, it can be claimed whether members are continuing at work or not, it being understood
that members having once drawn Superannuation Benefit, they shall only be entitled to
legal assistance (in case of accidents in a factory) and funeral benefits.
6. Any member ceasing work at 65 years of age and being in receipt of Superannuation
Benefit shall not be entitled to receive any other benefit except funeral pay.
7. All members in receipt of Superannuation Benefit and continuing at work will
pay a contribution of SIXPENCE per week only, 3d. of which shall be placed to the credit
of the Superannuation Fund and 3d. to the Funeral Fund.
8. Funeral Benefit. We suggest that in the event of a member contributing to the
Superannuation Fund, and death supervening before receiving such Superannuation
Benefit, his dependants shall receive an extra £2 Funeral Benefit, in addition to the sum
named in the Rules, making a total of £8 for men and £5 for women.
9. Women Members shall be allowed to Voluntarily join the Superannuation Scheme
if they desire.
Amendments to this proposal must be sent to the Central Office before 30th September,
1926, to enable the Special Conference to deal with the matter on 21st October, 1920.
Yours fraternally,
T. F. RICHARDS, General President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
THE COUNCIL,
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
R. WHITE.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
491
AN INTERNATIONAL ANNIVERSARY.
I.F.T.U. will Celebrate its 25th Birthday.
Next month the International Federation of Trade Unions celebrates its twenty-fifth anniversary.
On 10th September, therefore, in all the countries affiliated to the I.F.T.U., meetings and demonstrations will be held to mark the importance of this event in the development of international working-class unity. Nearly half of the total number of organised workers in the world are linked up through their national Trade Union centres in the International Federation. The I.F.T.U. represents close upon 17,000,000 organised workers in twenty-three different countries. The affiliated membership has more than trebled in the course of the history of the I.F.T.U.
A remarkable feature of its work in recent years has been the organisation of international campaigns, such as the one promoted in 1920 in support of the Eight-hour Day, and the campaign against war and militarism in 1924. It has been active also in raising funds, by international appeals, to assist the workers of various countries. No less than £150,000 was raised in this way to provide supplies for the Russian people in the famine, and over £100,000 to help the destitute Austrian workers. It also assisted the German Trade Unions to the extent of over £42,000 when their incomes were reduced practically to vanishing point by the depreciation of the mark. Large sums have been raised too for the Indian workers.
But the chief function of the I.F.T.U. is to focus international working-class opinion upon the great questions of policy affecting the peoples of all countries. It has done this with extraordinary success at various international congresses, and in the vigorous campaigns it promoted against Fascism and other forms of international reaction. It has also displayed great activity in organising international summer schools and in fostering the working-class educational movement.
Twenty-five years of effort and sacrifice have placed the international working-class organisation on a firm foundation. It is well that the British workers should give thought to the achievements that have been won, and to the work that has yet to be accomplished in the international field.—Industrial News, 10th August, 1926.

J. R. MACDONALD ON VALUE OF PARLIAMENT.
Sometimes I wonder if some of my friends quite appreciate what is involved in a loss of the moral authority of Parliament. It is nothing less than a Fascist or some other form of Dictatorship. In view of the work that is in front of us and of the nature of the opposition we shall have to face, we must hold fast to Parliament as our sole bulwark of defence. An essential condition of our success is a Parliament which holds its place high in the respect and confidence of the country. That gone, everything has gone. - Forward, 31st July, 1926.

BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1925 707,866 9 7
January, 1926 3,238 10 0
February 4,179 7 6
March 3,755 1 6
April 3,534 18 0
May 3,417 9 4
June 4,330 7 0
July 2,901 3 6
£733,223 6 5
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1925 414,028 19 1
January, 1926 3,139 15 3
February 4,204 17 3
March 2,866 9 6
April 2,621 10 6
May 4,667 14 6
June 11,824 3 6
July 7,781 0 9
£451,134 10 4


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
493
BELGIUM AND THE HOURS CONVENTION.
Minister for Labour upon Beneficial Effects of an Eight-hour Day.
The Belgian Chamber of Representatives by 119 votes to 3 against on 4th June, 1926,
passed the Bill for Ratification of the Hours Convention.
The Minister of Industry and
Labour, MR. WAUTERS, said: He denied that the Eight-hour Act of 1921 (which was
wider than the Hours Convention) had impeded production
as in other countries, the reduction of hours of labour had been a stimulant to production.
for it had led employers to improve their plant and their processes and land in production.
He quoted figures relating to various industries in support of this contention. The intro
duction of the eight-hour day had given the workers increased leisure, much of which was
being devoted to technical training. There had been a marked diminution in alcoholism;
110.000 public houses had disappeared. More and more workmen were acquiring their
own houses, and the number of public libraries was increasing year by year.
Referring to the situation in the chief industrial countries as regards the eight-hour
day, MR. WAUTERS said the position was such that Belgium could ratify the Hours Con-
vention in complete confidence and with complete safety. As regards the London inter-
pretations, he pointed out that the conclusion of the conference as to the meaning of
Article 14 of the Convention was couched in very wide terms and met, to a large extent,
the Belgian point of view.
In his opinion, the Eight-hour Act would create better relations between employers
and workers and thus contribute to the promotion of industrial prosperity. By ratification
of the Convention, the workers would obtain an assurance that the ground they had
already won would not be lost, while the employers, seeing the Act of 1921 finally con-
firmed, would turn their attention energetically to the adoption of more modern methods,
the improvement of their workshops, and the tightening-up of the organisation for pro-
duction, sale and exportation. He therefore urged that Belgium should ratify, uncon-
ditionally and immediately, the Washington Convention.
Some discussion took place on the question whether the amendment proposed by
MR. JACQUEMOTTE was in order. It was eventually ruled that the amendment could not
be discussed; a Convention having been submitted for the decision of the Chamber,
the Chamber must adopt it or reject it as it stood and without amendment.
The Bill was then adopted by 119 votes to 3, with 5 abstentions.-Extract from
Industrial and Labour Information, Monday, 19th July, 1926.

THE LABOUR PARTY.
Local Elections, 1926.
Leaflets.
New or revised leaflets written expressly for local election purposes which should
prove useful in the forthcoming elections are now ready as follows :-
Labour Leaflet No. 12 Why Women Should Vote Labour.
"" "" 155 Education-Schools for the People.
"" "" 175 Tories Attack the Workers' Children.
"" "" 153 Houses for the Workers.
"" "" 152 Cottages for the Countryside.
"" "" 114 Poor Law and Unemployment.
"" "" 116 Labour and the Rates.
"" "" 118 Labour and Public Health.
"" "" 156 Why Labour Must be Represented on Local
Authorities.
"" "" 181 Municipal Enterprise.
"" "" 182 Homes for the Homeless.
A Labour Policy on Agriculture-2d.
The price in each case is 4s. per 1,000, carriage paid.
Local Government Speakers' Handbook (New and Revised Edition).
This handbook, running to 56 pages, has also been specially prepared for candidates,
speakers and canvassers in local election contests. It shows concisely and clearly how
Labour councillors on local councils can force the councils to exercise their full powers
in the interests of public health, education, housing, public enterprise, roads, &c.
The price per copy is 6d. post free; six copies, 2s. 6d.; twelve copies, 4s. 6d. post
free.


---
494
BRITISH SHOES IN NEW ZEALAND.
Prosecutions under the Footwear Regulation Act,
At Auckland in a case heard against Messrs. Ross and Glendinning Ltd., c
was given by an inspector under the Act to the effect that he found in the defenda
possession certain shoes, the innersoles of which were composed of skivers, or
from the outer surface of leather these had been pressed together s
until they became wet, when
Such soles were all right unti
so as to form
Averng
"they were liable to v
Under the Act, snch skivers were regarded as " materials other than leather" and hat
ole
consisted of 504 pairs, of which 326 were
had no intention of defrauding anybody.
required to be
be described as such on the sole, All-leather shoes were not rec
When this was pointed out, the defendants at once properly stamped the shen ta
of the shoes, but had ordered them from England, stipulating that they should
For the defence, it was submitted that the defendants were not the manufac
leather. They actually paid an extra threepence a pair to ensure this. The consign
Zealand Act had been explained fully to the English manufacturer. The defend....
were still in stock. The requirements of the
turers the requirements of the New Zealand law. The magistrate, observing that
would take the exceptional circumstances into account, imposed a fine of £5.
The inspector said action had been taken mainly to impress on British man
Thomas Clark, boot dealer. He pleaded guilty to a technical breach of the Act and
A similar prosecution has been heard at Auckland in which the defendant wa..
offered by the defendant, the outsole being of substantial leather, beneath which de
revealed a composition stiffener. The outside of the sole bore no stamp as required
ignorance of the construction of shoes. An inspector produced a pair of well-finished
of every shoe he handled. The shoes complained of carried an English brand whies, we
Counsel for the defence said it was difficult for the retailer to ascertain the nam
recognised as one of the best. To prove that the article was in no sense " shoddy" cour
produced a well-worn shoe of the same make which was still in sound condition.
the Act.
and the shoe was good value at the price she would not hesitate to pass it as an all-eat
He also called as a witness a footwear expert, who said the brand had a goo
shoe.
Leather and Paper.
prohibit the importation of inferior footwear, and to require British manufacturers to declara
Counsel mentioned that the defendant had been a strong advocate of legislation
the quality of the shoes they shipped to New Zealand.
shoes. He was, however, bound to see that the public did not suffer, and imposed a
The magistrate said the defendant had been misled by the person who supplied the
of £5.
as provided by the Act.
a conviction and fine of £5 imposed for exposing shoes for sale without a statement of the
component materials of the sole being stamped or impressed on the surface of the sce
In the Supreme Court at Wellington, Messrs. Hallenstein Bros. Ltd., appealed against
without admixture or addition, the materials of which they consisted had to be stamce
For the respondent inspector, it was explained that, unless the soles were of leather
under the foot of the wearer, including the insole and outsole and heel and heel stiffene
er thesel for the appellants described this definition as an artificial one. He said it
all that part of the shoe which, in use, s
ade the heel stiffener part of the shoe. The shoe complained of had a substantial leather
stiffener, but inside it was a lining of brown paper.
on the sole. The definition of "sole "
was
Mr. Justice Reed said the question was whether the insertion of the paper was a breach
of the section. Counsel agreed, but submitted that, in view of the fact that a substantial
leather stiffener was also used, a statement on the sole that it was composed of leather
and paper would give the public a false impression.
The inspector stated that the paper would tend to sag, and alter the shape of the heel,
in wet weather.
The Judge said, on the face of it, he could see no harm in adding thin brown paper to
the leather stiffening in the women's shoe in question; in a workman's shoe which was
worn often in the wet, the paper would no doubt be harmful.
Counsel said the object of the Act was to enable the public to choose for themselves
all-leather footwear or footwear to which that description could not be applied.
The Judge remarked that if the insertion of such paper was harmful, the Department
could obtain plenty of evidence of the collapse of shoes from this cause. The Act should
be administered reasonably. The appeal was dismissed.-Australasian Leather Trades
Review. The Shoe and Leather Record, 30th July, 1926.
---

---
WE PAY MORE THAN THE CZECHS.
Leicester Firm's £100 Challenge.
Wages Comparison.
A claim of Bata's, a boot and shoe manufacturing firm in Czecho-Slovakia, that they
are paying wages in their Zlin factories equal to the wages agreed upon by the Boot and Shoe Manu-
facturers Federation,
has led to a controversy in the trade journals.
In a joint letter, Mr. J. E. Richards, General President of the Union, and Mr. C. W.
Horrell, President of the Federation, challenge the accuracy of Bata's statement,
intimate that if the minimum wage rate for shoe operatives in England is represented by
100, in Czecho-Slovakia it is represented by 74.
The Shoe and Leather News has published an article which says that in an advertisement
Bata stated that " their wages would compare favourably with those paid in any shoe factory
in the United Kingdom, and they set out the wages they paid and compared them with
what they said were the wages paid as a minimum in Great Britain.
In reply to this advertisement it is urged that Bata's figures of the wages paid in Great
Britain are incorrect, and the wages of Eatough's Ltd., Earl Shilton, are put forward in
proof of the misstatement.
67 Per Cent More.
Bata's wage list works out by striking an average for all workers from 15 years of age
and upwards, at 27s. 0 d. for each worker per week ; whereas Eatough's, on the same basis,
for the week ended 10th July, shows 45s. 9 d. for each worker.
"So," it is added, " our labour costs, for similar goods, 67 per cent. more than Bata's
(exclusive of staff wages).
This fact gives the foreign manufacturer a good help to enable him to send his surplus
stock into this country at a profit, assisted also by the low rate of exchange, which makes
his task much easier, to the detriment of the British worker, who is taxed up to the hilt so
that his country may balance the yearly budget.
"We have no means of ascertaining if, in addition to the payment of lower wages and
the low rate of exchange ruling, we are further handicapped by increased daily output per
operative (at Bata's) as compared with Great Britain.'
Eatough's, in order to establish the accuracy of their wages statement, intimate their
willingness to give an opportunity for any certified accountant to examine their wages
book, the auditor to be selected by the Mayor of Leicester. "If," they add, " the figures
we have given are found to be exaggerated we will forward to the Royal Infirmary a cheque
for £100." -Leicester Mail, 11th August, 1926.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage lucrease since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light,
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926
January 10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 77 78 80 75
February 15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88 77 79 79 73
March 15-20 35-40 70 90 115 141 130 86 76 78 79 72
April 15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 105 141 128 82 74 73 75 68
May 20 40-45 75 95-100 105 150 119 80 69 69 72 68
June 25 45 75-80 100-105 105-110 152 119 84 69 70 73 70
July 25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 71 71 73 70
August 25 45-50 80 110 115 161 120 79 73 72 74
September 25 50 80-85 115 164 120 78 75 76 76
October 30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 176 103 80 77 80 76
November 30-35 60 85 120-125 125 169 99 77 81 77
December 35 65 85 125 120
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922) Agreement, September
(1924) Agreement, and present date.
EMPLOYMENT OVERSEAS.
GERMANY.-BOOT AND SHOE: Membership reported at end of June, 1926,
76,197. Percentage Totally Unemployed at end of June, 1926, 30.4; May, 1926,
32.3; June, 1925, 5.3.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, August, 1926.
---

---
496
TRADES UNION CONGRESS GENERAL COUNCIL AND THE LABOUR PARTY
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
At a joint meeting of the Trades Union Congress General Council and the Labour Party
to the recently indicated determination of the Government still further to starve the miners and their families into submission.
Executive of the Labour Party, held on Thursday, 29th July, consideration was given
The following resolution was carried unanimously, viz.:
“That this Joint meeting of the Trades Union Congress General Council and the
National Executive of the Labour Party emphatically protests against the way
of the Minister of Health in acquiescing in reduced scales of out-relief, in explo-
the financial stringency of Boards of Guardians to compel them to reduce cash
relief as a condition of approval of the necessary loans, and in permitting the
Boards of Guardians to discriminate in their scales of relief between miners
and children and other applicants; and recognising this administrative policy as an
unwarranted attempt to force a settlement of the mining dispute by increasing
hardships and privations of the miners and their dependents, calls upon all
means to prevent starvation on the coalfields.”
of the Labour Movement and the general public to redouble their efforts to pro-
In furtherance of the above resolution we make a special appeal to all sections of
Trade Union and Labour Movement to do their utmost, both by their own donations
Government and their confederates to force the miners back to work on the owners.
by collections which they can organise, to counter this latest move on the part of
Donations may be sent either to the Women's Committee for the Relief of the
Wives and Children, 11 Tufton Street, Westminster, S. W. 1, or direct to A. J. Cook i
Federation of Great Britain, 55 Russell Square, W.C. 1.
On behalf of the Trades Union
Congress General Council,
Yours sincerely,
On behalf of the National
Executive of the Labour Party,
ARTHUR PUGH (Chairman).
WALTER M. CITRINE
(Acting Secretary).
ROBERT WILLIAMS (Chairmar
ARTHUR HENDERSON (Secretar
70,000 HOUSES SHORT.
Big Task Facing London.
There is a shortage of over 70,000 houses in London, according to Col. Levita, Chairman
of the Housing Committee of the London County Council.
At yesterday's meeting of the Council he stated that in 1919 the shortage in Greater
London was 50,000. There had also to be added the normal requirements for the increas-
ing population, which were 17,000 houses a year.
In 1925, for the first time since the war, the normal annual requirements had
been exceeded, for in that year 23,547 houses were built and 694 were demolished,
leaving a net increase of 22,853, or nearly 6,000 in excess of current requirements.
In the previous five years the provision fell short of the current requirements by
28,000 houses, so that the excess of 6,000 in 1925 left a deficiency of 22,000. Therefore
in 1926 and onwards a deficiency of over 20,000 houses on current account had to be dealt
with before they would begin to touch the shortage which existed in 1919.
On that basis the shortage began with 50,000 in 1919, rose to 78,000 in 1923, and fell
to 72,000 in 1925. -The Daily News, 28th July, 1926.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES.-(Great Britain and Northern Ireland):
Wholly Unemployed (including Casuals)-Males, 7,387; Females, 2,142; Total, 9,529.
Temporary Stoppages-Males, 7,337; Females, 3,813; Total, 11,150. Total-Males,
14,724; Females, 5,955: Total, 20,679. (Great Britain only): Wholly Unemployed,
Temporary Stoppages, and Casuals-Males, 14,467: Females, 5,939; Total, 20,406-The
Ministry of Labour Gazette, August, 1926.


---
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
The Fight for Trade Union Unity in Yugo-Slavia.
By Bogdan Krecik, Secretary of the United Trade Union Federation of Yugo-Slavia.
The political gains of the first three years, as shown in the number of
seats in Parliament, have little by little been completely lost. It is also due to the
movement is not only to be ascribed to the political reaction that a large part of the
workers have been won over to the views of the various non labour
parties and are giving them political support.
We advocated trade union unity on the basis of the chief demands of the
workers, and the independence of the trade unions from political parties.
Although this aim was sympathetically received by the masses of the workers, it was
resisted violently by certain groups. In the first place it met with the hostility
of the Communists, all the more because the Communist Party must exercise influence on the
trade unions, and use them as an attacking force. The unity efforts resulted in the
formation of two distinct tendencies inside the Communist trade unions:
one section
favoured unity, while the other wanted to retain their existence as a separate national
centre, acting in this matter under direct instructions from Moscow. It goes without
saying that those trade unions which were under the influence of anti-labour parties,
such as the Croat Labour Union, in Zagreb, and the Christian and national-socialist organi-
sations in Slovenia, opposed unity.
At the end of 1925 in spite of all hostility, unity was reached between the socialists,
a part of the Communists and a part of the neutral unions.
The Communists understood only too well the danger which unity threatened to
them, and collected all their forces to wreck the unity movement.
There is no room whatever for doubt that the unity congress of the two national
centres was a great victory for Amsterdam and a corresponding disappointment
for the Communists.
It can be said that on the whole the trade union movement of Yugo-Slavia is at the
present moment in favour of the efforts to attain unity.
-Press Reports of the International Federation of Trade Unions, 5th August, 1926.
READ THIS!
BE ON YOUR GUARD!
Functions of Trade Unionism.
"The experiences we have gone through this year and the loss and suffering inflicted
upon the whole country, and particularly upon the trade unionists in the great basic
industries, have undoubtedly raised questions about the functions of Trade Unionism and
their bearing on the general welfare which must go forward to an issue.
"The question which the nation will now have to consider is whether these privileges
have not been grossly abused; whether the trade unions, instead of being,
as they should be, the social bulwarks and guarantees for the well-being of their members,
are not being used as a tool of faction against society, inflicting great injury
upon the country, and in particular, upon those very trade union members which it is the
duty of trade unionism primarily to protect.
"The question is raised whether, for instance, a handful of wirepullers, in virtue of
some resolution passed on a card-vote without any guarantees that the opinion of their
constituents has been properly obtained, should have the power to lay an interdict on
all the industries of the country and to challenge the sovereign right of Parliament and
the State itself."-Extract from speech of Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Winston
Churchill, M.P. (delivered at Swansea), 18th August, 1926.
OUTPUT CENSUS CHARGES.
Nine firms in the boot and shoe trade were summoned before Mr. Sharp at Clerkenwell
Police Court for neglecting to send in returns to the Board of Trade under the census of
Production Act, 1906.
One case was dismissed for lack of evidence that the necessary forms had been posted,
and the remainder were adjourned. -Evening Standard, 29th July, 1926.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
498
OVERSEAS TRADE IN JULY.
July is usually a period of activity for exporters of footwear, and the past wi
was no exception to the general rule. It is true that the July total shows a decine
the six months ended Jume last our exports of leather footwear have totalled SA
pairs were larger than those recorded for any of the previous months of this year
compared with the figures for July, 1924, and July, 1925, but our shipments
monthly average of 005.334 pairs. Last month's shipments, therefo
for last month with those of July, 1924 and 1925, is shown in the following table.
average by no fewer than 205.308 pairs. A comparison of the
pairs, or a
ceeded the monthly a
EXPORTS OF LEATHER FOOTWEAR.
Month ended 31st July, 1924
Month ended 31st July, 1926
Month ended 31st July, 1925
June last.
Pairs.
Value.
1,140,612
1610,425
1.137.948
£438.652
1,110,732
1,427,743
The difference between the totals for last month and July, 1925, is due ching
smaller exports of men's footwear. These showed a decrease of 25,811 pairs, altho
they amounted in all to 367,728 pairs, which was more than the quantity exported
Among markets which are purchasing increased quantities of British-made www
and shoes the most prominent last month were Canada and the British East Indie
Generally, trade with the Dominions was well up to the average, and there a
slight improvement in shipments to America. Exports of footwear made of mater
other than leather showed an increase as compared with the total for July, 1925. and
nearly double the quantity recorded for June last. The Shoe and Leather Record,
August, 1926.
BRITISH EXPORT TRADE.
Changes Since the War.
in the Section of Economic Science and Statistics by Mr. A. W. Flux (of the Boar
The present position and the trend of fashion in British export trade was deai
Trade).
trade of Gre
The export trade of the United Kingdom represented about 12 per cent. of the
of the world's total exports in 1925, compared with 13 per cent. in 1913.
These figures suggested that it was rather the restoration of world trade to its fo
dimensions and capacity of expansion that would tend to restore the export
Britain, than a struggle to secure trade that had been carried on by other nations, importa
rising from 37.2 per cent. of the total exports in 1913 to 39.3 per cent in
as was the quality of competitive capacity. Trade with the British Empire had increased,
1925 and to 41.5 per cent. for the 12 months to the end of last June,-
(Statement made at meeting of the British Association.) - The Times, 12th August, 1920
RUINED BY RICHES.
The extraordinary wrongness of our present industrial system is shown once more
by the outcry at the bumper crop of American raw cotton. One would think that a recor
crop of this kind would be greeted with delight by the user as well as by the ultimate
consumer as a guarantee of abundant raw material, low prices, and correspondingly brisa
expanding trade. But it appears that in the world constituted as it now is abundance
raw cotton is a positive calamity. Stated coldly like that, the only possible inferer
from the assertion is that the world is quite mad. The facts are, we believe, that in value
the export of British cotton to India, for instance, is now greater than in 1913, but the
volume is from various causes very greatly less than the volume exported in 1913. This
state of things is all very well for the banker and the financier; it is ruin to the unfortunate
operative who is on permanent short time; because to him the volume manufactured is
everything. But there must be something wrong with a system in which a trade can
flourish financially while the people who are engaged in it are in desperate straits, and in
which the prospect of ample raw material takes on the air of a positive calamity.-Da
News, 11th August, 1926.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
WAR OFFICE.-SHOES, CANVAS, CREPE SOLKS. Stead & Simpson, Leicester. The
Ministry of Labour Gazette, August, 1926.


---
Here is the extracted text:
8th Edition.
400
NATIONAL JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL
FOR THE BOOT AND SHOE MANUFACTURING TRADE AND
NATIONAL CONFERENCE AGREEMENT (SEPTEMBER), 1924.
HOLIDAY PROVISION SCHEME.
THE JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL FOR THE BOOT AND SHOE TRADE
on 27th May, 1919, adopted a Contributory Holiday Scheme, based on
equal contributions from Manufacturers and Operatives, under the following
conditions, and the Scheme was incorporated in the National Conference
Agreement (September), 1924:
1.-Weekly contributions after August Bank Holiday, 1926, will be :
Employer
Operative
permitting
Men (over 21)
1/2
1/2
Youths (18-21) and
Women (over 20)
8d.
8d.
Boys (16-18) and
Girls (16-20)
4d.
4d.
2.-Withdrawals for the following amounts after the dates shown if
factory closed for usual holidays (3 days Easter and Whitsun; 1 week Christmas
and August):
HOLIDAY
Sat., 25th Dec., 1926
Mon., 18th April, 1927
Mon., 6th June, 1927
Mon., 1st Aug., 1927
and requiring the following credit balances to be left:
December, 1926
Easter, 1927
Whitsun, 1927
August, 1927
subject to
3.-Payments being made at times to suit local arrangements, but pre-
ferably on the first pay day after the holiday.
4.-Withdrawals not exceeding the amount standing to an operative's
credit, and only taking place at above dates.
5.-Operatives leaving between holidays having amounts to their credits
paid after the next holiday or, on request, transferred to their next employer.
6.-Operatives absent through sickness being allowed on resumption of
work to make up arrears for 4 weeks.
7.-No contributions being payable by employers in respect of those weeks
for which operatives do not contribute.
8.-Operatives agreeing to deduction of their contributions from wages
and signing the contribution card accordingly.
"
9.-All contributions for each factory being paid into a Holiday Pro-
vision Account" at a bank, controlled by a Management Committee of not less
than two (half representing the employer and half the operatives).
July, 1926.
(Signed)
RUTH TOMLINSON,
E. L. POULTON,
}
Joint Secretaries.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
500
DOES TRADE UNIONISM PAY?
Large Benefits from Small Contributions.
BY HERBERT TRACEY,
It is suggested by some friends of Trade Unionism that it is a mistake to pay
made regarding the alleged disproportion between Union income and benefits vid,
attention to the Tory campaign on what is called "Trade Union Extravagance at
to members are so grotesque as not to be worth answering.
for the members by the Unions are those that do not show up in the Union acros٢٠١
Every trade unionist knows that the chief benefits obta
This is perfectly true.
higher wages, better conditions, protection against
legal assistance, the services of able and experienced negotiators, an
injustice a
But the actual cash benefits
and the rapacity of employe
and the like.
under attack from Tory members pay out enormous sums to their members in waty
in any discussion of the value of Trade Unionism. The great Unions that have
paid by the Unions are not so small as to be mea
The average annual contribution per member, taking the groups of Trade
including Sundays and holidays. Nearly 50 per cent. of the annual contributin
as a whole, is no more than 30s. or about 8d. a week, slightly more than one penny a
forms of benefit, based on a surprisingly small contribution.
back to the members in trade and friendly benefits alone.
During the last five or six years of trade depression the Unions, as official ares
show, have been the mainstay of their members. They spent on unemployment, travel
and emigration benefit alone, nearly £40,000,000-including payments recoverable l
State insurance-a sum equal to the total contributions paid in by members dit
period; and no less than two-thirds of the expenditure under this head represent
bursements from the Union's own funds.
dating
In addition the Unions spent nearly £10,000,0oo in dispute benefit, in their endea
to maintain wages during the slump. Much more than £3,000,000 went in sickne
accident benefit; more than £1,500,000 in funeral benefit and more than 14.08.
in superannuation and other benefits.
tributions does not average £10,000,000 a year, and in the period of slump has been
When it is realised that for all the Unions the aggregate income from members
enabled the Unions to meet the claims of their members in this stormy period of ecms-
less, one can appreciate better the significance of these figures. Nothing but skilled
efficient administration, careful husbanding of Union resources, prudent leaders-
history. Industrial News, 10th August, 1926.
OIL FROM COAL.
BY HERBERT TRACEY.
After months of delay, the Government has set up a standing committee to consi
and advise upon questions concerning the economic use of fuels.
It is, as Government appointments go, a good committee. It includes two Lab
men, Mr. John Baker, M.P., of the Iron and Steel Trades Confederation, and Mr. Frans
Hodges, Secretary of the Miners' International. Other members are experts in scienti
and industrial research; there are directors of colliery and iron and steel concerns,
distilleries, and of gas and coke companies; specialists in electrical power problems and
the carbonisation of coal. And Sir Alfred Mond, M.P., is a member.
At last, it would seem, something is to be done to develop a national coal and power
policy by which the mining industry will be transformed from one concerned only with
the production of raw coal into a new industry for the conversion of the raw product into
electrical power, gas, coke, oil and smokeless fuel.
The Coal Commission emphasise the fact that every million tons of coal carbonised
by suitable processes will produce 15 million gallons or more of liquid fuel. We imported
in 1924 no less than 1,270 million gallons of crude petroleum oil or derivatives. If it
were possible (says the Commission) to subject to pre-treatment the 147 million tons c
coal now burned in its raw state, the greater part at least of our present requirements
of oil could be supplied from home resources instead of being imported from abroad.
From the national point of view the burning of raw coal is a wasteful and unhygienic
proceeding. The labour of a million men for three days every year is devoted to producing
the soot which pollutes our atmosphere-three million tons of potential fuel escapes into
the air from domestic fire-places and industrial chimneys.-Industrial News, 24th August,
1926.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

THE MUNICIPALITY AS COAL MERCHANT.
Cut out middlemen's profits and leave more for the miner.
By OUR POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT.

It is typical of the antagonism of the Tory Government towards the miners that in
implementing the report of the Samuel Commission they have devoted their attention
mainly to those recommendations which operate to the disadvantage of the miners, whilst
neglecting almost completely those which might have been calculated to confer some
benefit upon them.
For instance, they have unceasingly advocated lower wages, and even though longer
hours were not favoured by the Commission, they have argued that these were necessary
too. On the other hand, they have taken no serious steps to give effect to the Com-
mission's definite recommendations for the State Acquisition of Royalties, the systematic
Reorganisation of the Industry and the Distribution of Coal by Municipal Authorities.
All of these measures, by eliminating either unnecessary profits or uneconomic expenditure,
would tend to increase the resources available for distribution in miners' wages, and thus
to diminish the force of the mineowners' constant demands for lower pay and longer hours.

Where does the difference go?
That there is an unjustifiably wide margin between the price of coal at the pithead
and the price charged to the consumer is shown by the figures that were placed before
the Samuel Commission. At a time when the average price of coal at the pithead was
145. 2d. a ton, the prices that were being charged in London varied from 40s. to 56s. a ton.
Surely the discrepancy there is sufficient to condemn the present system of distribution
after coal leaves the pithead !
The Labour Government thought so, and through their Minister of Mines, they had
a scheme prepared which would have empowered local authorities to enter into com-
petition with the profiteering merchants. But the General Election arrived before the
scheme could be put into operation, and when the Tory Government came into office
the plans were pigeonholed, as were many others that had as their object the protection of
the workers from exploitation.
The Samuel Commission also thought that the municipalities should be empowered
to trade in coal, and recommended that at least a two years' trial of the system should be
given. The Government, however, has abstained from giving effect to the recommendation.

Municipal Trading Pays.
The Municipalities are well equipped for entering the coal trade, and many of them,
like Birmingham, Manchester, Liverpool and Glasgow, already buy over a million tons a
year for their gas and other undertakings. Moreover, municipal trading generally has
proved itself to be a sound proposition, and just as it has cheapened the price of gas,
electricity and water to the consumers whilst at the same time making a profit for the
community, so could the same be done in the case of coal.
In refusing to act on the recommendation of the Commission, the Government has
shown once again that it is more concerned with the protection of vested interests than
with the standard of living of the workers and the welfare of the community at large.
-The Labour Press Service, 25th August, 1926.

WORSE THAN FIVE YEARS AGO.
One-Room Houses in Glasgow.

"To say that we have turned the corner with regard to housing is utter nonsense
so far as Scotland is concerned; the fact is that in Glasgow we are worse off to-day than
we were when we started our schemes five years ago."
This was the comment of a Glasgow housing expert when approached regarding the
Minister of Health's statement as to the position of housing in the country. "We have
not touched the fringe of the question," he said.
At a Parliamentary inquiry at the end of last year, Glasgow's need was given as
100,000 houses. Under the local authority schemes 7,500 houses have been built and
occupied in Glasgow, 6,500 are at present under construction, while ground has been
bought to permit of the erection of a further 9,000 houses. Practically all these are
subsidised houses.
According to the Medical Officer of Health for Glasgow there were at the 1921 census
40,689 houses of only one apartment, populated by 132,146 persons, and 78,781 persons
were living more than three in one room, while in 108,968 two-apartment houses there were
514,537 residents and 181,625 living more than three in a room. -Daily News, 28th July, 1926.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

502
COAL TRADE DISPUTE.
Subvention (Payments to Owners).
SIR E. WISE asked the Secretary for Mines the amount of subvention paid to the
coalowners for each county in Great Britain?
THE SECRETARY FOR MINES (Colonel Lane Fox): I regret that figures for separ-
Official Report an estimate of the total subvention in each of the colliery district
not available, and would be laborious to obtain. I will circulate with the
Following are the figures:
Scotland
Northumberland
Durham
South Wales and Monmouthshire
Yorkshire, Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire, Leicestershire, Can-
nock Chase and Warwickshire
Lancashire, North Staffordshire and Cheshire
North Wales
South Staffordshire and Salop
Cumberland
Bristol
Forest of Dean
Somerset
Kent
£3,030,000
1,636,000
4,166,000
3,811,000
2,311,000
418,000
227,000
390,000
35,000
143,000
33,000
45,000
£23,350,000
-Oral Answers, Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons, 4th August, 1926.
BOOT UNION'S £27,000.
The total sum remitted to the Trades Union Congress Relief Fund by the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives has now reached £25,905 15s. 4d. In addition £260
has been remitted direct from the Executive of the Union to the Miners' Fund, £200
from the Northampton Branch, £140 from the Norwich Branch, and £664 2s. 3d.
from the Norwich Branch to the Miners' Fund, whilst the Leicester Women's Bran-
has sent £16 to the Lady Slesser Fund, making a total of over £27,000. - Daily Her-
23rd August, 1926.
HOUSES THAT ARE WORSE THAN PIG STIES.
This is the description which the Medical Officer of Health for Camberwell gives in
his report for 1925, which has recently been issued:-
external air.
main walls dilapidated or bulging; the staircases are not lighted or ventilated to the
In many cases the floors of the ground-floor rooms are below ground level; the
Many of the rooms in the area are unfit for human habitation, owing to the dampness
arising from the ground or the dilapidated condition of the main roofs.
"Most of the dwellings represented in Bowyer Street are so overcrowded that the
washhouses are in use as living rooms, and many of the bedrooms are verminous.
"Some of the houses have back bedrooms of a capacity not exceeding 400 cubic feet.
In all the houses dealt with there are no water fittings within the buildings and no washing-
up sinks provided.
"Mayhew's Buildings, in Wyndham Road, consist of a block of back-to-back houses,
built almost entirely of wood.
"The ground floors of these houses are much below ground level and entered from
a common yard by doors, in some cases only 4 feet 6 inches high.
"The staircases are narrow, winding, insufficiently lighted, and ill-ventilated. The
floors of the rooms are worm-eaten, and the plastering of the ceilings and internal walls
generally dilapidated.
"These houses are without coppers and washing-up sinks, and have no water fittings
within the buildings, and are provided with only one water closet and one water stand for
the use of two houses."
How the Minister of Health can contemplate a reduction of the subsidy, and a con-
sequent retardation of the housing schemes of local authorities, while conditions like this
prevail within half an hour's journey of the House of Commons, is more than any reason-
able man can comprehend. -The Labour Press Service.


---
503
TUBERCULOSIS.
Fresh Air, Open Spaces, More Sunlight, Better Houses, Pure Milk.
all help in the fight for the Prevention of Tuberculosis.
Work of the Dispensary.
Several important phases of the problem of tuberculosis were discussed at the con
ference of the National Association for the Prevention of Tuberculosis, which opened at
Glasgow yesterday.
Sir Arthur Stanley, chairman of the council, who presided, mentioned that at a dinner
in the Mansion House, London, a fortnight hence, the Prince of Wales would preside and
launch an appeal for £100,000 to be used solely for propaganda purposes,
The Lord Provost (Sir Matthew Montgomery) said that when the association was
established, in 1808, the deaths in Great Britain from tuberculosis were 70,000 per annum,
In
in 1924 they had been reduced to 47,000
of tuberculosis were the absorption into the system of impure milk and food, overcrowding
and lack of open spaces and fresh air and sunlight.
The things which went to the spreading
If big cities gave people better houses
and more open spaces and fresh air and more sunlight these would go far to combat every
stage of the disease.
Sir Robert Philip, introducing a discussion at the afternoon session on the place and
function of the tuberculosis dispensary in the tuberculosis scheme, said that next year
would be the 40th birthday of the dispensary.
thought it right that the dispensary should be an instrument of some importance.
connection with that work some of them went further than that. They held that if the
tuberculosis dispensary were really at work many of the difficult problems, both hygienic
and economic, would be solved. Many agencies were required for tuberculosis, but it
was desirable they should begin at the right end. The Times, 2nd July, 1926.
THE SCIENCE OF SANITATION.
Mr. Chamberlain on 50 Years of Progress.
The inaugural session of the Jubilee Congress of the Royal Sanitary Institute took
place yesterday afternoon at Guildhall, where Mr. Chamberlain, in his address, which was
In the year 1875-6, he said, the gross expenditure from revenue and
read by Mr. I. G. Gibbon, of the Ministry of Health, referred to the progress made during
the past 50 years.
from loans of local authorities in England and Wales on public health services appeared
to have been just over £5,000,000; in 1923-4 the figure was over £61,000,000, and, in
addition, over £27,000,000 was spent on housing in that year. The Times, 6th July, 1926.
ANSWERS IN BRIEF.
When the Tory Government came into office (1st November, 1924), the number of
people in receipt of Poor Relief was 1,047,280. By 29th December, 1924, it had risen to
1,071,945 by 27th June, 1925, to 1,105,970; by 26th December, 1925, to 1,324,314;
and by 26th June, 1926, to 2,338,100.
*
*
*
The total amount of the coal subsidy is estimated at £23,350,000. The total yearly
amount of interest paid on the National Debt is £306,994,847, or more than twelve times
as much.
*
*
*
Between the 1st July and 17th July, the amount of coal imported into Great Britain
was 1,345,000 tons. The usual production of the British pits is about 5,000,000 tons
a week.
*
*
*
The issued share capital of the sugar beet factories which are receiving the subsidy
amounts to £21 million. Of this, about 1 million is held by British shareholders and
about 1 million by foreign.
*
*
*
The average weekly wage of all classes of workpeople in the coal mines (says the
Ministry of Mines), during the March quarter, 1926, was 53s. 4d.
*
*
*
During the eight years 1914-21 the profit made by the mineowners was £181/3 million.
The total capital of the industry is not more than £160 million. The Labour Press Service.


---
CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION.
THE CORDWAINERS TECHNICAL COLLEGE.
506
Prospectus of Classes in Boot and Shoe Manufacture and Making, and
Leather Goods Manufacture. Day and Evening Classes. Session 1926-7.
All applicants for admission to the Day Technical
Classes must be interested in the Boot, Leather Goods, or cognate trades. For admission
to the Evening Classes applicants must generally be employed in one of the branches of
the above-mentioned trades.
All classes are open to students of both sexes.
Students under 17 years of age are not admitted to the Evening Classes of the College
unless they have previously attended a secondary, the upper section of a higher-grade, or
a central school for not less than four years; or have completed a course of study in a trade
school: or produce a certificate of having satisfactorily attended a two-years' course
of study at a junior evening institute, or pass an educational test to be set by the Principal,
Students under 17 years of age who cannot satisfy the foregoing conditions are advised
to attend one of the Junior Technical Institutes mentioned on page 13 of the Prospectus.
In the Evening Classes one attendance only per week is permitted in any one depart.
ment, and students are expected to take up at least one other department, but the selection
must be approved by the Principal.
FEES. In all cases fees must be paid in advance.
Senior Technical Day Courses.- The following fees are charged for those living in the
L.C.C., Kent or Middlesex areas:-
Boot and Shoe Manufacture
For single classes
Evening Classes for those living in the L.C.C.,
Kent or Middlesex areas for all subjects
(except women's trades)
Women's trades
{
£25 per session.
12 2s. per session per class.
10s. per session for one evening
per week. Each additional
evening 5s.
8s. per session for one evening
per week. Each additional
evening 4s.
Part Time Day Classes. Apprentices attending day classes in their employers' time
will be charged the same fee as for the Evening Classes.
ARRANGEMENT OF SESSION. For Senior Technical Day Classes the session is divided
into three terms:-
Winter Term: From 20th September to 22nd December, 1926.
Spring Term: From 3rd January to 25th March, 1927.
Summer Term: From 28th March to 24th June, 1927.
The Evening Classes extend from 20th September, 1926, to 3rd June, 1927.
HOLIDAYS.-
Christmas: Evening Department: from 18th December, 1926; Day Department:
from 22nd December, 1926, to 3rd January, 1927 (inclusive).
Easter: From 14th April to 24th April, 1927 (inclusive).
Whitsuntide: 6th June and 7th June, 1927.
COLLEGE HOURS.-
Senior Technical Day Classes from 9.30 to 12.30 and 2 to 5, except Saturdays.
Evening Classes from 7.15 to 9.45 p.m., except where otherwise stated.
SYLLABUSES OF INSTRUCTION.
SESSION 1926-27.
THEORY OF SHOE MANUFACTURE. (1) LECTURES.-Friday, 3.30 to 5 p.m.-Feet,
Measurements, Lasts, Patterns, Clicking, Uppers, Bottoming, Finishing, Preparing Goods
for Market.
Scholarships in Science and Technology awarded by the London County
Council.
(1) TRADE SCHOLARSHIPS are awarded as the result of the examination held each year.
A preliminary examination is held in May and the final in October. Boys must be between
13 and 14 years of age on 31st March subsequent to the examination. The Scholarships


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
507
including engineering, furniture-making photo-engraving, silver smithing, book produc
are tenable for 1. 2 or 3 years, according to the course of training entered the courses
tion, cookery, waiting, carriage and motor-body building, boot and shoe manufactu
tailoring rubber, music.
Free tuition is provided, and in some cases a maintenance grant
(2) EVENING EXHIBITIONS provide free evening instruction in technical subjects and
a grant of a year for a maximum period of 3 years
15 years and upwards, who are engaged in or intend to be engaged in a par
ticular branch of trade or industry
of the age of
They are awarded to students
They are available for candidates of 16 to
15 years on 31st July, Candidates who have not Passed a first
of their work. The scholarships are tenable for two or three years but not beyond the end
must satisfy a Board of Assessors as to their Academic Attainments, and submit specimens
year in which the age
occupy 3 years,
They provide free tuition in many technical subjects (including Boot and
Shoe and Leather Goods Manufacture) and in certain cases a maintenance grant
(4) SENIOR SCHOLARSHIPS in Art, Commerce, Science, and Technology enable students
character and have been in regular evening attendance in technical institutions or com
at the age of 18 plus, who are engaged in trades or occupations of a technical condent
mercial evening institutes for the preceding two years, to attend for two or three years
for full-time day instruction in recognised technical (engineering, building, chemical
industries, &c.), or commercial courses at institutions of university rank with a maintenance
grant not exceeding 4100 a year.
(5) FREE PLACES AT THE IMPERIAL COLLEGE. A limited number of these free places
are available annually for students of the age of 18 plus, who have been in regular attend-
ance at an appropriate course of study and intend to undertake an advanced (fourth year)
course of study. They will be selected after consideration of their scholastic attainments.
Candidates must be British subjects and resident in London. Full particulars of all
scholarships awarded by the Council are given in the London County Council Scholarship
and Training of Teachers' Handbook, obtainable from Messrs. P. S. King & Son Limited,
4 Great Smith Street, Westminster, S.W., price 3d., by post, 4d.
REGISTERED SOCIETIES.
Management Expenses.
COMMANDER FANSHAWE asked the Minister of Labour what proportion of the total
annual income is used for management expenses, including salaries, by societies registered
under the Friendly Societies Act?
THE FINANCIAL SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY (Mr. Ronald McNeill): I have been
asked to reply. No statistics are available which give the precise information desired.
Societies registered under the Friendly Societies Act include not only Friendly Societies,
but also working men's clubs, cattle insurance societies, benevolent societies, and especially
authorised societies. The management expenses ratio on these four classes has never
been calculated. In 1924 friendly societies (other than societies with branches, which
include 50 per cent. of friendly society membership, and collecting societies) received
total contributions of £6,430,000 and spent on management £690,000, or about 7 per
cent. of contributions. In the same year collecting societies SPENT 34 PER CENT. OF THEIR
TOTAL INCOME ON MANAGEMENT. - Extract from Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons,
Monday, 2nd August, 1926.
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 31st JULY,* 1926
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included
Food only
FOOD.
..
..
..
70 per cent.
61
"
At 31st July the average level of retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland)
of the articles of food included in these statistics was about the same as at the beginning
of the month, viz., 61 per cent. above the pre-war level of July, 1914. This percentage
compares with 68 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1925. The principal movements
in prices during the month were increases in the prices of eggs and decreases in those of
potatoes. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, August. 1926,
* As ist August fell on a Sunday, the statistics relate to 31st July, in accordance
with the usual practice.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in there Reports, rom padar
being men on whom we can rely: should, however, any errors creep into Lem, upon the
same being pointed out to us, wwe shall be most hay to give the stu
correction as to the original matter. As these Reporte are exclusively for these of Member
the information contained therein must not le divulged.

NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Sest of Government, 34.GUILFORD ST. LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 240.

General President
T.F.RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L.POULTON J.P.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

MONTHLY REPORT

24TH SEPTEMBER, 1926.

FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE.
Trade still continues stagnant; largely, as stated last month, due to the
Mining situation, a situation which can only be described not only as tragic,
but as one to call for the utmost condemnation of owners and the Government
in the attitude taken up in the past days. One might imagine that such
Lock-out was a comparatively small affair, instead of one which is affecting
the nation adversely, both morally, physically and materially.
We continue to pay out considerable sums of money due to lack of employ-
mont, the amount paid from our own Out-of-Work Fund during the month
being as follows: £7,120 13s. gd. and from the State side £11,196 1s. 7d.
The Ministry of Labour figures relating to the industry are as follows :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment remained poor, on the whole, especially with makers of workmen's
boots. In most centres the factories closed for extended periods at the holidays. After
the resumption of work, employment was generally on a short time basis, but slightly
better than in the previous month.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at employment exchanges, was 13.6 on 23rd August, 1926, as compared with 14.3
on 26th July, 1926, and with 12.3 on 24th August, 1925.
B


---
Here's the text extracted from the image, formatted for readability:

**524**

The following Table summarises the information received from those employers
who furnished returns for the three periods under review:

|  | Number of Workpeople  |  |  | Total Wages Paid to all Workpeople  |  |  |
| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|  | Week ended  | Inc. (+) or  |  | Week ended  | Inc. (+) or  |  |
|  | 8th Aug. 1926  | Dec. (-) on a | Monthago | Year ago  | 26th Aug. 1926  | Dec. (-) on a | Monthago | Year ago  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  | Per cent. | Per cent. |  |  | Per cent. | Per cent. |
| ENGLAND AND WALES: |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| London | 1,750 | -0.4 | -5.6 |  £3,786 | -2.1 | -6.9 |
| Leicester | 8,745 | 0.1 | -0.1 | 19,126 | -0.3 | -1.8 |
| Leicester Country District | 2,020 | 1.0 | -3.6 | 4,241 | +0.3 | -0.9 |
| Northampton Country District | 6,795 | +1.3 | +1.1 | 16,539 | +1.0 | +4.4 |
| Kettering | 7,881 | +1.1 | +1.3 | 17,090 | +6.6 | +0.9 |
| Stafford and District | 3,411 | +0.6 | +1.7 | 8,381 | +1.7 | -3.2 |
| Norwich and District | 2,554 | +2.4 | +3.8 | 5,607 | -5.6 | +3.0 |
| Bristol, Kingswood and District | 4,727 | +0.4 | +6.0 | 9,579 | -0.9 | +2.4 |
| Leeds and District | 1,855 | +1.1 | -8.3 | 3,803 | +2.8 | +5.1 |
| Lancashire (mainly Rossendale Valley) | 1,720 | -3.0 | -7.6 | 3,533 | +18.1 | -9.9 |
| Birmingham and District | 4,852 | -0.6 | -0.5 | 9,986 | -0.4 | +7.1 |
| Other parts of England and Wales | 955 | -0.2 | -0.2 | 1,744 | +14.1 | -3.4 |
|  | 1,693 | +0.5 | +4.7 | 3,022 | -0.6 | +7.1 |
| ENGLAND AND WALES | 48,958 | +0.5 | -0.1 | 106,437 | +2.2 | -0.5 |
| SCOTLAND | 2,363 | -2.2 | -7.0 | 4,544 | -3.1 | -11.8 |
| GREAT BRITAIN | 51,321 | +0.4 | -0.5 | 110,981 | +1.9 | -1.1 |

*Comparison of earnings is affected by changes in rates of wages.

Returns from firms employing 41,500 operatives in the week ended 28th August, 1926,
showed that practically 50 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that week,
losing, on an average, about 12 hours each.

Employment in London declined and was only moderate on the whole, more short
time being worked than in July. Many firms at Leicester extended the bank holiday
stoppage, and when work was resumed employment was very slack, with short time working
prevalent. At Hinckley employment was bad, and worse than in July. At Northampton,
after extended holidays, few factories were able to work more than half time; but during
the latter part of the month there was a slight improvement. Short time working continued
with some firms in the Higham and Rushden area, but employment on the whole was fair.
There was an improvement at Wellingborough, but employment was still poor and short
time working prevalent; at Irthlingborough employment remained moderately good.
At Kettering there was a slight reduction in short time working when the factories re-
opened after the holidays, but the average hours worked were still only from one-half
to three-quarters of normal.

Employment at Stafford was fairly good, and slightly better than in July, but many
operatives were working reduced hours. At Norwich more short time was worked than in
July, and employment, with most firms, was only moderate. A further slight improve-
ment was reported in the Bristol and Kingswood area; employment was, however, much
below normal for the time of year, especially in the case of factories producing heavy boots.
In the Leeds area less short time was worked than in July, but employment was still poor,
and worse than a year ago. In the Rossendale Valley employment was about the same
as a month earlier and there was a considerable amount of under-employment in the Bacup
and Rawtenstall districts.

In Scotland, taken as a whole, there was a decline as compared both with July and
with a year ago. Employment was good at Maybole and fairly good at Kilmarnock,
and an improvement as compared with the previous month was reported in each of these


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
526
BOOTS AND SHOES MADE ABROAD.
On pages 533-546 will be found an interesting and informative report
dealing with the manufacture of Boots and Shoes on the Continent. The
report is one from our own colleagues, Messrs. T. F. Richards and W. R.
Smith, who have, at first hand, investigated the methods of production.
The report proves to us how necessary it is for yet more interworking and
understanding with our comrades in other countries, and thereby make it
possible for general standards to be set up and prevent unjust conditions of
employment to obtain either in this country or elsewhere.
NEW NATIONAL AGREEMENT.
On Tuesday the 21st inst. we met the Executive of the Manufacturers
Federation at 7 Tavistock Square, W.C. 1, to deal with the proposals sub-
mitted in connection with National Agreement. Mr. W. Addington Willis,
C.B.E., presided.
After considerable discussion upon the whole question it was decided
that the existing Agreement (with the deletion in Clause 8 of the words "June
or" and the words "April or," which means that a yearly, if any revision
of the wage rates, instead of half-yearly, take place, and which will only operat
if the Cost-of-Living Figure falls to 70 or lower. Also the important deletion
will take place of the "B" rates of pay for Males; thus in both these cases
advantage accrues to the workers, and should be re-signed for another two
years.
A Committee is also to be set up to deal with certain obscure points of
reading in the Agreement and the Terms of Settlement, more especially the
question of Regulation of Wages by the Statement when daywork is the method
of payment, and to report to the full body later on.
We feel sure the members will, if they take account of the existing con-
ditions in the industrial world, fully support this procedure. We have preserved
and really improved the position, which is not a small thing at the present
time, and we confidently appeal for a big vote in support of the policy we
have pursued. The actual resolutions passed were as follows:
MR. C. W. HORRELL proposed and MR. T. F. RICHARDS seconded:
"That the National Agreement as at present existing be re-signed,
and made operative for a further period of two years, with the exception
of the elimination of the words 'June or,' line 4, and 'April or' line 5.
Paragraph 1, Clause 8; and the necessary amendment of the heading of
Schedule A, in view of the elimination of Schedule B."
"That a Joint Sub-Committee be formed under the Chairmanship
of Mr. W. Addington Willis, with instructions to consider the phraseology
of the various clauses of the National Agreement, and to make recom-
mendations of drafting alterations to the next National Conference;
but the alterations shall not be such as to vary the principles embodied
in the National Agreement."


---
Here is the extracted text:
528
The change will become effective on the first clear pay day in November,
that is to say, 10th, 11th, or 12th November, and the minimum day wage rate
that will be paid to all MALE OPERATIVES are set out under Column I in
Schedule A, headed "When the index figure is over 70," and to FEMALE
OPERATIVES under Column I in Schedule C, headed "When the index
figure is over 70."
It should be particularly noted that the rates set out in Schedule A will
now apply to MALE OPERATIVES IN ALL DEPARTMENTS.
Yours faithfully,
E. L. POULTON,
Secretary to the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
RUTH TOMLINSON,
Secretary to the Manufacturers' Federation
A copy of the above letter has been issued to 1,110 known boot and sho..
manufacturers (Federated and Non-Federated). Further copies may t..
secured on application to the Central Office.

THE MINING SITUATION.
We had hoped that it would have been possible this month to have reported
a settlement in connection with the above-named question. Such however
cannot be done, the position being one wherein it appears that the owners of
the mines have made up their minds to insist upon breaking down the method
of National Agreements, relying upon hunger and suffering to bring about such
breakaways from the Miners' Federation as will mean the end of such body.
We hope that their strategy will be defeated and public opinion become so
vocal as to compel reason and justice to triumph. In this connection the Trades
Union Congress passed a resolution calling upon all to support as far as possible.
the Miners, financially. We know it is not an easy matter for many so to do,
having regard to their small income. We, however, appeal to the whole
membership to give as much as possible to help our comrades, their wives and
children in the tremendous fight that they are engaged in, and make it possible
for them to emerge therefrom with honour.

PROCEDURE TO BE ADOPTED IN DEALING WITH DISPUTES.
We beg to call the members' attention to the necessity of reading the
Rules of the Union and acting in accordance therewith when any adjustments
are called for in connection with their employment.
Rule 166a, page 35 of the Rule Book, lays down very clearly the procedure,
one of the paragraphs being as follows :-
There must be no suspension of work, either at the instigation of the
employers or workmen, the main object of the Board being to prevent this.
If any suspension of work takes place, the Board may refuse to enquire into
the matter in dispute till work is resumed; whilst the fact of its having been


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
520

interrupted will be taken into account on considering the question.
in order that the complainant or complainants may not lose through waiting,
any recommendation of the Committee of Enquiry, or any decision of the
Board, shall be made to date back to the time of the complaint being sent in
Compliance with this procedure is not only called for under our Agreement
experience shows that the procedure gives to an officer the best means of
securing adjustments, and that without any loss of time to the members
NOMINATIONS.
The names of those nominated for the various positions will be found
on pages 553 559.
It must be understood that in future NO list of nominations for any Union
office be sent to the Press until time has elapsed for withdrawals, according
to rule.
Voting will take place at the October meeting, and the results must be
sent along to the General Secretary by the 15th prox.
THE TRADE CONGRESS.
The Trade Congress which was held at Bournemouth, 6th to 11th Septem-
ber, under the Presidency of Mr. A. Pugh, the Chairman of the General Council
of the Trades Union Congress, was, despite the "prophets," very successful.
The expected "hot" times did not take place, and except for one short period
on Thursday afternoon, the business was conducted in an orderly and expedi-
Mr. Pugh made an excellent Chairman. Many questions of
tious manner.
vital interest to the people were dealt with, it being clear to those who were
present that despite its detractors the Congress is a powerful organisation
and one that helps to focus public opinion and to secure attention to matters
concerning the well-being of, not only the people of Great Britain, but also
in the wider sphere of international relations. The delegates' report will be
found on pages 560-564. We would, in this connection, specially draw the
attention of the members to the necessity of taking day by day, the Herald.
This paper is our own paper and gives information upon labour questions not
appearing in other papers. We want to make it the most powerful paper in
the country. Do your part in helping to still further extend its circulation.
The General President and the General Secretary were re-elected members
of the General Purposes and the General Council respectively. Mr. W. R.
Smith, although not elected as delegate to the Canadian Congress, polled
exceedingly well, and was second on the list.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We hope that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.


---
531
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTUSH Town, N.W.
22nd September, 1926.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
THE NATIONAL AGREEMENT. The best thing we have done this month was
when we signed the new National Agreement yesterday, which will remain in operation
until the end of 1928. Our members should carefully consider the Agreement and see
what has been gained. Owing to the cost-of-living figure being 72 points above 1914.
We shall now return to the 60s. minimum for all males on the first pay-day in November
All pressmen and men in the shoe rooms will receive 3s. rise on their previous minimum,
making 60s. in all. In addition the employers were generous enough to concede to us a
change in the date as to when the adjustment should be made, which means that in future
the figure will only be taken annually, and that on the September figures issued in the
Labour Gazette, which figure has always been favourable to the operative. The suggested
change in the Holiday Benefit Clause, submitted by the Federation, was withdrawn and
will remain in the new agreement. Further, it is interesting to learn that we have em-
ployers in our midst who at the Conference did not hesitate to say progress in industry
would not be made at the expense of a reduction in wages. That is the spirit. It has
caused me to give some thought and consideration upon the subject, and I have made a
careful study of Mr. Henry Ford's book "To-day and To-morrow," by the multi-millionaire
motor-car maker. He has been the pioneer and is to-day, in the question of big wages
and low costs. The pivot upon which he works is that of organisation, a subject which
will never be thoroughly understood whilst human beings are on this earth. It is inter-
esting to know Mr. Ford has only been in business 18 years, and this year has made his
13,000,000 car or tractor. In 1908 he had turned out 10,000 at a cost of £950 each. By
4th June, 1924, he had turned out 10,000,000 at £290 each. It will be seen he lowered
the cost of production by more than 200 per cent. He employs at the present time in his
works 200,000; then he has 200,000 men distributing, and another 200,000 engaged in
the raw material, and claims responsibility for the welfare of 3,000,000 men, women and
children. The wages of his operatives in 1922 was 8s. 4d. per day; he conceived the
idea of giving them a rise and increased wages to 25s.; there are men receiving more than
this amount. Mr. Ford claims there is not a man receiving less than 25s. per day. Two
Cambridge graduates have visited Ford's works in Detroit, and they report in a book of
their own that when Mr. Ford gave increased wages, the local shopkeepers put up their
prices in order to have a share of the increased wages. In order to check the rapacity
of these people he started a commissariat department, where most of the operatives can
get a real good American meal for 7½d. per head. This department is so vast that 900,000
dollars was spent in it last year. Mr. Ford has several maxims, and I think some of them
are worth reprinting here :-

All workers need a sufficiency of food; clothing; housing and pleasure.
Workers should learn not to fear big business.
Politicians who think politics can do what business ought to do are wrong.
Work is the salvation of the race.
Every man should have an occupation providing he is healthy enough to do it.
True prosperity means a reduction in prices.
Men must be taught generalship of industry.
All business must be of service to the community.
Professional finance ruined Germany.
Professional Reformers ruined Russia. (It is too early to say yet-T.F.R.).
Finance runs the League of Nations.
Power is not Gold.
Money Brokers are not business men.
Gold is now taking its proper place as a help.
Business without profit will die.
All profits should be used for extensions.

He evidently does not think much of trade union officials, he says they "want to
hold office and make speeches."
Twenty-five years ago Mr. Ford would have considered £500 per annum a fortune
for life. To-day his wealth is estimated at £17,000,000, which of course includes his plant
and not dollars in the bank. Every day another 80,000 dollars are added to the pile.
A short time ago he wrote out a cheque for £953,000 income tax.
Compare this firm with Bata, of Czecho-Slovakia. The system of Bata is rather
abhorrent to those who are accustomed to individual freedom. If our members will
carefully peruse the report appearing in this issue, they will find the impression we gained
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
of the arm.
532
tained in the administration of the factory.
that progress will be made,
great success,
Men will go a long way to get the sanile
few Vestrago Bata's arm was in the hands of the Austrian military offic
and so far as is compatible with the Republic the atmosphere then created is still main
and the position they create for others, Service is not servitude. We feel sure it will
only be by Bata's operatives banding together in an organisation to look after their interest
and patronage of their employer because he pays wages, forgetting their own ananlines
THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS has been held during the month. As usual it was a
The membership was 4,347.014, represented by 691 delegates. We did
olutions on the agenda this year, but the matters uppermost in our mind
were on the Agenda from other Unions. Several important discussions arose, such as ۸۲۱
attempt being made to allow Trades Councils to come under the Congress. This is a
policy of overlapping, and if certain individual representatives want to get to Congre
they must be sent as delegates from the trade unions. The Congress would not be cajole
to compliment Mr. Pugh, the Chairman, for the way he conducted
the business and for his Address, The only rift in the lute was made by some of the
Miners' delegates, who resented statements made by one of the representatives connecto
with the negotiations last May. He was anxious to protect himself and made a regrettali
by some of the miners' representatives, they would remain quiet until the special Congre
statement, because the negotiators had made up their minds that whilst they were availet
all the Miners' representatives would cease abusing those people who have been and are
of trade union executives was called to hear the report thereon. It would be as well a
helping them during their struggle. So far as we are concerned, only the Lancashire and
Cheshire Miners sent 50 during our struggle in 1895. Up to Tuesday of this week we have
One is bound
into this. )
subscribed
£29,212 14s. 1d.
own members. Until this spirit is stifled, the trade union movement will never make any
from attacking right and left not only the general trade union movement, but also thee:
It is very regrettable that the miners do not themselves prevent their representative
progress.
that our colleague, Mr. W. Warner, is far from well. The Council decided to send one of
HINCKLEY - Much of my time has been spent in Hinckley. I am sorry to repo
the organisers to assist in the work. I am sorry to report that Mr. Warner is not making
any progress, but whilst there is life there is hope, and we hope Mr. Warner will progress,
BURTON-ON-TRENT. - I have been weekly to Burton-on-Trent to keep in touch with
the few members who were thrown out of work by the fire at Messrs. Eatough & Son
There are quite 200 operatives who do not belong to any Union. As the Council have been
generous to pay a few probationary members I have been visiting the district weekly
clickers working there for a week.
NOTTINGHAM has been visited for the appointment of an Agent to Mr. J. H. Baum.
a temporary factory has been
Being a local man his position is strengthened. Personally I prefer a man. I know, to one
We have elected a local miner for the post. He has a good reputation in the movemem.
I do not know. He has two years' start over others because he knows his workers already
When asked if he had any tact he replied,
1,000 members, it has been my lot to approach over 700 men to persuade them to give up
outcropping." This in itself proves he has tact to persuade men on short rations to refrain
"As Secretary of the Miners' Association
from other work.
SHODDY. This subject is not being lost sight of nor neglected. A report will be seen
elsewhere where a retailer has been fined £5 in New Zealand for selling boots other than
all leather. We hope to resume our work in this connection within the very near future.
In conclusion, let us hope our members will do their best to abandon shoddy goods
and support their own British products, and also support their own Daily Herald.
Yours fraternally,
-
ihards
General President.


---
533
BOOT AND SHOE CONDITIONS ON THE
CONTINENT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
The following is our report of the first attempt made by our Union to obtain
first-hand information as to the conditions and methods of working obtaining in our
industry outside this country. It may be that visits have already been made to boot
factories abroad, but they have been largely incidental to visits for other purposes rather
than for the obtaining of definite and specific information appertaining to the manufacture
of boots and shoes. Our experiences in this connection convinced us that such
ventures are of great value, giving, as they do, useful first-hand information which is
available at all times in the interest of our members.
No time was lost following the decision of the Executive Council in putting in hand
the arrangements necessary for our visit, and at the end of a week we had started on our
journey. We arrived at Prague on Wednesday, 7th July, and were met at the station
by Comrade Novak, whom we had written to act as interpreter for us, also Comrade Srb,
the Secretary, and another official of the Shoe and Leather Workers’ Union. We cannot
speak too highly of the help given us during our stay in Czecho-Slovakia. Comrade Srb
did everything possible to make our visit both profitable and pleasant, while the services
of Comrade Novak as interpreter were invaluable. He was with us early and late, nothing
was too much trouble for him to do, and we place on record our appreciation of the great
help and the many kindnesses we received at their hands.
A great sports-gathering, called "Sokol," which is an annual affair, and is arranged
by workers’ sports organisations, had just concluded when we arrived. It has
grown in numbers until this year no less than 17,000 men and 15,000 women took
part. We regret we were too late to witness any of the performances, and it was
unfortunate for us in another way, as it constituted the holiday period; the factories
being closed, we were prevented thereby from visiting any of them until the Monday.
However, we used the time at our disposal to ascertain as far as possible the general
conditions of the country, the relative position occupied by the workers, and their
standard of living compared with our own. We attach a table showing the cost of
different commodities in our money. (See page 546.)
There appears to be no doubt that their standard of living is lower than our own,
but great efforts are being made to raise it and bring about improvement in the condition
of working-class life; they have already accomplished a great deal. Mr. Srb thought
that after making all allowances, they were about one-third below us.
The State of Czecho-Slovakia is less than eight years old, being one of the number
that were created an independent State under the Treaty of Versailles, upon the break-up
of the old Austrian Empire. But like other countries they had their revolution towards
the close of the War, and without the loss of a single life, declared their independence
and set up a Provisional Government. In their early days they laid the foundation of a
real democratic State. The Government came into being on 28th October, 1918; they
established the eight-hour day by law on the 18th of December of the same year, a rather
smart performance. It is still in operation. In many respects the legislation affecting the
workers is unique. Every business which has more than thirty workpeople has its Works
Council, which keeps a watch on the carrying out of the collective agreements and arbitra-
tion decisions regarding wages, and on factory discipline. The Works Council has the
right to be consulted in regard to the dismissing of workmen, and participates in the
administration of benevolent institutions for workmen. It has a right to propose to the
employer improvements in the administration of the concern, in working methods, in the
protection of the workers and so on. The Works Council has its representative in the
administrative committee of the business, the employer is bound to ask the opinion of the
Works Council on the points above-mentioned, and also to present every six months a
report on the business. This supervision of the administration of business is stricter in
the enterprises employing more than 300 workers. The guarantee, however, in the
application of this lies in the workers being organised, as we shall show in the case of Bata.
At the beginning of national independence there was a difficulty regarding offices
for Government purposes. These having all been in Vienna previously, found them
without a single building. There was neither time nor means to erect what was wanted.
It was therefore decided to take possession of the big houses and mansions of the aristo-
cracy. A careful inventory was taken of the contents of the building required and these
were preserved for the owners, but the mansions were taken and are still being used as
Government Offices by the State. This action was described as bolshevism in kid gloves.
They also took possession of the land and let it out at moderate prices to those who
cultivate it. They destroyed all the privileges enjoyed by the aristocracy as such, including
those appertaining to the franchise, and established adult suffrage, all men and women
being equal in this respect.


---
5.3-4
mplished much during the past seven years, their method of dealin
oth unemployment being somewhat unique.
worker can obtain
e the married ma
from the Government
benefit is concerned, in administration.
The State supplements Trade Union effort
Fs, their method of dealin
th unemployment benefit from the State unless he or she is a membe
The State adds 100 per cent. to the benefit of a single man and
trade amon he gets the full amount as though he were married. If the benefit paid by t
monis que crowns a day, the State gives five crowns to a single man, and seven and
cot to that of a married man, but if the single man has five years' membership of
The benefit paid by the respective unions varies, and
state limit their contribution for benefit to twelve crowns a day to single men and cighter.
all crowns to a married man, the single man with five years' membership getting
to married men, with the five years' membership of single men applying thereto. T
This should be much less costly than our methods, so far as Sta
is paid for seven days a week all benefit is paid by the Trade Union, who
treatment, including families and lodgers. They have a Minister of Social Care whic
woman gets this six weeks before confinement and twelve weeks after. All receive med
Sickness benefit is paid by the State to the extent of 60 per cent. of carnings.
discharge, but the trade union control in administration prevents what we should ca
ue similar to our own, such as no benefit is payable where a workman brings about his o
precantions are taken to prevent two benefits being drawn at one time, and the restrictio
harge of all this work, co-ordinating it in every respect so that there is no overlapp
which class they want, evidently according to means or taste, and the authority Ge
There are different classes of funerals provided at varying charges the people chices
All public services are in the hands of the public authority, even to undertakiz
Travel Bureaux are run by the Government, so that tourists get proper treatmen
exchange rates, &c. No licences for a cinema can be held by any individual these are
what is required, as we were informed, cheaper and better than private enterprise.
granted to organisations only, not private companies running for profit. Where to
were formerly held by individuals, the licence was refused and the owner of the propert
victimisation.
had to make terms as to renting or selling his buildings.
activities are carried on.
T
The Czechs evidently have long had their various workers' organisations as is sho
Social Democrats are possessed of a very fine block of buildings in which their varno
by the achievements of the Social Democrats and the success of co-operative effort. T.
It includes an hotel, where we stayed, which is let to and runt
an individual, a large restaurant which is run by the Waiters' Union on a co-operativ
basis, and is very successful. There is a large printing and publishing business run bye
Party; it produces some beautiful work in books, &c., including translations from man
of the best English authors. It caters for all classes of trade right up from children's
books to those of the finest grade-a really wonderful working-class achievement. It ca
seven linotype and three rotary printing machines, involving thousands of poundst
capital, and the business is very remunerative.
work.
1
Union), and their equipment bears evidence to their activities and the wide scope of the-
The offices of the Party are in the building (also those of the Shoe and Leather Workers'
The room in which the Executive Council meets contains the chairs and table
modest looking furniture, but pregnant with great associations and accomplishment
which were used by the Cabinet of the first Czech Government after the revolution; very
illustrating their lifework. By this method it can be truly said that though dead he vet
In the room are kept, in urns, the ashes of dead leaders. in one or two cases there are films
speaketh. It is a beautiful thought that preserves in this way the memory of those tha:
firm for what they believed to be right and just at times when they carried their lives in
are gone and shows how great is the appreciation of their work. Many of them stood
sacrifices the movement
present position. It was a pleasing illustration of memories being kept green.
The Shoe and Leather Workers' Union, like the Constitution, is only seven years old,
though it has members of long standing as trade unionists, it being an offshoot from the
pre-war Austrian Union, and it is fighting manfully and well on behalf of its members.
and many agreements with different employers have been made, and we saw evidence of
It adopts a policy similar to our own, negotiation and conciliation whenever possible,
the respect in which it is held by the firms. They do not, however, surink from strikes
when all else has failed, and the success that has followed their efforts shows conclusively
that the Union was right and their policy sound, as they invariably win something for
their members when they take action.
The Union has no easy task, as the movement unfortunately is divided into many
sections. There are six Central Trade Union Organisations in the leather trades. They
have no common policy, rather are they conflicting elements to the advantage of the
employer. The trade unions follow or associate with political parties, and there is also
the question of nationality which is a basis of organisation, and therefore the differences
which separate them are not so easy of adjustment. There are signs, however, of better


---
understanding, many of the Communists are returning to the old Union. There is also
hope in the fact that the employers are combining regardless of nationality or politics,
and the workmen are beginning to see they must do the same. May they soon see the
light and consolidate themselves into one body. The officials we met would, we are
certain, welcome it and do all possible to make it a success.
A word may be inserted here of the general activity of the Social Democratic Unions
which is shown in a very fine building they have built in Prague for the offices of The Trade
Union Federation, and a number of the Unions. A picture of the front of it appeared
in the Daily Herald of 31st July. It is well equipped for its purpose, containing five floors
with commodious rooms for the different Unions. It also possesses a very nice hall for
conference purposes or meetings, and a restaurant of an up-to-date character. Not the
least interesting feature of it is that it was built with Government help in the shape of a
substantial money grant.

The co-operative movement is also active and successful, the Social Democrats
having officially decided in 1901 that it was their duty to support it. We visited several
shops and were impressed by their apparent efficiency, those in charge readily showing
us over the different departments. There is one shop that sells the various costumes
and dresses issued by the sports organisation; this is for the whole of Czecho-Slovakia
and ensures uniformity and low selling prices. We also, on the Saturday morning, visited
a co-operative bakery. Established in 1907, it then employed seven people; its staff
to-day is 329 and they produce 150,000 loaves of bread a week, besides fancy roll and
pastries. It is a fine building, not so good and well equipped perhaps as some in this country,
but a splendid manifestation of working-class effort.

There are many other matters of interest that we were informed of and witnessed
during our stay, but we have confined ourselves to explaining in brief form those that
are associated mainly with working-class effort, or that are related to working-class con-
ditions; the general public endeavour, however, is of a high order as reflected in their
parks, public halls and art galleries, showing an evident determination to put civic adminis-
tration on as high a level as possible. We may perhaps add that we visited on the Sunday
a co-operative farm. This was originally the property of a nobleman, but was taken
over with the land in the early days of the revolution. The old steward is still retained
as manager, and the farm is well equipped with machinery and stock. Our visit was
too short to enable us to obtain as much information as we would wish, but we saw sufficient
to convince us of the practical way in which they have dealt with their land problem
since the war.

On the Monday we commenced our visits to the boot factories, the first being Messrs.
T. L. Popper, of Chrudim. We reached this place at midday, and had a meal at a Labour
Temple or Workers' Home. This is a fine building which contained a good restaurant,
a large meeting hall, a small hall, a room used as a library, and a children's theatre. It
was built by the shoemakers of the town at a cost of 2,000,000k., or £12,500; evidently
the shoemakers in Czecho-Slovakia are in the forefront of progressive forces. We were
received at the factory by the manager, Mr. Zaba, who could speak English, having some
years ago lived in England and worked at T. Brown's, Leicester. The principals, Mr.
Popper and his son, also spoke English, but were engaged with customers; we saw them,
however, before we left and their greeting to us was very cordial. The factory is new,
having been built last year. It is perhaps one of the best we have seen, the different
floors (it was a five-storey building) were well lighted and equipped, the operatives having
ample space in which to work. On every floor a woman was continually engaged in
sweeping up; not a particle of dust or anything was left about; she had a small iron trolley
on wheels, and with dustpan and brush she moved round gathering up anything that lay
about; you cannot imagine a cleaner factory.

The relationship with the Union was very good, an agreement having been made
under which not only are wages fixed, but the firm pay 30 per cent. of wages during sickness
on top of the 60 per cent. paid by the State. The State compels a week's holiday with
pay after one year's service; the firm gives this if the operative has been there only one
week. Excellent provisions are made for the operatives in the erection of seventeen
shower-baths, well arranged, while round the very ample room that is used for hanging
their clothes, wash-basins are also provided. We were informed here that if a firm wants
clean work they must provide the means for clean operatives. Workmen are not dis-
charged when old, but small pensions are granted. The firm evidently believe that good
shoes can only be produced from good material, as they purchase in the best markets and
obtain their supplies from Germany, Austria and England-we saw some from Leicester-
also using home productions. The firm was very short of work, a reduced number of
operatives working 36 hours a week. The capacity of the factory would easily be 12,000
a week. We saw little juvenile labour, and evidently the women continue on in the factory
longer than they do in most places at home. The class of goods manufactured range from
small children's to men's, with all varieties in between, including children's 7 to 1 welted
boots. All the goods were of the best material and workmanship, their production being
of a high order. The machines used and methods adopted being similar to our own.


---
The following are the wages as fixed by agreement with the Union, but it is well to add that
the quantities done are less than in this country: Foreman, 2 IQS. 6d.; clickers, 19s. Od.:
closers, first hands, £1 1s. 3d.; second, 17s. 6d. fitters. £1.
The highest rate is £1 16s. 3d. These, we
hitting cutters, £1 8s. od. stitcher, £1 13s. od.
Listers,/1 128 61. gathered rate m.m rates, but more is carned when the work is available.
Next day we were at Bata's whose factories are at Zlin. Again we were well received.
(wo members of the staff being detailed to show us round. This is a distinct type of
business
There are at present to blocks of buildings, each used for a specific purpose
The fun dress and tan their own leather, make their own wood lasts and heels, also ruber
do then own building and engineering work, run their own farm, and build
It without doubt a most self-contained business. The site upon which the
They own forests and saw-mills, brick-works and atong
houses for the workpeople
buildings stand, apart from the farm, comprises about 25 acres.
quannes
foundation of the business in its present form was laid. They first made felt-boots, and
The firm started thirty years ago in a very small way, and twenty years ago
it is evadent that up to tout it had not grown very much, as the first order for Army bot
outbreak of war in 1914 was for 500 pairs for the town of Zlin: at the end of wo
Bata were doing 500 pairs a day, and in 19175,000 pairs a day. It is very evident that
the war made Bata, and we learned while in Vienna that the quality of the boots
The present dining room was built to accommodate them. Being largely of the peas
ian soldiers was not of the best. The firm employed Russian prisoners of
class they were afraid of the machinery and had to be coaxed into working it. Some
stayed on after the war and others, we were informed, had returned since. The Gover
ment would not permit wages to be paid, but their earnings were placed to their credit
siderably more than at present.
During the war they were exclusively engaged on making boots for the Austrian
Army, employing labour that was commandeered as being either unfit for service or w
had been disabled, &c. The conditions at this period were bad, the firm being under the
control of Austrian Army Officers, with a prison established on the premises. We wonder
whether Bata obtained some of his ideas regarding labour from this circumstance and
condition, such as the method of leaving work, when the operatives pass out in single
through a kind of pen under scrutiny which certainly resemble prison methods.
at the present time the stated output of the firm is 46,000 pairs a day, and they estimate
of trade is of a low grade, the purpose aimed at being cheapness. We saw a men's brows
welted shoe with a stout rubber toppiece that was retailed at K. 79, or slightly less tha
such as velvet, brocade, poplin, &c., and are cut on the press about five pairs at a time.
The retail price was stamped on the sole. A great proportion of the uppers are fabric
They produce a large quantity of ladies' plain one-bar which require little labour in the
stuff is cut and prepared in one factory, but the actual manufacture is carried on by using
upper, or indeed throughout the shoe. The production is highly specialised, all the bottom
packing, the output of the plainest work being as much as 3,000 pairs a day from one
one floor for one kind of shoe, right from clicking to finishing, and we might almost say
floor, according to the statements made by the firm. Many of the operatives in the factory
were working barefooted, this applying to some of the Consol operatives (what about
falling tacks). We commented on this, but were assured the operatives preferred it.
The firm uses the most up-to-date machinery, never hesitating to scrap any machine
if it can be replaced by a better one; an instance was given us of a purchase that had been
made, and, before the machines reached the factory, Bata had heard of something better
they were never fixed, but were scrapped before they had been used. Some of the
work is crudely done. In the clicking room all leather and fabric is marked up before
being cut, and in our opinion, judging by what we saw, the output per operative owing
to this method would be low. Just the same in the pressroom, bends were being marked
Female labour is extensively used. In one clicking room there were 12 women and 12
up by women, and cut on a revolution press, an ordinary round press block being used.
men on machines, and two women were cutting by hand; but all these operations appeared
to be done by labour that was not properly trained, and would be, judged by our own
standard, inefficient. The other departments are very similar to our own, the machines
being the same largely standardising the method of working. We saw one machine,
which we believe to be new (it was made by the firm), it looked to be effective and was
for the breasting of toppieces on Louis heels; of course it might not answer on better class
goods. The whole business is highly organised, the office equipment being of a high order.
The firm claims to be good employers of labour, pointing to many features of the business
as evidence in that direction. Bata evidently believes in prohibition, as all over the
factory there are illustrations showing the evil effects of strong drink, such as the wretched
home of the drinker as against the delightfully pleasant and happy home of the abstainer,
not altogehter unfamiliar to us, though not so prominently displayed. There are also
various mottoes shown at the entrance to the different departments, such as,
"We can


---
537
learn something from everyone." "We are the servants of the consumers,
the thief of time."
He works best who works quickly," and so on.
Procrastination
They are also
isplayed in large letters on the wall that surround the factory premises
believes in the value of advertisement, as the name of Bata appears everywhere
have shops in many countries, and from what Mr. Bata told us, he is still looking for fresh
fields to conquer in the Far East, India's teeming millions being much in his mind. We
were informed by a lady over from Chicago that the firm opened a shop there, but had to
close it, the grade of goods not being equal to American requirements.
Whilst in Prague we passed a shoe repairing shop Novak suggested we should go in.
The old shoemaker, who was repairing on the knee, was very indignant at having to repair
Bata's work, describing them as rubbish. He showed a pair he had repaired where the
good half sole had pulled the upper to pieces. Perhaps Bata has heard of this kind of thing
as he cut short soles at his factory, and his repair shops scattered about the country
repair the foreparts at one shilling a pair.
The firm employ in all 7,000 people, about 6,000 in the making of boots and shoes.
Zlin being little more than a village, the question of accommodation is an important one.
Bata is meeting this by a building programme, erecting 200 blocks with four tenements
in each, thus providing for 800 families. We were informed that these cost 1375 a block
to build he makes his own bricks. We did not go inside them so cannot express any
opinion on the actual accommodation provided, but they appeared from an outside view
to be fairly good, though somewhat limited in space. The rent charged, we were told,
is 2s. a week, which is very low. This, if correct, must represent a loss to the firm as they
pay 10 per cent. on money invested with them, and the bank rate is 12 per cent. The rent
of 25. would only give a return of a little over 5 per cent. without any allowance for repairs,
upkeep, insurance, &c., and as the firm claim they never do anything out of charity, but
always with a view to commercial results, this wants a little explanation, or it may be we
have not got the figures correctly. There is also a large hostel to accommodate 800 to
1,000 single men, who lodge there at a low rate, about 1s. 6d. a week, buying their own
meals, which are also provided by the firm. The firm serve a midday meal to 3,000 people
in 25 minutes every day of the week, and charge 3d. for it. The break is two hours at
midday. We had one of these meals ourselves, and were informed that Bata himself
and the staff also partake of it. The superintendent and others did so on the day we were
there. The meal consisted of soup, a kind of beef stew and cherry tart. We were informed
there are about 100 boys who, as they start with the firm, are housed and fed on the place,
and who have to attend evening classes where their education is improved, languages are
taught, English being a compulsory subject.
A free news sheet is issued every week and is printed at the works. This department
employs 40 people; they also print their own posters and a paper for the customers,
which are distributed in his 300 retail shops. He also publishes a comic paper for workers,
in which he describes his opponents in ways most suitable to his own taste. His operatives
in many cases are fetched and taken home by motors and lorries, and he seeks to show the
workers, who are mostly drawn from the peasant class, that he is a one and only benefactor.
The method of working is by piecework with a bonus, but how prices are fixed it is
difficult to say, as no Trade Union is permitted a voice in dealing with same. Presumably
they are fixed by Bata, and it is impossible therefore to speak as to their fairness or other-
wise, but there is a great deal of suspicion in the minds of the Trade Union Officials on the
matter. At the entrance to the factory there is a large-scale diagram illustrating the
variation in prices and wages. The average price of shoes has fallen from 229k. in 1922
to 69k. in 1926, but it should be mentioned that the krone or crown has changed in
currency value during that time; it now stands at 164 to the f. The firm are not content
with giving the average price for completed years, but it will be noted include 1926. They
also have a forecast for 1927, which is 53k., as compared with 69k. for 1926. While
prices have fallen as shown above, wages are stated to have risen, the figures given in the
diagram for the average of men's wages being :--
Year 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927
Wages 146k. 180k. 205k. 230k. 240k. 350k.
Bonus 50k. 60k. 80k. 100k.
It will be seen again that a return is given for 1926 and a forecast is made for 1927, and that
on a basis of substantial increase in both wage and bonus. This may be a kind of bait
or it may be realised by a special selection of operative. There was one thing that struck
us in going round the factory, the absence of operatives that were even approaching
moderate old age. The wages are paid weekly, but half the bonus has to remain in the
business, 10 per cent. interest being paid upon it. This, we were informed, can be drawn
out at any time, but certainly when the worker leaves the firm. The amount of bonus
is decided each week and is related to profit, while in every room is shown weekly the
amount of wage and bonus taken by each operative.


---
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925

2,440
1,802
3,011
4,554
6,000
of course War years, and it looks as though the worst of this
up a remarkable business to be built up by one man in so short a
We were informed that if it is known that an employee is a trade unionist, he is discharge
It is no exaggeration to say that the resp
with great suspicion any firm that keeps Trade Unionism outside its walls. As at
Mr Bata is proud of his achievement; he also gives the impression that he is doing the
and
We gather from same that on May
and fed by their employer, and in a town that is practically his proper
perty, the shops that supply ordinary requirements being owned by him, the position
the workers differs little from feudalism.
Trade Unions both in Czecho-Slovakia and Austria view the firm with the greatest sus
picion, and we repeat that while these responsible organisations are treated by Bata
They are though on such good terms with other reputable firms, this suspicion is warrante
In the journal issued every two weeks by the Czech Union, there have been a series
Zlin is not far behind other towns: Bata leads the demonstration and does the talking
only in place of the usual speeches he sings the praises of Bata, emphasises that even
must pull together for the benefit of the trade and the firm, both he and they are
servants of the consuming public and must give them good shoes at low prices
like themselves, working for wages, and everybody goes home happy and contented.
provides a meal mostly from his own farm, impresses upon them that he is a worker
organise. We were given an illustration of this as some four years ago a technical organi
tion of the workers at Bata's was formed and about 1,000 joined. He is said to hav
smelt a rat and feared that they might organize. He called half of them together and paid
them to leave the thing alone and so brought about its failure. Evidently these articles
have been read by him, as he wrote Srb stating his name at the head of the articles way
We wonder. In these articles it is emphasised that Bata will not allow the workers
not exactly correct in form and sent one of his own for use on future occasions. He also
had an interview with Srb, and afterwards offered him a job as a superintendent, saying,
"A clever man like you ought not to be wasting your time over those stupid workmen
This indicates his attitude of mind towards the workers. Srb's reply was "Nothing
doing." Some have described Bata as a second Ford: others look upon him as a kind c
Mussolini.
so doing until the authorities went down and had
We have already mentioned that the eight-hour day is established by law, but Bata
longer, and has been prosecuted and fined on several occasions. We were informed that
evidently thinks he is above the law because he has continually worked his operatives
notwithstanding
evidence of Bata's intention to do as he chooses with his workpeople, a most dangerous
attitude. Evidently the firm has no difficulty in obtaining labour, as when we arrived
at the factory at 8.45 a.m., there were about 100 men round the office seeking work; when
we left at 3.30 in the afternoon there were still as many waiting; the depressed state of
trade in other places may account for this, as would the fact that the volume of trade in
the country has decreased since the war, while the restriction placed by America upon
immigrants also has a bearing upon it.
There are many stories told of Bata, one which we were assured to be true being that
every employee as a condition of starting with the firm has to invest so much money in
the business, this applying from the boys upward. Some time ago it was noticed that the
operatives who came from a distance looked fagged out when they reached the factory;
Bata at once had cycles built on the premises and supplied same; he also had the roads
improved so that they might start work as fresh as possible. On another occasion a
foreman noticed that what appeared to be a very smart operative was not giving satis-
factory quantities. He watched him to ascertain the reason. He noticed he had long
hair which he continually brushed back with his hand; the man was told he must either
have his hair cut or leave. He indignantly refused to part with his locks and was dis-
charged. Rumour has it that after being out of employment for some time he returned
and agreed to be shorn of his hair.
The town of Zlin some while ago required the laying of a new sewage scheme, the
cost of which was estimated at 110,000k. Bata's share as the largest ratepayer was
90,000k. He offered to construct it free of cost. Everyone was pleased at his generosity,


---
Here are the bounding box detections:
```json
[
  {"box_2d": [237, 338, 443, 432], "label": "NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES"},
  {"box_2d": [281, 341, 320, 634], "label": "OFFICIAL REPORT"},
  {"box_2d": [349, 341, 400, 670], "label": "OF THE FIFTY-FIFTH"},
  {"box_2d": [437, 341, 487, 672], "label": "UNION CONFERENCE"},
  {"box_2d": [318, 341, 359, 626], "label": "(Special One-Day)"},
  {"box_2d": [359, 341, 397, 670], "label": "VICTORIA HALLS"},
  {"box_2d": [386, 341, 425, 672], "label": "LONDON"},
  {"box_2d": [408, 341, 444, 507], "label": "JAMES CRAWFORD, J.P. General President"},
  {"box_2d": [410, 502, 444, 672], "label": "LIONEL POOLE, J.P. General Secretary"},
  {"box_2d": [433, 341, 465, 505], "label": "S. A. ROBINSON"},
  {"box_2d": [464, 343, 498, 672], "label": "Assistant Secretary"},
  {"box_2d": [418, 341, 445, 670], "label": "HEAD OFFICE:"},
  {"box_2d": [447, 341, 482, 672], "label": "\"THE GRANGE,\" EARLS BARTON, NORTHAMPTON"},
  {"box_2d": [450, 341, 498, 553], "label": "NATURAL"},
  {"box_2d": [482, 341, 525, 672], "label": "TIC COLONIAL"},
  {"box_2d": [509, 341, 548, 670], "label": "PORCELANOSA. Grupo"}
]
```

---
Here are the bounding box detections:
```json
[
  {"box_2d": [230, 373, 302, 578], "label": "BRITISH"},
  {"box_2d": [744, 438, 800, 538], "label": "REPORTS"},
  {"box_2d": [416, 389, 482, 549], "label": "STEEL"},
  {"box_2d": [761, 631, 795, 697], "label": "1916"},
  {"box_2d": [586, 398, 656, 554], "label": "STEEL"},
  {"box_2d": [408, 739, 474, 801], "label": "REPORTS"},
  {"box_2d": [394, 622, 427, 678], "label": "1909"},
  {"box_2d": [650, 430, 687, 524], "label": "REPORTS"},
  {"box_2d": [717, 383, 798, 478], "label": "SMELTERS"},
  {"box_2d": [594, 393, 638, 473], "label": "SMELTERS"},
  {"box_2d": [594, 745, 627, 808], "label": "1913"},
  {"box_2d": [511, 402, 570, 546], "label": "BRITISH"},
  {"box_2d": [503, 409, 552, 554], "label": "SMELTERS"},
  {"box_2d": [228, 407, 300, 546], "label": "SMELTERS"},
  {"box_2d": [701, 756, 738, 810], "label": "1913"},
  {"box_2d": [322, 747, 358, 801], "label": "1913"}
]
```

---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

*   G.F.T.U. REPORTS ETC JAN 1992 - DEC 1993
*   BRITISH STEEL SMELTERS REPORTS 1914.
*   BRITISH STEEL SMELTERS REPORTS 1915.
*   Laser Engraving
*   Delay Lines
*   Custom Solutions as Standard
*   PCB Assembly & Test
*   Delay Lines
*   Custom Solutions as Standard
*   4
*   : kg.
*   customDesignTechnologies.com
*   845530
*   el: 01280
*   www.c
*   as.com
*   signTechn Tel: 01280
*   530
*   Design
*   Custom Solutions as Star
*   Custom S
*   Membranie & Silicon K
*   PCB Desig
*   PCB Asser
*   Custom Solutions as Standard
*   Enclosures
*   PCB Design


---
DISCUSSION ON COUNCIL'S ADDRESS
Paragraph 1. Submitted and approved.
Paragraph 2. Submitted and approved.
The top part of Page 11. Paragraph 3, Page 11.
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT: Under the heading of Paragraph 3. Matters
Arising from the Conference Agreement. I want to draw the attention of Conference
to the third portion: The most important of these, in our opinion, is the absence of the
aggressive principle of Trade Unionism in our movement. Much of this is due to two
causes for which our past policy has been responsible. Firstly, the burden which Branch
Officers have to bear, of taking from the shoulders of members every shred of negotiating
responsibility. It is on that particular part of this paragraph that I want to call the
attention of Conference to, and I hope at least that we will be able to visualise the difficulty,
not only the Executive Council but of the Branch Officers up and down the country.
As I see it, there is a lack of interest on the part of the members of our organisation in
showing some spirit of Trade Unionism such as is necessary to keep our Union alive in the
full sense of its responsibility. Some of it may be due to this fact, that during the past
ten years we have had a new generation of shoe makers coming into the industry, who
see in the National Agreement something expressed for them that calls for no consideration
on their part, that calls for no looking at the ideals and the principles of Trade Unionism.
In consequence there has been a kind of severance between the branches and the member-
ship, more especially with the younger members, and it has also had the effect that in some
districts the younger people have not felt a sense of responsibility to make application
for the wages which the Conference Agreement calls for. That has been proved in some
districts, where an examination of the wages has shown that it is not just a few isolated
cases, but a number have not been getting those wages which the graduated scales in the
National Agreement provide for. We feel that it shows a need for the linking up of
members with the activities of the Union, and not only with the activities of the Union,
but also in the activities of the greater Trade Union movement of this country. I believe
consideration and deliberation, and if we are going to get the best out of the difficulties
in the next few years we may face difficulties that may call for careful judgment, careful
aims of our organisation and to the spirit of Trade Unionism and the understanding which
attended in sufficient numbers for our members to keep in touch with the movement and
we expect from our members. One deplores the fact that our monthly meetings are not
its activities. One does deplore the lack of interest which members show, and I believe
in the future it may be necessary for all branch officers to examine this problem and see
contact with a wider group of members than in the past. It is necessary that we should
how far it is possible to extend the activities of Trade-Union propaganda and bring closer
get that. It is necessary that we should maintain a strong membership.
There are
instances where there is room for improvement in the numerical strength of particular
branches and in the activities of local officers, in spite of the difficulties which I under-
stand and appreciate and which this particular paragraph emphasises. The work of the
administrative side, which our local officers are undertaking in ever-increasing variety and
scope, has made it difficult for the local officers to pay that attention to the wider work
of the Trade Union in the sense that we desire to express it. We hope that with the
co-operation of our Natio
and bro
vigorous we can get expressed in our Union, in its branches
in ocessential to vigorous growth


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
NATIONAL
Union
of
Boot & Shoe
Operatives
MONTHLY
REPORTS
1932


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES
34 GUILFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1.

OFFICIAL REPORT
OF THE
Thirty-Seventh General
CONFERENCE
HELD AT
The Central Library, Blackpool,
at Whitsuntide, 24th to 29th May,
1926.

CHAIRMAN:
T. F. RICHARDS.

Edited by
E. L. POULTON, J.P.,
General Secretary,
London.
NATIONAL UNION
OF BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES.
TRADE
N°
LABOUR
Copyright
Reported by
ERNEST BORDOLI,
Confidential Clerk to
the Union, London.

PRICE ONE PENNY


---
Here are the bounding box detections:
```json
[
  {"box_2d": [340, 390, 359, 517], "label": "NATIONAL UNION OF"},
  {"box_2d": [443, 310, 458, 543], "label": "Boot and Shoe Operatives"},
  {"box_2d": [477, 397, 499, 543], "label": "UNION CIRCULARS ISSUED"},
  {"box_2d": [507, 397, 528, 543], "label": "DURING 1926."},
  {"box_2d": [568, 365, 582, 407], "label": "L162376"}
]
```

---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

132
Comparison of the figures shows, however, some improvement in the pace:-
Ratifications registered:
October May June December
1922 1924 1925 1925
51 96 159 185
In addition to this, thirteen countries have ratified the White Phosphorus Convention
(drawn up by diplomatists at Berne, 1906), since the Washington Conference.
introduced and passed; Acts and administration orders must be enforced to give each
ised. Either before formal ratification or subsequent to it, there are Bills to be drafted
* Before formal ratification there are two stages: Ratification recommended, author.
effect. All these stages should be watched by those interested in the
Convention practical
improvement of labour conditions.
according to official figures quoted by Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly
Since 1920 eight hours has been the average working day in the city of Buenos Ayres
were compiled by an inspection of establishments employing 115,362 manual workers
publication of the International Labour Office of the League of Nations. These figures
and 30,831 salaried employees.
should ratify the Draft Convention, adopted at the 1925 Session of the International
Labour Conference of the League of Nations, concerning equality of treatment of national
The National Labour Office in Uruguay propose that the Uruguayan Government
and foreign workers in respect of workers' accident compensation.
a special committee to draw up definite proposals regarding the Recommendation of the
To arrive speedily at practical decisions, the Luxemburg Government has appointed
1924 Session of the International Labour Conference of the League of Nations, concerning
facilities for the use of workers' spare time.
TAXATION (COST PER HEAD).
MR. LOWTH asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer the amount of taxation per hea.
of the population in respect of each of the following services: the Army, Navy, Air Force,
Education, Public Health, War Pensions, Old Age Pensions, and Civil Service adminis
tration ?
MR. CHURCHILL: With the hon. Member's permission I will circulate a statement
in reply to this question.
Following is the statement :-
It is impossible to state what proportion of the expenditure on any particular service
is met out of taxation as opposed to other sources of revenue. The net expenditure in
the services named provided for in the original Estimates of the present financial year,
divided by the population taken as 44,000,000, works out as follows:-
1925-26 Cost per head
Original of population.
Estimates.
£ s. d.
Army 44,500,000 1 0 2
Navy 60,500,000 1 7 6
Air Force 15,513,000 0 7 0
Education Grants 46,916,000 1 1 4
Public Health, Unemployment Insurance, and
Housing 32,417,000 0 14 8½
War Pensions (excluding Administration) 63,623,000 1 8 11
Old Age Pensions (excluding Administration) 26,79.4,000 0 12 2
Civil Service Administration (excluding Post Office
and Revenue Departments) 12,846,000 0 5 10
Extract from Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons, Tuesday, 9th February, 1926.


---
Here is the text from the image:

135
THE KING'S SPEECH.
The King's Speech read in Parliament yesterday covered a wide range of subjects-
Plea for Peace in Industry. Increasing Need for Economy.
Electricity, the Land, Housing, Rating problems, Control of Road Vehicles, and London
Iraq, Disarmament, the Italian Debt, Hours of Labour, Economy, the Industrial Position.
Poor Law Finance.
The full text of the Speech is as follows:-
Vy Lords and Members of the House of Commons,
Mr relations with foreign Powers continue to be friendly.
Since Parliament rose my Ambassador at Constantinople has proceeded to Angora
with a view to arrive at a definite settlement of questions in connection with the Turco-
ment for the promotion of the friendliest relations between Turkey and Great Britain.
Iraq frontier. My Government cordially reciprocate the desire of the Turkish Govern
A Treaty between myself and his Majesty the King of Iraq, carrying out the stipulation
laid down in the decision of the Council of the League of Nations, has been signed by our
respective representatives and has been approved by the Parliament of Iraq. It will
be submitted to you without delay.
Disarmament.
paratory Committee on Disarmament which is to work out the bases of a general con-
One of my Ministers will proceed to Geneva as British representative of the Pre-
that direction
ference on the reduction of armaments.
should now be possible as a result of the system of security created by the Treaty of
Locarno and subsidiary agreements.
accompanied by a distinguished Delegation, and have concluded an agreement which
provides for the funding of the Italian War Debt to this country on fair and honourable
praditions. I rejoice that a friendly settlement has been reached of this difficult
question.
Hours of Labour.
Invitations are being issued to the Governments of Belgium, France, Germany, and
Italy to attend a Conference in London to consider the possibility of securing an effective
international agreement for regulating hours of labour.
Members of the House of Commons,
The Estimates for the Public Services will be laid before you in due course. My
Ministers have given earnest consideration to the increasing need for national economy.
Proposals for effecting reductions of public expenditure are now being formulated
and you will be asked to pass measures required to give effect to them without delay.
Proposals will be laid before you for authorising My Government to guarantee loans
for the development of the British dependencies in East Africa and of mandated terri-
tories.
My Lords and Members of the House of Commons,
The improvement in trade and industry at the end of 1924, which it was then thought
would result in an appreciable decrease in the volume of unemployment was unfortunately
checked early last year by the widespread depression which occurred in coal mining.
Since the autumn of last year signs of a revival of industry have again begun
to appear, but the growth of confidence on which revival depends is being arrested
by the fear of industrial strife.
Coal Position.
is now
The result of the inquiry into the economic condition of the coal industry, which
being conducted by my Commission, will shortly be laid before you.
I am well aware of the difficulties that are inherent in the whole situation.
But the interests of the nation are paramount, and I appeal to all parties to face
the future in a spirit of conciliation and fellowship and to avoid action which would
again postpone the return of good trade and prosperity for which we have so long
hoped.
With the object of securing greater economy and efficiency in the generation and
transmission of electrical energy in the future, my Government have devised a scheme
of reorganisation. A Bill to give effect to these proposals has been prepared and will
shortly be introduced.

---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

269
Health and Food Services. - The General Council recommend that there should be
in their power to organise the distribution of milk and food to the whole of the population.
no interference in regard to these, and that the Trade Unions concerned should do everything
With regard to the hospitals, clinics, convalescent homes, sanatoria, infant welfare
centres, maternity homes, nursing homes, schools, the General Council direct that affiliated
unions take every opportunity to ensure that food, milk, medical and surgical supplies shall
be efficiently provided.
2. TRADE UNION DISCIPLINE.
(a) The General Council direct that, in the event of Trade Unionists being called
upon to cease work, the Trade Unions concerned shall take steps to keep a daily register
to account for every one of their members. It should be made known that any workers called
upon to cease work should not leave their own district, and by following another occupation,
or the same occupation in another district, blackleg their fellow workers.
(b) The General Council recommend that the actual calling out of the workers should
be left to the unions, and instructions should only be issued by the accredited representatives
of the unions participating in the dispute.
3. TRADES COUNCILS.
The work of the Trades Councils, in conjunction with the local officers of the Trade
Unions actually participating in the dispute, shall be to assist in carrying out the foregoing
provisions, and they shall be charged with the responsibility of organising the Trade Unionists
in dispute in the most effective manner for the preservation of peace and order.
4. INCITEMENT TO DISORDER AND SPIES.
A strong warning must be issued to all localities that any person found inciting the
workers to attack property, or inciting the workers to riot, must be dealt with immediately.
It should be pointed out that the opponents will in all probability employ persons to act as
spies and others to use violent language in order to incite the workers to disorder.
5. TRADE UNION AGREEMENTS.
The General Council further direct that the Executives of the Unions concerned shall
definitely declare that in the event of any action being taken and Trade Union agreements
being placed in jeopardy, it be definitely agreed that there will be no general resumption of
work until those agreements are fully recognised.
6. PROCEDURE..
(a) These proposals shall be immediately considered by the Executives of the Trade
Unions concerned in the stoppage, who will at once report as to whether they will place their
powers in the hands of the General Council and carry out the instructions which the General
Council may issue from time to time concerning the necessary action and conduct of the
dispute.
(b) And, further, that the Executives of all other affiliated unions are asked to report
at once as to whether they will place their powers in the hands of the General Council and
carry out the instructions of the General Council from time to time, both regarding the
conduct of the dispute and financial assistance.
A. PUGH, Chairman.
WALTER M. CITRINE, Acting Secretary.
April 30th, 1926.
Midnight negotiations were again taking place on Saturday and Sunday,
1st and 2nd May, and a further meeting held during that day and in a special

---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---
242
THE WORK OF THE I.L.P.
Its Relation to the Labour Party.
By J. Ramsay MacDonald, M.P.
Socialism is not going to come by the legal declaration of a minimum nominal wage and
If there is one thing that I can prophesy with some certainty of being right, it is that
untold industrial difficulties, and is to foredoom our first great Socialist offensive to disas-
consequential nationalisation of bankrupt industries. Such a method is to swamp us in
frous defeat. It will be our Verdun.
Our movement works for a general transformation of economic and industrial organi-
rather than to its dead parts as the places from which the transformation is to come.
sation. It has always taken society as a going concern, and has looked to its living parts
The real distinction between the evolutionist and the revolutionist is that the former
believes that Socialist growth is to come from the vigorous activities of society forcing
new forms of life, whilst the latter uses the unhealthy and dead parts like sweating-
for his purpose.
*
*
*
Honesty compels us to face the real problem lest we deceive the victims we wish to
come into my mind from some American economic studies that I have been reading.
help by inviting them to trust to remedies that will remedy nothing. These thoughts
the life and the diseases of economic society in a scientific and thorough way and are
It is interesting to note that whilst some vigorous American minds have been studying
creating an enlightened opinion, we are being threatened, largely owing to the superficial
in
direction.
*
*
*
some truths a quarter of a century ago, we are insensibly drifting into a belief in veria
One of the dangers we are now running is that, having adopted a form for stating
inspiration so that new and up-to-date ideas find no place in our propaganda. Anothal
ins that the increasing sensitiveness to human distress, also insensibly, is pushing der
Socialist activities into the channels of a more ample charity and a mere increase in nominal
income. These policies may be good or bad in themselves, but that has to be decided on
their own merits. They are not Socialism. High wages wrung from a Capitalist are not
Socialism. Socialism and its movement must never be diverted from its essential purpose
of putting an end to an "acquisitive society" and establishing in its place one of co-opera-
tive service.
*
*
*
Everywhere I hear complaints that Socialist speeches are too old. They show little
signs of advance in experience. The audience has been thinking, the speakers too often
have not. On the other hand, good I.L.Peers come and tell me they are getting "fed up"
with some recent developments and want to know if it is worth while going on with the
I.L.P. I have not changed my mind as yet. There is abundant work for the I.L.P.,
and the work is essential. It is to keep Socialism alive as an invigorating and guiding
idea. That requires constant hard intellectual work of a concentrated kind.-Foraari,
27th March, 1926.
COST OF LIVING.
At 1st April the average level of retail prices of all the commodities taken into account
in the statistics compiled by the Ministry of Labour (including food, rent, clothing, fuel,
light, and miscellaneous items) was approximately 68 per cent. above that of July, 1914.
as compared with 72 per cent. a month ago and 75 per cent. a year ago. The corresponding
figures for food alone were 59, 65 and 70 respectively. The decline in the figures since
Ist March was mainly due to seasonal reductions in the prices of eggs and milk, but there
were also slight reductions in the prices of various other articles of food.
These statistics are designed to indicate the average increase in the cost of maintaining
unchanged the pre-war standard of living of working-class families. Accordingly, in
making the calculations, the changes in the prices of the various items included are com-
bined in proportions corresponding with the relative importance of those items in pre-war
working-class family expenditure. - Ministry of Labour Gazette, April, 1926.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
Raunds, Wellingborough. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, April, 1926.
CROWN AGENTS FOR THE COLONIES. -BOOTS, &c. Adams Brothers, Ltd.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

the independent chairman.
285
(vi) In the event of disagreement in respect of wages the decision shall rest with
(7) If the parties agree that it is advisable that some temporary modification should
be made in the statutory hours of work, the Government will propose the necessary legisla-
tion forthwith and give facilities for its immediate passage.
(8) Any balance of the £3,000,000 aforesaid will be available for a " tapering " subsidy
between the Government, the Mining Association and Miners' Federation.
after the period referred to in Paragraph 5, or such other purpose as may be agreed upon
(9) The provisional undertakings made by the Government in this memorandum are
conditional on the acceptance of its terms by the other parties,
Miners Adjourn.
Mr. Baldwin had seen the miners' Executive on Thursday evening, and he met the
mineowners yesterday afternoon.
assembled in London yesterday, adjourned until to-day after hearing reports on the events
In view of these developments the miners' special national delegate conference, which
of the past fortnight.
The miners' Executive considered the premier's proposals last night and will report
on them at the resumed conference to-day. - British Worker, 15th May, 1926.
SCHEME FOR MINES SETTLEMENT.
Letter from Sir Herbert Samuel to the General Council of the Trades
Union Congress. 12th May, 1926.
DEAR MR. PUGH,
As the outcome of the conversations which I have had with your Committee, I attach
a memorandum embodying the conclusions that have been reached.
I have made it clear to your Committee from the outset that I have been acting entirely
on my own initiative, have received no authority from the Government and can give no
assurances on their behalf.
I am of opinion that the proposals embodied in the Memorandum are suitable for
adoption and are likely to promote a settlement of the differences in the Coal Industry.
I shall strongly recommend their acceptance by the Government when the negotiations
are renewed.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) HERBERT SAMUEL.
A. PUGH, Esq.,
President, General Council,
Trades Union Congress.
SIR HERBERT SAMUEL, 12th May, 1926.
London.
DEAR SIR,
The General Council having carefully considered your letter of to-day and the memoran-
dum attached to it, concurred in your opinion that it offers a basis on which the negotia-
tions upon the conditions in the Coal Industry can be renewed.
They are taking the necessary measures to terminate the General Strike, relying
upon the public assurances of the Prime Minister as to the steps that would follow. They
assume that during the resumed negotiations the subsidy will be renewed and that the
lockout notices to the miners will be immediately withdrawn.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) ARTHUR PUGH, Chairman.
WALTER M. CITRINE, Acting Secretary.
(1) The negotiations upon the conditions of the Coal Industry should be resumed,
the subsidy being renewed for such reasonable period as may be required for that purpose.
(2) Any negotiations are unlikely to be successful unless they provide for means of
settling disputes in the industry other than conferences between the mine-owners and the
miners alone. A National Wages Board should, therefore, be established which would


---
Here is the extracted text:
442
DECLARATION ON INDUSTRIAL SITUATION.
The General Council of the Trades Union Congress has maintained a deliberate si
under whose authority the Council acted. Whilst maintaining that attitude the dete.
mined attacks which the Government and the employers continue to make upon th
case in justification of that policy to a meeting of the Executives of the Trade Unior
with regard to its policy in the national stoppage pending an opportunity to submit
Trade Union movement, along with the serious attempt they are making to reduce the
workers' standards of life, make it necessary for the General Council to state its positio
The Government did not scruple to distort the record of the negotiations leading
regarding recent developments.
working hours
to the general stoppage, to misrepresent its purpose and the motives for its termination.
They have continued this policy in order to further their reactionary plans.
and that some of its principal spokesmen have indicated an anti-trade union policy on the
In view of the fact that the Mining Dispute continues, that the Government is using
its majority in the House of Commons to enforce legislation to increase
part of the Government, the Council has decided that the attention of the Movement
should be concentrated upon resistance to the Government's proposals. These involta
a complete departure from the understanding upon which the General Council felt justified
and shameful acceptance by the Government of the mineowners' policy, and represent
a reversion to the eight-hour day and drastic reductions of wages, mark a lamentabla
in bringing the stoppage to an end.
Prime Minister declared that when it was terminated he would use every effort to secure
the employers to starve the miners into subjection. During the general stoppage the
a fair settlement of the mining problem. In the message broadcast by wireless in the
By their present policy it appears to be the settled intention of the Government and
midst of the Strike, Mr. Baldwin said :-
the standards of the miners or any other section of the workers. That suggestion is
"I wish to make it as clear as I can that the Government is not fighting to lower
doubt that my whole desire is to maintain the standard of living of every worker.
being spread abroad. It is not true. I do not believe that any honest person can
and that I am ready to press the employers to make sacrifices to this end consistent
with keeping the industry itself in order."
pressure is being brought to
are they seeking to enforce by legislation the mineowners' policy of increased hours and
only
of Guardians to curtail relief even to the women and children. Attempts have beds
made by scaremongering and misrepresentations to prevent relief coming from other
community with a cordon of famine and despair. The Government have been false to
countries, and it would appear that a policy is being pursued to surround the mining
their obligations to the Washington Hours Convention, and if they succeed in their effort
to enforce longer hours in the mining industry, this will tend to stimulate the attempts
internationally. This attack upon hours is above everything else an attack upon the
that have already been made to lengthen hours in other industries, both nationally and
standards of the Trade Union Movement.
The Labour Movement must offer the most determined resistance to this policy.
The reactionary forces behind the Government believe that the Trade Union Movement
has had a set-back and that it is a favourable moment for their attack. The renewal
of the attack upon Russia is definite evidence of the growth of reaction in the Government.
The General Council warns the Government and the country that the policy now being
pursued is calculated to provoke a conflict the end of which cannot be foreseen. The
Trade Union Movement is not broken, nor is its capacity for resistance diminished. In all
essentials its solidarity is greater, it is more conscious and purposeful as the result of the
greatest strike in its history.
The Council is confident that it can rely upon the loyalty and devotion of the rank
and file so splendidly demonstrated during the National stoppage, to avoid internal dis-
sensions, to unify our forces to develop and strengthen our organisation. Complete unity
and the use of all our resources are necessary to deal with the present situation. The
fullest efforts must be made for sustained financial aid for the Miners and all workers
victimised or imprisoned in the struggle. Trades Councils and Relief Committees should
develop the provision of assistance to the women and children, and the utmost influence
brought to bear upon the local authorities, to ensure the free granting of adequate relief.
ment's anti-trade union policy, and to create public support for the constructive solution
Pressure must also be exerted upon Members of Parliament to oppose the Govern-
of the mining problem embodied in the proposals of the Labour Movement.
The Council purposes at the most opportune moment to organise a National Campaign
for the purpose of building up the Trade Unions and securing for them too per cent.
membership, and developing local activity through the Trades Councils.


---
444
MORE COMMUNIST MANŒUVRES.
Party, their efforts at peaceful penetration of the Labour Party and the Trade Union
Movement, and their thoroughly unscrupulous endeavours to exploit the present industrial
Further evidence has come to light of the disruptive machinations of the Communist
In view of the Liverpool Conference Resolutions
which were aimed at nullifying Communist intrigues and which, generally speaking, local
difficulties for their own party ends.
Labour Parties have loyally sought to give effect to, it is not so easy now for the Com.
munist Party as suc
of a new name.
Movement is to occupy the stage.
follows:
" playing the devil" within the
Labour Party. But apparently the same old tricks are to be attempted under the guise
The Communist Party will stand in the background and the Left Wing
heard in recent years, there is a new development in the formation of "Fractions" in the
In addition to the now celebrated Communist " nuclei" about which much has been
munist International has carefully defined these two forms of organised activity a3
ranks of working-class organisations. The ex-Secretary of the Executive of the Com
"Some British comrades explain that the two terms are necessary because a nucleus
a Fraction is a number of representative members who, in addition to their Party obliga.
is a number of individual members organised in another working-class organisation, whilst
Trade Unions (and other non-Party organisations) must be
organised into Fractions. In their organisations they carry out the decisions of the Part;
tions, have a formal responsibility to the workers who elected them.
and are responsible to the latter for this. Communist Comrades with a seat in the Executi
of a non-Party organisation are at the same time members of their Fraction. They are
Communist Party, Mr. E. H. Brown, the British Communist Party representative on the
Lest any Communist should still be in doubt as to his complete subordination to the
members are serving in the general working-class Movement, their Party allegiance must super-
"A note from the Organisation Bureau stating that in whatever capacity our Party
reasons Communists in all
responsible for their work solely to the Party."
Communist International Committee, wrote from Moscow :-
sede all other responsibilities will be sufficient, I think."
These clear-cut hard-and-fast peremptory instructions are
For Party
re of first-rate significance.
Wing Movement, or any other working-class organisation, must function for his Party
member of a Trade Union Branch, a Local Labour Party, a Women's Section, the Left
They mean "while a Communist nothing but a Communist." and that a Communist
and must obey the dictates of his Party.
Of especial interest, therefore, is the disclosure of some of the present aims of the
Communist Party.
Party, Women's Sections of the Labour Party, and Trades Councils are to be attacked
separately but simultaneously, with a view to the Communist Party securing a foothold
The National Labour Party, the London Labour Party, the Independent Labour
abortive the Liverpool Conference decisions. The London District Committee of the
that will enable the latter to pursue their disruptive purposes and thus practically render
Communist Party has set up what is called a
"Trades Council and Labour Party Depart.
ment." This Department is presumably responsible for directing the peaceful penetration
tivities within the Labour Party and the Trade Union Movement. In a Bulletin dated
24th June, which has been sent to all Fraction Leaders and Local Party Committees,
instructions are set out regarding the work that is to be done within the immediate future.
We learn, for instance, that "Fraction leaders should inform this Department of any
resolutions to the National and London Labour Party Conferences, and also of the names
and addresses of Party Delegates and Left Wing Delegates. Great stress should be made
amongst the Left Wing Groups of the fact that an organised Left Wing Group will be in operation
at both these Conferences.'
munists are to be got through as delegates from Trade Unions or Local Labour Parties,
The meaning of this is clear. By hook or by crook Com-
and at the Conferences they are to work together as an organised Communist Group under
the direction of the Communist Party. Then, again, every Fraction is ordered to give
special attention to two points :-
1. All I.L.P.'ers working as Left Wingers within Groups or Labour Parties
should be induced through their Left Wing Groups to undertake the organisation of
Left Wing Groups within their own particular organisation, the I.L.P. The moment
is most favourable for this work, as there is a very big disgruntled and dissatisfied element
in the I.L.P. as the result of the General Strike.
2. There are many Women's Sections of the Labour Party in various localities,
and we should press forward for the organisation of Left Wing Groups.
Left Wing organisation to penetrate and capture the local I.L.P. branches and the Women's
It is thus quite obvious that the Communist Party have designs under the guise of


---
Here's a transcription of the text from the image:

**4**

The following Table summarises the information received from those employers who
furnished returns for the three periods under review:


Number of Workpeople

Week
ended
19th Dec.,
1925

Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a

Month ago Year ago

Per
cent.

Per
cent.

Total Wages Paid to all
Workpeople

Week
ended
19th Dec.,
1925

Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a

Month ago Year ago

Per
cent.

Per
cent.

£

ENGLAND AND WALES:
2,223 + 2.7 - 2.3 5,230 + 1.6 - 3.7
London 8,818 + 1.7 + 0.2 24,892 + 9.6 + 2.7
Leicester 2,167 - 0.6 - 7.1 5,084 + 0.9 - 5.8
Northampton 6,465 - 0.6 - 5.8 15,800 + 5.3 - 8.2
Northampton Country
7,719 - 1.2 - 0.2 17,750 + 1.6 - 5.5
District
2,472 + 0.4 - 2.6 6,062 + 3.1 - 3.0
Kettering
Stafford and District 2,622 + 0.8 - 0.5 5,854 + 8.4 - 4.1
Norwich and District 4,353 + 0.6 - 2.0 9,272 + 4.1 + 1.8
Bristol, Kingswood and
1,877 - 1.5 - 9.5 3,389 - 5.6 -17.6
District
Leeds and District 1,846 + 0.3 - 0.3 4,166 - 0.5 + 2.7
Lancashire (mainly
4,959 + 0.2 + 5.1 10,254 - 2.2 + 6.8
Rossendale Valley)
Birmingham and District 1,030 + 0.5 - 3.6 1,935 - 1.2 - 1.8
Other parts of England and
1,705 - 0.9 + 1.8 3,411 - 2.8 + 3.2
Wales
ENGLAND AND WALES 48,256 + 0.0 - 1.5 113,099 + 3.5 - 1.2
SCOTLAND 2,482 - 0.0 - 2.4 5,416 + 0.9 + 2.5
GREAT BRITAIN 50,738 + 0.0 - 1.6 118,515 + 3.4 - 1.0

Returns from firms employing over 46,000 operatives in the week ended 19th Decem-
ber, 1925, showed that nearly 34 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that
week to the extent of 9¾ hours each, on an average.

In London employment was fairly good for the time of year. In Leicester there was
a further improvement, and employment was fairly good, and better than in December,
1924; the greatest activity was at factories producing Russian boots, and some were
reported to be working overtime. At Northampton employment showed a further
improvement but still remained quiet, with much short time. At Hinckley employment
remained fair, with most of the firms working full hours. In the Higham and Rushden
area there was a slight decline, except for some urgent holiday orders immediately before
Christmas; employment on the whole was poor. At Wellingborough, where employment
was reported as fair, there was a slight upward movement, but 50 per cent. of the firms
were working short time. At Kettering there was again a large amount of unemployment,
but the bigger factories were working fairly full time, and there was a reduction in the
amount of short time worked by the smaller factories.

At Leeds some firms closed for a week or 10 days at Christmas; before the holiday
employment continued moderate, with much short time, except with firms making Russian
boots, who were busy. At Stafford there was a marked improvement, and very little
short time was worked. At Norwich employment was only moderate on the whole;
the turn-shoe section was still very slack, with many operatives totally unemployed,
but employment in other sections was fairly good, and showed an improvement. In the
Bristol and Kingswood district employment was, on the whole, poor, worse than in Novem-
ber and worse than in December, 1924, especially in heavy boot factories. At Street
there was a slight improvement, but employment was only moderate and there was a good
deal of short time. Employment remained good in the slipper trade at Bury, but short
time was general at Bacup and Preston.

There was an improvement during the month at Glasgow, and employment was fairly
good on the whole. It remained fairly good at Kilmarnock and Maybole, but at Edinburgh
it declined and was very quiet, with nearly all the operatives on short time.

---
INTERNATIONAL INFORMATION.
RUSSIAN LABOUR LAW REVISION.

Difficulties of Application.
The Russian Commissariat of Labour is now engaged in a revision of the Labour
Code, states Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly publication of the International
Labour Office of the League of Nations.

It would appear that the Code will be amended in such a way as to contain only the
fundamental labour laws and there will be special Acts to adjust those laws to the various
branches of industry which cannot be ruled by a rigid and uniform legislation.

The existing Labour Code was published in 1922, at a time when the "new economic
policy," which put an end to the regime of Communism pure and simple, had just been
introduced. The Code nevertheless retains a number of clauses which are inspired by the
previous policy, and which the Soviet press has described as "explanatory passages,"
intended to satisfy the aspirations of the working masses, without any regard to reality.

"Our Code," the Commissary of Labour has said, "was drawn up for the use of
heavy industry and is not adapted for home work or for artisans, and still less for temporary
or seasonal workers. This defect in the Code is the result of the fact that the possibility
of its enforcement in practice was never seriously considered. When an attempt was
made to introduce the eight-hour day rigidly on the railways, certain of the railwaymen
were unable to finish their work within the time-limits fixed by the Act, and were con-
tinually obliged to work overtime, while others worked from three to four hours only
per day. Special legislation had to be introduced on the subject of hours of work in
transport undertakings. Similarly, in the State peat industry, it was from the first clear
that an enforcement of the eight-hour day would ruin the industry, and, a fortnight after
the publication of the Labour Code, it became necessary to extend hours of work in the
industry to ten per day. Finally, special Acts had to be passed for all seasonal work in
view of the fact that the eight-hour day was inapplicable in such cases.

Inadequate Factory Inspection.
Further, even in those industries to which the Labour Code is more especially adapted,
enforcement has met with considerable difficulties.

The Commissary has pointed out that, although the factory inspectors carry out their
work better than at first, they are still not equal to their task. "The factory inspector,"
he says, "is insufficiently educated and very often is unable to find his way about the
various labour Acts. Thus he often passes over infringements of labour legislation."
Up to the present, factory inspectors have only devoted their attention to private under-
takings, in dealing with which they have been extremely rigorous; but they have avoided
visiting the State undertakings (the whole of large scale industry and a considerable
proportion of medium scale industry has been nationalised), in order to avoid unpleasant-
ness. It is only recently that they have begun to exercise their control over the national-
ised undertakings, but even so they are not sufficiently severe.

As a result, despite the acute unemployment crisis, the ten-hour day is still wide-
spread, and particularly in the State metal industry. It is true that this is mainly due to
economic causes, e.g., the necessity of increasing production while there are not enough
skilled workers, or when the lack of housing accommodation is a barrier to the engagement
of the necessary workers; but these conditions are mainly attributable to the absence
of any proper control over conditions of labour. Care should therefore be taken that the
new Labour Code is strictly observed, and for this it will be necessary to increase the
efficiency of factory inspection, and it will further be necessary to modify certain pro-
visions of the Code which are no longer enforceable in practice.

Excessive Number of Decrees.
Since the provisions of the Code, as has been indicated above, are often in the nature
of general statements, it has been necessary to issue Decrees to explain and comment on the
various clauses of the Code and to define their application to the various branches of
industry.

The number of these Decrees is excessive. They take up 2,000 pages of print, whereas
the Code contains only 24 pages. These various successive, and often contradictory,
Decrees have created such a state of confusion that even the Commissariat of Labour is
not always able fairly and accurately to define the meaning of a given paragraph of the
Code.

In this connection, a characteristic Decree is that concerning unemployment insurance.
It was followed, three months after its coming into force, by four supplementary Decrees
published in the space of four weeks. The same thing may be observed in many other

---
REFERENCE.

STATEMENTS A—All Statements compiled or revised under the 1919 Agreement,
which came into force on or before 31st December, 1919, and upon which the
10 per cent. was added to the total earnings under the Interim (1920) Agree-
ment.

STATEMENTS B—All Statements which came into operation on or after 1st
January, 1920, and upon which 7½ per cent. was added to the total earnings
under the Interim (1920) Agreement.

STATEMENTS C—Those Statements, the piecework prices of which include the
percentage increases granted by the Interim (1920) Agreement.

9. The Holiday (Provision) Scheme, adopted by the Joint Industrial Council for the
Boot and Shoe Manufacturing Industry on 27th May, 1919, is hereby confirmed as an
integral part of this Agreement.

10 (a) The day-rate wages of the operatives who, when this Agreement comes into
operation, are employed at or above the minimum wage or graduated scale rates applicable
to them by this Agreement shall not be reduced in consequence of this Agreement, beyond
the amounts of reductions made in the corresponding minimum wage rates provided for
in this Agreement.

(b) Where Piecework or Quantity Statements do not at present exist, Local
Arbitration Boards will forthwith prepare new Piecework or Quantity Statements on a basis
to ensure the average worker earning not less than 25 per cent. over the minimum wage
and where necessary will revise the existing Statements on the same basis.

(c) Local Arbitration Boards are recommended to exercise their power of review-
ing on the request of either side, existing Piecework or Quantity Statements, other than the
Government Green Book Statement Handsewn List, for the purpose of adjusting any
specific anomalous item or items, whether unfavourable to employers or operatives, brought
before the Boards in accordance with the customary procedure; provided always that
any adjustments of existing Statements or any new Piecework Statements shall ensure the
average worker earning not less than 25 per cent. over the minimum wage in operation for
the time being.

11. Local Arbitration Boards operating in outlying district accustomed to manu-
facture goods of lower grades shall, in the compilation of Piecework or Quantity Statements,
have regard to the grade when estimating the productive capacity of the average worker.

12. In the event of differences arising on a Local Arbitration Board as to the pro-
cedure to be adopted in giving effect to Clauses 10 and 11 either side of the Board may
require the Standing Committee of the Conference to advise upon such procedure, provided
always that the Piecework rates to be finally fixed shall be determined in accordance with
the rules of such Board.

13. The employers shall retain freedom of contract with all operatives under 15
years of age.

14. The minimum wage or graduated scale rates shall not apply to clerks, engineers,
mechanics, electricians, stokers, porters, sweepers-up, lift or hoist men, caretakers and
timekeepers, or to labourers and odd job men not engaged in actual manufacturing.

(b) FEMALE OPERATIVES.

After Index Figure
Falls to—
70 points
50 „
30 „

Percentage to be added to or deducted from Total Earnings on:—
Statements A. Statements B. Statements C.
Corresponding
Minimum Wage
Plus 2½%
Rates.
Deduct 1¼%
34/- per week
11%
Deduct 7½%
Nett
2½%
8¾%
33/- „
Nett
10%
31/- „
Nett

---
61
spheres of labour legislation. The system of partial modifications, additions and extensions
results in that portion of labour legislation which deals with the interests of the workers
becoming incomprehensible to the workers, since neither the officials at the Commissariat
of Labour nor the trade unions can keep pace with the flood of decrees and instructions.
The existing legislation will therefore be amended in the direction of hours of work,
apprenticeship, and work of women and children.
LUMINOUS WATCH DISEASE.
Cases in American Factories.
A disease called "radium necrosis," regarded in some quarters as a new occupational
disease, is held responsible for the death of five persons and for numerous cases of sickness
among the workers employed in a New Jersey factory in the application of luminous
paint to watch and clock dials according to Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly
publication of the International Labour Office of the League of Nations. It is stated
that the disease resulted from the practice of the dial painters of pointing their brushes
in their mouths.
The U.S. Department of Labour, it is reported, has given instructions that observa-
tion should be kept over all establishments in the country which use radium, in order
that data may be collected with regard to any occupational diseases which might be
attributable to the handling of radio-active substances. Should it be found that the
disease in question is occupational in its origin, efforts will be made to obtain its inclusion
in the schedule of the workmen's compensation laws.
The American Association for the reduction of the frequency of this disease. In particular,
the Association is endeavouring to secure the adoption by the New Jersey Legislature
in favour of measures for the reduction of the frequency of this disease. In particular,
a Bill requiring employers to take more effective steps to counteract the risk, and also
providing for a scientific investigation in regard to any toxic or injurious substance pro-
posed to be used in industry.
It is interesting to note that the seventh annual Session of the International Labour
Conference of the League of Nations, held at Geneva in June, adopted a Draft Convention
establishing the principle of compensation for occupation diseases and setting out a short
list of diseases which should be recognised by all nations as fitting for such compensation.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANISATION.
The Year's Work.
Steady progress has been made in 1925 by the International Labour Organisation of
the League of Nations in its various fields of activity. The following brief summary
surveys the more important events connected with its work during the year.
The Annual Conference.
Forty-six States, represented by 144 delegates, were present at the seventh Annual
Session of the International Labour Conference, which opened at Geneva on 19th May.
These included the important industrial countries of the world with the exception of the
United States and Russia. Among the distant countries were Japan, China, Australia,
India, South Africa, Canada and the South American States. Complete delegations
consisting of two representatives of the Government and one each of the employers and
workers were sent by thirty-two States, the other fourteen being mainly of lesser industrial
importance. Dr. Benes, the Czecho-Slovakian statesman, was unanimously elected
President of the Conference.
Four Draft Conventions and four Recommendations were adopted by the Conference.
The Draft Conventions dealt with the prohibition of night-work in bakeries, equality
of treatment of national and foreign workers as regards accident compensation, workers'
compensation for accidents and workers' compensation for occupational diseases. The
Recommendations dealt with the minimum scale of workers' compensation, jurisdiction
in disputes on workers' compensation, workers' compensation, workers' compensation as regards accident compensation.
A Draft Convention to establish a weekly suspension of work in the glass-making industry
was rejected by the Conference.
The Conference also held a preliminary discussion of the general problems arising out
of workers' insurance. A resolution was adopted requesting the Governing Body of the
International Labour Office to place the questions of general sickness insurance and of
invalidity, old age, and widows' and orphans' insurance on the agenda of future sessions,
and also calling upon the Office to prepare information on these questions along certain
stated lines.


---
STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS IN 1925.

RESULTS.

The following Table shows, by groups of industries, the proportion of workpeople directly involved in disputes, classified as settled in favour of employers, or workpeople, respectively, or practically so, in attaining the objects for which the stoppage of work was due. Disputes in which the employers, or workpeople, were partly, but not wholly, successful, are included under "compromised".

Proportions directly involved in Disputes beginning in 1925, the Results of which were:-

| Industries | No. | In favour of Workpeople | In favour of Employers | Compromised | Unsettled |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Mining and Quarrying | 116,500 | 21.4 | 31.0 | 29.5 | 18.1 |
| Metal, Engineering and Shipbuilding | 18,400 | 32.6 | 15.0 | 31.2 |  |
| Textile | 169,400 | 98.7 | 0.4 | 0.9 | 21.2 |
| Clothing | 2,900 | 41.6 | 13.2 | 45.2 |  |
| Building, Decorating, Contracting, &c. | 4,400 | 15.7 | 16.4 | 67.9 |  |
| Transport | 27,400 | 34.2 | 25.8 | 32.7 | 7.3 |
| Other Industries | 62,500 | 5.6 | 16.3 | 77.3 | 0.8 |
| All Industries, 1925 | 401,500 | 53.0 | 14.4 | 25.7 | 6.9 |
| All Industries, 1924 | 558,000 | 9.7 | 18.0 | 72.3 |  |


*Disputes in which no final settlement has yet been reported (June, 1926).

In 1925, as in most years, the disputes resulting in compromises or partial successes outnumbered either the complete successes or the complete failures. 154 settled in favour of the workpeople and 183 in favour of the employers (15 disputes were still not finally settled at the time of going to press). So far as numbers involved are concerned, compromises usually outweigh all other results; the only exceptions occurring when some dispute of outstanding importance results in a definite success for either party.  In the dispute of outstanding magnitude in 1925 (that in the wool textile industry, the workpeople were successful in their opposition to a reduction in wages; hence the preponderance of settlements in favour of the workpeople in that year, so far as judged by the numbers involved, both in the textile group and in the total for all industries. In the mining and quarrying group of industries the high proportion of workpeople involved in disputes ending in favour of the employers is largely accounted for by the result of the dispute in the Anthracite District of South Wales referred to above. Of the other principal disputes in 1925 in which a final settlement has been effected, the majority terminated in compromises.


In the case of eight disputes, directly involving 15,100 workpeople, work had been resumed pending further negotiation and a final settlement had not yet been reported, and in the case of seven disputes, directly involving 12,300 workpeople, work had not been resumed at the time of going to press.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.

Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents being men on whom we can rely; however, any errors creep into them, upon the same points, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members, the information contained therein must not be divulged.


NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES

NAT TEL. MUSEUM 4438 LONDON
TEL ADDRESS NATUMISHOP
PHONE, LONDON"

(Details of Union affiliation, officers and addresses follow)

MONTHLY REPORT.
23RD AUGUST, 1926.

FELLOW MEMBERS,

TRADE.
Trade is in a very unsatisfactory state largely due to the situation obtaining in the Mining Industry. We have paid out during the past month from our own Out-of-Work Fund the sum of £9,292 17s. od., and from the State side the sum of £13,675 18s. 7d.

The Ministry of Labour figures are as follows :-

BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment in this industry continued to be affected by the shortage of fuel resulting from the coal stoppage, and was poor, and slightly worse than in June; a great deal of short time was worked. As has been the case for many months, there was less slackness in factories producing light footwear than in those making artisans' boots.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 14.3 on 26th July, as compared with 13.6 on 21st June, and 11.8 on 27th July, 1925.
Returns from firms employing 37,200 workpeople in the week ended 24th July, 1926, showed that about 53 per cent. of these workpeople were on short time in that week, losing on an average 14 hours each.


---


---


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our
correspondents
As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
correction as to the original matter.

NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Seat of Gortrament, 34.GUILFORD ST LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts.
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 245.
MAT TEL. MUSEUM 4438
LONDON
TEL ADDRESS NATUMISHOR
PHONE, LONDON
NATIONAL
LI
UNION
UNIO
Copyright
ATIVI
General President
T.F.RICHARDS
(general Secretary
E.L.POULTON.J.P.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
17TH MAY, 1926.
TRADE.
Owing to the general stoppage in the country reported upon later, a number
of our members all over the country have had to cease work owing to the lack
of transport.
NATIONAL CONFERENCE AGREEMENT.
Now that the cost of living figure is down to 68 points the alterations
shown in Clause 8 of the Agreement comes in operation on the first pay-day in
June. This means that only one minimum will apply to all male operatives.
THE GREAT STOPPAGE.
It is well known to everyone that for several months past a National
Commission has been sitting to enquire into and report upon schemes for
dealing with the coal mining industry. This report was presented to Parliament
in February of this year and although a number of weeks were left before the
subsidy which the Government have been making to the miners was to autimati-
cally cease, the Government were very apathetic and only a real move was
made a few days before the 30th April. Owing to the serious position, the
General Council of the Trades Union Congress, with the approval of the miners,
appointed a Negotiating Committee to carry on negotiations between the
Cabinet and the General Council as representing the whole Trade Union


---


---


---


---
Workers' Insurance.
63
As preparatory work for the Conference, a small committee of international experts
at the Conference. After being issued in proof form, these reports have been considerably
met at Geneva to study the drafts of reports prepared by the Office for the use of delegates
revised and are now on sale. They provide detailed information regarding the law and
practice in the various countries concerning unemployment insurance, sickness insurance,
workers' compensation against industrial accidents, and workers' compensation against
occupational diseases. There is also a volume dealing with the international aspects of
the general problems of social insurance.
Maritime Questions.
representatives from different countries and advises the Office on maritime affairs, met in
The Joint Maritime Commission, which is composed of shipowners' and seamen's
seamen's working conditions and the codification of rules relating to seamen's articles of
Paris in April and considered, among other matters, general principles for inspecting
agreement, both of which subjects will be included in the agenda of the International
Labour Conference which opens in Geneva on 25th May, 1926.
Refugees.
Following the transfer by the League Assembly of the High Commissariat for Russian
and Armenian Refugees to the Office, it has had to act during the year as an internationa
clearing house for the supply and demand for refugee labour in the various countries.
showed that notable progress had been made. In this connection special missions of
The report upon the first seven months' work presented to the Assembly of the League
inquiry have been sent to Soviet Armenia and South America.
The New Building.
including Great Britain,
nearing
completion. Many Governments have sent gifts of their own products for the decoration
from national organisations, including the American Federation of Labour.
World Migration Figures.
Among the new publications of the Office is a volume, "Migration Movements, 1920-
1923," in which the Office brings together for the first time the migration figures of different
countries and compares them from the international point of view.
Industrial Health and Safety.
،،
The Office has issued the first parts of Occupation and Health," an encyclopædia
of industrial hygiene which is intended to bring together all the information available
in the various countries concerning industries and processes which may be considered
unhealthy and is being compiled with the assistance of eminent authorities in all parts
of the world. The Office has also begun the publication of a new two-monthly periodical,
the "Industrial Safety Survey," the aim of which is to serve as a medium of exchange
of ideas and experiences in the field of safety measures both between different countries
and between employers, workers and factory inspectors. Laws and regulations in all
parts of the world are recorded and notes are given of new publications on the subject.
Facts of World Labour.
These publications and others issued during the year are in addition to the regular
publications of the Office, Industrial and Labour Information (weekly) and International
Labour Review (monthly) wherein are brought together the latest facts concerning world
labour movements, special attention being paid to such subjects as cost of living move-
ments, wholesale prices, and emigration and unemployment figures.
Denmark.
APPALLING UNEMPLOYMENT IN DENMARK.
The unemployment figures for the first week of the new year show another tremendous
increase. The number of workers in receipt of benefit from the trade unions has leapt
up from 73,000 to 84,000; that means that one out of every three organised workers is
out of a job. These figures only apply to organised workers; the total number of unem
statistics are not available, but the total number might probably be estimated at something
ployed in the whole country is of course considerably higher than that. The official
like 100,000 or more.
It is just possible that this very serious state of affairs will improve somewhat during
the next few weeks, as a great number of the works extended the Christmas holidays
until the middle of January on account of business being so slack.


---
32
EXISTING RULES.
RULE 129. The duties of the Auditors shall be to audit the books of the
kept to examine all vouchers and the balance sheet of income
or General Meeting, to see that the accounts have been properly
and expenditure, certify to its correctness or otherwise, by attaching
branch once a quarter, or more often if required by the Committee
their signatures in a book kept for that purpose, and also to sign
a copy for the Central Office, and report to the next General Meeting
The Secretary shall also append his signature.
RULE 148. --All branches must make reasonable arrangements whereby the
members can pay their contributions weekly.
RULLE 123. The appointment of all branch officers must be approved b
Appointment, Suspension or Dismissal of Branch Officers.
officers cease to perform the duties of the office in accordance with
conduct on the part of any branch or Union officers, or when such
the Council, and in order to prevent the continuance of any mis.
the rules, the Council shall have full power to suspend or to summarily
dismiss such officers, when they deem it necessary.
2.-OBJECTS.
RULE 26. - To administer the National Unemployment Act and the National
Health Insurance Acts, and Amendments thereto where possible.
!


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
1
123
TRADE UNION STATISTICS.
Membership of Four-and-a-half Millions.
membership, income, and expenditure in 1924 of registered trade unions.
The Chief Registrar of Friendly Societies has issued a statistical summary showing the
The total membership in England, Scotland, and Wales, at the end of the year was
members was £8,343,526, and from other sources £627,771. The unions also received
4.501,015, as compared with 4,413,589 in 1923, and 6,981,750 in 1920. Income from
from the Ministry of Labour in respect of unemployment insurance and administration
expenses, £2,069,737.
Expenditure during 1924 included £3,175,709 for unemployment, travelling, and
emigration benefit; £1,151,218 for dispute benefit; £822,382 for sick and accident benefit;
43,326,963 for management and other expenses. These totals include figures relating
215,689 for political funds ₤672,877 for grants to Federations and other societies, and
to 94 employers associations with 42,868 members.
The largest sum paid in dispute benefit was in the building group, the amount being
1581,484.
H. E. RANDALL, LTD.
The thirtieth ordinary general meeting of this company will be held at the Princes'
Hotel, Jermyn Street, S.W., on Wednesday next, the 24th inst., at 2.30p.m.
The directors, in their report for the year 1925, state that the trading profit for the
period amounts to £42,829 18s. 7d. After payment of all charges and making due pro-
vision for the depreciation of buildings plant and machinery, and furniture, there remains
a baard from the previous year. Dividends at the rate of 6 per cent. per annum on the
a balance of 36,309 4s. 9d., to which has been added 37,879 os. Iod.. the balance brought
per annum on the ordinary shares was paid on July 27th, 1925.
dividend at 15 per cent.
The directors now recommend the declaration of a dividend on the ordinary shares
for the half-year at the rate of 15 per cent. per annum (being 15 per cent. for the year).
This amounts to £9,556 8s. 6d., leaving a balance of £49,975 8s. 7d., of which the directors
propose to place to reserve account £10,000 (making the reserve fund £60,000) and carry
forward £39.975 8s. 7d.
The factory plant, machinery, shops, &c., have been maintained in the highest state
of efficiency, and the stocks at the various branches have been carefully inspected, and
where found necessary, a liberal depreciation made. Mr. Percy Randall and the auditors,
Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths & Co., retire, but being eligible, tender themselves
for re-election. The Shoe and Leather Record, 19th February, 1926..
TO LABOUR.
Shall you complain who feed the world ?
Who clothe the world ?
Who house the world ?
Shall you complain who are the world,
Of what the world may do?
As from this hour
You use your power,
The world must follow you.
The world's life hangs on your right hand,
Your strong right hand,
Your skilled right hand;
You hold the whole world in your hand-
See to it what you do!
Or dark or light,
Or wrong or right,
The World is made by you!
Then rise as you ne'er rose before,
Nor hoped before,
Nor dared before,
And show as ne'er was shown before
The power that lies in you!
Stand all as one.
Till right is done!
Believe, and dare, and do!-- CHARLOTTE PERKINS GILMAN.


---
189
It is the intention of the General Council to raise a fund of £50,000 to pay for the
necessary building extensions and other provisions required for the purpose we have in
We desire, naturally, to maintain unimpaired and unchanged the beautiful old
house placed in our hands: but it is necessary to build a hostel for the accommodation
of students, to equip the college, and to provide for its upkeep, and the cost of the teaching
view.
staff.
plans are carried out.
A Place in the Sun.
all could see the picture as we visualise it of what this place will be in the future when our
I wish it were in my power to describe the beauties of this historic old place, and that
We see the park, the lawns and flower gardens, the quadrangle and cloisters, the
house itself, as the background of a great experiment in working-class education in which
we shall try to bring the young people of the Trade Unions into an atmosphere that will
influence their work in later years.
in the sun.
We want to give the young Trade Unionist a place
I bespeak sympathy for this work we are inaugurating for the benefit of those who
have none of the advantages of wealth or social privilege, but who possess great poten-
tialities for service to the community.
HOURS OF LABOUR.
LORD HENRY CAVENDISH-BENTINCK asked the Minister of Labour if he is now in a
position to state the number of workers in this country who are working 48 hours a week
the industries, apart from the continuous processes, where the normal working week
or less and the numbers working more than 48 hours:
exceeds 48 hours?
; and if he will give the names of
THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY TO THE MINISTRY OF LABOUR (Mr. Betterton) :
I am not yet able to give the figures asked for by my Noble Friend, but from a sample
tabulation of returns recently received from employers in most of the important industries
(including agriculture, the retail distributive trades, the railway service and dock labour)
it would appear that about 90 per cent. of the workpeople work a normal week of 48 hours
of workpeople not engaged on continuous processes is returned as working a normal week
or less. In each of the main industrial groups a varying, but usually small, proportion
of over 48 hours.
VISCOUNTESS ASTOR: Does that include the catering trade ?
MR. BETTERTON: I think not. That, I think, is included in the retail distributive
trades.-Extract from Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons, Wednesday, 10th
March, 1926.
[The answer given above as to the large number of workpeople whose working hours
are 48 per week or less, is a great tribute to trade union activity and its effectiveness
during the past twenty years, which activity is very often overlooked because of the
smoothness with which these advantages are secured. There is, however, another step
which should be taken to make these hours secure; i.e., the Ratification of the Washington
Convention (Hours of Labour) so as to place it beyond the power of any employer, or
federation of employers to force a strike or lockout upon the question of the working
week, which has been done in some cases; thus showing the need for constant vigilance
in this respect.-E.L.P., Gen. Sec.].
CONTRIBUTORY PENSIONS ACT.
MR. TAYLOR asked the Minister of Health whether a man or woman of 61 years of
age or over who has been insured under the National Health Insurance Acts for a period
of not less than 10 years, but who has left an insurable occupation, is accepted as a voluntary
contributor for an old age pension at 65 years of age after the 2nd January, 1928, or on the
fifth anniversary of his re-entry into insurance ?
MR. N. CHAMBERLAIN: The second alternative is the correct one. No person can
acquire a title to an old age pension before the expiration of five years from the date of
his last entry into insurance.
MR. TAYLOR asked the Minister of Health whether a person re-entering insurance as
a voluntary contributor in order to qualify for an old age pension at 65 is, notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 13 (5), also required by his Department to fulfil the statutory
conditions in Section 8 (a) of the Widows', Orphans' and Old Age Contributory Pensions
Act, 1925?
MR. CHAMBERLAIN: The answer is in the affirmative. - Extract from Parliamentary
Debates, House of Commons, 25th February, 1926.
---

---
