Here's the text extracted from the image:

**325**

**THE FORTY-EIGHT HOURS WEEK.**

Considerable attention is still being given to the question of the forty-eight
hours week and the possibility or otherwise of it becoming law. At the Seventh
Session of the League of Nations International Labour Office the question was
discussed at length, and we regret to report that the attitude of the Government,
through its representatives, is one of disappointment. Many members of
the League have already ratified the Convention of 1919, but will not put it
into operation until the British Government has done so. We trust that our
members will do what is possible to keep this matter before their local repre-
sentatives, and thus create such an opinion as to show the Government that
the Convention must be ratified, and that at an early date.

The Seventh Session of the I.L.O. also passed conventions in favour of
the abolition of Night Baking, Equality of Treatment of Workmen and
Foreigners' Accidents, and Compensation for accidents and industrial
diseases.

It is, however, very regrettable to have to record the fact that the attitude
of the British Government, instead of leading in industrial matters, as we
contend they should do, they either remain neutral or are reactionary. This
has very considerable effect upon other nations, and undoubtedly reduces
the influence of Great Britain upon other nations' representatives.

This is additional evidence of the necessity to as far as possible, and as
early as possible, change the representation of the country so as to ensure the
Labour Party not only being in office, but in real power, and thus give an
incentive to progress and peace amongst and between the nations of the
earth.

We wish to congratulate the General Secretary upon his re-election as the
British Workers' Representative upon the Governing Body of the International
Labour Office. Mr. Poulton was elected at the top of the poll, and was also
one of the acting chairmen of the Conference, which is indeed an honour for
the Union.

**COUNCIL MEMBER FOR No. 9 DISTRICT.**

The list of names of members nominated to fill the vacancy created by the
lamented death of Mr. C. Bleakley, will be found on page 357. Voting must
take place at the monthly meeting nights, and the votes counted on the 13th
prox., and posted to reach the Central Office by the FIRST POST on the
15th July, otherwise they will be disqualified.

**POLITICAL MATTERS.**

Since writing our last Address, the Labour Party has made a further
attempt to ascertain the attitude of the Government on Unemployment.
Reference was made to the fact that "163,000 more persons are unemployed
than twelve months ago." Mr. J. R. Clynes, speaking to the resolution, called
attention to the fact that in the King's Speech reference was made that the
B


---
326
Government would deal with the subject, and the stage has now been reached
when an attempt should be made to find a solution, or frankly declare that
there is nothing which the Government can do. The reply on behalf of the
Government was indeed vague, and they only expressed the hope that within
have again reached something like what they were before, when we shall share
"the not too distant future, when the consuming powers of our customers
that the Government have no real policy to meet the grave subject of unem-
in the prosperity which will come to them as to us." It is therefore evident
ployment. Here, again, we trust that our members will remember these facts,
and when they have an opportunity to record their vote-be it early or late-
we trust they will so use it as to secure a majority of Labour Members in the
next House of Commons.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION.
We are pleased to report that W.J.B., of Bristol, who met with an accident
in October, 1921, has recently secured a lump sum of £200, the costs being
paid by the Insurance Company.
We beg to repeat, however, that lump sums are not obtainable by law,
but only by agreement, and members desiring legal assistance must report
immediately to the local officials, who will then communicate with the Central
Office.
NEW IRISH BRANCH.
We are pleased to report that as a result of negotiations with the Central
Office and with the assistance of Mr. G. White, of Belfast, a Branch has been
formed at Dundalk, 29 members joining at the first meeting. The officers
have been appointed, and we trust that not only will the branch in Dundalk
tand loyally by the Union, but that they will be enabled to enjoy the full
Ivantages of their fellow members throughout the United Kingdom.
JUBILEE HISTORY OF THE UNION.
Members who desire to secure a copy of this most interesting and valuable
record of the work of the Union for its first fifty years should place their order
immediately with the Branch Secretary, as the stock is constantly being reduced,
and we do not intend to have a reprint. They are only 6d. per copy, and
should be ordered at once.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for


---
Here is the extracted text:
ched
that
the
thin
ners
hare
dent
em-
cts,
te-
the
ent
Bing
aw,
port
tral
327
Returns
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same.
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
TRADE UNION STAMP.
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
make a success.
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches,
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
tral
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
W. WARNER.
een
W. HINDES.
J. WHEELER.
cers
A. J. DOBBS.
lalk
full
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
able
rder
ced,
and
to
ent.
by
tries
for
THANKS FROM MRS. C. BLEAKLEY.
Mrs. C. Bleakley, I Drum Terrace, Edinburgh, asks through the Council
to kindly thank on her behalf, all members and officials for their kind letters
of sympathy and floral tributes. Mrs. Bleakley is unable to thank all indi-
vidually, and asks members and others to accept this intimation as an apprecia-
tion in her loss.-E.L.P., G.S.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
ADMIRALTY (CONTRACT AND PURCHASE DEPARTMENT), SHOES, BLACK LEATHER:
G. M. Tebbutt & Son Ltd., Northampton.
WAR OFFICE. BOOTS, ANKLE: J. Horrell & Sons, Raunds; S. Walker, Raunds;
W. Lawrence, Raunds; C. E. Nicholls, Raunds. SHOES, CANVAS: Stead & Simpson,
Leicester. The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1925.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**328**
**GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.**

**FELLOW MEMBERS,**

COMPETITION.—The state of trade appears to be making some of our manufacturers very dissatisfied with what they describe as foreign competition, although many of them have been critics of their confrères in other towns, and not a few have hinted at the way that some of their nearest neighbours conduct their business; to all this I hope we shall always lend a willing ear, because it is just as much to the Union's advantage as well as to the operative, to note that scientific management does not culminate in lower wages. We have already responded to the appeals made to investigate conditions; we are satisfied that the workers' slogan, "equality of opportunity." is fast becoming an international demand amongst the organised workers. The unorganised have no conception, but just follow the organised, "picking up the crumbs." The attempt to interfere with the eight-hour day, which to this day has not been legalised in this country—(although we have had a Labour Government in power for some of the time)—it is passing strange that some other countries should be ahead of us in this respect, the eight-hour day becoming law or adopted by agreement:—Panama 1914, Uruguay 1915, Ecuador 1916, Mexico, Portugal, Russia, Finland 1917, Norway, Germany, Italy, Poland, Luxembourg, Austria, Czecho- Slovakia 1918, Jugo-Slavia, France, Denmark, Switzerland, Spain, Sweden, Washington, Bulgaria, Greece, Roumania and India 1919. Tory England, Ireland and Holland don't appear amongst the above list of enlightened countries, and up to the present all attempts have been defeated. Will our members remind their employers that the above statement that nineteen countries had adopted an eight-hour day before the Washington Convention and of these the most important countries from which we get shoes, viz.:—France, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Czecho-Slovakia, and Sweden, had all adopted the eight- hour day, and in most other matters we find generally that conditions are not half so bad as our employers try to make us believe. If they would throw in their lot with those of us who believe in dealing with and buying only from those whose conditions of employment are equal to the best in the country, then they would be setting an example that they could honestly ask others to follow, but it is futile to complain of others doing exactly what you may be doing yourself. In this connection we have been very busy putting members of the Employers' Federation to complain of home or foreign competition whilst they place orders and encourage these people who studiously avoid paying the rates of wages governing the trade. It makes one think and wonder whether these pretenders are really acting privately as they would have the public believe.

MARKET HARBOROUGH has occupied more than a week of my time during the past month, chatting with the operatives daily during that time, and eventually calling a meeting and taking a number of names of operatives who were willing to join the Union. For conscience sake we called another meeting nearer the factory, but in the meantime the employer had asked all the operatives (more than one hundred) to stay behind for fifty minutes. This gentleman, an old shopmate of mine, worked with me at Messrs. Cooper & Sons, Redcross Street, Leicester, and was a loyal member of ours for years, and I am informed is a good living man—so tampered with the minds of these operatives that none beyond a handful dared to come to the meeting. I therefore sent him the following letter, and append his reply thereto :-

[COPY.]

MR. G. LOOMS,                                                                              15th May, 1925.

Bath Street, Market Harborough.

DEAR MR. LOOMS,

I am very sorry indeed to find that after several days I have been attending outside your factory for the main purpose of persuading your employees to join the Union. This, I think you will agree with me, is a very perfect legitimate and legal thing to do. I should regret, if I have at any time, during the many visits I have paid, said a thing which could be construed as of a detrimental character to yourself or the firm. I have one object in view, which you had when a young man, and a member of our Union, in doing your best in this short span of life for yourself without the least injury to others, and I have endeavoured, I hope, to carry out this principle, and I thought by taking on this organising of your factory myself, it would be in keeping with your own impression, viz.: that you did not get on very well with one of my colleagues who visited you some time ago, and I thought, therefore, I could assuredly depend upon your sympathy, if not your spirit: in fact some of the men have said (I don't know all the circumstances under which the statement was made), but they had got it at one of the meetings this week that you were rather favourable to the Trade Union. I think you have rather dispelled that idea.


---
We are bound in our humble way, to attend outside the factory of any firm of
boot and shoe manufacturers, or who are doing auxiliary work, work which undef
ordinary circumstances would be done by boot and shoe manufacturers, to endeavour
to get them to adopt our National Conditions, of which I enclose a copy. I think
you will admit that your conditions are below the conditions enclosed, and as these
are minimum conditions, we think at least that, speaking as man to man between our
two selves, and as an old shopmate, I was not aware that you wished to have an
advantage over your fellows in any respect. I believe you subscribe to a form of
faith in which that is its fundamental principle. I should be very pleased to receive
from you the slightest intimation that you had no intention of preventing or interfering
with the liberty of the subject, that you don't wish to say whether your operatives
shall go to Church or to Chapel, join the Salvation Army or the Boys' Brigade, and I
would like to respectfully suggest that you permit them to spend their wages in those
directions which are likely to give them the best results economically, socially, and
politically.
It would be a pleasure to still find that you are still in heart and spirit the same
man as an employer, as you were when a wage-earner.
Hoping that this appeal will have the desired effect in allowing and encouraging
everyone to keep up the standard of life and living to the highest possible point,
is the wish of
Yours sincerely,
T. F. RICHARDS,
CONTRACTORS TO H.M. GOVERNMENT.
General President.
MANUFACTURERS OF
SOLES, HEELS,
COUNTERS, LEATHER
AND FIBRE.
MR. T. F. RICHARDS,
G. LOOMS,
CROSS STREET WORKS,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
DEAR SIR,
London, W.C. 1.
MARKET HARBOROUGH.
9th June, 1925.
We desire to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 15th ult., which we
regret has not been replied to earlier owing to the writer being away from business.
We have carefully taken note of the contents, but do not see there is anything
calls for a reply from us. The relations with our workpeople are pleasant, they have
perfect freedom, and you may rest assured that their welfare has always been our
constant aim. In fact, we think they know, the conditions of work and wages here
are better than generally prevailing in this industry.
Therefore, further correspondence on this subject would not serve any useful
purpose.
Yours sincerely,
For G. LOOMS.
W. LOOMS.
This cannot go on. What right has any man to interfere with the liberty of the
subject; this cannot be tolerated, and I am asking my colleagues to allow our Mr. L.
Smith and Mr. J. H. Baum to give the firm special attention. It is only fair to say that
this firm, being an auxiliary firm, is kept going by the Boot Manufacturers' Federated
members, and is not associated with any organisation. This is not all; we note that
this firm say they are Government Contractors. If they were, we could make them pay
in accord with the Fair Wages Contract Clause of the House of Commons, and to make
sure, I am approaching the Director of Army Contracts for information. We believe
this firm has already been removed from the Government list, but we will make sure.
I hope they are on the list, they will then be compelled to pay at once.
MANSFIELD. We have still another firm in the same auxiliary branch of the trade at
Mansfield, where we are trying to get the heads of the firm at Leicester to adopt the trade
conditions. The "heads" say they have no antipathy or opposition to us, but the local
people at Mansfield have had the girls in the office and lectured them on the "folly" of
belonging to a Trade Union and the dire consequences that would, or will follow. These
people who set up this business ought to have informed their principals what were the
conditions of the trade, and not have taken advantage of unorganised labour to make a
success of a business on non-union lines. Further, one would have thought that sooner


---
330
or later these gentlemen ought to have known that they could not be exempt from a set
of conditions wholly imposed by themselves on others. In this they must have been out
of date completely, but we still hope that they will conform to the conditions without
any friction.
LEICESTER.- We have been pressing three firms in this City who are Stiffening Makers,
in the Manufacturers' Association, we expect them to conform to the conditions covering
for compliance with the Holiday Scheme, and although they are not eligible for membership
the trade. Several of these firms who do this kind of work are already paying, but the
three firms of Mr. J. Peake, Messrs, Gardner & Pratt, and Messrs. Burrows Bros. cannot
agree, because of their competitors (and as the two firms at Mansfield and Market Har
borough are in a much larger way of business, one can easily sympathise), but we have
obtained, through the kindly offices of Mr. W. A. North, J.P., who has acted as mediator
between us (and at the employers' request, we were bound to accept the offer), and we have
at last obtained a definite date when these firms will commence to pay. Meantime there
will be no relaxation of our efforts to bring into line all firms engaged in the industry.
LONDON SEW-ROUND BRANCH held a general special meeting of members for the
purpose of getting the members' views on the question of pressing the employers to make
provision for them to work on premises provided by the employer in preference to home
employment. The usual arguments were advanced in favour, but yet a few were found
to vote against this humane and commonsense plan, and as we have already assisted
them before the National Joint Standing Committee to grant them the benefit of the
Holiday Scheme (Mr. W. Addington Willis decided that all workers were involved), and
that one farthing in the shilling up to 56s. per year was in keeping with the letter and spirit
working indoors will eradicate evils which have always attended home employment.
They asked me to preside on behalf of the Union, which I did, and we wish them success
is
being present, and some of their Executive. The next move will be to table this motion
at the Board of Arbitration.
The MANUFACTURERS' FEDERATION has had to be appealed to because either the hot
weather or bad trade appears to be affecting the kindly way in which some employers have
treated us recently. They now suggest that all things are all right, if we will let their
people alone. My answer is: No news is bad news; if we hear often all is generally
good, but when bad or wrong, we must ask all to toe the line irrespective of the size or
reputation of the firm. Wrong is no man's right.
PRODUCTIVE FACTORIES. We have been appealed to respecting one of these firms
whose generosity in making advances and giving advantages, has reduced the volume
of work, and they find that our old adage of a good statement and no work is not beneficial
to a business, and when a whole factory is involved someone has to take the lead and
point a way out. We are always willing to advise in these matters, and if necessary
address those involved. We are well aware that when the Co-operative Wholesale Society
appealed for loyalty from the Distributive Societies, and the fact that trade has been very
good with them this year up to the present, unless they cut off the private firms who supply
the movement - which they have not done, we knew that the fall in trade would find the
productive. In fact some societies won't allow their Managers to place orders outside
the C.W.S.; some don't allow them to place them outside the Movement. I agree with
this latter attitude, and have tried and shall still try, although I don't appear to get much
help from the operatives themselves, that the C.W.S. as such ought to give no orders for
shoes to any private firm. Let them utilise more or both of the "white elephant" factories
they have at Wellingborough and Norwich; neither building is half occupied, and yet
the C.W.S. are buying goods from two factories where we have only a minority of members,
ad the Directors refuse to do as the Government always do, i.e., publish the name of the
ospective contractors. This they have refused.
RAUNDS, ARMY CONTRACTS. In order that there may be no overlapping or different
ices paid in the various districts, I visited Raunds for this purpose, and found that the
Red Book was still the guide for Army Canvas. I was shown the stuff now being made
there, which is in appearance, whilst new, something entirely different. The canvas
bodies are about as thick as leather and thin leather blank cap and golosh cover them with
a leather through runner and a crepe sole and heel.
IRTHLINGBOROUGH, NENE VALLEY TANNING CO. - The Secretary of the Northants
thanks to the Chairman of Directors, Dr. Robb, Mr. Hawthorne, of Finedon, and others
Advisory Council (Mr. G. Chester) had arranged for the Council to visit the above works
and proved to us most interesting. Our party numbered 40 and a very instructive and
enjoyable afternoon was spent. We saw the process of making upper leather from the small
South African hides to the finished article of Box Calf the consecutive processes of Chrome
Tanning are as follows: Soaking, unhairing, neck, splitting, fleshing, deliming, machine
scudding, hand scudding, tanning in drums, neutralising, sammying, splitting, shaving
dyeing, setting out, drying, sawdusting, staking, tacking on, seasoning, glazing, boarding
plating, trimming, measuring. The rates paid men are 60s. per week, and about 20
---

---
331
are members. After the visit, which occupied about two hours, the Directors were kind
enough to provide us with a very nice substantial tea, of which we heartily partook and
warmly thanked the Directors for their kindness which was twofold. This visit has made
me think and feel again that the Leather Workers ought to be one unified body, but we
ought to get the Amalgamated and the Slipper Union of Rossendale to join up with us
first.
HOME SECRETARY.-With the General Council we waited on the Home Secretary
to hear his replies to several resolutions, including Compulsory Workshops put forth by
the Factories and the Shoe Makers, and he said these places were on the wane and he did
not feel that he ought to be hurried, in fact he was entirely unsympathetic. On the ques-
tion of bringing buildings under the Factory Inspectors, there is a move in that direction,
if and when he gets his amended Factory Bill through. He agrees that more Factory
Inspectors must be appointed. Like all his friends, they are perfectly satisfied with this
beautiful world; those who voted for them are getting their desserts, and have helped to
set back the clock of progress.
Fellow members, support the Daily Herald, your own paper, and encourage your
friends to do the same, and expose Shoddy Shoes wherever found.
Yours fraternally,
Richard
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, LONDON, N.W. 5.
15th June, 1925.
09
General President.
e
e
REPORT OF DELEGATES TO BRUSSELS.
As fraternal delegates to the Biennial Conference of the Belgian Leather and Skin
Workers' Union, which has some ten thousand shoe operatives, who by the way are about
75 per cent. of the whole of the shoe workers in Belgium, we beg to report that the Con-
ference was held on Saturday, Sunday and Monday of the Whitsuntide holidays. The
delegates, some eighty in number, assembled at the Maison du Peuple, or in English the
House of the People. We had a pleasant, but rough, passage from Dover to Calais, and
were struck by the policy of small holdings which are so prevalent in France and Belgium.
We boarded our train at Calais and went through St. Omer, Armentiers, Lille to Blandain,
the Belgian frontier. Here we were for the second time in the hands of the Customs.
Later we passed through Fingeens, Tournai, Barry Moude, to Loos, Englies, Halle Hall,
to Brussels, where Comrade Hellinck and Comrade Wartel met us. The first named is
the general secretary of the Union, and the latter our interpreter, who could speak a little
English, and was a tailor by trade employed at the Maison du Peuple, and a member of
the Management Committee of that place, who are trade unionists and co-operators and
socialists all rolled into one. The building is used for trade union meetings, and for the
sale of some articles, a restaurant where food and drink can be obtained, and where the
people from the provinces are sure of getting a meal at a reasonable cost. To us the cost
of living appeared to be quite 25 per cent. cheaper than in this country. Clothes and
some other articles cost much more, including furniture. Most of the labourers on the
land, those in the streets and gardens, wore sabots (or woodon shoes) with everlasting
wear, and only wear for a dash a pair of slippers or something easy for the feet. This
only applies to the very poor, and, as stated above, those who work on the land, which is
very moist in some parts, more so in France than Belgium. Women are in the majority
as field workers; oxen are used extensively by milkmen, rag and bone dealers and those
who pretend to push a hand cart have a dog underneath in harness who never appears
to be told where he has got to pull as his neck is in the collar as soon as the cart moves.
The Congress was attended by their three presidents-Charles Jorden, Jean Diericks
and Egene Deprex. Delegates were Citoyens Richards and Warner, and Madam Richards,
a visitor from Angleterre (England), Drett (France), Lex (Germany), Shinty (Luxembourg).
Interpreters were Wartel (for English), Shinty (for German), Vanhove (from French into
Flemish), and Luppens (Flemish into French). All understood French or Flemish who
belong to the Union, and they had to have every speech translated into French and Flemish.
The General Secretary was Alex Hellinck; the Secretaries were Leon Petry and Georges
Terrin. The basis of their organisation and benefits are similar in character to our own;


---
```text
332
of the information we obtained was from an old shopmate, Adolphe Vallenion, who is
contribution scales and benefits are various. Day labour is the order of the day, and much
Rushden, after declared unfit for future service. The girls' minimum is about two-thirds
laster. He was wounded in 1916, sent to England and found work at the C.W.S. Works.
There was one machinist at the Congress, Madame Valeria la Traneq. The rise or fall in
1; all work is held together and they complete the work right through.
are apprentices and are paid on a graduated scale, and increases take place every six
the cost of living alters the wages and to-day's mean would be 400 points. All juveniles
months, and in most of the big centres the rates are as with us, settled by the local con-
of that for men;
vention as substitutes for our arbitration boards.
delegates presented Mrs. Bell-Richards and Madame la Traneg with bouquets. A banquet
After the Chairman's short address and the fraternal delegates had spoken, the
provided their own harmony and some beautiful singing was heard and there was only one
was arranged for the whole of the delegates, and a very pleasant evening was spent. They
drawback is the language, but a six months' careful study of one hour per day would work
short speech of about ten minutes at the commencement from the Chairman. The great
wonders, but expression and intonation have to be acquired afterwards.
Comrade Moena took up the fourth contribution question as to its being used solely
2,479; neutral 868; majority 3,504. Contributions are 2.50, and as a franc is only worth
for strikes, and was it to be compulsory or voluntary. The voting was for 5,903; against
and get sick, strike, accouchement, death, out-of-work pay. The latter means 5 francs
24d. or 97 to the f at the time we were there, this means they pay about 6 d. per week
per day or Ios. per week. The girls get 5 francs all told, or about Is. od. per day or
from the Union and 3 from the State, or 8 francs per day, which in English money is 1s. 8d.
6s. 6d. per week.
We tried to get permission to go rotind a shoe factory, but one had a fire during the
week prior to the holidays and the other the employer was not of the kind to help us,
says Comrade Hellinck. The nearest was about 100 miles away and permission was not
sare, so we abandoned the idea during this visit. Of one thing learned, is that Belgium
or Belgique or Eke as they call it, and especially Brussels (in their spelling Bruxelles,
no competitor of this country, and there is no outrage of the 48-hour week; they do not
believe that their Government nor the employers will ever be strong enough to abolish
the 48-hour week. The only regret is that, like ourselves, we both permit overtime.
This is, I hope, our next demand for it to be abolished.
We cannot close without thanking all the comrades in Brussels and Belgium who added
to our comfort and permitted us to spend a pleasant outing at Waterloo and other districts.
Statuory, music, painting and very fine and beautiful buildings were much in evidence.
When the same effort is put forth by the powers that be to utilise their wealth for the
benefit of making a sturdy and intellectual people, we shall be nearing the millenium.
12th June, 1925.
BENEFITS.
T. F. RICHARDS,
W. WARNER,
Delegates.
March
3,952 4 8
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out:-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
To December, 1924 667,902 8 7
£
s. d.
January, 1925
2,840 1 10
..
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
f
s. d.
To December, 1924 358,625 13 7
January, 1925
3,954 7 9
February
5,226 1 9
April
4,124 16 0
March
May
4,054 10 6
4,023 13 8
April
May
3,510 14 9
3,031 5 0
3,682 10 5
£686,897 15 3
£378,030 13 1
```

---
333
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Many of the factories in the parts of Leicestershire where I have been during
the month have been on short time. It is bad for operatives who suffer in their earnings
because of bad trade, but it makes the work of an organiser unpleasant as well. Even
at shops that are weak in trade union organisation and where the National Agreements
are not observed, short time is the rule.
There are two factories at Derby, Maden & Ireland's and Lynch's, where we have
only a few members. Mr. W. R. Smith and I visited these shops. We had a fine meeting
at the first factory. The heads of departments seemed a bit alarmed over the operatives
staying out so long, and giving Mr. Smith a cheer at the close of his speech. The meeting
at Lynch's was good, but all did not turn up as at Maden & Ireland's. The conditions
at this shop are bad according to reports, and yet some were having half days off for want
of trade. The non-unionists working for less than trade union rates have no guarantee
of regular work any more than trade unionists have where the Agreements are observed,
and the anti-trade union employer has no real assurance year by year of increasing his
trade and banking account by employing non-union labour and paying below a fair standard.
Poor pay ultimately means poor work.
We have had several good meetings at Sileby, making special appeal to the females
to recognise how the Union has improved their conditions in recent years. At Messrs.
Newbold & Burton's, where about one hundred operatives are employed, nearly all returned
from dinner in time to give Mr. Smith and myself a good opportunity to state our case
for the Union. So at Willett's, and other shops in a fair way gave us a hearing. It was
only at one shop where the whole of the workers except one did a good sprint to get away
from us. I have a better opinion of these people probably than they would give me credit
for. I believe that they must have felt within themselves that they are an unworthy
set, and that they could not stand and find reasons for their position as non-unionists.
D. MCCARTHY.
23rd June, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since writing our report we have met the repairers working at Upsom's, and we
are very pleased to report that the whole of the repairers are now members of the Union.
We also met the operatives working at Pocock's. We are hopeful that further visitations
will eventually induce them to again rejoin. All the girls are receiving the recognised
scales, but up to the present we have no members amongst them, though they quite
readily admit that it was mainly due to the Union that they receive the present wages.
Met the girls working at the Carlton Shoe Company. This is a well-organised firm so far
as the men are concerned, but we have only a few women members. We canvassed the
whole of them with membership cards, and while a good number of them appeared to be
interested, there was a great deal of indifference. A number of youths working at Freeman,
Hardy & Willis's were not members. After meeting them on two occasions, all of them
promised to become members. Met the women working at De Larnge's, where all the
men are members, but we have only three women members. We are hopeful that as a
result of our visit here, some improvement will take place in our membership. We have
again visited the firm of Polikoff's. In the evening we met the clickers, who appear to
be the best organised, for the purpose of dealing with prices paid for the work cut. After
Mr. Mason had dealt with the grievance, we took the opportunity of pointing out to them
the position of the girls working at the firm, with the result that we are likely to get more
active support in this direction. Met the girls working at Turner's, another firm where
the men are all members. In conversation with them we discovered some time ago some
of them were members, but lapsed. Constant visits are required at this firm if an improve-
ment is to take place in our membership. We have again met the girls working at Good-
man's. This continued visitation should have some effect, but there appears to be a great
deal of hesitancy amongst them, and we have not been able to discover the reason why.
It is a good firm, and the chief objection may be due to the fact that when a fire took place
adequate damages were not forthcoming in the opinion of the girls to meet their losses.
On three occasions we have met the girls working at Britten & Bannister's. We
canvassed the whole of them with literature and membership cards, and when they entered
the factory simply gave the Shop President the cards with nothing on. We again met the
girls after this incident, but some of them seemed totally indifferent. The girls who are
members have approached the firm with reference to the attitude of the girls toward the
Union, but without any success, stating that they could not interfere. Met the girls
working at Lehany's. At all these firms that we have visited in connection with the organi-
sation of women, we estimate that upwards of 400 women are engaged, with a membership
of about 50, while the men are practically all organised, and if we are going to make any
C


---
334
satisfactory progress, the men working at these firms will have to render more effective
service than they are doing at the present time.
Another visit to Pocock's has revealed to us the possibility of again putting the firm
on a more satisfactory basis. All those who have lapsed have promised to again consider
the matter.
We have met the operatives working at Jos. Branch's. A number of youths here
were not members, but they promised to join. The girls were also canvassed, Lut icund
no one here a member.
conversation with some of them we discovered that nearly the whole of them remained in
We have visited the firm of Petch & Sons. We have no girl members here, and in
the factory for dinner. We distributed literature and have promised to meet them all on
Tuesday evening next week..
Lazarus's, Branch's, Knights', Harrison's, Cooper's, Levine's, H. & S. Solomon's, Franklin's,
working at Franklin's, but unfortunately there was only a small attendance. This is not
During the week ending 13th June, 1925, we met the operatives working at Meltzer's,
Hyam's, J. Branch's, Pocock's. We attempted a meeting with the lasters and finishers
progress in organising this firm in these two departments. We are not satisfied that our
the first time that we have had to record a failure, though we have made very decided
firm. There appears to be a large number of young girls and boys working at this firm
conditions are observed, but we have no definite evidence whereby we can approach the
ing to arrange another meeting of the operatives. We attended a meeting of the operatives
and with regard to the organisation of the women it is exceedingly poor. We are endeavour-
at John Branch's. This is not a very large firm, and from our investigations the con-
ditions are not satisfactory. We joined a few youths up and the local officials are seeing
the firm with reference to the complaints of the men. At the firm of Pocock's the men
have promised to again consider the question of rejoining. The organisation at this firm
is apparently that no one is
the operatives are still as dull and uninterested. This firm appears to have full control
accepting any obligation. With regard to H. & S. Solomon's, the position has not improved
over them, and as they are working overtime, plenty of work seems to be their only object
without any consideration for the quantities of work that they are doing. We have again
visited Kempton & Brandon's. The conditions here are deplorable, chiefly boys and girls
are engaged on Nursery work, and the difficulties of organising are great. Cunnington's
and Phillips' also present some difficulty, in so far that no one is prepared to accept the
responsibility of collecting contributions. We have chiefly met these operatives at the
factory gates with our literature, and by personally canvassing them to increase cur
membership.
We have made a special effort amongst the following firms, which are chiefly recog-
nised in London as the first-class firms :-
Britten & Bannister.
Petch & Co.
Hitch & Penny.
Polikoff's.
Goodman's.
Turner's.
Carlton Shoe Company.
De Larnge's.
Lehany's.
We estimate that upwards of 500 girls are employed at these firms, yet out of this
number we have not more than 50 members. We have met these girls at these firms on
two or three occasions, both on leaving the factory and returning after dinner hour. Every
girl has received a membership card and literature; in some cases they were very insolent
and rather resented our appeal to them to become members. In some cases we are of the
opinion that the agreed minimums are not being complied with, and except for verbal
conversations we have no other evidence. At all these firms all the men are members,
but we receive very little encouragement from them. We are endeavouring to arouse
their interest in order that they should exert their influence towards making these firms
fully organised. The existence of such a large body of women unorganised at this class
of firm is deplorable, and owing to the attitude of our members who seem to have neglected
them so long, it makes the position much more difficult. We are hoping as a result of our
ee have made is given further support by our members working on these firms, that good
efforts that some improvement will take place, and we are fairly confident that if the efforts
results ought to follow.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
J. H. BAUM.
LEN. SMITH.
between to Derby. The former place is a contrast to the East End of London, especially
at this time of year, which is perhaps the most pleasing of all the seasons.
The past month has been spent in the County of Leicestershire with a visit in
in the larger centres.
The volume of trade in the county areas round Leicester gives ample scope for work,
as even if the operatives are members of the Union, they appreciate a visit, acting as it
does as an encouragement to those who are cut off from the association which is possible


---
335

The attendance and attention at the meetings at the factory gates is on the whole
very good. On several occasions one has had nearly twenty minutes in which to address
them, which gives the opportunity of presenting a more practical statement than is possible
in a shorter time.
The places visited are Syston, Anstey, Mountsorrel, Sileby, and as already stated,
Derby. In some cases the spirit of the operatives is very good, but in others it is of another
kind, and the task is greater in consequence. The conditions in some cases also add to
the difficulties of organising. The presence of other industries such as hosiery give the
women an economic independence which is of great value to them, and girls pass into the
trade and obtain our rates of wages without any real effort on their part, and many of them
appear to have no idea that the Union has done anything in fixing these rates.
At the meetings and in conversation the work of the Union in obtaining the National
Terms of Settlement and the need of a strong union to maintain same has been emphasised,
and we think the result will be some new members, though their minds move somewhat
slowly, and their actions may be similar. But as hope has to be a strong feature in the
make-up of a trade union organiser, we view the situation with confidence.
The effort, however, must be a sustained one in these areas if good results are to follow,
and the Union obtain the control that is essential if our conditions are to be permanently
secured. I believe it can be done, but new conditions require new methods, and it may be
that the Union will have to review the situation in this spirit.
The situation at Derby is perhaps not so hopeful from the point of view of member-
ship, though here again the meetings at the factories were very good, both from the point
of view of attendance and attention given to what was said. At all these meetings literature
has been distributed, in which our conditions are fully explained, and the obligation of
the operative to the Union duly emphasised.
The situation at Derby has not been helped by the action of the late Secretary, and
the members express themselves very strongly on the subject. A case like this makes
one doubt whether a generous attitude is on the whole the best for the interest of the Union.
In this case our members are firmly convinced it has been harmful to the branch.
There are other features that want consideration before we can proceed here with
any confidence, though one cannot help thinking that some of these places drift too far
before we deal with them.
20th June, 1925.
WALTER R. SMITH.

MR. LLOYD GEORGE ON UNEMPLOYMENT.

When the Unemployment Bill was introduced by the Labour Party on the 22nd
May, 1925, Mr. D. Lloyd George, M.P., made, amongst other statements, the following :-
There is one survey which I should like to see undertaken; it is a very difficult one
to make, and that is a survey of the extent to which we can hope in future to provide
employment for our people out of our export and foreign business. Are the Government
quite convinced that in future, looking at what is going to happen, that we can depend
to the same extent upon our foreign business as we have in the past. We have depended
upon foreign trade more than any other country in the world. There is no country in the
world that has, I will not say entirely, but to such an extent depended for the very life
of its population upon trading with countries across the seas. It is a very perilous position
to be in. That is one of the questions that ought to be examined the extent to which
in future we can hope to depend for 100 per cent. employment upon our foreign trade.
If we cannot, then we must look to our resources at home, and to our resources in the
Empire, as my hon. Friend very well stated in his speech. There is no country in Europe
with a soil like ours which has so small a proportion of people settled on the land. I am
not speaking of Russia and the countries which are not highly developed, but I am speaking
of Western Europe. There is no country in Western Europe which yields as little from
the soil. We are paying £375,000,000 every year for produce which this country is capable
of producing. In addition, we are paying £60,000,000 every year for timber which might
be produced here. I do not say that the whole of that produce, but a very large proportion
of it, could be produced here, if you would only examine what is done in other countries,
where the condition of the peasantry is very much better than it is in this country. Take
the question raised so effectively the other day, the question of afforestation. That is
a question of vast moment in regard to the produce of this country and the exchanges of
this country. We are spending £60,000,000 every year upon timber, a very considerable
proportion of which could have been produced here.
[It is remarkable what statements can be made when not in office. When the oppor-
tunity was within the power of the older parties, the carrying out of these reforms-which
would have been beneficial to the workers-were constantly shelved.-F.L.P., G.S.].


---
```text
336
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. - Trade is still bad with us, although there is word of a
good order having been received by a local firm. There is word to the effect
supply of supplementary orders. How good this news is can be guessed by
that a satisfactory production of sample orders will result in a continuous
anyone who has experienced the frightful ordeal of long continued idleness
or short time. We earnestly hope this matures, as a great many operatives
here will need months of good time to give them a lift up of any kind. We must
has sustained in the sudden and lamented death of our Council Member, Mr.
take this opportunity of commenting on the great loss the Union in Scotland
member realised his plucky and sincere nature. Interested to the core in the
C. Bleakley. Mr. Bleakley was frequently with us here, and even the humblest
and no one was sorrier than he himself in not accomplishing more for their
problems of the worker, he used every occasion to labour for their best interests,
Agreements or to take up some thorny question which had caused trouble
His transparent honesty prevented him from deluding his conscience or his
uplift. It was always a pleasure to have him visiting either to explain National
an easy time by shirking reality; rather he made his lot more difficult by his
refusal to hide the truth even although it added greatly to his work. During
his years as Council Member for the North it was his constant desire to get
our position appreciated in its true colours. The type of employer, the class
of trade, the distinctive factory, such as they exist in Scotland, called for treat
ment different to what you find required South of the Border, and our friend
was ever anxious to have them rightly understood as a sphere of Union labour,
and we must ever feel grateful to him for his efforts. His last years were
important in so far as he was provided with opportunities to help a class of
member for whom he had a warm side, namely the Repairer. His work on
the Trade Board makes it easier for the one who follows, and although it was,
and will be for some time to come, a heartbreaking struggle, still he was always
optimistic of what might be achieved. Although so earnest in his work for the
Union, he was an ideal companion in his leisure. His sunny disposition made
it easy for him to blend with any company, and his presence was always accept-
able where happy recreation was desired. We regret his economic circumstances
caused him such great anxiety latterly, and the pity is that such worry may
have hastened the end. It was a sad shock to hear of his death, and all his
colleagues of this branch mourn the passing of a brave spirit and a sincere
friend to the rank and file of the trade. We are glad his home town branch
has already started a fund for his people, and we hope it will meet with great
success. While his worth is still vivid in the minds of all the members it should
be possible to raise a sum worthy of the object, and a great tribute to a champion
who has secured a good place in the history of the Union.
CHESHAM.-Trade here still remains slack.
CHESTERFIELD.-Trade bad with men making New Work.
CORK. Trade good.
firms losing time. We are sorry to record the death of one of our oldest mem-
DERBY. - Trade shows signs of falling off, the clickers at the two leading
bers, C. Petty, who was one of the first to join the Union in Derby nearly
sorry to record a heavy sick roll, Smallpox having claimed some of our members,
forty years ago, and has been a continuous member ever since. We are also
result it has cost the Union nearly as much for the ill-effects of vaccination
one firm refusing to employ operatives who would not be vaccinated, with the
and have been suspended till they are. The Labour Exchange have stopped
as the other malady. Some of our members have refused to be vaccinated,
their pay, but they are appealing against the decision. Mr. D. McCarthy and
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
Mr. W. R. Smith are in Derby trying to organise the black shops. It will be
a very difficult matter.
DUNDEE.-" He's gane; he's gane. He's frae us torn." The announce-
ment of the sudden and tragic death of our Council Member, Christopher
Bleakley, created a profound and deep feeling of sadness in many of the members
of this branch. 'Tis but of recent date we heard his cheery voice and ringing
laughter; and now how painfully sad the thought, these are stilled for ever.
Our friend, Chris., was, in a sense, a man of outstanding characteristics. None
could question his sincerity in the manner in which he espoused the cause of
labour. His determination of what he took in hand to successfully carry
through. A man of a lovable disposition. Rarely if ever offending. Keen to
resent an injury. A large and generous heart, with always an open hand when
occasion arose to assist. The members of the Scottish branches will miss him
very much, as he was most assiduous in looking after their interests, as a member
of our general executive. We shall miss him very much. His death has created
a vacancy it will be difficult to fill. "Now the labourer's task is o'er," and our
hearts go out to the widow and family.
EDINBURGH.- Our Repairing Section has been very busy during the
month. Mrs. Bleakley and family wish us to thank all the branches and
shopmates for their kind expressions of sympathy in their sad bereavement.
The Edinburgh Branch will certainly miss his counsel, he having been an active
member of the Branch for over thirty years. He was always trying his best
to better the working conditions of not only the shopmates, but the general
body of workers all over. His place will be difficult to fill in the Union. May
we all endeavour to follow his example. Whatever the consequences, "Right
was always might," however much the sacrifice.
GLASGOW.-Trade has somewhat slowed down here this month, a
considerable number of our members losing time, and the outlook is discouraging
owing to the lack of orders for Shipbuilders and Engineers in the Clyde Valley.
It is with sorrow we lament the great loss to the Scottish branches, by the
death of our esteemed Council Member, Chris. Bleakley. Its suddenness one
feels as a great shock as only a day or two previous we were engaged with him
in the interest of our Union, and in fact it must be said he " died in harness."
His place will be hard to fill. We wish to express our heartfelt sympathy to
his wife and family at this time of their great loss and bereavement.
GLASGOW No. 2. -Trade is very quiet at present, some of our members
having a considerable period of suspension. We regret the passing hence of
our Council Member, Chris. Bleakley, to whose memory the usual token of
respect was paid at our Branch Meeting. To those of us who came into personal
touch with him we feel the members have lost one whose interests were theirs
all the time. To Mrs. Bleakley and family we extend our deepest sympathy.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.-Trade during the month has become
considerably worse. Rushden very poor. Wollaston more unemployed.
Finedon three firms closed, 120 or more out. Irthlingborough fair, but not so
good as last month. Irchester whole of clickers at one firm finished or trans-
ferred to Rushden firm. Bozeat more hopeful. At an interview with Mr. F.
Drage, of the firm of Drage & Sons, we were informed that half of the employees
would be starting in the middle of Whit-week or week after. On June 8th we
find most of the operatives have returned to work. Raunds is improved in
ordinary Army and Navy work. Stanwick number standing off. During the
month Messrs. John Cave & Sons, Rushden, provided and opened bowling greens
and tennis courts for employees of that firm. President attended as member
of Rushden U.D.C., and Secretary represented the Union. A rest-room has
also been provided for female employees. As Secretary remarked at opening
ceremony, " it is hoped that it will set an example to other employers," that
the workers must cease to be spoken of as "hands" but as human beings,


---
338
with minds that think, hearts that feel, and souls that can soar above the purely
mechanical tasks of the factory.
KINGSWOOD. Trade, indications of improvement.
LIVERPOOL. During the past month the Boot Repairing trade has been
very good. To the stereotyped query "any complaints," the reply is in the
negative. We note in the May Report the General President's remarks re the
Trade Board. We can hardly realise from a brief report what the specific
trouble is, but we know what it is to be fed up and feel like throwing up the
sponge. We hope he does not contemplate sacrificing "bottom dog" on the
altar of prestige and dignity. Better to worship at the shrine of Bacchus and
acquire "that fellow feeling which makes all the world akin."
Man and His Shoes.
How much a man is like his shoes!
For instance both a sole may lose;
Both have been tanned; both are made tight
By cobblers; both get left and right;
Both need a mate to be complete,
And both are made to go with feet.
With shoes the last is first; with man
The first shall be the last; and when
The shoes wear out they're mended new;
When men wear out they're men dead, too.
They both need healing, oft are sold,
And both in time turn all to mould.
They both are trod upon and both
Will tread on others, nothing loth.
Both have their ties, and both incline
When polished, in the world to shine.
They both peg out. Now, would you choose
To be a man or be his shoes?
-Shoe Trades Journal, 29th, May 1925.
LONDON METRO. Trade here is still very bad and there does not
appear to be any prospect of it improving for some time to come. A joint
mass meeting of the London Metro. and London Sew-Round Branches was
held at the Lansdowne Club, on 21st May, when the General President (Mr.
T. F. Richards) presided for the purpose of putting before the members the
advantages of indoor working to both Louis heel and Sew-Round makers. It
was a poorly attended meeting, but a resolution that negotiations be opened
for the provision of indoor workshops for all Louis heel and Sew-Round makers
was carried with but four dissentients. At one time it was the foreign element
who were the sinners as regards to taking large quantities of work out and
employing several hands in their own homes, but now unfortunately our own
people are doing likewise. Mr. T. F. Richards, General President, in the May
Report, in his wisdom attacks the London Clickers' Statement. Well, when
the responsible employers themselves have agreed to a list of prices to be paid
for cutting, it seems a bad policy to tell them that they are paying too much.
All towns have cheap shops and Statements will not be worth much if they,
the cheap shops, can dictate through their cut-throat policy the line any
Statement should take.
as follows:-
The statement made by the General President in the May Report was
The Branch will have to act differently, and there will have to be
some means of demarcation in the difference between their present clicking
statement and the cheap shops.
To begin with, a "fourths" in London is twopence-halfpenny per
dozen more than Leicester best; this in itself calls for treatment.
For two years there has been a reference before the National Joint Standing
Committee from the London employers for a reconsideration of the position.
I am anxious that the members in London should not be deprived of their


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
work, but should have a statement covering the common work which so success-
fully competes against better centres at a lower rate, because London only
have one statement and that is for clickers. There are NO statements for the
closing, lasting, finishing, stock or press departments. London Metro, is one
of the oldest branches of the Union, and yet only have one piecework state-
ment.-T.F.R., G.P.

LONDON SOUTH. We are very pleased to announce that we have had
very good results from the visit paid by Mr. Len. Smith, Organiser, who did
some good business for the Branch, having enlisted twenty new members for
the Branch, and it is to be hoped that all members will appreciate the work
done and rally up at these meetings and keep their contributions paid.

MAYBOLE. - Trade is much improved, nearly all our members having been
restarted. We are also pleased to report sickness light. It is with extreme
sorrow and regret that we heard of the sudden death of our colleague and friend,
Chris. Bleakley. We are sure this is a blow to all members of the Union,
especially the Scottish members. Mr. Bleakley was a staunch friend of all
workers, and especially the workers in the boot and shoe trade. We shall all
miss him, but none like Mrs. Bleakley and family, to whom we tender our
heartfelt sympathy in their great loss of one who was a devoted husband and
father. A man among men.

NOTTINGHAM. - There is no improvement in trade here. Quite a num-
ber of our members are only working on alternate days. We have to report
the death of H. Mais, one of our old members. He has been a member of the
Union almost since it started, and has been in this branch over 40 years. The
Secretary and some of his old shopmates attended the funeral as a mark of
respect.

PLYMOUTH.Trade has been bad during the month and our Out-of-Work
figures have not been so high since 1920-21. Some of our men, discontented
drawing unemployment pay and doing nothing, have commenced business on
their own account, and as a Branch we wish them good luck. We ask for a
little more consideration and forethought when discharges are contemplated,
for we do not see where employers are advantaged by forcing into the already
overcrowded market skilled men who will act as their competitors. This is
what invariably happens with an active intelligent worker; having led an active
life and formed the habit of industry, he begins to tire after a few weeks holiday.
He gets anxious for the future and looks about for a little shanty to open up
on his own account. This is not an easy task, and many a night finds him foot-
sore and despondent after a weary search, but with perseverance and a little
luck a place is found and with courage, hope, fear and uncertainty intermingled,
he pays his first week's rent, and buys a patching machine. After this every
nerve is strained and every sail is set to win the prize, "success." Sometimes
a cut is made on the prevailing Price List. Be this right or wrong the man has
to live under a system of competition and get a foothold as a tradesman, but
who is responsible ? We suggest a little more consideration and forethought.
Our men generally prefer to work short time rather than standing in the ranks
of the unemployed, but many employers argue that their men are members
of the Union, and with the additional State benefit no harm will be done by
discharging, but discharges in the boot repairing trade acts in the form of a
boomerang, and requires considerable dexterity in handling; sometimes the
thrower is hit, and a knock-out blow administered in this fashion does not
excite much sympathy. We hear with deep regret of the sudden death of Mr.
C. Bleakley, and join with the Council in their expressions of sorrow and appre-
ciation of his sterling value and worth.

STAFFORD. There is an improvement in this centre, and we are hoping
for a retention of same.
Our members have suffered a long period of depression.
WATERFORD. Trade continues good.
GREAT YARMOUTH. Sorry to still have to report trade very slow.


---
340
HOW GREAT BRITAIN HINDERS RATIFICATION
OF THE HOURS OF CONVENTION.
At the present session of the International Labour Office, the chair was taken by
MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P., O.B.E., General Secretary of the National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives, and the workers' representative on the I.L.O., when the question of
the Ratification of the Hours of Convention was under discussion.
MR. CULLEN, a representative of the Irish Free State, said :—
Perhaps the most important of the Conventions yet adopted is the Washington
Hours Convention, and, speaking from this tribune last year, my adviser ventured to
Our General Secretary, Mr. E. L. POULTON, J.P., presiding at the
League of Nations International Labour Office, Seventh Session,
Geneva, 30th May, 1925.
express the fear that the statement then made by the British Government Representative
could not be accepted as an indication of the early ratification of the Hours Convention
by Great Britain. That fear has been realised. The other day the distinguished Repre-
sentative of the French Government suggested that the workers of the world might begin
to think that the many delays and endless discussions about ratification were only a screen
facts? The position is that ratification by Great Britain would undoubtedly result in
for a determination not to ratify. What other opinion can the workers draw from the
and our workers are determined to do their best to secure further ratifications regardless
say that, although we have brought our list of ratifications up to a substantial number,
ratification by a large number of States. Certainly, speaking for my own country, I can
of what may be done by other countries, it would nevertheless be much easier to secure
ratification by Ireland if Great Britain were known to be prepared to ratify without any
room for doubt. At present there is grave reason for doubting the intentions of the
British Government.


---
Two difficulties were mentioned here by the British Representative; the five-day
week and the special conditions of railwaymen. May I say frankly that I cannot under-
stand how anyone who has carefully studied the full text of the Hours Convention, and
particularly Article 5, could imagine that its stipulations would militate against the adoption
of either the five-day week or the maintenance of the railwaymen's agreement. Certainly,
we have not seen-and I do not think the Irish railwaymen, although our railway workers
belong to the same Union as their railway comrades in Great Britain have seen-any
precise statement of what the alleged difficulty really is. I do not like to seem to criticise
sincerest friendship for British workers that we venture to ask them and their Government
Great Britain: we have had occasion enough for that in the past; and it is out of the
to approach this question, not merely in a spirit of vague goodwill and of pious hopes for
Much more hangs upon this than the welfare of British workers. A
the future, but with a resolute determination to secure ratification without further delay.
fundamental social reform for the benefit of millions of workers all over
Europe depends upon the British ratification, and even from the point of
view of Britain herself it is important, because it is perhaps not too
much to say that the leadership and prestige in social reform and indus-
trial progress which Great Britain undoubtedly held in the XIXth century,
and well into the XXth century, will be lost completely if the Hours
Convention is not ratified by that country.
M. SCHURCH (Switzerland) followed, and during the course of his remarks, said :-
They un-
favourable effect on Switzerland, from the point of view of international competition;
but public opinion prevailed and the results were most favourable for Swiss Industry.
Another attempt to go back on the eight-hour day in Switzerland was rejected by a decisive
majority after a referendum in February, 1924. This shows that public opinion in Switzer-
land is thoroughly favourable to the eight-hour day. The workers, however, consider
that exceptions to the present eight-hour day are granted somewhat too easily by the
Government in Switzerland, and they greatly regret the decision of that Government not
to ratify the Washington Hours Convention.
MR. ARAYA (Argentina) said :- No reproach can be levelled at the Argentine Republic
in this respect, so far as the state of her legislation is concerned. The average hours
worked are not excessive; indeed, after the establishment of the forty-eight hour week,
there has arisen a movement in favour of the forty-four hour week.
MR. O'RAHILLY (Irish Free State) said: It is well, however, to remember that this
involves the duty on our part of attempting seriously to think internationally and a readi-
ness to adjust our national legislation in the wider interests of the workers of the world-
a standpoint which, I must say, is not always evident in the Government discourses we
have been listening to here. A medley of individual national apologies does not make
an international conference, they merely make a multi-national meeting; and I venture
to express the hope that ultimately we shall not have these prolonged proceedings here,
but that we shall have a special commission to enquire into the reasons why such and
such a country has not ratified such and such a Convention. We want an objective,
business-like examination of those reasons and of the difficulties which countries have found,
and we cannot find this in the series of eloquent discourses in a general conference here.
I hope that we shall ultimately have a commission, especially if we adopt the system of
amendment.
For instance, I cannot understand what is the difficulty about railway workers which
prevents the ratification of the Hours Convention, and I venture to express the opinion
that no one else listening here can understand either. I trust that we shall in the near
future, as I have said, have a business-like separate commission for the examination of
such national difficulties and excuses.
MR. RIDDELL (Canada) said :- British Columbia has taken a forward step and has been
the first Province in the Dominion of Canada to accept the eight-hour day and to put it
into operation. I also made a thorough study of legislation, and the legislation in our
Provinces would enable them, with practically no amendments to that legislation, to accept
more than 50 per cent. of our Draft Conventions and Recommendations.
ITALY has recently ratified the agreement: states that until Great Britain does so
they will not enforce the same.
AUSTRIA, BELGIUM, and FRANCE are in a similar position.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of May, 1925,
80,119. Unemployed at end of May, 1925, 3,347; percentage, 4.2. Decrease in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.1. Increase in percentage as
compared with a year ago, 0.6.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1925.


---
342

Mr. E. L. POULTON ON FORTY-EIGHT HOURS WEEK.

On Monday, 25th May, 1925, speaking at the I.L.O., Geneva, MR. E. L. POULTON,
J.P. (British Empire) said: I wish to speak on the wider question of the lack of ratifica-
tions of the Conventions that have been passed in the various Conferences since 1919,
I beg to express, on behalf of all the workers, their sense of keen disappointment at the
fact that we have to meet here this morning and can record approximately 150 ratifications
only, when there ought to be between 800 and 900. This to the workers is a very great
disappointment. Their hopes in 1919 were very high; they kept those hopes at that
high altitude for some considerable time, but as the years pass and they find this lack of
ratifications, their hopes gradually begin to go down. We learn this morning that, whilst
the Director is able to say that some advance has been made, the great majority of the
Conventions nevertheless remain unratified by the countries assembled here, and I am
asked on behalf of my colleagues to appeal particularly to the Government Representatives
here, when they go back to their several countries, to do all that is possible to ensure
the putting into effect of these Conventions to which the workers attach so much import-
ance, having regard to the effect that they would have upon the lives of themselves, their
wives and their children.

If we refer to the Director's Report itself, we find that since 1921 there have been no
fresh Conventions passed. It cannot, therefore, be said that we are asking as workers
to go at an extraordinary pace in ratifying Conventions. It was said in the earlier days
that we were attempting too much. We were endeavouring to make the pace so fast as
workers that neither Governments nor employers could keep up with what we desired.
I have said from the tribune in past years that one of the main reasons for the desire of
the workers was the lack of labour legislation during the years that are now behind us and
for which we have to make up the lee-way, and I do hope that from this Conference we
shall go home determined to do what we can to ensure the putting into force of the rati-
fications as portrayed in the Director's Report itself.

In that connection I was very delighted to hear the Bulgarian Minister state that he
hoped Governments would give all the information possible to the Office and to this Con-
ference, as the Bulgarian Government was determined to do everything possible to ratify
all Conventions. I congratulate the Bulgarian Government on arriving at that decision
and I hope that other Governments will arrive at the same decision in relation to the
ratification of Conventions. The same Minister added, however, what was to me a very
important point and one which ought to go home to all the Delegates. He said: we
cannot however remain almost alone as regards the hours question. Now that is to us,
as workers, going to the vital principle, when a country which has ratified tells us that
she desires to ratify every Convention, but nevertheless has to make in the speech of one
of its Ministers of State such an important reservation as that to which I have just referred.
I trust before we have done with the Director's Report, we shall have many statements
from Government Representatives and from Employers' Representatives that they are
going to carry out the Preamble to Part VIII. of the Treaty of Versailles. Having made
that statement in regard to the general ratifications, or lack of ratifications, I now want
to come to two in particular, because these two stand out in the eyes of the workers as the
most important of all and upon which they have set their hearts for many years past.

We have heard this morning the statements of the Belgian and British Representatives.
If I understood aright the statement of the Belgian Minister, he said Belgium was a small
country but was also very desirous of going forward. It could not go forward, however,
without the help of other countries, and therefore Belgium would ratify Conventions as fast
as other countries did so. Mr. Betterton, on behalf of the British Government, made a state-
ment with which personally I was very disappointed-not for what he said, but for what he
omitted to tell the Conference. I was hoping that Mr. Betterton would have been able
read from Hansard, That statement, while not altogether disappointing, is not one on
had gone
cannot find a way out of the difficulties with which they are surrounded, so that they may
be enabled to ratify the Hours Convention. I hope that as a result more ratifications will
ment of the Minister of Labour made in the British House of Commons, which Mr. Betterton
be secured.
Mr. Betterton stated that one of the great difficulties in Great Britain was that certain
operations in regard to trade and industry would make it difficult for the British Govern-
ment to ratify the Convention. I wish to say, in language which I hope will not be mis-
understood, that there are Articles in the Convention itself which will enable the British
or any other Government, if they have the necessary desire and goodwill to put the Hours
Convention into force, to deal with those difficulties. Articles 4, 5 and 6 of the Convention,
as I have told the Representatives of my own Government time after time, will enable
those difficulties to be surmounted. I trust we shall not hear in future that Governments
are refusing to carry out the Convention because of such difficulties.
---

---
Every country is bound to have some difficulty in carrying out a Convention which
has been passed here in the international spirit, but it is for each country to bring its laws
into conformity with the Conventions which are adopted here in these Conferences, and
which we believe to be in the highest interests of all.
"Belgian legislation on the eight-hour
I want to refer to one or two of the statements with regard to this matter which are
printed in the Director's Report. It states:
eight-hour day its interest clearly requires that it should do all in its power to bring it
day goes beyond what is required by the Washington Convention. As Belgium has an
about that its competitors in the world markets should also accept the same system,"
That was said by a Representative of the Belgian Government. At the top of another page,
with reference to France, the Report states:
the Bill "that is, a Bill which was to be brought into the French Senate" it is indicated
that the Act of 23rd April, 1919, on the eight-hour day in its main lines fits in with the
provisions of the Conventions."
"In the statement of reasons which heads
I want to add to that in Great Britain we have a day of eight hours or
less for millions of workers in force by voluntary agreement, and for
millions of other workers-miners and those under what we call the
Trade Boards by law, and by what is equivalent to the law of the land,
an Order in Council. That also applies to railways.
In the case of three great countries, therefore, one has a law which it says is better
than the Convention, another a law which in its main lines fits in with the Convention,
and the case of the third I have just mentioned. Despite this, they do not ratify the
Convention. Why? Why, if in their main lines their laws conform, do they not ratify
the Convention? Why, if in some respects their laws are better, and if in another case
millions are already working a day of eight hours or less, do they not ratify? Surely
the least they can do to show their good faith is to ratify, so that the workers can see one
more of their aspirations embodied in Acts of Parliament, so that their hours of labour
may be safeguarded against any unscrupulous employer who may attempt to make them
work longer hours. That is what the workers are afraid of; that is what they fear. Such
an action on the part of unscrupulous employers would precipitate a great industrial
struggle, and I submit that at this time of day we ought not to be compelled to resort to
industrial struggles merely to maintain an eight-hour day or a forty-eight hour week.
The second question I should like specially to stress is that of white lead. Those
who have been to the Conference for a few years will know that we had a battle royal one
with the other. Day after day, in Committee, we were fighting one against the other,
but ultimately we came to an agreement. Here is an industry which is affected very seri-
ously so far as the rights of the workers are concerned, by the use of this white lead, and
yet, if you look at the Director's Report, you will find that, of the 56 nations which are
connected with us in this great International Conference only five have ratified the Hours
Convention and only seven the White Lead Convention. I submit that that is eminently
unsatisfactory. When we raise the hopes of the workers as we do here, and when the
eyes of the workers are concentrated upon this great International Conference, they
expect that when we pass resolutions after serious and long discussion, we are going to
honour our word and carry out our bond when we get back to our own countries. I there-
fore hope that our appeal as workers will not fall on deaf ears. It has been suggested
to me already that this is not a place for propaganda. I submit that it is a place for
propaganda-for the propaganda of great humanitarian views and great humanitarian
ideals as expressed in these Conventions which we pass from time to time, and it is not
an unreasonable request which we as workers make, that when we assemble in 1926 we
may be able to read with pleasure and gratification that these Conventions-particularly
the Hours and White Lead Conventions-have not only been ratified, but put into working
order in the countries which are associated with us.
I.L.O. GOVERNING BODY.
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., again Elected at Geneva.
GENEVA, Monday. -Mr. E. L. Poulton, of the British Trades Union Congress General
Council, was at the International Labour Conference again selected by the Workers'
Group as a member of the Governing Body, receiving, as on the previous occasion, the
highest number of votes.
The Convention dealing with equality of treatment for all workers in a country,
native or foreign, as regards compensation for industrial accidents, was passed by the
Conference, with 125 votes cast for and none against the measure. That such a large
number of votes should be given for a Convention without opposition is very unusual,
and Mr. Poulton is to be congratulated on the success which attended his efforts.
carried into effect, would limit the autonomy of the Groups, especially the Workers'
In the Standing Orders Committee proposals have been made from Italy which, if
Group. These proposals are strenuously opposed by Mr. Poulton and other Labour
representatives. —Daily Herald, 9th June, 1925.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
345
After examining this new text, the Selection Committee has decided to submit to the
Conference the following Draft Resolution :-
Whereas the Labour part of the Treaties of Peace provides not only for the protection
of industrial workers, but also for the protection of agricultural workers, and whereas
the international Court of Justice has confirmed this intention of the Treaties;
Whereas by virtue of this decision, and of the general principles of the Labour Part,
rural workers must be accurately represented in the various bodies of the International
Labour Organisation;
And whereas the special nature of agricultural labour and the great variety of cate-
gories of agricultural workers in every country render the question of their organisation
and representation especially difficult and delicate, and whereas it is important to have
full knowledge of the facts in order to avoid possible misunderstandings or even disputes;
The Conference requests the Governing Body to instruct the International Labour
Office to prepare and submit as early as possible a report showing what are the various
categories of agricultural workers in every country, and also the principles upon which
they are organised and where necessary represented both in their national institutions
and in the International Labour Organisation.
For, 100; Against, o.
Asiatic Labour.
Draft Resolution concerning an enquiry into conditions of labour in Asiatic countries,
submitted by Mr. Joshi, Indian Workers' Delegate.
The Selection Committee, after a preliminary examination of the Draft Resolution
concerning an enquiry into conditions of labour in Asiatic countries, submitted by Mr.
Joshi, Indian Workers' Delegate, the text of which was published in Provisional Record
No. 1, has received a revised text, darfted in agreement with Mr. Joshi.
After examining this new text, the Selection Committee has decided to submit to the
conference the following draft resolution:—
The Seventh Session of the International Labour Conference expressed the hope that
the International Labour Office will continue to collect and publish all available informa-
tion regarding the conditions of labour in Asiatic countries; and also requests the Governing
Body of the International Labour Office, in consultation with the Governments concerned,
to undertake, as far as possible, a documentary inquiry into the conditions of labour in
those countries, more especially in China, India, Japan, Persia and Siam, and in the
colonies, protectorates and mandated territories in Asia.
For, 91; Against, o.
Mining.
The Selection Committee, after a preliminary examination of the Draft Resolution
concerning the standardisation of working conditions of miners, submitted by Mr. Mertens,
Belgian Workers' Delegate, the text of which was published in Provisional Record No. 1,
has received a revised text, drafted in agreement with Mr. Mertens. After examining
the new text, the Selection Committee has decided to submit to the conference the following
draft resolution :-
Considering that the Committee of the International Miners' Federation at a meeting
held in Brussels, on the 28th April, 1925, adopted the following resolution:
Whereas in certain coal-producing countries economic difficulties are such as to lead
to continually increasing unemployment among miners and the lowering of their standard
of living;
Whereas these economic difficulties arise very largely from competition and com-
mercial rivalry in the international coal market;
Whereas this competition and commercial rivalry is more acute and embittered by
reason of the differences in the working conditions existing in the principal coal-producing
countries;
The Committee decides that efforts should be made to secure the standardisation of
working conditions of miners on an international basis;
Since the Committee desires to be fully informed before it formulates definite and
concrete proposals it decides to organise, in agreement with the National Miners' Federa-
tions, an international investigation in the principal coal-producing countries. This
investigation shall deal with hours of work, annual holidays and wages paid by employers
to the various categories of working miners;
In order that the proposed investigation should be as thorough as possible and that
the enquiry may be completed with the least possible delay, the Committee also decides
to appeal to the International Labour Office for assistance and the co-operation of the
means of investigation at its idsposal.
For, 87; Against, o.


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

346

LABOUR WOMEN'S CONFERENCE.

DELEGATES' REPORTS.

I attended the Labour Conference of Women only, held at Birmingham, 27th and
28th May, 1925. Over eight hundred women delegates were present, from all parts, to
voice their opinions and pass resolutions.

The Chairman, Miss E. Wilkinson, M.P., gave an interesting opening speech, and
spoke of points in the Budget, with special interest to women.

The Conference listened with great attention and interest. Resolutions were passed
on Housing, Emigration, Education, and the World's Food Supplies.

A special report by the Standing Joint Committee of Women's Organisations, on
Bread and Socialism, which was meant to be instructive and educational to all women
present, was very fully discussed and digested.

The Conference each year improves, both in the standard of mentality and procedure.
When the Trade Union leaders of this country are as much alive to the organisation of
women into our Unions as are the Labour Party in enrolling members into the Labour
Party, then we may expect a Conference of Trade Union Women as large, and our trade
union membership of women very much increased.
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS.

The National Conference of Labour Women, held at Birmingham, 26th and 27th
May, 1925. There were 860 delegates present from all parts of the country, presided over
by Miss Ellen Wilkinson, M.P.

The delegates present representing were: Women's Sections Labour Party, 731;
Trade Unions, 52; Co-operative Guilds, 17; Fabian Society, 7; Independent Labour
Party, 30; Railway Women's Guild, 23.

The Conference opened with an address from Miss Wilkinson, who remarked that we
had met under a rich man's Budget, and stated the injustices of the same.

Dr. Marion Phillips presented the report of the Labour Party in the women's interests
at home and abroad.

Resolutions were passed demanding a non-contributory scheme for Widows' Pensions,
the speeding up of building houses under the Wheatley Act, also the Labour Socialist
International. To press for the institution of an annual international conference of women
delegates. Other subjects considered were: Health in the Elementary Schools, Price of
Bread, the Purity and Cleanliness of Food Supplies.

Mrs. Harrison Bell, the Labour representative on the Overseas Settlement, spoke on
Emigration. This resolution created a lively debate.

Other resolutions passed dealt with Internationalism, Armaments and Peace, Treat-
ment of workers under Unemployment Insurance Acts. The strengthening of Trade
Union Movement amongst women workers by better organisation. Birth Control also
came in for a long debate, several speaking for and against.

The Conference, I thought, was very interesting, educatively and politically.

(MRS.) L. H. GUMSLEY.

Over one thousand delegates attended the Labour Women's Conference, held in the
Town Hall, Birmingham, on 27th and 28th May, 1925, and were welcomed by Mrs.
Councillor Howse.

MILLIONAIRES’ BUDGET. - It was reported the Budget would relieve a quite moderate
millionaire to the extent of £40 a week in super-tax, some would be richer by thousands
a year, but the relief to small earned incomes was counted in shillings.

Labour's idea of Mothers' Pensions was to allow the mother to make a home for her
children, and to take her, if she so desired, out of the labour market. The pensions under
the Budget scheme were utterly inadequate. The widow with two children would receive
18s., with three children only 21s. This, compared with the Army pensions for a widow
of a Private with two children 44s., and with three children 50s.

UNEMPLOYMENT. - Referring to sneers about workers learning to qualify for insurance,
Miss Wilkinson declared that was no doubt to agree to the turning down masses of un-
employed on the ground that they were shirkers, and the women should make a strong
stand in their own homes against such tactics.

BIRTH CONTROL. - The resolution advocated that it should be permissible for doctors
employed in any public funds to give information on Birth Control to those who desire it.
The debate was of a lively character. Mrs. Laski, speaking in favour, said capitalists did
not want working women to have scientific information about Birth Control, as they would


---
Here is the extracted text:
have no source wo
Miss Quinn (Leeds) rose to speak age
of Birth Control into the policy of the Labour Movement would create a split. She main-
humanity to bring children into the world at the present time.
tained it was a crime against God and humanity. Mrs. Spivey said it was a crime against
TRADE UNIONS. A resolution calling for the strengthening of the Trade Union
Movement amongst women by better organisation was passed unanimously.
WOMEN LABOUR CANDIDATES. There was much applause for the motion by the
delegate for West Willesden, that the Conference call upon members of women's sections
immediately to levy themselves a small weekly sum as a political fund for the express
purpose of running working women candidates for Parliament.
JUSTICE. Judicial and penal questions were dealt with in the form of a composite
resolution which included a request to magistrates not to allow corporal punishment
for children, and urged that probation should be used to the utmost, especially for offenders
under 21.
Other resolutions protested against the harsh treatment of women workers under
the UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACTS, and for the ESTABLISHMENT OF HOMES OF REST
for persons suffering from nervous breakdowns or mentally deranged.
It was decided the Labour Party deal stringently with any representative of Labour
who would not support sex equality economically, educatively and politically.
The resolution further declared that no proposals for equality of suffrage between
men and women will be acceptable which is based on raising the age for men voters and
reducing the age of women to 25. The resolution was carried.
WIDOWS' PENSIONS.-The Government's scheme next came in for vigorous denuncia-
tion. Mrs. Dollan (Glasgow) moved a long resolution protesting against the proposals
to establish Widows' Pensions on a contributory basis, and to transfer Old Age Pensions
to the same basis. Miss Evans, seconding, pleaded for the young widows with no children,
and Mrs. Holland (Swansea), who spoke as a widow with five children, denounced the
pensions scheme as a fraud. "The only time the State recognised me in fifteen years,"
she said, "was when Conscription was brought in and they took two of my sons and
returned one to me disabled for life. The Poor Law is infinitely superior to this scheme."
The resolution was carried.
The resumed Conference of Labour Women at Birmingham opened on a note of
sadness. Miss Ellen Wilkinson, presiding, announced that Mrs. Holland, of Blackpool,
one of the most ardent Labour women in Lancashire, who was to have attended as a
delegate, had died suddenly of heart failure on the eve of her departure for the Conference.
Delegates expressed their sorrow by standing in silence.
LAND POLICY.-It was distressing to learn the Labour Party had not given a clear
lead on the land question.
Miss Heagney, Fraternal Delegate from Victoria, conveyed greetings from the Labour
Union of Australia, and stirred delegates with a glowing account of what the Labour
Government had done. They have pensions of 17s. a week for women at 60, and there
is a maternity allowance of £5 for all women- these on a contributory basis.
A. SMALLEY,
Delegate.
I attended the National Conference of Labour Women held at the Town Hall, Bir-
mingham, on 27th and 28th May, where over 860 delegates were present. Miss Ellen
Wilkinson, M.P., presided, supported by Dr. Marion Phillips, and others.
After being cordially welcomed by Mrs. Howse, President of Birmingham Labour
Women's Council, and Mr. Ager, of the Birmingham Labour Party, letters of greeting
were read from various bodies.
Resolutions dealing with Widows and Old Age Pensions, Housing, Health in our
Schools, Emigration to British Dominions, Internationalism, Armaments and Peace,
and Birth Control, were put before the Conference for discussion.
Mrs. Dolan (Glasgow) moved a resolution denouncing the proposal of the present
Government to establish Widows' Pensions on a contributory basis and transfer Old Age
Pensions to such a basis. It also condemned the inadequacy of allowances for widows
with children, and the proposal to make the workers pay contributions as enough was
already extracted from the workers. It also pointed out that Old Age Pensions at 65
were inadequate to meet the present day hardships, and it also urged that people incapaci-
tated before that age and unable to work should be taken into consideration, and advocated
the pension at an earlier age. The resolution was carried unanimously.
Miss D. Jewson put to the Conference a Resolution dealing with Housing, urging
that pressure should be brought to bear on Local Authorities to compel them to use every


---
opportunity afforded them by the Wheatley Act to make progress in building houses for
people before big profits. After some discussion the resolution was carried.
Emigration to British Dominions, seconded by Miss Bondfield, to the effect that family
A great deal of discussion took place after Mrs. Harrison Bell moved a resolution on
emigration was the only satisfactory form of emigration put into operation in co-operation
and an Amendment agreed to that further investigation be made by the Standing Joint
with the Dominion of Canada Land Settlement Scheme. The Resolution was defeated
Committee and a further report be made. Many delegates denounced emigration as no
cure for unemployment, and that we should colonise our own country, and not until every
acre of land was cultivated should we think of emigration. Miss Jessie Stevens, after a
recent experience of conditions in Canada, very much condemned emigration, as she declared
things were quite as bad there with regard to unemployment as here.
Yours faithfully,
V. HOWARD,
Delegate.
The Conference opened with Miss Ellen Wilkinson, M.P., in the chair. There was
a splended attendance of delegates, and a striking feature of the Conference was the serious
manner with which the women followed the business during the whole of the time.
Several of the speakers appealed to the gathering to push forward the organisation
of women into their trade unions, and appealed to them to make the unions their Approved
Societies for Health Insurance.
Mrs. Hooper opened a discussion upon the question of a Labour Party Programme
for the taking over of the land for the people, and stated that she was in favour of con-
fiscation. Other delegates felt that we ought not to separate the Land question from
other things, and asked why we should not include property when discussing these matters
Mrs. Heagney, the fraternal delegate from Australia, was given a warm welcome by
the Conference. She stated that she brought greetings from the Labour Union of Australia,
and stirred the delegates by her account of what a Labour Government had done for the
people in Victoria. In that country, she said, women have Old Age Pensions of 17s. per
week at 60 years of age, and a Maternity allowance of five pounds on a non-contributory
basis.
Mrs. Harrison Bell moved a resolution, "That this Conference is of the opinion that
family migration is the only satisfactory form of migration, and views with sympathetic
interest the Land settlement scheme just being put into operation in co-operation with the
Dominion of Canada." She stated that ex-service men had been induced to leave this
country by misleading advertisements, and to invest their savings upon farms where there
was little hope of success, and the work of the Overseas Committee was to prevent this
happening. This was seconded by Miss Margaret Bondfield, who stated that while we agree
that it is necessary to settle our people upon the land in this country, we also ought to have
a scheme to help and protect those who were desirous of going abroad to try and make
good.
Important resolutions upon the subject of Health occupied a considerable time, and
it was during this discussion that one of the speakers urged the necessity of doctors being
permitted to give advice to married women who desired it, upon the subject of Birth
Control. One of the delegates, who evidently took strong exception to this matter being
discussed at the Conference, created quite an uproar, and it was only owing to firm handling
of the meeting by the Chairman that the discussion was able to be kept in proper order.
A very popular decision was one that Women's Sections throughout the country should
levy themselves weekly for the purpose of creating a political fund in order that working
women could be run as Parliamentary Candidates.
Resolutions dealing with War and Disarmament were carried, and an emergency
resolution protesting against the persecution of the workers in Bulgaria under the Tsankoff
terrorist government, was carried, including one that the British Labour movement should
press our Foreign Office to make the strongest representation to the Bulgarian Govern-
ment.
Space is not sufficient to deal with the whole of the matters discussed by the Con-
ference, but I feel that the interest shown and the ability with which the delegates dealt
with the various problems confronting the movement, speaks well for the future of the
Women's Labour Movement, and the early return of a second Labour Government with a
working majority.
K. BANNARD,
Northampton.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
350
DISEASE-INFECTED HOVELS OF EARL SHILTON.
But District Council Vetoes Building Scheme.
Earl Shilton, if credit is to be given to a rumoured opinion of the county health
authorities, is not in need of any more houses. This unique distinction has been conveyed
to the township by way of the Hinckley Rural District Council, whose plan for a further
colony of 37 houses has not met with the approval of officialdom on account of the "lack
of need when compared with other districts. Eighty houses have been built in the town-
ship since the war, and the new scheme is for 150, 37 to be built in the boundaries of Earl
Shilton. It is understood that the county health officials' opinion is that the houses,
if built, would be occupied by natives of the district who would gladly change from the
village of their birth and upbringing for the chance of a house. That is a fact, but Earl
Shilton can fill these houses on its own, abundant proof of which was given to me in a tour
of the township to-day.
So bad is the shortage that the many couples who were married at Whitsun have
none of them the remotest hope of getting a house for a long time to come. The 80 Council
houses already erected could have been filled five times over, as in many other cases, and
the number of homeless naturally increases every day. The Council, the chairman of
which is Mr. Daniel Astley, J.P., is repeatedly implored to do everything possible for the
relief of the homeless, but in face of opposition from the authorities they are helpless.
These facts are similar in greater or less degree in hundreds of other cases up and
down the country. But a greater and more serious horror makes Earl Shilton district
the more gruesome an example. Earl Shilton is the most consumptive township in
England. The dread disease started many years ago, and has grown to appalling pro-
portions since the war, helped by the pitiful conditions in which the inhabitants have
to exist. In a recent inquiry, it was stated that out of 18 recent deaths only one was from
a cause other than tuberculosis. Yet Earl Shilton is powerless. In my tour, I saw three
dwelling-places, two of them with the taint of the disease, and all of them in such a state
as would be incredible to anyone who did not see them.
One cottage was inhabited by a one-legged South African war veteran and his wife.
Both were hollow-eyed and weak with consumption. The man was a living wreck. He
was living in a thatched cottage - one of a row. It originally consisted of four rooms,
two up and two on the ground floor. The top-rooms are uninhabitable, and open to the
sky in patches up to a square yard in dimension. The walls are bulging, and the sun
streams in through large splits where the roof has fallen away from the walls. The roof
is now in imminent danger of total collapse. The man and his wife sleep in the bed in the
living room, but when it is raining their bed is soaking wet from water that has come
through the roof and ceiling. Even downstairs the sun and the rain can pour through
the tops of the walls. The man pays 2s. 3d. a week for this.
Next door is a shoe clicker, his wife and four children. They, too, have been driven
from their upstairs rooms, and all sleep in one room. On the floor are tin baths to catch
the rain water. The woman told me that she would be willing to pay 6s. a week if she
could get a cottage fit for humans to live in. Here again they are living in imminent
danger of death from a total fall of the thatched roof. Not one single night in the year
are the sleeping children safe. In another cottage in the village lives an old woman who
has not been in a bed for a fortnight. There are great gaps in her roof, and in the recent
windy weather she was out in the street until one o'clock in the morning through fear of
her cottage tumbling about her ears. She cannot get the bed down the shaking stairs
and sleeps on a sofa. Her husband was consumptive.
There is no use in condemning these houses and evicting the tenants. They would
starve in the street. Until houses are built they will exist in the infected buildings while
they hold together. One of them collapsed completely a short time ago. The medical
men in the village have given up the struggle against the disease unless hope of more
houses is coming. There can be no fighting against it under present conditions. It will
remain a village of death until the District Council can start to build. They have the land
and they have the builders. Only officialdom " does not see the need." Meanwhile, the
green fields of Leicestershire surround a plague spot. - Leicester Mercury, 8th June, 1925.
[The Council have constantly bombarded the Ministry of Health (and Insurance
Commissioners) since 1913, but very little headway has been made. - E.L.P., G.S.].
GOSSIP.
Old Wolverhampton trade unionists, as well as a large circle of the general public,
will feel interested to know that I spent a pleasant time on 1st June, 1925, in the company
of four of the best known and most respected veterans of the Labour cause in this district,
including Mr. Harry Moreton, who entering on his 88th year, can look back with pride
on his many years' service as secretary of the Boot and Shoe Rivetters' Society, member
of the Board of Guardians, and first Labour representative on the old Wolverhampton
School Board. - Express and Star, Wolverhampton.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
35
Reprint of Union Circular 242.
National Union of Boot & Shoe Operatives.
34 GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
16th April, 1921.
FELLOW OFFICERS,
Re UNEMPLOYED MEMBERS AND
PAYMENT OF CONTRIBUTIONS.
The Resolution contained in Circular No. 241 as follows :-
"That the Members be asked at the next Branch
Meetings to authorise us on their behalf to deal with
those Members who have no income, whether from lack
of employment or no Out-of-Work pay, on the same
lines and in the same manner as was done with those
Members who joined the Forces in the late war."
has been endorsed by the Members, and I beg to inform
you that this will operate as and from Saturday, 23rd
April, 1921.
Members must make their claim for exemption of
payment of contributions under the scheme; such exemption
must be strictly in accordance with the resolution named
above.
Yours faithfully,
Poulton
General Secretary.

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
Wales, New Zealand and
354
provinces of the Argentine Republic, Chile, Ecuador, Panama, Uruguay, and New South
nd British Columbia. It should be understood, however, that in
most cases provision is made for the extension of these hours either by way of overtime
or otherwise, and particulars as to such provisions, or as to the hours actually worke
limiting the hours of women, other than employees of the Federal Government. In all
are not available. As regards the United States, there is no Federal legislation specifically
States of the Union except four, laws are in force prohibiting the employment of women
working hours fixed by collective agreement, or by Orders under the Trade Boards Acts,
to eight per day, or 48 per week. As regards Great Britain, particulars of the normal
for more than a certain number of hours in to of these States the hours are restricted
are given in a special article in the current issue of the Ministry of Labour Gazelle.
Extract from Parliamentary Debates, House of Cominons, Wednesday, 20th May, 1925
Vol. 184, No. 72.
UNSTAMPED INSURANCE CARDS.
Norwich Firm to Pay Fines Totalling £72.
the National Health Insurance Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act in respect to
at the Norwich Police Court to answer a summons for failing to pay contributions under
At Norwich last week, Messrs. Phillips (Norwich) Ltd., shoe manufacturers, appeared
Mr. C. W. Gaiger, who prosecuted on behalf of the Ministry of Health, said the con-
tributions had since been paid, but the circumstances were such that the Ministry thought
twelve employees.
it right to bring the case to Court.
Mr. Maurice John Harrington, an inspector under the Ministry of Health, said that
ance stamps. Some of the cards had not been stamped since the previous July. On
when he visited the factory in February last he estimated that £400 was owing for insur-
4th March he found that £373 was owing.
Mr. Edmund Reeve pleaded guilty on behalf of the company, and urged in extenuation
that there had been no wilful disobedience, but that the secretary of the company had been
away, the directors had been very busy, and the staff had been reduced by influenza
As there were two cards for each person the fines amounted to £72. The costs were 105.-
The defendants were fined f3 in respect to each of the twelve persons, and costs,
Shoe and Leather Record, 29th May, 1925.
[Members should insist upon their cards being properly stamped.-E.L.P., G.S.].
BOOT REPAIRING FIRM FINED.
Report of Proceedings.
TRADE.-Boot and Shoe Repairing.
FIRM.-Mrs. Muriel Taratooty, 93 Chippenham Road, Paddington.
DATE OF HEARING.-12th March, 1925.
CHARGES.-I. Against Mrs. Muriel Taratooty for the underpayment of five workers,
2. Against Mr. Nathan Taratooty, manager of the firm, for causing to
be made a false record of wages in respect of one of the workers.
CIRCUMSTANCES. As a result of visits paid to this firm at a second inspection there
appeared to be no doubt but that the workers were pieceworkers although the firm
attempted to show that they were timeworkers.
RESULT. The magistrate decided that the defendants had deliberately defied the
Trade Boards Acts. On the first charge he convicted and fined Mrs. Muriel Taratcoty
£2 or 21 days in respect of five summonses. Mr. Nathan Taratooty was convicted and
fined £10 in respect of the second charge. £5 5s. od. costs and arrears of wages amounting
to £27 5s. 11d. were ordered to be paid.
WORKERS FINED
To Pay a Week's Wages for Striking Against "Nons."
At Manchester Police Court yesterday, 123 employees of Messrs. David Moseley &
Sons, waterproof garment makers, of Manchester, were each fined a week's wages in lieu
of notice, the total claims representing £261 175. 2d.
had been employed.-Daily Herald, 17th June, 1925.
The employees concerned ceased work on 18th May on the ground that non-unionists


---
EXTRACT FROM MR. MACDONALD'S WEEKLY
LETTER TO THE "HERALD "-JUNE 13th, 1925.

1,250,000 Workless.
There are now close on one and a quarter million unemployed, nearly a quarter of a
million more than at this time last year, and 60,000 more than last week.
"Our great industries are languishing; over
there rests black depression and the threat of wage cuts.
"And what is the Government doing in the House of Commons? With its enormous
majority it is using the 'relay' system to suppress effective discussion on a Budget that
protects the rich, and on fiscal proposals that will further raise the cost of living, and offers
a quack remedy for Nottingham's ills.

"Tory dominance is in the saddle. Power is being used with a callous brutality to
break us physically or to compel us to cease our critical examination of the business before
us."
"The House of Commons," said Mr. MacDonald, "can be used or abused. We used
it last year; this year the Tory Government, with its servile majority and undemocratic
mind, is abusing it. This aggravates the problem, for in any case the pressure of work is
getting too great.

That is the
The remedy lies in Devolution-in taking a lot of work away from us.
only way to give us proper business hours and to make the Parliamentary machine function
properly.
"We should devolve greater responsibility on to municipal authorities, and enable
them to do much more work on their own initiative. They cannot do this now except by
coming here and promoting private Bills.

Relieving Congestion.
"If municipalities were given such powers, we should not have to deal so much with
general legislation, because good municipalities would carry out progressive programmes of
work in their own areas, or in conjunction with other authorities-they would get on with
their own job much more expeditiously; they would save themselves money and save the
House of Commons very valuable time."
"Would it not be an advantage if the House of Commons procedure was remodelled
somewhat on municipal lines?" Mr. MacDonald was asked.
"I have always failed to understand," he replied, "how that view is practical. The
difference is one between legislation and administration. On a city or borough council you
get your reports of work done or contemplated by the committees, and these reports are
generally dealt with very expeditiously and quickly, but it is all a record of administrative
work.
"When you come to initiating legislation it is a very different thing. In Parliament
you must have discussion; you must express views; you are divided by vast differences
of principle and interest. The simple unavoidable fact, for good or ill, is that the House
of Commons can never be a made municipal administrative council.
"I'm sure," he concluded, "that the reform of the House of Commons does not lie
in that direction; but it is quite certain that the passing into law of our Local Authorities
Enabling Bill would do a great deal to relieve the congestion."

CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 2nd JUNE, 1925.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included ... ... ... 72 per cent.
Food only ... ... ... ... 66 "

FOOD.
At 2nd June the average level of retail prices of the principal articles of food showed
a slight decline as compared with that at 1st May. This decline was mainly attributable
to reductions in the prices of butter, milk and sugar.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of July,
1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of food
included in these statistics was about 66 per cent. at 2nd June, as compared with about
67 per cent at 1st May and 60 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1924-The Ministry
of Labour Gazette, June, 1925.


---
Here is the extracted text:
356
COURT OF APPEAL

Awards Northampton Workman 1d. a Week. Interesting Case.
To-day the Court of Appeal, consisting of the Master of the Rolls and Lords Justices
Warrington and Atkin, remitted to the Northampton County Court Judge an application
by Wilson, Lovatt & Sons, builders, of Clarence Street, Wolverhampton, for review of
the weekly payments under the Workmen's Compensation Act to Tom Johnson, brick-
layer, of Green Street, Northampton.
In October, 1922, Johnson injured his right leg while working for Wilson, Lovatt &
Sons, at the Northampton Electric Power Station, Hardingstone, a stone mullion which
he was erecting slipping on to his right leg.
Under a recorded agreement he was paid 35s. a week until August, 1924, then the
employers applied for a review.
The County Court Judge held that the man's incapacity had ceased and made an
order for the termination of the weekly payments. Against this the workman appealed.
The Master of the Rolls, giving judgment, said the employers' application was for
review and diminution. There was no application for termination, therefore the County
Court Judge was not entitled to terminate the payments, though he might well have reduced
the payments to an insignificant amount.
The case would be sent back with a direction that the right award to make in the
circumstances was one penny per week. The Lords Justices concurred. Northampton
Daily Echo, 11th June, 1925.
[This proves that it is quite legal for Compensation to be revised, and to so reduce the
amount as to keep it "alive."-E.L.P., G.S.J.
NATIONAL SUMMER SCHOOL, RUSKIN COLLEGE, OXFORD.
August 15th to 29th, 1925.
Under the auspices of the Trades Union Congress and the Labour Party, a National
Summer School will be held at Oxford during the two weeks from Saturday, 15th August,
to Saturday, 29th August.
The School will be open to men and women who are members of organisations affiliated
to the Trades Union Congress or the Labour Party, and it is hoped that Trade Unions,
Trades Councils, local Labour Parties, Women's Sections, and Co-operative Societies and
Guilds will send members.
Oxford is centrally situated and easy of access. The city is full of interest and is an
admirable centre for a Summer School. The School will be held in Ruskin College, which
has been placed fully at the disposal of the two National Executives by the College Authori-
ties. A Common Room for members of the School will be provided at Ruskin College
and the College Library will be available.
As regards the general arrangements of the School, there will be lectures and dis-
cussions each morning and shorter "group" discussions after tea. There will be lectures
on the Political Outlook, the Industrial Outlook, Trade Union Organisation, Unemploy-
ment, Labour and the Commonwealth, Labour's Foreign Policy, Socialism and Industry,
Labour and National Finance, Social Insurance, &c.
The afternoons will be free for visits to places of interest such as Colleges and University
Institutions, the Bodleian Library, Museums, Galleries, &c., and for excursions and river
trips. The members of the School will be asked to co-operate in the evening arrange-
ments, which will be of a social character.
Members will be accepted for either the first or second week of the School or for the
full fortnight.
A registration fee of ros. per person is payable on application. This fee is for the
purpose of covering the expenses incurred by the Joint Research Department in organising
the School, &c.
The cost of board and lodging will be about £2 IOS. per week. The lodgings will be
lodging direct to their landladies. The weekly charges cover the period from Saturday
arranged by the Department, but the members of the School will pay for their board and
tea to the following Saturday breakfast, inclusive. A limited number of men will be
housed in Ruskin College.
It may be possible to arrange for reduced railway fares for those visiting the School-
Details of application for membership of the School may be made to The Secretary,
Joint Research and Information Department, 33 Eccleston Square, London, S.W.1, and
envelopes marked on the top left-hand corner "Summer School."


---
Here's the extracted text:

**NOMINATIONS FOR COUNCIL MEMBER.**
**DISTRICT No. 9.**

*Name of Member.* Registered Number. Branch Nominating. Branch to which Member belongs.
Brown, Mr. A. 3358 Dundee Dundee
Campbell, Mr. T. 96068 Kilmarnock Kilmarnock
Gamble, Mr. M. (retired) 5093 Glasgow Glasgow
Noble, Mr. R. 5526 Glasgow No. 2 Glasgow No. 2
Reid, Mr. J. P. 109 Arbroath Arbroath
Sheerin, Mr. J. 4549 Glasgow Glasgow
White, Mr. R. 4318 Aberdeen Edinburgh
**THE NEXT WAR!!**

There is in Europe, as it exists to-day, almost every condition tending to war, except financial competence, and the lack of that we are supplying as far as we can by our failure to insist that the money now spent on armaments shall be applied to the satisfaction of our Continental debts. War over the Eastern frontiers, sooner or later, is not only possible but probable, and it is sheer folly to assume that it can be localised and that obligations entered into in the West will not be affected by events in the East.

Let us assume, however, that Germany does accept the French proposal, and that later she breaks her undertaking in the way provided against. France at once invades Germany, with Great Britain standing benevolently aside. France may win, in which case a grave problem would at once be created for this country, which cannot desire to see the Rhine a French river and Belgium practically a French dependency. Germany may win, and the threat is restored to get rid of which the British Empire sacrificed a million lives and ten thousand millions of treasure.

The people of this country must realise, before it is too late, that a Security Pact, whatever form it may take, is not a Pact of Peace but a Pact of War. **War on the Continent may be inevitable in any case. It will be, humanly speaking, ensured if we bind ourselves in advance to participate in it.**

[The above is an extract from the leading article in the London Evening Standard, 16th June, 1925, and is, in other words, a statement which we are constantly bringing to the notice of our members. Unless we are wide awake we shall find another war sprung upon us. It should be our determination to do all possible to render negative all the efforts made by the warmongers, and to strengthen and support the efforts made for peace and goodwill.-E.L.P., G.S.].

**COST OF LIVING.**

Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.

| | 1915 | 1916 | 1917 | 1918 | 1919 | 1920 | 1921 | 1922 | 1923 | 1924 | 1925 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| January | 10-15 | 35 | 65 | 85-90 | 120 | 125 | 165 | 92 | 78 | 77 | 80 |
| February | 15 | 35 | 65-70 | 90 | 120 | 130 | 151 | 88 | 77 | 79 | 79 |
| March | 15-20 | 35-40 | 70 | 90 | 115 | 130 | 141 | 86 | 76 | 78 | 79 |
| April | 15-20 | 35-40 | 70-75 | 90-95 | 110 | 132 | 133 | 82 | 74 | 73 | 75 |
| May | 20 | 40-45 | 75 | 95-100 | 105 | 141 | 128 | 81 | 70 | 71 | 73 |
| June | 25 | 45 | 75-80 | 100 | 105 | 150 | 119 | 80 | 69 | 69 | 72 |
| July | 25 | 45-50 | 80 | 100-105 | 105-110 | 152 | 119 | 84 | 69 | 70 | - |
| August | 25 | 45-50 | 80 | 110 | 115 | 155 | 122 | 81 | 71 | 71 | - |
| September | 25 | 50 | 80-85 | 110 | 115 | 161 | 120 | 79 | 73 | 72 | - |
| October | 30 | 50-55 | 75-80 | 115-120 | 120 | 164 | 110 | 78 | 75 | 76 | - |
| November | 30-35 | 60 | 85 | 120-125 | 125 | 176 | 103 | 80 | 75 | 80 | - |
| December | 35 | 65 | 85 | 120 | 125 | 169 | 99 | 80 | 77 | 81 | - |

Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922) Agreement, and present date.


---
Here is the extracted text:
358
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT AND SHOE OPERATIVES.
Branch for Dundalk,
At a meeting on Saturday to form a branch of above Union a number of men employed
by the Celt Ltd., the local boot factory, attended.
Mr. Geo. White, Belfast, was present.
Mr. Clarige (Chairman) said it was most essential that they have a union. The
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives was recognised all over the world. In one
place where he had been before the members joined it, the weekly output was 3,000 pairs
per week, at present it was turning out 10,000 pairs. The Union helped that factory to
increase its output. It would do the same for the Dundalk factory. The Union would
see that they got good wages and good working conditions as well as helping the industry,
There had been talk in town about scab labour in the factory. No such thing existed.
One could not expect that men would get the maximum or even a minimum wage when
learning the trade; learners must start on a small wage and realised that. When they
became more experienced they would qualify for a better wage. In some trades men had
to pay a fee to learn. He did not think they had been treated badly. Their employers
were very considerate, but they must always be working for better conditions, both for
themselves and for the industry.
Mr. White detailed the advantages of joining the Union.
Mr. Wall proposed that a branch be started. This was passed unanimously.
The election of officers resulted: -Chairman, Mr. Clarige, Secretary, Mr. Brett,
Treasurer, Mr. Kearney Committee, E. Wall, M. Walls, L. Maguire. Dundalk Times,
13th June, 1925.
INCREASING POPULARITY OF BOOTS & SHOES.
It is estimated that in the East Lancashire district alone there are now something
like 1,250 boot and shoe makers and repairers in business, which is 25 per cent. above
the average for pre-war days. The introduction of ex-soldiers into the trade has, of
course, added to the number, but the increase is mainly due to a change
of fashion. Clogs, which were formerly in vogue, are declining in
popularity on the part of textile workers, and with the decrease in the
number of cloggers there has been an appreciable increase in boot and
shoe repairers. Clogs are now a less distinctive characteristic of Lancashire life as
are shawls. Shoe Trades Journal, 29th May, 1925.
"STICKING TO THE LAST."
Shoemaker Brothers of 91 and 80 Years.
A family of six, all over 80, and two over go, live at Cassland Road, South Hackney.
Their aggregate ages total 525 years.
The "baby" of the family, William Hews, is 80 years and five months, and he and
his elder brother John, who is 91 years and three months, are engaged in making hand-
sewn boots, at which trade they have been for over 50 years.
June, 1925.
The other nonagenarian of the family is a sister, Mrs. Curtis. Lloyds News, 7th
UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES. Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270; Total,
142,490. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 25th May, 1925
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 10,602; Females, 3.732; Total, 14.334-
Percentage Unemployed at 25th May, 1925: Males, 11.5; Females, 7.4: Total,
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 10.1; Great Britain only, 9.9. Compared with 27th
April, 1925 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, decrease, 0.5; Females,
increase, 0.6; Total, decrease, o. I. - The Ministry of Labour Gazette, June, 1925.


---
Here is the extracted text:
359
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE NEWS.
CHILD LABOUR IN CHINA.
Child Labour in Rugmaking in China.
The shops in which rugs are made in Peking are dark and overcrowded, with no
attempt at sanitation, and the workrooms serve also as dormitories for the workers. The
working hours are approximately those of daylight; only three shops in Peking are working
less than 12 hours a day.
Almost three-fourths of the employees in this industry, according to a special supple-
ment to the Chinese Social and Political Science Review, quoted in the Industrial and
Labour Information of the International Labour Office, are apprentices, who as a rule
receive their food and clothing and very little money, but no regular wages. The boys
are brought in from the country at the age of 11 or 12, and sometimes younger, to serve
under a contract for three years. During this time they are entirely under the control
of the shopowner, living in the shops in which they work and receiving no moral or educa-
tional training and no physical care. Large numbers of them contract tuberculosis and
other diseases.
The system is practically one of indentured child labour. Moreover, the apprentice-
ship is practically a" blind alley," and for most of the boys there is no future, as, when the
apprenticeship period is completed, other boys are brought in to take their places.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR CONFERENCE, SEVENTH ANNUAL
SESSION, 1925.
Forty-six States.
The Seventh Annual Session of the International Labour Conference of the League
of Nations was held at Geneva from 19th May to 10th June, 1925, forty-six States being
represented. These included not only the important industrial countries of the world,
with the exception of the United States and Russia but including Germany, but also
many of the smaller and of the less advanced States. Among the distant countries were
Japan, China, Australia, India, South Africa, Canada, and the South American States.
Complete delegations consisting of two representatives of the Government and one each
of the employers and the workers were sent by all except ten, and these were mainly of
lesser industrial importance.
The President and Committees.
Dr. Benes, the Czecho-Slovakian statesman, was unanimously elected President
on the proposition of Mr. H. B. Betterton, M.P., Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry
of Labour and senior British Government delegate. Speaking at the close of the Session,
Dr. Benes referred to the feeling that the International Labour Conference was a per-
manent institution with a definite place in modern international life, and added "it has
become a centre for the development of a wise international spirit, moderate, but at the
same time profound."
Following its custom, the Conference appointed six committees (the members of each
Committee being selected equally from each of the groups, Government, employers' and
workers'), to study the details of the questions before it and report to the full Conference.
Three "Second-Reading" Votes.
A provisional system of a "second reading" for Conference decisions had been adopted
at the 1924 Session. It had been felt that many Governments had been unable to ratify
Draft Conventions agreed upon by earlier Sessions by reason often of quite small points,
sometimes in the wording, and that, if they were given an opportunity of suggesting
amendments which would facilitate their own ratification before a final vote was taken,
the speed of adoption of international labour legislation would be increased. Provisional
decisions were therefore taken on three subjects last year and Governments given time
to forward such amendments before the present Conference.
Accident Compensation Equality for Aliens.
The first of these questions was equality of treatment of aliens regarding workers'
and accident compensation. After discussion in committee and in full Conference a
Draft Convention was adopted by 125 votes to none. By its provisions States who ratify
undertake to grant to the nationals of any other State which is a member of the Inter-
national Labour Organisation who suffer personal injury due to industrial accidents in
their territory the same treatment regarding workers' accident compensation as is given
to their own nationals. A Recommendation was also adopted by 128 votes to none on
to question of disputes arising out of the application of this system and on allied problems


---
Here is the extracted text:
Asiatic Labour Conditions.
361
The Conference, on the proposition of Mr. Joshi, the Indian workers' delegate,
instructed the International Labour Office to make a documentary inquiry into the con-
ditions of labour in Asiatic countries. A further resolution was adopted requiring the
Office to assist in the collection of information regarding the hours of work, wages and
holidays in the coal-mining industry throughout the world. This arose from a demand
made recently by the International Miners' Federation.
The "Two-Reading" System.
The "two-reading" system which had been provisionally adopted in 1924, as men-
tioned above, having resulted in the rejection of any international agreement on glass-
workers, and in the decision of the Conference to take the final votes on workers' co
pensation immediately, the Conference decided to remit a number of amendments which
had been proposed to it to the Governing Body which is to report on them to the 1926
Session.
A New Governing Body.
One of the duties of the Conference was the election of a new Governing Body of the
International Labour Office, which holds office for three years. Of the twelve Govern-
ments represented, the eight States of chief industrial importance, including Great Britain,
India and Canada, must be included. The Argentine, Spain, Norway and Poland were
elected to the other four places, the Argentine and Norway replacing Chile and Finland.
The six employers on the outgoing Governing Body were re-elected; they include Sir
James Lithgow, former president of the Shipbuilding Employers' Federation; and Mr.
W. Gemmill, of the Transvaal Chamber of Mines. The workers' group is also practically
the same and includes Mr. E. L. Poulton, Secretary of the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives, and Mr. Tom Moore, President of the Canadian Trades and Labour Congress.
Ratifications of International Labour Conventions.
During the Session, 15 formal ratifications of International Labour Conventions
were announced, bringing the total to 161; the total in May, 1924, was 96.
It is noteworthy that the 15 announced during the Conference included the first
ratifications registered by France and by Germany; and the first by a South American
State (the Argentine Republic).
The total strength of the Soviet army is 1,058,000.
*
*
*
During the year 1924 were imported £6,753,679 worth of canned fish, and £4,276,313
worth of fresh, cured, or salted fish.
*
*
*
Imports of iron and steel from France, Belgium, and Germany during the first five
months of this year were 824,000 tons. During the corresponding period of last year
the figure was 566,000 tons.
*
*
*
The number of British-made motor-cars exported during the first four months of
1924, when the industry was protected by the McKenna Duties, was 3,012. In the corres-
ponding period of this year, with the duties abolished, the number of exported cars
was 6,387.
*
*
*
During the year 1923, the proportion of the following imports which came from Empire
sources were as follows:- Unmanufactured tobacco, 7.45 per cent.; wine, 7.3 per cent.;
raisins, 24.4 per cent.; currants, 6.15 per cent.; dried and preserved plums, 5.36 per
cent.; figs and fig-cake, 0.01 per cent.
*
*
*
During the first three months of this year, the average royalty on each ton of coal
raised was 6+d.
*
*
*
Imports of wheat into Great Britain during 1924 were 117¼ million cwts., as compared
with 104 million cwts. in 1914; wheat meal and flour 11 million cwts., as compared with
10 million cwts.; and barley 21½ million cwts., as compared with 16 million cwts.
-From The Labour Press Service, 18th June, 1925.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
N
NAT TEL:MUSEUM 4438
LONDON
TEL ADDRESS "NATUMISHOP
PHONE, LONDON"
ATIONAL UNION OF BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Seat of Government, 34, GUILFORD ST LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 245,
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
ON OF BOOT & SHOE O
NO
UNION
Copyright
General President
T.F.RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L.POULTON.J.P.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
27TH JULY, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
STATE OF TRADE.
Trade during the month is about the same as last month. There are,
however, a large number of members in receipt of Unemployment Benefit, the
amount paid out being 37 per cent. higher than last month. The figures
recorded in the Ministry of Labour Gazette are as follows :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
A considerable proportion of boot and shoe factories closed down for a complete week
at Whitsuntide. Employment after the holidays was generally depressed, and in most
centres was worse than in May and worse than in June of last year. Much short time
was worked.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 10.2 on 22nd June, 1925, as compared with 10.1
on 25th May, 1925, and 7.7 on 23rd June, 1924.
Returns from firms employing over 41,000 operatives in the week ended 27th June,
1925, showed that 35 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that week, to the
extent of about 10 hours each, on an average.
Employment was quiet in London. It declined at Leicester, and was slack, short
time being general. At Northampton employment was quiet, most firms being on short
time. In the Higham and Rushden district employment declined and was bad. At
Raunds it was fairly good, and much better than in June of last year; but at Welling-
borough it was very depressed, and worse than in the previous month; short time was
prevalent, and a large number of operatives were unemployed. At Kettering only a few
factories were on full time, and many were working from one to two and a half days short
per week; employment in this centre declined, and was poor.
Depression continued in the heavy boot trade of Leeds, but factories producing light
footwear continued busy. Very little short time was worked at Stafford, and employment
continued fair on the whole. There was not much change at Norwich, employment
remaining fair, with few operatives on short time. In the Bristol and Kingswood area
employment, though poor, showed some improvement, a little less short time being worked
some firms were on full time.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
Week
ended
27th June,
1925
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a
Month ago Year ago
ENGLAND AND WALES :-
London
Leicester
Leicester Country District
Northampton
Northampton Country
District
Kettering
Stafford and District
Norwich and District
Bristol, Kingswood and
District
Leeds and District
Lancashire (mainly
Rossendale Valley)
Birmingham and District
Other parts of England and
Wales
ENGLAND AND WALES
SCOTLAND
GREAT BRITAIN
Per
cent.
- 6.1
- 2.1
- 1.1
- 2.0
-0.6
+ 0.1
- 0.2
- 0.6
- 0.2
- 0.2
+ 1.I
- 0.4
- 3.0
+ 2.5
- 1.3
- 0.6
- 1.6
- 8.2
- 1.3
+ 3.5
+ 1.2
+ 2.7
- 1.1
- 0.3
- 1.1
- 0.6
+ 2.8
- 0.7
Total Wages Paid to all
Workpeople
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a
Week
ended
27th June,
1925
Month ago Year ago
Per
cent.
- 6.7
- 8.1
- 5.8
- 1.9
- 5.5
- 3.9
- 2.4
The following Table shows the number of men and of women registered as applicants
for employment at Employment Exchanges at 1st June, 1925, in the principal centres,
at which approximately 75 per cent. of the total number of applicants for employment
in the boot and shoe industry were registered :-
Department.
Number of Applicants for
Employment at 1st June, 1925.
Increase (+) or Decrease (-)
as compared with
4th May, 1925.
Men.
Women.
Total.
Men.
Women.
Total.
Boot and Shoe Manufacture :
Preparing Department
Rough-Stuff Department
Clicking Department
Closing Department
Making Department
Finishing Department
Slipper Making
Clog Making
Repairing and Hand-Sewn
Work
TOTAL
144
470
1,447
2,815
1,335
602
42
7,498
38
22
23
24
52
320
265
5
182
492
1,475
1,726
2,867
1,655
867
47
6
+ 25
+ 350
+ 2
+ 58
+ 72
+ 35
+ 3
- 118
---

---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

381
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.
Record Number of Cases Settled.
We are pleased to record the fact that since our last Report the following
settlements have been effected through the Union's Solicitor, Mr. Evan
Barlow:-
Mr. S., Kettering No. 2, £10 and £1 Is. od. costs. In this instance
there was no liability, but our Solicitor secured the above sum as an ex
gratia payment.
Mr. M., Leicester, £30 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. K., Kettering No. 2, £50 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. I., Leicester, £40 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. J. E. D., Mansfield, £25 and £2 2s. od. costs. Here again there
was no liability, but the Solicitor secured this sum as an ex gratia payment.
Mr. C., Leicester, £100 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. N., Leicester, £75 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. R., Leicester, £65 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. K., Leicester, £75 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. S., Kettering, £350 and £15 15s. od. costs.
Mr. W., Kettering, £200 and £10 10s. od. costs.
Mr. H., Leicester, £300 and £26 5s. od. costs.
Mr. I., Leicester No. 2, £125 and £5 5s. od. costs.
Mr. N., Kettering, £100 and £10 10s. od. costs.
In spite of this long list of settlements, we would remind members that
lump sums of money are not obtainable by law, but only by agreement,
proving, once again, what may be done for our members when the Insurance
Companies know that there is a powerful organisation at the back of them.

THE HALF-YEARLY STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS
is presented herewith. The details are given on the following pages. Despite
the heavy demands on the Sick and Unemployment Funds we are pleased to
record the fact that there is an increase in the Central Office funds. It should
be noted that the Sick and Funeral Benefits have increased from £15,740 5s. 10d.
for last half-year to £22,988. gs. 2d., or an increase of 46 per cent., whilst the
Unemployment Benefit has increased from £18,440 18s. 6d. to £24,228 Is. 3d.,
an increase of 31.5 per cent. In connection with the Benefits paid through the
State Unemployment Section, it will be observed that the increase is 37 per
cent.; this is a great advantage to the members by being enabled to receive
State Benefit through the offices of the Union, and we trust that every branch
will see the advantage in administering the same.
The loss recorded on the Political Fund is due to the Union's activities in
connection with the work carried on on local bodies, which work is of distinct
advantage, not only to one section of the community, but is of a general
character.
B


---
Here are the bounding box detections:
```json
[
  {"box_2d": [287, 322, 312, 368], "label": "Total Trade Income"},
  {"box_2d": [312, 323, 337, 370], "label": "Expenditure.."},
  {"box_2d": [334, 323, 359, 372], "label": "Funds, Trade Dept."},
  {"box_2d": [262, 650, 282, 744], "label": "Tota"},
  {"box_2d": [362, 902, 386, 959], "label": "Tot"},
  {"box_2d": [403, 885, 423, 932], "label": "Fr"},
  {"box_2d": [795, 117, 816, 159], "label": "Total Income"},
  {"box_2d": [820, 117, 833, 175], "label": "Expenditure"},
  {"box_2d": [837, 117, 849, 211], "label": "Funds, Fidelity Dept."},
  {"box_2d": [597, 338, 620, 390], "label": "Total Sick Income"},
  {"box_2d": [618, 338, 641, 391], "label": "Expenditure"},
  {"box_2d": [637, 338, 661, 391], "label": "Funds, Sick Dept."},
  {"box_2d": [753, 684, 779, 715], "label": "Major Stevens"},
  {"box_2d": [778, 685, 800, 718], "label": "Leicestershire Insurance"},
  {"box_2d": [685, 117, 707, 175], "label": "Sickness Benefit"},
  {"box_2d": [659, 685, 679, 716], "label": "Funeral Benefit"},
  {"box_2d": [706, 685, 725, 718], "label": "Share of Out-of-Work Cons."},
  {"box_2d": [728, 685, 752, 716], "label": "One-fourth Share of"},
  {"box_2d": [771, 118, 792, 178], "label": "One-fourth Share of"},
  {"box_2d": [699, 683, 720, 716], "label": "Organising"},
  {"box_2d": [730, 120, 751, 164], "label": "Printing and Stationery"},
  {"box_2d": [354, 370, 376, 460], "label": "Travelling Assistance"},
  {"box_2d": [376, 371, 391, 460], "label": "Investigating"},
  {"box_2d": [386, 371, 401, 461], "label": "Loss of Tools by Fire"},
  {"box_2d": [402, 371, 417, 461], "label": "Victimisation"},
  {"box_2d": [412, 371, 428, 458], "label": "Dispute Benefit"},
  {"box_2d": [433, 371, 448, 459], "label": "Arbitration"},
  {"box_2d": [448, 372, 463, 460], "label": "Out-of-Work Benefit"},
  {"box_2d": [462, 372, 478, 461], "label": "Share of Out-of-Work Cons."},
  {"box_2d": [480, 370, 501, 463], "label": "Three-fourths Share of"},
  {"box_2d": [500, 372, 521, 463], "label": "Three-fourths Share of"},
  {"box_2d": [520, 372, 537, 463], "label": "Printing and Stationery"},
  {"box_2d": [536, 371, 551, 461], "label": "Legal Expenses"},
  {"box_2d": [551, 370, 568, 463], "label": "Grants"},
  {"box_2d": [565, 371, 581, 463], "label": "Gen. Fed. of Trade Unions"},
  {"box_2d": [580, 371, 596, 463], "label": "Political Fund"},
  {"box_2d": [595, 371, 612, 463], "label": "British Trade Union Congress"},
  {"box_2d": [611, 371, 626, 464], "label": "Scottish Trade Union Congress"},
  {"box_2d": [625, 370, 642, 465], "label": "Delegations and Conferences"},
  {"box_2d": [640, 371, 657, 463], "label": "Upkeep of Central Office"},
  {"box_2d": [655, 370, 670, 463], "label": "Miscellaneous"},
  {"box_2d": [665, 371, 682, 463], "label": "Management Expenses"}
]
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
384
GAINS AND LOSSES ON THE HALF-YEAR.
Total Funds at Central Office, now
"
"
"
Total Funds at Branches, now
"
"
last Half-year..
£ s. d.
334175 18 4
.. 325291 4 11
Net Increase on Half-year
last Half-year
£ s. d.
8884 13 5
118918 2 11
111637 1 1
Net Increase on Half-year
7281 1 10
16165 15 3
Total Increase
GAINS AND LOSSES (CENTRAL & BRANCH FUNDS).
Increase on Trade Fund
"
Sick Fund
"
Fidelity Fund
1880 12 4
7230 14 1
64 7 6
9175 13 11
291 0 6
8884 13 5
7281 1 10
£16165 15 3
Less Loss on Political Fund
Net Increase on Central Office Funds
"
Branch Funds
TOTAL INCREASE
MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNION.
Financial Members-
Males
Females..
Probationary
GRAND TOTAL
52548
21557
74105
6490
80595
Financial
Probationary
1925. 1924. 1924. 1923. 1923. 1922. 1922. 1921. 1920.
JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. JUNE. DEC. DEC.
74105 72647 70494 69112 68403 68787 69174 71224 81874
6490 6098 7250 6553 6772 6310 7019 5986 6986
Totals 80595 78745 77744 75665 75175 75097 76193 77210 88860
JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCILS AND VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS.
At the forthcoming Trades Union Congress in September we have a
resolution upon the agenda dealing with the above matter, and also one on
Unemployment.
The resolutions are as follows:-
VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS.
"This Congress instructs the General Council to urge upon H.M.
Government the desirability of giving to National Agreements voluntarily
entered into and approved by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity
as awards under the Trade Board Acts, 1909 and 1918, with the object
of ensuring the observance of fair conditions of labour by all engaged in
the industry whenever requested by the parties to the agreement."
UNEMPLOYMENT.
"That this Congress views with the greatest concern the serious
volume of unemployment now existing, and deplores the lack of effective


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
385
measures on the part of the Government to attempt to alleviate the
situation. It further declares its emphatic opposition to the spurious
remedies of lower wages and the degradation of established working con-
ditions, and calls upon the Trade Union Movement to offer its utmost
resistance to any attempt to increase the hours of work. It asserts the
unquestionable right of the unemployed worker and his dependents to
adequate maintenance, and reiterates its demand for the establishment
of a National Employment and Development Board for the purpose of
devising and co-ordinating measures whereby the extent of unemployment
may be reduced."
We hope that both resolutions will be passed. The one dealing with
Voluntary Agreements has been, in the past, somewhat misunderstood. We are
only asking that any Union which has a proper agreement between themselves
and the Employers' Association, should, if both sides desire the same, to
make it applicable to all engaged in the industry, and thus prevent "under-
cutting" of wages and conditions at the expense of the worker. This surely
is a sound principle, and one that will make for the elimination of those
who want to reduce the standard of living.
THE POLITICAL AND INDUSTRIAL WORLD
is, from the workers' standpoint, very unsatisfactory indeed; especially so is
this the fact if looked at from the proceedings during the past few weeks in the
House of Commons. Of talk there has been an unending stream, and appeals
for something to be done to relieve the present abnormal circumstances. When,
however, Labour puts up its case through the Labour M.P.'s, the net result
is that "Parliament can do but little to remedy the situation," and later on,
when votes are taken, the big majority by which the Conservatives were returned
shows itself in constantly voting down the Labour proposals. The attitude of
the Government upon the great and serious question of unemployment, as
portrayed by the speech of the Premier, the Rt. Hon. Stanley Baldwin, M.P.,
is indeed one of great disappointment, and ought to be a speech to satisfy the
workers that their hopes lay in a Labour Party in the House of Commons,
with a sufficient majority to make it a real power. We are being constantly
reminded of the fact that the Labour Party was in office last year and did not
solve the problem; what is omitted is the fact that the Party was in a minority
so far as the number of members making the House of Commons was concerned,
and to a very considerable extent was therefore handicapped by the limits
which were imposed upon the Party.
Further, the very people who "taunt" the Labour Party with its short-
comings conveniently forget that whilst Labour had nine months wherein to
bring into being new methods, the older parties of the State have been in power
and authority for hundreds of years, and the present condition of affairs is
due very largely to their lack of statesmanship, and certainly reflect no great
credit upon them. We appeal, therefore, to the membership to keep steadily
---

---
```text
386
near future, a sufficient number of members in the House of Commons who will
and persistently at work to build up such a Labour Party as will ensure, in the
not only insist upon drastic reforms, but will be in sufficient authority to put
upon the Statute Book of the Realm such Acts of Parliament as will bring into
being a system which will relieve the workers from many unjust burdens they
at present are carrying.
OBITUARY.
It is with sincere regret that we have to record the death of another
Branch. Mr. Rawlings has for many years been an active member of
officer of the Union, MR. J. RAWLINGS, Secretary to the London South
the Branch and did yeoman work on behalf of the members in South
London. Upon the death of Mr. G. Standeven, in January, 1924, he
was elected Branch Secretary.
Mr. Rawlings was buried on Thursday, the 16th inst., at 2.30p.m.,
and we were represented at the funeral by the General President and
General Secretary.
We trust that the efforts put forth on behalf of the workers by Mr.
Rawlings will be an incentive to the younger men to carry on the work
he has been called upon to lay down.
To the relatives of the deceased officer we have tendered sympathy
for their great loss, and also appreciation of the work of our late colleague.
We hope it will be some consolation to them in this their loss to know
that Mr. Rawlings was held in esteem by his comrades.
We have further to record the very sudden death of MRS. BLEAKLEY,
the wife of Mr. C. Bleakley, who himself died as recently as May last.
It is indeed a sad blow to the family to lose both parents by sudden
deaths and especially within such a short period of time. We beg to
assure the family of the sympathy of the membership of the Union in this
their time of trouble and loss.
UNEMPLOYMENT.
A Special Conference was held on the 24th inst., called by the General
Council of the Trade Union Congress, at the Central Buildings, Westminster.
The basis for representation being different from that for the Annual Congress,
we decided that inasmuch as the membership of the Union could not be con-
sulted, we were represented thereat by the following:-Mr. T. F. Richards,
Mr. W. R. Townley, Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards, Mr. L. Smith, Mr. W. R. Smith,
and Mr. E. L. Poulton. The Conference was well attended, and after con-
siderable discussion upon the present disgraceful condition of affairs regarding
the vast army of unemployed and the attendant suffering occasioned, a series
of resolutions were passed dealing with the question of insisting upon the
```

---
387
Government dealing with this paramount question. A report will be found
on page 441.
We are pleased our colleague, Mr. W. R. Smith, drew attention to the
most important item in which the Labour movement believes- the develop-
ment of home resources, particularly in regard to the land, much of which is
derelict. Although Mr. W. R. Smith's speech was of nearly ten minutes'
duration, we regret the Daily Herald only gave him the following in their
report of the Congress :-
"Mr. W. R. Smith (Boot and Shoe Operatives) regretted that the
resolutions made no reference to the development of home resources,
especially the land, much of which was derelict."
MINERS.
At the Conference named above, a full statement was made regarding the
position of the Miners and the attempts being made to still further reduce their
standard of life, a standard already too low. There was no doubt about the
mind of the Conference as to supporting the Miners, and while it is hoped a
way may yet be found whereby a stoppage will be prevented, we want to make
quite clear to the membership that the Trade Union movement as a whole is
expected to loyally support the Miners in their resisting the onslaught if forced
upon them. Their case is quite clear; they have already been forced down
to a standard below which they are unanimous in stating they cannot go
further. Their case has been before the General Council of the Congress and
they are unanimous in declaring for doing all possible to back up the Miners.
We cannot say more at present except that the members need not be surprised
if we have to call at short notice meetings of the members to ask for further
powers than we have at present to render assistance to other Unions.
WOOLLEN TRADES.
A statement was also made at the same Conference regarding the attempts
that the Employers in such industry are making to reduce the workers' wages.
Here also the workers are determined to resist such proposed reductions, and
a number of operatives have already ceased work rather than submit to any
reduction. We hope that success will attend them in their resistance. It is
indeed ironical to find on the one hand complaints as to restricted trade, and
on the other these proposed reductions of wages which will further restrict
trade, and this on the plea of increasing trade. These cases ought to wake
the workers up to the absolute necessity of so rousing the conscience of the
nation as will ensure the withdrawal of the proposals which our comrades are
confronted with. The Trade Union movement is going through a very trying
time, and we appeal to the members to stand loyally by and help as far as
possible those who are called upon to bear the brunt of the battle.
BALANCE SHEETS.
We beg to call the attention of those Branch Secretaries who have not yet
sent in their balance sheet for the quarter ending May last. On reference to


---
Here is the extracted text:
388
Circular No. 357, it will be seen that a period of eight weeks was allowed to
elapse during which time balance sheets were to be sent to the Central Office.
Twenty-six branches have so far failed to send a copy along, and we trust
no further reminder will be necessary.
RECEIPTS FOR BENEFITS.
To save the writing of unnecessary letters Branch Secretaries should
remit ALL receipt forms to the Central Office as soon as signed, to enable the
accounts to be closed promptly.
JUBILEE HISTORY OF THE UNION.
Members who desire to secure a copy of this most interesting and valuable
record of the work of the Union for its first fifty years should place their order
immediately with the Branch Secretary, as the stock is constantly being
reduced, and we do not intend to have a reprint. They are only 6d. per
copy, and should be ordered at once.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.


---
389
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE. The state of trade warrants all of us to look for the cause, and, if possible,
point to the remedies. At once let me say that all countries appear to be in the same
plight, as shown by the facts of our international relationship. Other countries have
been quoted, and we have therefore informed ourselves of the position in other countries
as here in this one. Our confrères in other lands cannot press home their industrial
demands unless the operatives are willing to be organised, and in this connection we could,
and would, like to stop home competition by getting all Operatives in the Union and all
Employers in the Federation; and owing to the self-centred interest inherent in the
unlearned, these impositions are put upon those who are conscientiously trying to do the
right thing. We have evidence of this where several manufacturers have been called upon
to abide by the National Agreement, and the pity is that some small penalty is not imposed
upon them; in fact, we here in this country appear to be imposed upon by the Non-
Unionist and Non-Associated because of our desire not to be either vindictive or unkind,
and whilst we may wish it. We are able to check bad wages and worse conditions in other
countries and we are doing it; that is more than the Employers are doing, they fully
believe in underselling each other. We don't, and our influence in the shoemaking coun-
tries, some twelve in number, only one exceeds the 48 hours, which at least is an achieve-
ment for the Unions so organised. Then we must always bear in mind that the purchasing
power of money differs in different countries and also the economic position has to be
considered. For instance, let us take Messrs. Bata Bros., Zlim, Czecho-Slovakia or
Moravia. They employ four thousand workers and are capable of turning out sixty
thousand pairs per week of women's and children's glacé kid, patent, willow, satin canvas
and leather. They manufacture everything necessary on the spot; they make their
own leather, having their own pine forest for tanning bark; make some of their machinery;
a wood-working department, paper and cardboard factories, printing works, and print
a weekly newspaper distributed among the workers. They have their own dairy farm
from which the workers are supplied with flour, milk, meat, cheese, eggs, &c. The firm
is also erecting a garden town of four hundred houses, schools, library, baths, the building
materials being supplied from the firms own brick-kilns, quarries and forests. The firm
have one hundred and eighty retail shops in Czecho-Slovakia, and one hundred and twenty
abroad, or a total of three hundred retail shops. They also manufacture felt and cloth
shoes for Bohemia and Moravia. The estimated turn-out is put at one hundred thousand
pairs per day, of which sixty thousand pairs are turned out by machinery and forty
thousand pairs by hand. Including the cottage industry it is estimated that in the country
of Czecho-Slovakia no less than forty thousand people are engaged in shoemaking, and
their output is about forty million pairs per year. If one carefully considers the above
it will be seen that such a firm can get all the wealth they need from any two or three of
the above investments, for apparently this firm is practising the Socialistic system by
having and being the overlord, but one wonders where the ordinary small private trader
can successfully compete with a system of co-ordination as this appears to be. Of one
thing I am concerned and that is we ought to know more of this firm and its conditions.
MANSFIELD.- Messrs. Faire Bros., of this town, employ some hundred and twenty
girls, and we succeeded in joining about one hundred and eighteen in January last, and
promised them as they had been members before, after improving their position, they
allowed themselves to be intimidated and left the Union, but we promised to see the
firm before Easter if they would remain loyal. We learned in a few weeks that the manage-
ment had had the girls in the Office and tried to intimidate them from belonging to the
Union. I asked for, and obtained, an interview with Sir Samuel Faire and his brother, in
Leicester, who promised me that they would have no trouble with us and that no inter-
ference with the operatives would be permitted, but further interference has taken place,
and to make sure twenty-five girls were discharged with the object of causing them to leave
the Union. Many girls stopped paying. We wrote the firm who again assured us in face
of this fact, that they were not interfering with the girls and their membership, and although
the six months has elapsed, asked for by the firm, they have not put themselves in order.
It makes one lose confidence in mankind when men of position act in this manner and allow
others to drag their name into the public gaze, when the conduct displayed by the manage-
ment at Mansfield is such that we must inform the Industry of the fact that this firm is
acting contrary to the letter and the spirit of the National Agreement, which all honourable
firms adopt, and we must ask the employers to help us to respect their own agreement,
and also respect the attitude of our members who refuse to work up materials produced
under unfair conditions. We are told that the law of libel is great: well, we are prepared
to put that to the test by making the facts known.
RUSHDEN. The firm of Chamberlain has been visited respecting the conditions we
were permitting at the auxiliary firms like the above, and also Looms', of Market Har-
borough, and other firms who cut leather and make stiffenings and heels, all of whom make
C


---
Here is the extracted text:
390
One wonders and marvels how in the
that will befall them should they join the Union. One
were always paid. Now, if others are going to take from the factories this work, there
up materials which used to be made up in shoe factories, and for which Trade Union rates
who like Faire Bros., Mansfield, have lectured their operatives on the terrible consequences
Federation by stiffening makers has taken place, including Looms', Market Harborough,
need be no surprise for us to ask that union rates be paid. A deputation to the Employers
and ask for help when they are guilty of the grave misdemeanour of persuading their
employees to think of their employers' imaginary and selfish outlook. I have already
informed Mr. G. Looms that when we appeal to the employers we know they will listen
name of common decency people can be found who can depute the Employers' Federation
with interest and sympathy, because if we failed with one or two, our strength would lie
that Looms' and Faire Bros, will act with us and save us having to resort to other means by
with our members and the unfair materials and their source of origin. We still prefer
fact that although in some factories non-union labour is invariably the rule, yet in others
AMERICA. Our enquiries regarding Stiffening making in America has elicited the
non-union and coloured labour is found at low rates for America, varying from 7 to 15
dollars per week. Boys and girls are also employed in the factories, which means in cur
great natural country with all its wealth has a corner in its heart, although there are other
money from 28s. to 6os. per week, of from 48 to 60 hours per week, showing that this very
week, which is not too great for the place described by some of its countrymen as of " Divine
stiffening factories whose employees are non-unionist yet earn from 15 to 25 dollars per
Origin. We cannot leave this matter here, more will be heard of this later.
which we can obtain our object without acting unfairly.
TRADE BOARD. Two more days have been spent on this work and the Boot Trades
Association had set up a repairing plant at Wembley and invited the Advisory Committee
otherwise detained, sent a substitute. The Exhibition was a very good and compact one,
The Minister of Labour had consented to open the same, but being
and illustrated very fully how repairs can be made to look as good as new when properly
done. A new Rounding and Channelling machine by the Standard Machinery Co. was a
to inspect the same.
very distinguishable feature.
The general work of the Board was the granting of permits, the registration of appren
tices, and the settlement of inquiries respecting scope. Sir Douglas Hogg, Attorney
General, has not yet given his decision respecting the division of a repairer's duties, and
when he is working under the Act and when he is working outside the Act.
BOZEAT. A visit to all the firms in the district respecting the payment of the extra
Is. claimed by us several months ago met with favour by the employers, who felt that in
the circumstances our claim was not unreasonable, but could give us no promise at present
of anything further in the future. We could not refuse this small concession in the present
state of trade.
MANSFIELD SHOE COMPANY. Several visits have been paid to this firm who had a
Government contract, and who are not proceeding with the same.
differences with the firm, who are in an isolated district, and who feel they are too far from
We have had several
a shoe centre to get the facilities afforded by such contact-hence we get at misunder-
standings because of the geographical area, and it requires some amount of trouble to get
differences corrected. However, the firm being federated, they can always check our
claims, and we hope to ultimately arrive at a proper understanding. It is for this reason
that when we do not hear from a firm for several months it invariably happens that a lot
has got to be done before we can get all the accumulated troubles corrected. We are
still negotiating.
BURTON-ON-TRENT MEMBERS. - A visit to Earl Shilton to see the head of this firm
resulted in the firm paying time and a quarter for overtime for the future, but demurrel
to pay for the past, alleging that the Rossendale Union did not press, and also intimated
to us that they are about to slightly reduce our members' wages because they are higher
than the Rossendale Statement. We have intimated to them that we cannot accept this
way of dealing with our members, and hope that no such attempt will be made, or trouble
ensuc.
AMALGAMATION of all Unions in the Leather Trade ought to take place, and also in
preservation purposes. If a universal or a national stoppage is about to become due,
operatives ought to have an alliance for self
then all ought to be consulted and all could then participate.
position in that town, where owing to the 1920 stoppage one factory closed down altogether,
MELTON MOWBRAY has been visited with the object of renewing, if possible, our
and the other has made very bad time, but we hope for better times, and when one remem-
bers our benefits and the Unemployment Benefits, and our Holiday Pay, it is 75 per cent.
of those who have no income, which would have saved in the old days very many members.
easier to pay contributions to-day than in the old days. We do pay now the contributions
We are also in touch with Oakham, but owing to the prolonged illness of our friend, Mr.
Wainer, of Melton, we have not been so much in touch as formerly.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

391
SUPERANNUATION. - The Sub-Committee appointed reported to a special Council
Meeting on this matter, and there appears to be only one way of dealing with this matter
at present, that is, by all future recipients to pay an additional contribution, and one
wonders how many members there are prepared to do that. Beyond this I will not divulge
at present all the other points that may appear in a Memoranda later.
ADVISORY COUNCIL OF TRADES BOARDS met at Montagu House, to consider, among
other things, the method of Inspectorship in connection with the Trade Board Acts, but
owing to the grave crisis in the coal industry and the general Council Meeting precisely
at that time, and several of our members being on that body, after carefully looking
through the Annual Report to be presented to Congress at Scarborough, we adjourned
the meeting with the Council, Todd and the Chief Lady Inspector until a later date.
LONDON SOUTH.- The General Secretary and myself had the sad experience of attend-
ing the funeral of Mr. J. Rawlings, Secretary of the Branch, who passed away after a very
few days illness through pneumonia. This branch only a few months ago lost their old
Secretary, Mr. G. Standeven, and this calamity falling so soon must make the older members
feel very sad indeed.
WATERFOOT. I have also paid a visit to Waterfoot with the avowed object of trying
to prevent friction between us, but as the Secretary had had a special call, I could only
write him very fully asking for an opportunity of meeting the Executive of that Union
of 6,000 strong, and by such methods avert the friction that may arise on any question
in which both may be interested. I have told Mr. Taylor that at present all I am doing
is unofficial, but if I can get something tangible to place before the Council of the National
Union, I should be only too pleased, as we shall never get unity until units unite. Bodies
are always made up of these units, and it is necessary that these must make the first move
which, to say the least, was the recommendation of the General Council's Dispute Committee.
All members are very loyal to the Union who buy and read the Daily Herald, and act
upon its advice in Trade Union matters, especially if they wear STAMPED SHOES, or at
least be sure they have been made under Trade Union conditions.
Yours fraternally,

M. Richards
General President.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN, LONDON, N.W.5.
19th July, 1925.

BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1924 667,902 8 7
January, 1925 2,840 1 10
February 3,952 4 8
March 4,124 16 0
April 4,054 10 6
May 4,023 13 8
June 3,993 2 6
£690,890 17 9

OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
To December, 1924 358,625 13 7
January, 1925 3,954 7 9
February 5,226 1 9
March 3,682 10 3
April 3,031 5 0
May 3,510 14 9
June 4,823 1 9
£382,853 14 10


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

7th Edition. 
392
NATIONAL JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL
FOR THE BOOT AND SHOE MANUFACTURING TRADE AND
NATIONAL CONFERENCE AGREEMENT (SEPTEMBER), 1924.
HOLIDAY (PROVISION) SCHEME.
THE JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL FOR THE BOOT AND SHOE TRADE
equal contributions from Manufacturers and Operatives, under the following
on 27th May, 1919, adopted a Contributory Holiday Scheme, based on
conditions, and the Scheme was incorporated in the National Conference
Agreement (September), 1924:
1.- Weekly contributions after August Bank Holiday, 1925, will be:
Employer
Operative
permitting
Men (over 21)
1/2
1/2
Youths (18-21) and
Women (over 20)
8d.
8d.
Boys (16-18) and
Girls (16-20)
4d.
4d.
2. Withdrawals for the following amounts after the dates shown if
factory closed for usual holidays (3 days Easter and Whitsun; I week Christmas
and August):
AMOUNTS-
Youths and
Boys and
Men
Women
HOLIDAY
Girls
Fri., 25th Dec., 1925
40/-
20/-
10-
Mon., 5th April, 1926
16/-
12/-
6-
Mon., 24th May, 1926
16/-
12-
6/-
Mon., 2nd Aug., 1926
40/-
20/-
10-
and requiring the following credit balances to be left:
December, 1925
Easter, 1926
Whitsun, 1926
August,
1926
subject to
4/4
5/4
2/8
21/-
12/-
6-
19/-
8-
4-
3.-Payments being made at times to suit local arrangements, but pre-
ferably on the first pay day after the holiday.
4-Withdrawals not exceeding the amount standing to an operative's
credit, and only taking place at above dates.
5.-Operatives leaving between holidays having amounts to their credits
paid after the next holiday or, on request, transferred to their next employer.
16.-Operatives absent through sickness being allowed on resumption of
work to make up arrears for 4 weeks.
for which operatives do not contribute.
whichNo contributions being payable by employers in respect of those weeks
and signing the contribution card accordingly.
8. -Operatives agreeing to deduction of their contributions from wages
vision Account" at a bank, controlled by a Management Committee of not less
9.-All contributions for each factory being paid into a "Holiday Pro-
than two (half representing the employer and half the operatives).
July, 1925.
(Signed) RUTH TOMLINSON,
E. L. POULTON,
}
Joint Secretaries.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

393
THE AUDITOR'S REPORT.
THE CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LIMITED,
AUDIT DEPARTMENT,
99 Leman Street,
London, E. 1.
The Executive Council,
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
I beg to report that I have audited the Accounts of the Union for
the Half-year ended 30th June, 1925, with the Books and Vouchers
relating thereto, and have obtained all the information and explanations
I have required, and am of the opinion that they exhibit a true and correct
view of the Union's position according to the information given, and as
shown by the books.
The Deeds of Investments have been examined, and found to be
in order.
The system of accounting is an excellent one, and the books are
exceedingly well kept.
15th July, 1925,
Yours faithfully,
A. E. NEWMAN,
Public Auditor.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
421
FUNERAL BENEFITS
For Half-Year ending 30th June, 1925.
AYR-
No.
4445 Galbraith, T.
BELFAST-
1931 Rice, P.
BRISTOL-
988 Ayles, E.
912 Wilkins, G.
709 Vincent, A.
830 Duckett, G.
111221 Powell, J.
856 Gilbert, F.
BRISTOL No. 2
1610 Wheeler, J. F.
71986 Peacock, W. J. (wife of)
1222 Cann, A. H. (wife of)
BROMSGROVE-
111242 Bushnell J.
111266 Warman, H. (wife of)
CHESHAM-
119976 Green, A.
CORK-
153593 O'Connor, J.
DAVENTRY-
3643 Muddiman, W. (wife of)
DERBY-
3802 Petty, C.
DUNDEE-
3341 Kidd, A.
95469 Crone, J. R.
68513 Wright, P.
73827 McPherson, A.
EDINBURGH-
4152 Bleakley, C.
GLASGOW-
4998 Thomson, A. (wife of)
4830 Vance, W. J. (wife of)
4894 Carroll, F.
5026 Berryman, T.
4794 Henderson, H. (wife of)
154385 Stewart, G. (wife of)
4500 Simpson, W. (wife of)
5583 Duff, S.
4680 Blyth, R. (wife of)
5124 Youill, A.
4743 Williamson, H. (wife of)
4992 Mackie, A. (wife of)
140674 McKeown, W.
Name.
Occupation.
Maker
Repairer
Consol Operator
Laster
Laster
Repairer
Laster
Finisher
Clicker
ST.. Edge Setter
Padding
Maker
Laster
Repairer
Benchman
Benchman
Maker
Finisher
Maker
Benchman
Stitcher
Rivetter
Benchman
Age
53
46
30
56
56
69
71
61
48
34
67
61
39
19
61
40
52
59
62
57
41
69
49
75
46
27
68
80
53
67
56
81
50
Cause of Death.
Heart Failure
Pulmonary Tuberculosis
Phthisis
Pulmonary Tuberculosis
Morbus Cordis
Pneumonia
Hernia
Mitral Disease of Heart
Phthisis
Pneumonia
Broncho-Pneumonia
Arterio Sclerosis
Mitral Stenosis
Tuberculosis
Tumour
Rheumatism
Syncope
Cystitis
Cardiac Failure
Cerebral Hæmorrhage
Cardiac Failure
Cirrhosis of Liver
Carcinoma
Bronchitis
Bronchitis
Cirrhosis of Liver
Abortion
Aneurism of Aorta
Apoplexy
Carcinoma
Carcinoma
Senility
Peritonitis
Amount.
f s. d.
600
600
600
600
600
600
600
600
300
300
300
600
600
600
600
600
600
600
600
300
300
600
300
600
300
300
300
600
600
300
600
Totals.
f s. d.
600
600
3600
1200
300
300
2400
600
300
600
600
300
600
5400
Carried forward
16800


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
429
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. — Trade is still bad, and now the middle of the year brings
round the need for statutory holidays. Needless to say our members could
do with work and not with holidays, but they will have to accept a further
interval which will pass as a time of rest and pleasure. We have written before
of how the holiday hits the short-time worker, and again the stop will entail
a stop in benefit which is always needed. We have been awaiting in vain for
the shrieks of indignation over the new proposals of the Government re Un-
employment Insurance, and once again must we confess we cannot understand
the British worker. He seems willing always to be kicked or squeezed or
diddled or hoodwinked, and even ready to kiss the hand that hands over the
"medicine," if one can be allowed to confuse the metaphor. How insured
contributors should permit say the idle benefit being spoken of as the "dole,"
how they should tolerate further meddling with waiting period and with
ordinary rights to benefit, how they should lie down to this bare-faced project
to reduce unemployment by depriving claimants wholesale of benefits, is some-
thing which will be of enormous interest to the students of psychology of the
future, but which remains a perfect nightmare to those of the present. After
a period of approximately five years' depression, when all kinds of resources
are long since swallowed up, and when after a fitful summer we are approach-
ing a British winter season with its cruel demands for greater expenditure,
the screw will begin to turn which will leave huge numbers with no alternative
but the workhouse or the grave. The new codified instructions for the adminis-
tration of Unemployment Benefit have been issued, and several very unsatis-
factory issues appear to have been in the mind of the Ministry when this was
prepared. Throughout the period between one set of regulations and another,
the permanent officials are exerting their cuteness in finding fresh difficulties
to put in the way of those who claim, and if those restrictions fail to rouse
serious opposition, the underlying idea is then embodied in a definite instruction.
How this works can be seen from the treatment of juveniles who become
insured for the first time. When the right of "waiver" was first allowed to
the 30 stamp conditions, those juveniles were admitted to benefit after their
first stamp, the view being held that if they had worked at insurable employ-
ment between the ages of 14 and 16 years, they had proved their right to be
regarded as being normally insurable, while only being eligible for stamps at
16 seemed to prove they had got all the reasonable amount of insurable employ-
ment that was possible in their case. This went on for some time, but at last
some bright brain discovered a technical flaw, and held that no employment
was insurable before a person became 16 years of age; therefore the statutory
condition was not fulfilled until a longer term of stamps was necessary to prove
"normality." Various restrictions were imposed until no one in an official
position knew what was what, but now it is laid down that three months of
insured employment must be proved before a juvenile gets benefit. And all
the time only a few kicked. If a greater volume of protest had been made
this objectionable finding would have been prevented. Many other instances
could be given to prove that very oppressive conditions have grown up gradually
which only required a united opposition from Unions to kill at their inception.
BURNLEY. — We would like to see an Organiser as promised. Our
branch is dying of apathy and indifference.
CHESHAM. — Trade here still remains slack.
CHESTERFIELD. — We have to report trade bad at the time of sending.
We have several members out of work, and our sick list is rather heavy for the
time of the year. The prospects do not look very bright for trade improving
at present.


---
Here is the extracted text:
430
have plenty of work, but the other firms are not making half time. We have
DERBY.-Trade in Derby is of uneven character; the C.W.S. appear to
a few signing the Out-of-Work Book, also some that have been suspended.
chance of getting back. The firms seem as if they would sooner employ
In places like Derby when you fall out in the boot trade you do not have much
CORK.-Trade still remains good.
Melbourne operatives than local ones.
DUNDALK. - Trade is very bad indeed, so much so that members are
being dismissed and short time is the general rule. This being a new branch
started by men employed by a new factory, matters are rather unsettled.
management was approached and asked to allow all to share alike as regards
We regret to state we had trouble here this week, ending 4th July. The
short time. This was refused, so our Branch President, an Englishman, volun-
teered to stay off too. The members considered this a great sacrifice. At
our monthly meeting the members strongly resented the management's action,
and presented their local President with a very handsome pipe in case, as a
mark of respect and esteem for his laborious toil in connection with the Branch,
at the same time wishing him every success in his future occupation. He is
leaving Dundalk on the 6th inst. for Waterford, where his family are domiciled,
he having been employed for seven years under a Waterford firm previous to
his coming to Dundalk. We may mention also that the sewer and stitcher-
the only one we had-packed up on Friday evening, the 3rd inst., and returned
to his home in Northampton-had enough of Dundalk management. Further,
we understand enough stock is on hand to supply the requirements of the firm
for three or four months, and it is difficult to understand what is to happen next.
In all cases the employees have been dismissed without notice. On Friday,
the 3rd inst., the forelady was dismissed without notice. Now we have the
foreman finisher's wife in her place.
EDINBURGH.-Trade in Repairing Section fairly busy during the month-
We are sorry to report the death of Mrs. C. Bleakley only six weeks after her
husband and late Colleague C. Bleakley. Our sympathy goes out to the family
in their double bereavement. Up to the time of sending returns away the
response to our appeal has been very gratifying. We shall publish a full
list in next month's Report. This response goes to show that if a man has
convictions and states them, even if you don't always agree, one has to respect
the man. On looking over one of the Organisers' reports we see the statement
that operatives are always pleased to see any of the National Officials of the
Union, acting, as it does, to encourage the outlying districts. This is exactly
he position the members all over Scotland feel. A visit from any of the
ficials is ever welcome, even if some knotty questions are asked. Let
otland have a visit from one of the Organisers, it would be greatly appre-
ated. We are pleased that the firm recently organised by our late Colleague
have now started paying to National Agreement as far as wages are concerned,
but have not adopted the Holiday Scheme. Of course we shall endeavour to
have same applied as it is part of our Agreement. Male members with this
firm are proving staunch to Union, but the females are rather a difficult pro-
position. The Branch thanks all those who have contributed towards our
appeal. Owing to the death of Mrs. Bleakley we propose putting all the
money collected into a banking account on behalf of the three girls left at home.
Trusting this will meet with the approval of all contributors.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.-During the month trade has gradually
become worse, with the exception of Raunds, who fortunately have Govern-
hardly know how to keep going.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.-Trade in this centre is far from active,
and in view of the industrial situation a decided improvement cannot be


---
expected immediately. The Kingswood Boot Trade has figured prominently
in the local Press during the past week, one anonymous scribe declaring that
(in Kingswood) the industry will be wiped out entirely. Strong exception
unless the attention of the Government is called to the serious state of affairs
outlook has been taken by another well-known manufac-
turer, who is reputed to possess a comfortable bank balance, and who has
pointed out that when employment generally improves, Kingswood will more
than justify its existence in the great boot manufacturing industry and so
say all of us-but what of the operative? If Kingswood is to justify its future
existence as a prosperous boot centre, the operative will have to be considered,
and the time to do that is now, with special reference to the rising generation,
and we contend that what is badly needed in this District, is ample opportunity
for technical education. The day of the outworker and the backyard work-
shop is past, and instead of looking for Government assistance, the whole of
the Kingswood manufacturers should get together, cultivate the community
spirit, come down off their perches, and discuss matters with their men. This
will do more to stimulate pride in craft, which is essential in modern boot
manufacture, and help to remove that frequently expressed contempt for the
industry which is so prevalent. The members at Branch meeting moved a
sympathetic vote of condolence with the widow and family of our late friend
and colleague, Chris. Bleakley, who will be remembered in Kingswood for
sound organising work for the Union. The Branch voted the sum of £2 2s. od.
to the fund organised by the Edinburgh Branch.

LIVERPOOL.—The glorious summer weather during the past month has
been grand for holidays, sports, and making hay, but has caused a slump in
boot repairing in the majority of shops. When the weather breaks we may
expect a rush, some of our unfortunate members say let it be soon. We note
that some of our members are behind with their contributions. Eight weeks'
arrears is the limit for receiving benefits according to rule.

NORTHAMPTON.-Trade remains somewhat slack for time of the year,
causing some to be discharged and others to work short time. But of course
where men are on Supplementary Wage Basis they are able to earn a little over
standard rates whilst at the factory. Our members were very proud of the
honour attained by our General Secretary, Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., and passed
the following resolution :-

"To offer Mr. E. L. Poulton our heartiest congratulations on the
honoured and responsible position, he having been elected on the League
of Nations, and from personal knowledge of his abilities, feel he will carry
out those duties with credit to our Union, and the People's cause generally,
and that any action he takes, or advice given, will be a result of con-
sidered judgment."

It was with regret we heard of the death of C. Bleakley.

PLYMOUTH.—During the month we have been occupied with a claim
by one of our members for State Unemployment Insurance Benefit. The local
Labour Exchange having referred the matter to the Chief Insurance Officer,
and he disallowing the claim, we determined to present the case before a Court
of Referees. We are pleased to report that the Court recommended the pay-
ment of the claim, and the Chief Insurance Officer has now agreed with their
recommendations. Our member had been given one week's notice to terminate
his engagement as a dayworker, after nine years' service, and offered piecework
on the seat, which he refused, contending that it would be impossible to earn
a living on the seat as all the best work was done by machinery, and only the
most difficult and unremunerative remained. We stated before the Court
that our Union had a National Agreement with the Masters' Federation of
Great Britain and Ireland, which showed that it was only common justice


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
```text
before changing from day to piecework that four weeks' notice should be given,
and notice in writing to the Branch Secretary; this had not been done. We
won our case. Thus we see once again the benefit of Trade Unionism and
organisation as exemplified in the National Agreement, taken as a standard
of morality and fair play for the trade, influencing the minds of impartial
authorities and establishing a precedent which must stand for all time as the
play-fair standard of our trade, and the death knell of "battledore and shuttle
cock."

STONE. It is with sincere regret that we have to report the death of
one of our oldest members, Albert Smith, 60307 (brother of the late Thomas
Smith, the first General Secretary of our Union). He joined our Branch at
the commencement, 17th September, 1887, and was largely instrumental of
us joining the National Union. He was President of our Branch some years
and always worked for the benefit of Branch and its members. As a Labour
member he was elected, with others, in April, 1894, to the Stone Urban District
Council, and retained his seat for 12 years, when he resigned. A good record
for a Labour member over 30 years ago. We extend our sincere sympathy
to his wife and family on their sad and sudden bereavement.

WATERFORD. - Trade still remains good.

WELLINGBOROUGH. Trade is still very bad, the district experiencing
a shortage, which in the opinion of some of our older members is the worst for
many years.

RESULT OF VOTING FOR COUNCIL MEMBER.
No. 9 District.

BRANCH
Aberdeen
Arbroath
Ayr
Dundee
Edinburgh
Glasgow
Glasgow No. 2
Kilmarnock

TOTALS
* Mr. R. WHITE not securing a clear majority a second vote will be taken at
August Meeting.
No result received from Belfast, Cork, Maybole and Waterford.
```

---
EMPLOYMENT OF LABOUR DIRECT SAVES MONEY OF NATION
says the Postmaster-General, Sir Wm. Mitchell Thomson.
A large part of the transport work of the Post Office is carried out under a system of
contracting. That system of contracts has been universally applied to the carriage of
the mails. For reasons of economy the Post Office staff looked round in
certain directions to see whether under certain conditions they could not
carry on a road service more economically by employing their own
vehicles, and not those of the contractors. This, however, does not
apply generally; it only applies under certain conditions. There is no
doubt that the work we have carried on in that way has meant that
we have been able to operate our own motor vehicles more cheaply
than by contract.
I hesitate to put an actual financial figure, but the State has affected
a saving over this work somewhere in the neighbourhood of £60,000.
In three instances, during recent times, reductions in the tenders of the
contractors have meant a saving of £50,000 yearly.
[Extract from Statement of Postmaster-General in House of Commons, July 20th, 1925.

FACTORIES AND WORKSHOPS: CHIEF INSPECTOR'S ANNUAL REPORT.
The Annual Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories and Workshops for the year
1924 has been issued.
The Report states that, taking industry as a whole, trade conditions have again
been bad, though there have been particular industries and branches of industry which
have been very prosperous and where employment has been good, and there are others
where, though conditions cannot be described as good, they have certainly been better
than they were during 1923.
Reference is made in the Report to the continued development of new industrial
areas, to the steady increase in the removal of factories from the centre to the outskirts
of London, and to the continued and rapid increase in the generation and use of electricity.
The number of registered factories in Great Britain again increased during 1924,
the total being 142,494, as against 139,920 in 1923. Workshops declined from 140,850 to
133,729. Factories thus for the first time exceed workshops in number; the decline
in workshops is largely due to the introduction of electrical power, the use of which con-
verts premises from a workshop into a factory. There is, too, the tendency for the small
places to be absorbed by the big; in particular, the small dressmaker and milliner,
it is stated in the Report, can no longer compete with the large stores.
The only new legislation affecting the Department which became operative during the
year was the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923, which imposed new duties on the staff
both in regard to notices and registers required to be kept for workmen's compensation
purposes, and in regard to first-aid. Section 28 of the Act, which came into force at the
beginning of the year, abolished the dual standard of reportability of accidents (viz., one
day's absence from work in the case of machinery accidents and seven days' absence in
the case of all other accidents), and established one uniform standard, of three days'
inability to earn full wages, without any differentiation as to causation. - The Ministry
of Labour Gazetle, July, 1925.

BOYS' NIGHT WORK.
Five Inspectors for 6,000 Factories.
There are only five inspectors for 6,000 factories and workshops in the large industrial
area of Bradford, Halifax, and Keighley, and a considerable amount of night work is done
by boys.
These facts were brought out by a deputation representing workers in the textile
trade which waited on the Home Secretary (Sir William Joynson-Hicks) with reference
to the dearth of factory inspectors.
The Home Secretary promised to recommend to the Cabinet that steps be taken to
remedy the shortage of inspectors.
-Westminster Gazette, 21st July, 1925.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
438
At Sileby, on 24th, 25th and 26th June, Mr. W. R. Smith was with me, and we had three
good meetings at separate factories.
Since my last report I have been working in Leicestershire and Manchester.
and the management of same seen on questions of the non-observance of Graduated Scale
I went to Manchester on the 29th, and with Mr. Mason went to a shop at Newton
Heath in the dinner hour and evening. Several shops were visited by us during the week
of Wages and Holiday Provision Scheme. Some new members were made.
outside our ranks to join up at once.
in London. There is a good trade union spirit at Anstey, and were it not for the short
time being worked there just now, I believe that we could induce the thoughtless ones.
The following week I spent at Anstey, and attended a special meeting of the Council
From 13th July up to the present, I have been at Manchester. The employees of
points. Some improvements were made in wages, but the firm would give no definite
Scale of Wages. Mr. Mason and I had many interviews with the management on these
application of the Holiday Scheme, and the observance of the Minimum and Graduated
reply on the Holiday money question.
I brought the position of this firm before the Special Council meeting on 9th July,
and it was then agreed that I should have power to deal with Messrs. Johnson, subject to
report this sanction was given to me, and I have given the firm notice in the name of the
a further report to the Central Office, and getting approval to withdraw labour. On my
whole of their employees that they shall cease work on 31st July, unless the firm settle in
the meantime on the matters in dispute.
We have made some progress on some cases where the minimum wage was not being
hope the firm may settle with us during the week, and not force the matter to a strike
paid, but the position on the recognition of Holiday money is still not satisfactory. We
I have from time to time during the past six years suggested to the Manchester many-
facturers that they form a local association for the purpose of establishing something like
facturerity in prices in conjunction with the Union officials, but they have failed up to now
to do so, or to join the Federation of Manufacturers and recognise in this way their obliga
to do in recognising National Agreements. With the exception of one firm they are all
opposed to trade unionism in any form.
27th July, 1925.
D. MCCARTHY.
During the past month we have endeavoured to deal with the firm of Looms', Market
Harborough. This firm is chiefly engaged in Heel Building, and cutting stiffeners for the
trade; no Holiday Fund is in operation, and the wages generally are below the recognised
scale. We have only a few members engaged here and have made continuous attempts
to organise the operatives by frequently meeting them and endeavouring to persuade
them to become members. As a result of our efforts we were enabled to induce a number
of them to become members, and there seemed every prospect of increasing the number
the following week, but it at once became apparent to us that the firm were determined
to interfere with the liberty of the operatives. When we followed up our work the following
week we were informed that six members had been dismissed, three of whom had recently
joined the Union, with the usual excuse that it was shortness of work. This for the present
time has had a deterrent effect, though it will not interfere eventually with the determina-
tion of the men to join when trade improves. This attitude reflects very little credit
on the mentality of the firm, whose ideas of limiting the rights of how the operative should
spend his money would not be tolerated if the operative dictated to the employer what he
should do with his profit that he had produced for him. Other operatives who have
joined the Union have since been discharged.
We have also visited Desborough and found trade very bad, but we had a meeting with
the operatives at Bird's and Riley's. There were a few girls working there who were not
members, but promised to join.
We have visited Olney, and met the operatives at Hinde & Mann's, also Cowley & Sons,
Unfortunately both these firms were working at Hinde & Mann's, also Cod number of
youths and girls not members, and there is need of further improving our membership here.
Whitney & Westley, at Burton Latimer. On two occasions we met the operatives, a good
number of whom were resident in the Finedon district. There were about 30 non-members,
We met the officials of the Kettering Branches who asked us to visit the firm of
very efficient method that is adopted by the two Branches with reference to the details
and after canvassing them they all promised to join up. It is very pleasing to record the
of organisation which enables them to keep well in touch with their members. For two
weeks we have been in Mansfield endeavouring to deal with the position at Faire Bros.
---

---
439
Some time ago 130 girls joined the Union, and we understand Mr. Fewkes, Director, took
upon himself the responsibility of dismissing 25 girls and has since denied the right of the
girls from joining the Union. We have frequently met the girls and tried to induce them
to again take up their cards. Despite our efforts, the girls seem terrified, because of the
action of the firm, although we understand that some small increase of wages has been
given. The conditions at this firm are far from satisfactory, and is a negation of the
National Agreement. The girls are fully conscious of the conditions that operate here,
but they are compelled to accept the same and would gladly pay their contributions if
the firm would allow them the freedom of becoming members. Thus you have the deplor-
able spectacle of the only way in which persons can successfully carry on their business
is to terrify the employees and then prevent them from having any rights. This idea
may have been a very excellent one in the seventeenth century, but we cannot allow
those ideas of that period to dominate a period where the Schoolmaster had tried to do his
work very efficiently.
We have also endeavoured to organise the girls working at Thrall's, who are chiefly
engaged on Stiffeners. The wages paid here are exceedingly poor, and there is great need
and though there are about only 40 engaged here, the conditions are so bad that
drastic alterations are required if this firm is to be brought up to our Agreement.
We made a special attempt to hold a meeting for the whole of the firms in the town,
but we did not get a very good response, only from the Mansfield Shoe Co. We are very
pleased to report that as a result of our efforts at Mansfield Shoe Co., 50 new members.
have been made with fairly good prospects of increasing that number.
LEN. SMITH.
J. H. BAUM.
The early part of the month was spent in the Sileby area. At every factory in Sileby,
Mountsorrel, and Rothley, meetings have now been held and operatives canvassed outside
as to joining the Union. In each case the reception has been good, and if the results are
not so helpful as we would like, it is well to remember that the state of trade does not tend
to make the work of organising so easy as we would like, but the effort that has been
made, will, I hope, be productive of results later on when the condition of trade is better
than at present.
My strong opinion is that this district should be given all the attention possible,
from the point of view of organising. There is scope for such work, and the area is import-
ant in the sense that it borders upon our largest centre, and we should protect our position
in every way possible.
The National Labour Party made application for my services in connection with the
By-Election in the Forest of Dean, and the Central Office having agreed to same, I spent a
week in connection therewith. I was asked to make a special effort in the rural part of
the Division, and the majority of the meetings I addressed were on village greens, and they
were in every respect, most encouraging; the attendance was good, and the attention
paid to the speeches were all that could be desired. I am persuaded that the effort helped
very substantially in these rural parts, and I am glad that our Union was able to con-
tribute, through myself, towards the victory so handsomely won.
I feel I cannot leave this subject without a reference to the cause of this election,
viz., the death of Mr. J. Wignall. He was one who had won the regard and affection of all
who knew him. Kindly disposed, generous to a fault, a man of strong conviction, who on
many occasions in the House of Commons, on such subjects as Unemployment, spoke with.
such first-hand knowledge and earnestness that he commanded the respect of all. His
death is most regrettable, and I feel I have lost a close personal friend.
On Friday last I attended with my colleagues, the Special Trades Congress at the
Central Hall, Westminster, regarding Unemployment. Three resolutions had been
drafted by the General Council, which, so far as they went, could not be taken exception
to, but I feel most strongly, and in this I feel I have my colleagues with me, that in any
suggestions or proposals put forward to deal with this great depression, foreign markets,
though of great importance, do not cover the whole position. I therefore raised the
question of home resources and the proper cultivation of the land.
I do hope our movement will not lose sight of this question. In my opinion it is of
the greatest importance, and sooner or later the sooner the better it will have to be taken
up. The land of this country is far too vital to the interests of our people to be left as
something to be controlled by individuals as a private concern.
It is a great national


---
441
UNEMPLOYMENT.
A Special Trades Union Conference on Unemployment was held in the Central Hall,
Westminster, on Friday, 24th July, 1925. Chairman: Mr. A. B. Swales, President of
the General Council.
The Chairman, in his opening statement, called attention to the gravity of the situation
drastically with such an appalling situation, affecting as it does the lives of millions
with its long continued roll of such a vast army of unemployed, and the necessity of dealing
being intimated by the Chairman that in view of the gravity of the situation it might be
of workers. The following resolutions were, after discussion, unanimously passed, it
necessary to call the Conference together again within a few days.
(1) That this Special Conference of Unions affiliated to the Trades Union
Congress regards with the utmost apprehension the appalling increase in the number
of unemployed as compared with the pre-war period, and declares that this increase
diminished. As our industries are to a large extent dependent on export trade,
can, with effective governmental legislation and administrative action, be materially
the manifest duty of the Government is to pursue a foreign policy calculated to develop
amicable diplomatic relations, and trading relations through the medium of the
Overseas Trade Acts and the Trade Facilities Acts, with all countries, including
Russia.
(2) The Conference views with the strongest resentment the declared intention
of the Government to reduce the benefits now being paid to unemployed workers
by means of a lengthening of the waiting period from three to six days and the cur-
tailing at the discretion of the Ministry of Labour of the right to extended benefit.
It declares that as unemployment is admittedly inherent in the present system, any
deprivation of the workers of adequate maintenance is inhuman in the extreme.
It asserts the right of every citizen to work or full maintenance.
(3) The Conference declares its determination to exert the utmost possible
pressure upon the Government to take such steps as are necessary for the remedying
of the present critical situation, and urges all Trade Unions and other Labour Organisa-
tions throughout the country to press these demands vigorously upon their local
Parliamentary representatives and upon the Government.
During the past six years a chronic feature of our Social life has been that one
million workers have been unemployed, which, together with their dependents, has
meant at a modest estimate that three millions of our fellow human beings have been
permanently existing on the border-line of starvation. In addition, "part-time
employment has intensely aggravated this deplorable condition.
This Conference records its intense conviction that such a state of affairs cannot be
allowed to continue indefinitely, and that organised labour must not only protest
vigorously against the present apparent indifference towards this social injustice,
but, in addition, if redress is not speedily forthcoming, it will be compelled to take
such action as conditions and opportunity dictate.
Statements were also made regarding the present serious situation of the Miners
and the termination of their agreements and proposals of the Mine Owners to reduce
wages and lengthen working hours. Also the proposals of the Employers in the Woollen
Industry to reduce wages. In both cases it was made clear that the workers would, to the
utmost, resist these retrograde proposals. They therefore asked for the full support of
the Trade Union movement to enable them to resist successfully. We feel sure such an
appeal will not be made in vain. There must be at this time loyalty and help given to
those who have to resist the present demands of the Employers, and we feel sure it will be
given, and thereby enable a successful resistance to be put up.
Our colleague, Mr. W. R. Smith, drew attention to one of the most important items
in which the Labour movement believes the development of home resources, particularly
in regard to the land, much of which is derelict.
T. F. RICHARDS, General President.
W. R. TOWNLEY,
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS,
LEN. SMITH,
W. R. SMITH,
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
Delegates.
TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.
BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Membership of Unions reporting at end of June, 1925.
Increase in
80,463. Unemployed at end of June, 1925, 3,682; percentage, 4.6.
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.4. Increase in percentage as
compared with a year ago, 1.5.-The Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1925.


---
447
HOW TO GET BACK TO PROSPERITY.

Mr. H. J. Bostock on Fallacy of Reducing Wages
and Importance of Developing the Home Market.

On the 14th inst., the evening prior to the business meeting of the Boot Manufacturers' Federation, the President (Mr. John H. Marlow) and the committee of the Northampton Boot Manufacturers' Association received the delegates at a dinner, which was held in the Masonic Hall, Northampton.

"To the Prosperity of the Federation," was the theme of the chairman's toast. He expressed the great pleasure Northampton felt in welcoming the leaders of the Federation, and referred to the importance of the shoe manufacturing industry, employing as it did over 100,000 operatives. The Federation controlled over 90 per cent. of the employers, and the relations between themselves and the National Union was reflected in the fact that for 30 years there had been no official strike or lockout, as a result of which the shoe trade was looked to with respect and envy by the great industries of the country.

In responding to the toast, said: "Aggregations of capital could be justified only if the owners thereof used them to promote the public weal."

"In these days," Mr. Bostock proceeded, "everyone was asking what was ahead. The country to-day, instead of being a land fit for heroes to live in, was one in which many who fought for it had now to exist on the dole, and were often abused as a consequence. The dole was sometimes abused, but if there had been no dole there would have been revolution."

Continuing, the president said, "there was no greater fallacy than to think they were going to get back to prosperity by reducing wages. The home market had lost purchasing power and could recover it only by increasing production. They needed to rearrange the balance of production. There were too many engaged in some trades such as coal and engineering and not enough in other industries such as building.

No pre-conceived political notions should stand in the way of promoting better production, in which connection he particularly mentioned food. With regard to manufactures he pointed to the changed positions of the country and the rest of the world. There was export trade to be done, but it was to be fought for. They had in the home market a rich field, but it must be developed on new lines. Old methods would not suit present-day conditions."

In conclusion Mr. Bostock stated that he believed in advertisement. It would pay this country to advertise its advantages as a tourist resort for Americans. The United States had no history, and Europe offered many attractions to the wealthy of the United States, who came with much money, and left a considerable amount behind them. Anything that increased the flow of money would have a beneficial effect not only on the hotel industry but also upon the manufacture of antiques which was now an important trade in this country. (Laughter.) -The Shoe and Leather Record, 17th July, 1925.

BOOT MANUFACTURERS' FEDERATION.

Annual Meeting in Northampton.

The following are extracts from the reports issued in connection with the annual meeting the thirty-fifth - held in Northampton on the 14th and 15th July, 1925.

In opening the proceedings Mr. H. J. Bostock, J.P., said amongst other things "that without an increase in the purchasing power of consumers in the great industrial areas, the home demand for shoes could not be stimulated. The time was long overdue for the problem of unemployment to be seriously attacked at its roots."

Annual Output.
Statistics of output for the year 1923 were compiled from information at the disposal of the Federation for the purpose of the memorandum of evidence submitted by the president, Mr. H. J. Bostock, before Sir Arthur Balfour's Committee on Industry and Trade on January 29th, 1925, and so useful was the information considered that it was decided to complete the Federation records as far as possible for the years over which statistics of the industry had been collected. The results had been checked by an outside source, and in submitting them for the use of members, the committee desired to emphasise that they were to be regarded as estimates of output based upon a partial survey of the industry only.

The figures were:—Output for the year 1920, 91,136,000 pairs; 1921, 77.744,000; 1922, 96,053,000; 1923, 100,490,000; 1924, 111,383,000.

On the 15th inst., Mr. C. W. Horrell was elected to succeed Mr. H. J. Bostock as President of the Federation. We can only hope that the same broad outlook will be continued under the new presidency as was the case under the presidency of Mr. Bostock, and trust that the trade will, within the near future, emerge into more prosperous times.


---
449
TUBERCULOSIS.
Decrease in Child Mortality. Scientists on Need of Public Education.
Tuberculosis in childhood was discussed at the Eleventh Annual Conference of the
National Association for the Prevention of Tuberculosis, at the Hall of the Royal Society
of Medicine, Wimpole Street, W., yesterday. The Hon. Sir Arthur Stanley, chairman of
the Council, presided, and he was supported by Sir Kingsley Wood, M.P., Parliamentary
Secretary to the Ministry of Health. Public Health authorities throughout the British
Isles were represented, and members of the medical profession were present from America,
Austria, the Argentine, Australia, Denmark, Russia, Spain, and Switzerland.
SIR KINGSLEY WOOD, in opening the conference, paid a tribute to the work of the
Association. Dealing with the prevention of tuberculosis, he said its chief
birthplace and home was the sunless, ill-ventilated and overcrowded
dwelling, and it was for that reason that the Ministry of Health was
giving great attention to the housing difficulty. They were more hopeful with
regard to tuberculosis in childhood. In ten years the mortality among children from
pulmonary tuberculosis had fallen by about 46 per cent., and from non-pulmonary tuber-
culosis by about 42 per cent., while the number of new cases notified of both types of
the disease had also substantially diminished.
PROFESSOR PIRQUET, of the University of Vienna, in a paper on "The Significance
of Tuberculosis in Childhood and in Youth," referred to investigations in Vienna which
went to show that tuberculosis in children was not so dangerous as we formerly believed.
But for middle age, he added, tuberculosis represented the very worst
disease. The Times, 7th July, 1925.
[One more testimony to what, for many years we have been preaching, viz., If the
people had good homes; where the sun could get into the rooms and overcrowding was
done away with, still further improvements would be brought about, and Consumption
still further reduced. It, further, is interesting that Sir Kingsley Wood should make the
said statement, and also add to it, "that the Ministry of Health was giving great attention
to the housing difficulty."
It is to be hoped that after such a statement the "attention" will be in a greatly
concentrated form and quickly result in such a number of houses being erected as will
fully meet the demand. Such a policy would also have another result, viz.: Find work
for a great many people, who at present are without employment.-E.L.P., G.S.]
TUBERCULOSIS IN SHOEHANDS.
Hinckley Medical Officer of Health on High Death-Rate.
That tuberculosis is prevalent among the boot and shoe operatives of Earl Shilton
and Barwell was the statement made by Dr. J. E. O'Connor (medical officer of health),
at this afternoon's meeting of the Hinckley R.D.C.
He said that at Earl Shilton the number of deaths had been exceptionally high.
Referring to smallpox, he observed that if contacts were vaccinated within three days
they would in all probability escape infection.
If vaccinated within four days it was very doubtful whether they would do so.
Commenting on the value of receiving medical reports, Mr. Dan Astley, chairman
of the Council, recalled that it was not so long ago when the Council refused to let the
medical officer of health read his report, because they considered it to be "all bosh." —
Leicester Mercury, 20th July, 1925.
EMPLOYMENT OVERSEAS.
NORWAY.-BOOT AND SHOE MAKERS: Membership, April 30th, 1925, 1,232;
31st March, 1925, 1,217; 30th April, 1924, 939. Percentage Unemployed, 30th April
1925, 3.8; 31st March, 1925, 2.4; 30th April, 1924, 5.3.- The Ministry of Labour Gazette,
July, 1925.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
ADMIRALTY (CONTRACT AND PURCHASE DEPARTMENT).-SHOES, BROWN CANVAS:
John Horrell & Son Ltd., Raunds; Owen Smith, Raunds,
WAR OFFICE.-BOOTS, ANKLE: J. Horrell & Son, Raunds; W. Laurence, Raunds;
C. E. Nichols Ltd., Raunds; W. Nichols & Sons, Kettering: Owen Smith, Raunds;
Tebbutt & Hall Bros., Raunds.


---
SOME OF THE THINGS THE WORKERS WANT.
By Fred Hewitt, Editor Machinists' Monthly Journal.
The workers want employment.
The worker wants steady employment. He wants to bring about a condition whereby
he will feel that each day's work may not be his last.
He wants to work not more than 44 hours per week.
He wants his fair share of the wealth he helps to produce. He wants to be employed
in surroundings as comfortable as the nature of his employment will permit.
He wants sanitary workshops.
He wants protection against unnecessary risk.
He wants to enjoy a full measure of freedom guaranteed all citizens of a free country.
He wants compensation laws passed for his and his family's protection
He wants the right to live and let live.
So far, partial success has crowned their efforts to obtain these, but a full realisation
of their desires will only come when they join in a common cause. Then, and then only,
will the workers obtain those things they want, and to which they are entitled.

UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.
Воот, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES. Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270: Total
142,490. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 22nd June, 1925
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 10,714; Females, 3,776; Total, 14.490.
Percentage Unemployed at 22nd June, 1925: Males, 11.6: Females, 7.5: Total
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 10.2; Great Britain only, 10.0. Compared with 25th
May, 1925 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, increase, or; Females,
0.1; Total, increase, 0.1.- The Ministry
THE WORLD WE CREATE.
By Emma Playton Seabury.
A song for the idle who roam at will,
And a shrug for the men who shirk,
But who will sing of the prick and sting,
Of the bitter taunt and the cruel fling,
To the man who has no work
The man who will delve if he had the chance.
With saw or with plane would build.
Oh, who can tell of the bitter shame
To sink from man's estate,
And to humbly take for his children's sake
The coin that is flung! Oh, the hearts that break
In this world that we create!
For the plan of God was the same for all,
The right to be and do;
If only we would learn to see
That the world was made for you and me,
And not for a chosen few.
Oh, the saddest sight in the world to-day
Is our neighbour passing by
With a weary pace and a blanching face,
Who is out of work and out of the race.
And we make it you and I. Justice, U.S.A.
*
*
*
Then let us make a right New World;
Where joy and peace shall be,
And work for all shall be the plan;
Based on true equity.
A world wherein real help is given;
Where men are truly free.
Where loads are light and life is bright;
For all, for you and me.-E.L.P., G.S.


---
451
GREAT BRITAIN STILL THE HINDRANCE TO RATIFICATION OF
immediately.
HOURS OF CONVENTION.
IRISH FREE STATE. Speaking in the Dail on the 30th April last, the Minister of
Industry and Commerce stated that they did not intend to ratify the Draft Conventions
Of the Hours of Convention he said. "It seems absurd that we should ratify it while
the highly industrialised countries have not yet proceeded to do so, particularly those
which are nearest and with whom we are in competition."
Thus one more country has been added to those who will either not ratify the Hours
not put it into operation until Great Britain has done so. Italy,
of Convention, or will not
Austria, Belgium and France are in a similar position. E.L.P., G.S.1.
WASHINGTON HOURS CONVENTION: RATIFICATIONS.
In answer to a question in the House of Commons on the 24th June, asking how many
countries had ratified the International Eight-Hour Day Labour Convention, the Parlia-
mentary Secretary to the Ministry of Labour made the following statement:-
The Washington Hours Convention has been ratified by Austria, Bulgaria
Czecho-Slovakia, Greece, India, Italy, and Roumania. The ratifications of Austria
and Italy are conditional upon ratification by other States. The Ministry of Labour
Gazette, July, 1925.
CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st JULY, 1925.
Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included
Food only
FOOD.
73 per cent.
67
"
At 1st July the average level of retail prices of the principal articles of food showed a
slight upward movement as compared with 2nd June. This advance was mainly due to a
rise in the average prices of eggs, butter and potatoes (old potatoes having been displaced
by new potatoes at higher prices). There was relatively little movement in the prices
of the other articles of food included in the statistics.
As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of
July, 1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of
food included in these statistics was about 67 per cent. at 1st July, as compared with
about 66 per cent. at 2nd June and 62 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1924. The
Ministry of Labour Gazette, July, 1925.
COST OF LIVING.
Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light.
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.
1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925
January
10-15
35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78 77 80
February
15
35 65-70
90 120 130 151 88 77 79 79
March
15-20 35-40 70 90 115 130 141 86 76 78 79
April
15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 82 74 73 75
May
20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 81 70 71 73
June
25
45 75-80 100 105 150 119 80 69 69 72
July
25 45-50 80 100-105 105-110 152 119 84 69 70 73
August
25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 71 71
September
25
50 80-85 115 110 161 120 79 73 72
October
30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 110 78 75 76
November
30-35 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 80 75 80
December
35 65 85 125 120 169 99 80 77 81
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement. December (1922) Agreement, and present date.
---

---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NATIONAL UNION of BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
Seat of Government, 34.GUILFORD ST LONDON.W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts,
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 245,
OF BOOT & SHOE
UNION
TRADE
OPERATIVES
General President
T.F.RICHARDS
General Secretary
E.L.POULTON.J.P.
Nearest Post Office: Nearest Telegraph Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1. Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.

MONTHLY REPORT.

24TH AUGUST, 1925.

FELLOW MEMBERS,

TRADE

during the past month has been somewhat slack. The figures in the Ministry
of Labour Gazette are set out hereunder :-

BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.

Employment showed a further decline in most districts, and on the whole was worse
than in June, and worse also than a year ago. An increased amount of short time was
worked during the month. As has been the case for many months, employment was worse
in the heavy boot trade than in the light trade.

The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 11.8 on 27th July, 1925, as compared with 10.2 on
22nd June, 1925, and 7.5 on 28th July, 1924.

Returns from firms employing 36,000 operatives in the week ended 25th July, 1925,
showed that about 38 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that week, to the
extent of about 12 hours each, on an average.

In London employment was quiet and slightly worse than in June. At both Leicester
and Northampton a decline was reported, and employment was generally depressed, with
much short-time working, though there was a slight recovery at Northampton in the last
week of the month in consequence of holiday orders. Employment was bad, and worse
than in the previous month, at Hinckley; few firms were on full time. At Raunds employ-
ment remained fairly good, as a result of work on Government contracts; but in the
Rushden district it declined, a large number of women being unemployed. Practically all
operatives at Wellingborough were on short time, and employment continued bad. At
Kettering less than threequarter time was worked on an average, though here, also, as at
Northampton, there was a slight recovery in the last week of the month; although women
were fairly well employed, there was considerable unemployment among male operatives

Employment was poor, and worse than in June, at Leeds, though, as in previous months,
factories making light footwear remained fairly busy. At Stafford employment was slack,
and showed a decline, short time again being prevalent; at Norwich there was a decline,
nearly all firms being on short time. A slight improvement was reported in the heavy
boot trade of Kingswood, many firms reverting to full-time working; but at Bristol


---
Here is the extracted text:
469
LOANS FROM GUARDIANS.
The General Council of the Trades Union Congress has recently had
submitted to them the question as to whether Boards of Guardians could
recover relief granted to necessitous persons on the basis of a "loan." The
reason the matter was brought before the General Council being due to the fact
that in one County Court the Judge decided that Guardians could not recover,
whilst in another Court the Judge decided that the Guardians could recover.
The General Council have therefore taken legal advice upon the subject
and the opinion of Counsel consulted is that Guardians CAN RECOVER.
This is a most important matter and the opinion of Counsel will be found on
pages 484-485, from which it will be seen that there is no doubt about the
question, which is one of considerable importance.
INDUSTRIAL AND POLITICAL.
The past month has been a month wherein history has been made, if for
one matter only, viz.: the ferment in the industry of Mining. The position
is a notable one when the vast issues involved are considered. The threatened
reduction of wages and worsening of conditions of employment in the said
industry were only actually faced up to by the Government when it was seen
that there would be a unity in the ranks of the workers which had never on
such a scale been achieved before. The General Council of the Trade Union
Congress called together the Executives of the various Unions on the 29th
July, 1925, for consultative purposes, as also to report the actual position.
The net result of the meeting was to promise aid to our comrades who were
likely to be called upon to bear the brunt of the fighting. Had matters
developed, we should have had to follow up the circular of the 31st ultimo
authorising us to deal with the question from a financial standpoint.
The Trade Union movement will, as a result of the present-day develop-
ments, undoubtedly have to alter some of its machinery, especially on its
financial side, with a view to greater and speedier help being given to those
who have to stand off in disputes, and thereby render effective assistance to
ensure success in carrying out a policy wherein all have had opportunity in
shaping. The setting up of a commission by the Government, likewise the
subvention to the Mining Industry, has not by any means settled the differences
that exist; on the contrary it has only secured that employment goes on for
the time being while an enquiry takes place as to what are the actual conditions
obtaining in the Mining Industry.
Meantime, it is incumbent upon the whole Trade Union movement to take
such action and adopt such methods as will make our machinery work effectively
in practice as well as on paper if called upon to operate. The times, while
somewhat dark, are also full of possibility for a move forward provided that
wise methods and tactics are adopted in pursuance of the carrying out of
policy.


---
Here is the extracted text:
470
Parliament has adjourned until 16th November. The Session has not been
notable for much that will help the worker.
THE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT (1925),
which comes into operation on 4th January, 1926, calls for contributions as
set out hereunder :-
Employer
Employee
Men
8d.
7d.
Women
7d.
6d.
Boys
4d.
3d.
Girls
3d.
3d.
The waiting period has been increased from three days to one week as
from the 1st October, 1925, before benefit is payable.
The discretion in regard to extended (uncovenanted) benefit which the
Minister has prior to the Unemployment Insurance (No. 2) Act, 1924, is restored
so that extended benefit IS NO LONGER A RIGHT BUT WILL BE GRANTED BY THE
MINISTER IF, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, HE CONSIDERS
IT EXPEDIENT IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST TO AUTHORISE SUCH GRANT.
Under the Unemployment Insurance (No. 2) Act, 1924, the power of the
Minister to waive compliance with the first statutory condition (which requires
claimant to prove that not less than 30 contributions have been paid since
e beginning of the first of the two insurance years next before the beginning
his Benefit Year) expires on the 30th September, 1925. The new Act
extends that power to 30th June, 1927.
WIDOWS', ORPHANS' AND OLD AGE PENSIONS ACT
becomes operative as from 4th January, 1926, inasmuch as
(a) The payment of contributions under the Act.
(b) The payment of Widows' Pensions, Children's Allowances and
Orphans' Pensions,
2nd July, 1926.
The payment of Old Age Pensions under the Old Age Pensions Act to
insured persons over 70 years of age without inquiry as to means, residence
or nationality.
2nd January, 1928.
The payment of Old Age Pensions under the new Act to insured persons
of 65 years of age and to others as and when they reach 65 years of age.
Contributions under the Health, Unemployment and Pensions Acts cease
to be payable upon attaining 65 years of age, but the employers' contribution
is still payable.
Benefits for sickness, disablement and unemployment (State schemes)
cease at 65 years of age.
The normal rates of contributions will be :-
Health Insurance
Pension
Total
Man
Employer Employee Employer Employee Employer Employee
4d.
4d.
9d.
9d.
Woman
4d.
4d.
7d.
6d.
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
471
The Labour Party did its best to improve these measures from the workers'
standpoint. The bald fact is, however, that what counts is the number of
votes recorded in the various Divisions, and here the Labour Party is in a
hopeless minority, proving once more how necessary it is to increase the number
of Labour Members in the House of Commons, and thereby ensure a voting
strength which will be a majority vote instead of the present minority. The
lesson is plain-Work, work, work in and for the cause of Labour so that we
are ready at all times for an Election.
MANCHESTER DISPUTE.
For a considerable time past we have paid attention to the boot and shoe
factories in Manchester, and visits have been paid both by the General Officers
and the Organisers to the district.
Quite recently the firm of Messrs. Johnson & Co. refused to honour the
National Agreement, and on the 8th inst., the operatives on our instructions,
left work, and were on dispute until the 19th inst., when Mr. D. McCarthy,
with Mr. J. Mason, the local branch secretary, entered into an agreement with
the firm, whereby a considerable advance has been made. A number of the
operatives resumed work on the 20th inst., and arrangements were made for
the others to commence within one week.
This proves once again our determination to bring all manufacturers in
the industry up to, at least, the National conditions.
RESULT OF VOTING
for Council Member for District No. 9 is as follows, and we beg to congratulate
Mr. R. WHITE upon his election, and trust his tenure of office will be
helpful to the members and congenial to himself :-
BRANCH.
MR. R. NOBLE.
MR. R. WHITE.
Aberdeen
Arbroath
Ayr ..
Belfast
Cork
Dundee
Edinburgh
Glasgow
Glasgow No. 2
Kilmarnock
Maybole
Waterford
5
15
12
25
10
36
385
79
3
20
37
272
10
43
58
335
16
7
90
25
TOTALS
590
*893
*Elected.

---
473
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN,
LONDON, N.W. 5.
17th August, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
THE MINING DISPUTE. Probably the most important happening during the past
month has been that in connection with the Miners. So serious was the outlook that the
General Council of the Trades Union Congress immediately rose to the occasion by calling
a special conference. Whilst those of us, and the whole movement generally, have been
clamouring for peace, the Miners for seven months have been endeavouring to inform the
Owners that under no circumstances could they accept a worse position than they had,
and for the time being were prepared to negotiate, so long as the position was not made
intolerable. To this the Owners paid no heed, and so within two days of the notices
expiring, the General Council called an extraordinary conference of the whole of the
executive councils of all unions affiliated to that body. As a result the Central Hall,
Westminster, was fairly full. After a very serious consideration of the position placed
before the delegates in private assembly, they, with an united voice carried an unanimous
resolution that if the lockout notices were enforced, every trade unionist in the Kingdom
would stand by the miners in their trouble. That fiat was issued and made known to the
Cabinet. They (the Cabinet) decided they would provide sufficient money for the Owners
to make up the difference they claimed would be lost if the miners refused the reduction.
This means the Owners are getting their way, and are imposing their will upon all. They
are not reducing the miners' wages, but are receiving the proposed reductions from the
taxpayer.
We need not stop to enquire what form this strike would have taken had the Owners
refused to give way by withdrawing the lockout notices. One thing is certain; the
refusal to handle coal would have brought about a stoppage in all industries-including
the boot and shoe industry. We should then have taken the members into our confidence
and advised them as to the course to pursue. We are convinced that we should have
supported the Miners, both morally and financially. It must not be forgotten that that
Trades Union Congress with its 4,328,235 members; 2,000,000 ex-members, and at least
4,000,000 sympathisers would have brought the country to a complete standstill. What
would have happened then? No one knows.
We have always been satisfied that only madmen recommend a decrease in wages,
because it is wages and wage-earners that create 80 per cent. of the trade of any country.
We are pleased to know that for the moment this matter is to be investigated-once
more-although it would be interesting to know what this stupid Government will do
when the Report is presented. Will it be shelved as was the Sankey Report? It should
be remembered that the natural tendency of every executive-trade union executives
are not exempt-is always to be loath to accept reservations of a smaller number of persons
than themselves.
We are led to understand there will be four or five persons on this new Commission.
Who can imagine the British Cabinet-all tories to the backbone, and invariably all stupid
-would agree to accept the findings of five persons, no matter how eminent they may be ?
The Labour movement must not lose sight of the situation. We can only say that one
hopes those people who voted for the present Tory administration will remember they are
responsible for the position and should go in "sack-cloth and ashes."
UNEMPLOYMENT.-A special Trades Union Congress was held a week prior to the
above to deal with the question of unemployment, a report of which appears on page 441
of the July Report.
This question has been the sole subject for which some of us have tried to find a
remedy for over forty years. It is still with us. Three years ago we recommended at a
conference in the Kingsway Hall, London, that all trade unionists should stop for one
day as a protest against the treatment of the unemployed. One of the most prominent
labour leaders protested against the suggestion adding that it would be better to give the
unemployed one day's pay. No stoppage has taken place; none of the unemployed
had the pay. Another prominent labour leader said if the operatives stopped work, it
would be difficult to get them to restart. These people were reminded that we could
have two days off for a coronation, but not one for ourselves. Many felt that if a stoppage
B


---
473
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN,
LONDON, N.W. 5.
17th August, 1925.
THE MINING DISPUTE. - Probably the most important happening during the past
month has been that in connection with the Miners. So serious was the outlook that the
General Council of the Trades Union Congress immediately rose to the occasion by calling
a special conference. Whilst those of us, and the whole movement generally, have been
clamouring for peace, the Miners for seven months have been endeavouring to inform the
Owners that under no circumstances could they accept a worse position than they had,
and for the time being were prepared to negotiate, so long as the position was not made
intolerable. To this the Owners paid no heed, and so within two days of the notices
expiring, the General Council called an extraordinary conference of the whole of the
executive councils of all unions affiliated to that body. As a result the Central Hall,
Westminster, was fairly full. After a very serious consideration of the position placed
before the delegates in private assembly, they, with an united voice carried an unanimous
resolution that if the lockout notices were enforced, every trade unionist in the Kingdom
would stand by the miners in their trouble. That fiat was issued and made known to the
This means the Owners are getting their way, and are imposing their will upon all. They
to make up the difference they claimed would be lost if the miners refused the reduction.
are not reducing the miners' wages, but are receiving the proposed reductions from the
taxpayer.
We need not stop to enquire what form this strike would have taken had the Owners
refused to give way by withdrawing the lockout notices. One thing is certain; the
refusal to handle coal would have brought about a stoppage in all industries-including
the boot and shoe industry. We should then have taken the members into our confidence
and advised them as to the course to pursue. We are convinced that we should have
supported the Miners, both morally and financially. It must not be forgotten that that
Trades Union Congress with its 4,328,235 members; 2,000,000 ex-members, and at least
4,000,000 sympathisers would have brought the country to a complete standstill. What
would have happened then? No one knows.
We have always been satisfied that only madmen recommend a decrease in wages,
because it is wages and wage-earners that create 80 per cent. of the trade of any country.
We are pleased to know that for the moment this matter is to be investigated-once
more-although it would be interesting to know what this stupid Government will do
when the Report is presented. Will it be shelved as was the Sankey Report? It should
be remembered that the natural tendency of every executive-trade union executives
are not exempt-is always to be loath to accept reservations of a smaller number of persons
than themselves.
We are led to understand there will be four or five persons on this new Commission.
Who can imagine the British Cabinet-all tories to the backbone, and invariably all stupid
-would agree to accept the findings of five persons, no matter how eminent they may be ?
The Labour movement must not lose sight of the situation. We can only say that one
hopes those people who voted for the present Tory administration will remember they are
responsible for the position and should go in "sack-cloth and ashes."
UNEMPLOYMENT.-A special Trades Union Congress was held a week prior to the
above to deal with the question of unemployment, a report of which appears on page 441
of the July Report.
This question has been the sole subject for which some of us have tried to find a
Three years ago we recommended at a
remedy for over forty years. It is still with us.
conference in the Kingsway Hall, London, that all trade unionists should stop for one
day as a protest against the treatment of the unemployed. One of the most prominent
labour leaders protested against the suggestion adding that it would be better to give the
unemployed one day's pay. No stoppage has taken place: none of the unemployed
had the pay.
Another prominent labour leader said if the operatives stopped work, it
would be difficult to get them to restart.
have two days off for a coronation, but not one for ourselves. Many felt that if a stoppage
These people were reminded that we could
B


---
had taken place the employees may not start when required. I agree that even in our
Union we have instances when some of our members come out on strike as a protest and
remain out for more than the three days allowed.
Still, we are living in serious times, and the only solution is a majority of Labour
M.P.'s with power for five years, when I forecast the workers of this country would never
go back upon a Labour Government. To hold the Labour Party responsible for the minority
they had - without power - is unfair and unintelligible.

WOOLLEN INDUSTRY. —After the Congress had dealt with the Miners' question, the
position of the woollen industry was explained by Alderman Ben Turner, president of
Textile Workers' Union. Although this organisation have a Guarantee Fund similar to
our own which has been in operation for twenty-five years, the Employers brought about
the stoppage. A Mr. Martin corrected my statement made at our Jubilee conference,
that we were the only union in the world with a monetary Guarantee against a strike or
to reduce wages at a time like the present. The sympathy of the Congress went out to
Mr. Turner and his people. It is to be hoped that all Unions will endeavour to give all
lockout, and I shall now be able to remind him that he has broken his parole by wanting
the financial assistance they can. This dispute has been settled for the time being.

SILEBY has again been visited only to find that Mr. F. Leader, the branch secretary,
is still away, and owing to bad trade an old member of ours who is doing the secretarial
work feels organising is likely to be slow for some weeks to come.

LEEDS. —I have had to intervene in a dispute at the Co-operative Wholesale Society's
Meanwood Road Works, Leeds, where, because the management could not get their prices
for a skiving operation in the closing room, the matter was taken to the Board of Arbitration
by my colleagues in that City. Before a settlement was reached, two of the four women
operatives who had given evidence were paid off and dismissed, being given wages in
lieu of notice. The other operatives came out in sympathy and refused to return to work.
My presence at their meeting only had the effect of them asking me to see the Directors
at Leman Street, London, E.1, the following day. I met the Directors, not as a trade union
official, but as an old co-operator. They refused to discuss the matter until the operatives
had returned to work.

I returned to Leeds the same evening, and advised the operatives to return to work,
although I felt the Directorate through their Management had aggravated the situation
by tampering with witnesses by discharging them whilst the prices were still before the
Board of Arbitration. I appealed to the Secretary to the C.W.S. —who is a lawyer—as to
what a judge would have thought of counsel tampering with witnesses. However, we did
our best to get these girls reinstated, and strange to relate another woman had been started
girls had been promoted to fill the positions. To still further obtain benefit for their own
piecework, which we should say was done to cheat
the piecework prices. Although this information was placed before the directors four
days after resumption of work it did not seem to penetrate into their minds. My impression
is that they are determined to stand by their own Management. I have expressed to them
the opinion that we are disappointed with the settlement which was to the effect that one
of the girls would be reinstated within six weeks. The other one they would not reinstate
because she lost time - with the firm's consent. This is the most unsatisfactory dealing
I have ever had in connection with the C.W.S. factories. To prove our contention was
the correct one I have quoted the request of Sir Arthur Steel-Maitland, Minister of Labour,
to the woollen manufacturers, to allow the operatives to return to work on old conditions
pending investigation; this they did, but the C.W.S. Directors refused my suggestion:—
That old conditions should prevail and all operatives return to work pending investigation.
As stated above, they refused, and I have informed them I am not surprised that some
of my colleagues describe C.W.S. Directors and Committees as being more difficult to deal
with than private employers.

LEICESTER. A visit has been paid to one of the large firms in Leicester, because
they had made arrangements to "stand off" their operatives for three weeks at a time.
It was evident from the examination made, that whilst no blame can be attached to our
members, the employer and management or the employer through the managers and
foremen, had been made acquainted of the fact that after twelve days "standing off"
our members are entitled to Suspension Benefit. We shall now look upon this firm with
suspicion as they did not hesitate to tell us that our members were entitled to the benefits
for which they paid. It was my duty to inform the firm that if this was the spirit in which
members of the Federation were going to deal with the Union, then our funds could very
easily be diminished by such action.

I have not given up the idea, and shall consult my colleagues in Leicester, as to whether
this question ought not to be reported to the Boot Manufacturers' Association in Leicester.
Personally, I shall fully report the facts to Miss Ruth Tomlinson, secretary to the Boot
Manufacturers' Federation, because any unfriendly action by a firm against the Union will
not make for harmonious working, but will have a contrary effect.


---
Here is the extracted text:
member should buy and read it daily.
475
The Daily Herald still supplies the most news of the position of labour. Every
Are you wearing "Stamped" Footwear? If not why not? Buy "Stamped"
Boots and Shoes and ensure good conditions of working.
Yours fraternally,
General President.
DATES OF COUNCIL MEETINGS, 1926.
January 24th.
June 20th.
February 21st.
July 25th.
March 21st.
August 22nd.
April 25th.
September 26th.
May 16th.
October 24th.
Conference at Blackpool, November 21st.
May 24th-29th. December 19th.
To ensure correspondence being dealt with by Council it SHOULD
BE DISTINCTLY UNDERSTOOD that letters MUST reach the General
Secretary by WEDNESDAY MORNING prior to the above dates, otherwise
letters will be held over for the following month's sitting.
TRADE BOARD PROSECUTION.
Repairing Shop Handed Over to Employees.
On Tuesday, George Quick Latham, managing director of the St. Crispin Boot
Repairing Co. Ltd., Bristol, was summoned at the Bristol Police Court for offences under
the Trade Boards Acts.
Mr. C. L. M. Langham presecuted on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, and Mr. W. S. A.
Brown represented the defendant, who pleaded guilty.
Mr. Langham said that on 4th February an inspection was made of the defendant's
wages book, and it was found that he was employing two adult workers and one apprentice,
all of whom had been paid less than the rates fixed by the Repairing Trade Board. The
adult workers were Hart and Dunn. Hart was being paid 42s. 6d. instead of 60s. for 48
hours, and Dunn 48s. instead of 60s. Hart had been underpaid £84 18s. 11d. and Dunn
£56 2s. 8d.
On 19th February the defendant gave an undertaking to pay the arrears before 7th
March. Subsequently receipts were sent to London alleging that the arrears had been
paid. These proved to be false, no arrears having been paid. This was the serious part
of the case.
Evidence was given by Dunn that the defendant told him he could not pay the arrears,
and if he had to the works would have to be closed. Rather than have this happen witness
signed the receipt. There was no compulsion, Similar evidence was given by Hart.
For the defence Mr. Brown referred to the financial trouble the firm had had, and said
it was well known that the boot trade was bad at present. The works had now been
handed over to the employees to carry on and make what they could out of them.
a lenient course because the defendant had
The magistrates fined the defendant £2 10s. in respect of each case and ordered him
to pay £5 costs. They said they adopted
derived nothing from the offence. - Shoe and Leather Record, 31st July, 1925.


---
Here is the extracted text:
FELLOW MEMBERS,

In my last report I mentioned that notice to cease work had been given at Messrs.
Johnson, Newton Heath, Manchester. Up to then the firm refused to entertain the
Holiday (Provision) Scheme in any form and often offered the opinion that the Manu-
facturers' Federation were wrong in recognising such a scheme. Their workers, who are
now all members of the Union, thought otherwise and, at their request, Mr. Mason and I
made a further application for Holiday Pay. Though the firm is not federated, as none
of them in this area are, they wanted us to make all pay regardless of our membership in
any particular shop. Mr. Mason and I agreed, with the members' consent, that if Messrs.
Johnson would guarantee holiday payment for one year and put the wages right of those
not getting the rates within four weeks, we, on our side, would guarantee that the Union
would use all its powers to make the other firms pay at the end of that period. This did
not satisfy the firm. The notice expired before the holidays. The shop was picketted
on 10th August, and none went into work. After eight days we settled on the definite
offer to pay four days' holiday money next year (the 48 hours are worked in five days),
and the other day in all probability would be paid, but that might depend on how the
Union was dealing with other firms. This meant two days next Christmas, one at Easter
and one at Whitsuntide, and the probability of a day at August, making a week's pay
right in four weeks. We placed the firm's offer before the members on 19th August and
without contributions from the workers. The wages, with one exception, would be put
they agreed to accept it as it came so near to the request made for a twelve months' guar-
antee for holiday payment. It was our desire in the first instance to avoid a conflict.
and because of that we made our claim exceptional and moderate. During the month we
have added about 120 members to the Manchester Branch.

D. McCARTHY.
During the month further efforts have been made to reorganise the operatives working
at Faire Bros., Mansfield, trading as Premier Stiffener Co., where pressure has been put
upon the workpeople to break away from the Union, and a general system of terrorisation
has been put into operation by discharge and threatened discharge. Every difficulty is
put in the way by the firm, and the general position is one where methods of publicity will
have to be adopted in order to draw attention of the trade in general to firms of this character.
Thralls & Co. Ltd., are in the same position. About 50 girls are engaged at this firm.
Fear of discharge operates here, a difficulty which is surprising when the position of the
district is taken into consideration, this being a large mining area and a vast majority of
these girls being daughters of men engaged in this depressed industry. Still there are
some compensations. We have proceeded with the organisation of the operatives working
at the Mansfield Shoe Co., about 60 new members being made and good prospects for a
further increase. We hope to attain in the very near future 100 per cent. in the Union.
Statements are compiled for each department, and to assure their proper application it is
essential that both male and female operatives should belong to our organisation.

Attention has also been given to the firm of Ward & Co. All our conditions are
observed by this firm and, strange to say, this is used as an excuse by the operatives work-
ing here why they should not join the Union. It is an unusual psychology, but still, with
persistent propaganda, we hope to overcome this difficulty.
LEN SMITH.
25th August, 1925.
J. H. BAUM.

I concluded my last report with a reference to the miners' dispute, which, at that
time, looked like developing into the biggest thing in the history of the Trade Union Move-
ment of this country. The news of settlement, or shall I say postponement, came as a
surprise to many, as the attitude of the Government had been one that appeared to leave
the issue to be fought out. One cannot help thinking (and the Prime Minister's speech
in the House confirms this) that the solid front presented by the Trade Unions was responsi
ble for the change af attitude, and while the way out cannot be looked upon as a final
solution, it must be the duty of the Movement to use its forces to see that the ultimate
decision shall be on lines which will be both sound and just to the workers and the comm-
munity.

The work of organising during the month has been somewhat hampered by the holidays,
to say nothing about the state of trade which one has to admit is very bad. This, of course,
is one reason why the operatives should join our Union, having regard to the way our
benefits protect them in these days of trade depression. Both men and women can resist
temptation better if there is some income entering the home, and so the conditions won can
be maintained and the possibilities of further improvement brought nearer.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
477
The places visited during the month are Whetstone, Blaby, Cosby, Sileby, Shilton,
Anstey and Wigston. Meetings have been held in most of these, when the attention
shown was quite good, and the interest displayed was all one could desire, and we feel that
it is only a question of time when we shall have the united support of the workers in these
areas.
But persistent and continued effort is needed in some of these places. The differences
between them is very great, on the one hand there is a strong robust feeling behind the
branch or section, on the other there is apathy and indifference. No one objects to our
conditions in the sense that they are not good and desirable, but the impression one gets is
that some operatives think it will all come to them as a matter of course, and that they
need not specially exert themselves to secure them.
While not desiring to pillory any employer, experience teaches that only by perfect
organisation can we get the full recognition which is essential for our purpose. The con-
ditions of to-day are not final ones; there can be no such thing as finality in our work, and
at the moment with thousands of operatives out of employment in the country, no centre
being from this problem, surely a further reduction of working hours becomes an urgent
necessity.
The average figures for this year show an increase of 16 per cent. over last year, and
when to this is added the short time obtaining at many factories it is apparent that our
industry has reached a stage when a revision of working hours has become a matter of
great urgency.
But the only way by which we can bring this about is by the workers recognising the
need through membership of the Union. It is for this and other reasons we must continue
our work of educating and instructing those who fail in their duty towards their neigh-
bours. There is also the further point: we are frequently told that wide and drastic
changes are needed in our social system if justice is to be done to the workers. This few
would deny, but I am persuaded that working-class advancement will come sooner and
better if we have working-class organisation.
22nd August, 1925.
WALTER R. SMITH.
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE OF LABOUR AND SOCIALIST WOMEN.
The Labour and Socialist International is calling a Conference of women delegates
of their affiliated organisations to meet on 21st August, the day before the full Congress
opens at Marseilles. The agenda will deal with the present state of organisation among
Socialist women in the different countries on which a report is being compiled, on informa-
tion sent by each, and of discussion on resolutions dealing with the aims and methods of
the Socialist Movement amongst women. Representation at the Conference will be on
the same basis as that of the full Congress, and the delegates will therefore be appointed
by the Labour Party and the I.L.P., their votes being allotted in the proportion of 29 to 1.
The Labour Party delegates so far appointed are Mrs. Harrison Bell, Mrs. Dollan, and
Dr. Marion Phillips. The I.L.P. have appointed Miss Bondfield, Miss Dorothy Jewson,
and Miss Pallister, and it has been arranged that any organisations represented on the
Standing Joint Committee of Industrial Women's Organisations may add to the number
and they will then be included in the delegation. Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards (Boot and Shoe
Union), and Dr. Bentham, Mrs. Tawney and Miss Rose Smith Rose (Fabian Society),
have been thus added to the delegation. The discussion will be in the main on the organisa-
tion of women politically, and a very full report of this in the different countries has been
prepared, which we propose to publish in a shortened form next month. Other questions
will be the aims and methods of Socialist Women, and the Standing Joint Committee has
prepared a resolution dealing with these subjects, which will be submitted after agreement
of the Labour Party in the name of the British Delegation. — The Labour Woman, August,
1925.

ASCENSION.
"All things climb a starry stair,
By a law that no man knows:
What was yesterday a thorn
Will to-morrow be a rose.
What was once a chrysalid
Soon will soar, free fluttering;
What was yesterday a wish
Will to-morrow be a wing."
-LUIS G. URBINA (Mexico). "The World To-morrow."


---
Here is the extracted text:
478
BRANCH REPORTS.
ARBROATH. —Trade still remains depressed in our area, and seems
likely to continue. We had hopes that something might develop out of sample
orders received here, but nothing further has been heard so far. If we fail to
hear good news of employment, the Government is determined to make us hear
bad news where unemployment benefit is concerned. All readers of the
Monthly Report will be aware of the ferocious conditions attached to receipt
of extended benefit after September. The public seem fairly indifferent to
the cruelty of it all. Without excuse and simply to harass the poor "out-of-
work," all the rotten conditions of past periods have been resuscitated again
to squeeze out thousands from benefit, and so lessen unemployment. During
the past special periods each of those conditions have been tried, and then
been abandoned after severe criticism, yet they come up again as though
should not lie down to it. We have witnessed recently what a united front can
accomplish with the enemy, and this matter calls for a further display of the
same strength. The twelve millions who are working should stand by those
who are idle, and see that they get emergency or extended benefit as it is called
instead of being forced to go to Parish Councils for relief. It has been freely
mooted for some time back that the Government meant to introduce other
machinery to deal with unemployment distress. They were to confine the
Insurance scheme to rigid principles, and not make it a compassionate fund,
but instead of asking those who were rejected to go to the Poor Law, they
were to establish a scheme of “Distress Relief Grants” to meet the position
of idle workers who failed to qualify under the Insurance scheme. No one
would quarrel with that plan if it had matured, but here we are with Parlia-
ment on holiday, with winter rapidly approaching, and with no provision of
this kind brought forward. If the Labour Party had devoted their time to the
task of securing an alternative, subsidiary, and intermediate scheme for the
relief of the unemployed, instead of waging such a hopeless fight against the
tightening of regulations of Unemployment Insurance, then there might have
been a useful compromise effected. The Trade Union Congress and the Labour
Party should still fight for an alternative scheme of relief, and they will get the
backing of every Parish Council and Poor Law Authority in the country.
We are looking forward to the visit of our General President, and hope we shall
get good meetings of our members to hear him. Mr. Richards has been often
enough in Scotland to understand the conditions here, and we hope great
good will come out of his visit. He will be interested in seeing our factories
again after a lapse of two years.

CHESHAM.— Pleased to report a slight improvement in trade here.
CHESTERFIELD. —There is a slight improvement in trade here, but
still we have members out of work. We must congratulate the Trade Union
Congress for bringing about solidarity in the Miners’ fight. We shall want
more of it in the future, as the real fight with Capitalism has commenced,
and with solidarity we can win every time.

CORK.—Trade still continues good, the Lee Boot Co. building additional
premises.
DUNDALK.—Trade, though showing a slight improvement, is as yet far
from what might be desired. The fact that some of our shopmates are on the
dole, while others are doing labouring work speaks for itself. All our members
will be returning to work on Monday after one week’s holiday minus pay.

EDINBURGH.— The members are pleased that the General President is
going to pay us a visit at the end of the month. We trust they will turn out
and give him a welcome. The firm recently organised have now given all the


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
479
members the Minimum Wage, but there is still the question of Boy Labour
and the Holiday Scheme to be gone into. Through time we believe these
matters will be put right. We expected to publish the amounts raised on
pairers were fairly busy after the holidays, but it has fallen away again. One
behalf of Mrs. Bleakley, but there is still some subscriptions coming in. Re-
of our factories is fairly full up with orders at present. The Scottish Employers'
Federation have raised a fund for Mrs. Bleakley, with very good results, which
goes to prove that our late colleague was a great favourite in Scotland. The
Executive Council of the Union have taken the right action in backing up the
Unions give of whatever backing they have. Let the employers know that
Miners in their fight for a decent wage. Good luck to the miners. Let all
Trade Unionists all over the country are prepared to back one another when
it comes to a matter of breaking the Unions.
HIGHAM & RUSHDEN. - Trade during the month has generally been
very poor, with a few factories running on full time, most employers stating
that they have extreme difficulty in keeping on. There seems no sign of
improvement at present. Most factories are closing for a long holiday.
KILMARNOCK. Trade has been fair during the last month, but unfor-
tunately our Kilmaurs members are still out from the lack of work. The
repairing trade is fairly steady, due, no doubt to the approaching holidays.
We are pleased to report that one of our members has been selected by the
N.C.L.C. as one of six students to attend international summer schools held
abroad under the auspices of the International Federation of Trade Unions.
Our shopmate, Thomas Campbell, is the only one N.C.L.C. student selected
from Scotland, and along with the two others will attend a school at Brunnsvic,
Sweden, for fourteen days, and three other students are going to Prague,
Czecho-Slovakia. We are very sorry to hear of the death of Mrs. Bleakley, and
are sure we echo the sentiments of the members of this branch when we extend
to the now doubly bereaved family our deepest sympathy.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. - Trade is, to use a local colloquialism,
"hanging in the breeching," and a good deal of uncertainty exists as to the
prospects of a busy season in view of the serious industrial situation. Our
best wishes go out to the Miners in their great struggle for the right to live.
LEEDS No. 1. We regret to report that so far as the heavy and medium
trade here is very bad, but so far as the lighter class of work is concerned is
fairly moderate. We wish to heartily thank our General President, Mr. T. F.
Richards, for his services in the C.W.S. dispute. We would once more draw
the attention of our members who are in arrears, that if at all possible it is
hoped they will make an effort to see that should sickness or unemployment
overtake them, that they are entitled to Union benefits. We also regret to
report that our old Branch President, Mr. John Buckle, J.P., is seriously ill,
and we sympathise with him and his family during his long and serious illness.
LEICESTER No. 2. - We are sorry to report that trade in this centre is
very bad. Quite a number of manufacturers have made the holiday the
opportunity of a long suspension, which means that we are having to deal with
a good number claiming Suspension and Out-of-Work Benefit. There are times
when we feel that those working men and women who helped to return the
present Government have become awakened to the fact they have backed
the wrong "hoss." Where are the good times and full employment which
were promised? Echo answers "where."
LIVERPOOL. Trade has been on the quiet side during the past month.
NORTHAMPTON.-Trade remains quiet here resulting in large numbers
discharged and suspended. Sickness normal. We regret having to record
that Jas. Gribble has been compelled to leave the town, but are pleased to know
he has got into a suitable business at Hastings-a Boarding Hotel and when
he gets settled we feel sure he will be pleased to welcome friends. At anyrate,


---
his work in the past for the Union and in the political arena entitles him to
have a reasonably comfortable time.
NORWICH. Trade in Norwich maintained a fair average during the first
portion of the month, the last week showing a decided falling off in many
factories. As a consequence many additional out-of-work claims have been
made by our members, making a higher total for July than in any corresponding
month since the severe slump of 1920 has been passed. With a strongly
organised membership such as we have in Norwich it seems impossible to avoid
months that provide the largest volume of trade. Viewing the situation at the
carrying a continuous surplus of labour on the out-of-work fund, even in the
present time, it certainly appears plain that the industry is over-populated
with labour, and that unless and until a permanently increasing trade is secured,
Industrial development aided by inventive skill applied to machinery produces
many of our members will be either temporarily or continuously unemployed.
shoes with ever-increasing rapidity, while additional markets seem impossible
to secure to keep pace with production. Our members notice these signs,
and hear from the Prime Minister with grave dissatisfaction that wages in all
bringing in its inevitable train more unemployment. We smile and go on talking
industries must be reduced, thereby still further restricting the home market.
the same generalities of thirty years ago, not seeming to recognise that to deal
with the unemployment problem for our people in this generation we must find
new ways, employing fresh ideas till such time as the people desire, and with
the fundamental change that makes possible the Co-operative Commonwealth.
PLYMOUTH. We have been watching the development of the coal
crisis with interest, and wondering what would be the end if the colliers' wheels
ceased to spin and no more coal was landed on our shores We can only see
the few remaining markets closed indefinitely, perhaps for ever, semi-starvation
for the miners, and short commons for thousands more of our fellow workers,
illions of money frittered away in the struggle, pits closed never to be opened
ain, hundreds more added to the ranks of the unemployed, and the standard
life considerably lowered throughout the land; then bloodshed and revolu-
cion such as no Englishman can contemplate without a shudder. We have no
desire to see our country reduced to chaos, but if a stoppage occurred our sym-
pathies would unreservedly be on the side of the miners, for their wages appear
to be on the borderline of starvation, and should in the name of humanity
and reason, rise and not fall. How this can be accomplished, by greater
efficiency, amalgamation, unification, nationalisation, or a fortunate turn in
the international situation, we must leave, but we must say without hesitation,
that the nation should adopt any system known to the genius of man, in order
to secure a living wage for the miners. It was Asquith, we believe, said on one
occasion, "that there was nothing higher and nothing deeper in the Liberal
faith than this: that the interest of the few must give place to the interest
of the many." Neither can we imagine a Prime Minister so dull as to think
that the miners formed a small minority on one side, while on the other stood
the community ready to protect itself at his bidding; the facts are far different
and if our Premier would only take a vote of the electorate, on the question:
"Are you in favour of a living wage for the miners of Great Britain?" he
would soon find the community on the side of the miners, whatever the change
involved in the coal-mining industry. Do not let us be deceived by such
whole community," or "the community will protect itself." Of course they
"No minority in a free country has yet coerced the
will, that is perfectly true, but has no more to do with the question than the
The miners are asking for a living wage, only a living wage-
statements as these :
man in the moon.
and this the twentieth century.
WATERFORD. - Trade continued good during the past month.
GREAT YARMOUTH. Sorry to report Water Boot trade still very slow
in Great Yarmouth.


---
481
NORTHANTS DISTRICT COUNCIL.
Minutes of Quarterly Meeting of the Northants District Council, held in the Co-
operative Hall, Desborough, on Saturday, April 18th, 1925, commencing at 2.30 p.m.
PRESENT: Mr. W. Langley, J.P., the President, presided; a large number of delegates
also attended. There were also present, as representing the National Council, Mr. C.
Bates. Mr. W. Townley, Mr. L. Poole, and Mr. T. F. Richards, the General President.
The Executive Committee of the Desborough Branch also attended the meeting.
MINUTES. The report of the previous meeting having been circulated, it was resolved
that same be accepted as read and approved. Same were signed by the Chairman.
Mr. T. F. Richards, General President, then introduced a discussion on the subject
of "THE LEGALISING OF THE NATIONAL AGREEMENTS."
At the outset Mr. Richards dealt with the unique organisation of our own industry,
Unlike most industries, the boot and shoe trade was catered for entirely by our own Union.
We covered every department in a boot and shoe factory. Comparison in this respect
was made with the Engineering industry with its 48 unions, and with other trades similarly
placed.
The growth of Trades Unionism, particularly in its relationship to the State and the
various enactments legalising trade unions, were then outlined. Mr. Richards claiming
that progress had been largely brought about by the thought, energy and farsightedness
of a few individuals.
The developments in our own Union arising out of the National Lockout of 1895
were then commented on. The advantages of arbitration, would not, Mr. Richards urged,
be successful but for our National Agreement. That was the safeguard, and very little
attempt had been made by the manufacturers to take away from us any of the advantages
contained therein. The employers know, and we know, that it would not be good for
us to have an upheaval.
The history and costs of the disputes in the trade since 1895 were then given by
Mr. Richards as follows :-
£
St. Cuthbert's, Edinburgh
s. d.
1911-13
2,184
0 0
Nantwich
1913
281
0 0
C.W.S.
1913
7,864 5 4
Melbourne..
1913-14
1,230 0 0
Preston
1913-14
4,506 9 6
Eyam & Stoney Middleton
1918-19
8,555 19 0
Chesham
1923
12,172 5 0
Jackson & Joseph, London
1925
1,488 17 0
The settlement in four of the cases were totally unsatisfactory, i.e., Nantwich, Mel-
bourne, Preston, Eyam and Stoney Middleton. Generally speaking, we have no desire
to even renew similar conflicts, as we feel that the other side has been willing for a satis-
factory settlement as well as ourselves in all these disputes. In the four cases mentioned,
it was merely the right of man to belong to a trade union that was at stake, and in these
cases the liberty of the subject was bound to be defended by us, although the members
affected had perhaps in some instances not been members of ours for more than four or
five weeks. With these facts in front of us, and then again realising that according to the
most reasonable estimate that can be given of the number of people working at the industry
being round about 120,000, and seeing that in our own Union we have 80,000 members
only, the old body approximately 2,000, and the Rossendale Slipper Union round about
6,000, one feels inclined to ask why that other 32,000 of a floating population is not with
us. When we look at the above-mentioned four places, where we have few members,
and then consider the efforts of our organisers during the last two years in the East End
of London, we think that if the Government of the day, whoever they may be, and what-
ever party they may belong to, can be of any assistance to an industry, our Union Executive
is willing that the Resolution carried at the 1922 National Conference, moved by Mr.
H. J. Bostock and seconded by myself-" That the Government should be urged to
give National Agreements voluntarily entered into, and approved by the Joint Industrial
Council, the same validity as wages under the Trade Board Acts." I want all our members
to know, and I tried to make clear at the Conferences, the need that "National Agree-
ments voluntarily entered into" which would mean that those agreements being subject
to confirmation or amendment every two or three years would only be enforceable during
their lifetime, and at the will and pleasure of both sides. To my mind this should eliminate
the fear in the minds of those anti-compulsory arbitrationists, who like ourselves, do not
look upon voluntary arbitration as compulsory arbitration. We enter the arbitration
wish to lay the foundation stone for compulsory arbitration, but at the same time do not
C


---
482
room with the intention of arriving at a settlement without resorting to or throwing the
responsibility on the presiding chairman or Umpire to do for us what we ought to do for
ourselves, and when there is a large body gathered together of from 15 to 30 persons on
each side, as we invariably find in our National Conferences with the Employers, it has
been our success up to the present to find that among them there is always an air of
reasonableness in an assembly of that kind, with the result that we are pleased to record
the fact that for 30 years there has been no general stoppage of work.
Our disputes had done but little good. Most of them had been fought in isolated
districts, with the very worst material and against employers who had little regard for
the principle of collective bargaining.
The value of the Boot and Shoe Repairing Trade Board, with its 30,000 employers,
was then instanced as to the value of legislation. What could be done with a legally
enforceable agreement with a multitude of small employers, could, it was claimed, be
equally, if not more successful in our own highly organised trade.
Mr. Richards then again made reference to the National Resolution on the subject,
but as an experiment he was heartily in favour of it being tried. I want us to try the
He was not positive that legislation in the terms of the resolution would be successful.
experiment rather than not try it at all. It is more for the defence of our good members
that we should press our views in this direction, rather than with the idea of having the
pence from a type of individual whom we could not describe as being loyal to the move
ment. We should have sufficient work to do to keep them in order, even with the assist
ance of the Government Officials, no matter how distasteful that may be. Seeing that
some of the most important industries of the country have made arbitration--The Miners
and the Agricultural Workers got Government assistance; the Miners having had this
assistance in various ways, mainly in their Checkwaymen and their recent attempts to
get a minimum wage fixed-it should encourage us to believe that if it is necessary to
have like activity to assist the Miners, it can be helpful to the Operatives in the Boot and
Shoe Industry to ask for similar assistance.
MR. ATTEWELL (Northampton No. 1): I strongly oppose the recommendation.
Mr. Richards has not made out a case on behalf of his so-called experiment. Trade Unions
are a means to an end. It is not the mere getting of better conditions, but a change in
the ownership of industry that is desired. It will be as well if we ask ourselves if these
agreements are agreements in the usual sense of the term? They are not. They are
forced upon us by superior economic pressure, and we have to accept just the terms the
employers care to impose. Legalise such agreements and you would make it possible
penalise the operative just as much as it would effect and could be evaded by the employer.
Our own policy of arbitration has merely placed us in the position of accepting the advan
tages which other Unions had gained by fighting for them.
for a man to be hauled up before the Courts on all sorts of pretexts. Legalisation would
Our own policy of arbitration has merely placed us in the position of accepting the advan
MR. UNDERWOOD (Rushden): I admire Attewell, but I agree with Richards. We
must seek the law of protection for ourselves and in the interests of the people employed in
the industry.
MR. PENDERED (Northampton No. 2): Our Union should always be in the position
to point out to the workers that they are being robbed daily. The moral of the class
struggle must be ever in view. Agreements are merely statements in which you have
agreed to be robbed, and indicate the degree to which you are going to be robbed in the
future. If you are going to make agreements legal and enforceable by law, then you
weaken the whole future position of the Union and of its members.
MR. LYNE (Northampton No. 2): I believe legalisation of agreements to be a good
thing, and I am prepared to support anything which would be to our advantage. We
have agreements which have been come to by Arbitration. The necessity of then legalising
them seems so obvious that I can never understand why it has not been adopted before,
and by many other Unions. The backward districts have the power of determining the
progress of our own industry. Legalisation would have a very large influence where the
conditions are bad. By having the legal force behind us it would help us to demand a
higher power that we can exercise at the moment. Progress is determined by the power
which exists at the moment, and the greatest progress has been made during times of
prosperity. Legalisation would bring equality of power and advantage.
MR. TEBBUTT (Earls Barton) contrasted the present difficulty of the small places
as against the larger well organised centres, and pointed out how legalisation of agreements
would help the small centres.
MR. ROWLETT (Kettering No. 1) asked what effect the motion would be likely to
have on the membership of the Union ?
MR. TOWNLEY (Northampton No. 1): There seems to be some misunderstanding as
to what is meant by the legalising of Agreements. Whether we agree that the manu
facturers should rob us or not, we ought not to agree that some districts should continue


---
Here is the extracted text:
483
MR. CHESTER (Kettering No. 1) asked whether Mr. Richards was prepared to permit
a legal mind to interpret and decide any point of dispute arising out of interpretation
MR. LANGLEY (President), then commented on the various aspects of the discussion
MR. RICHARDS, in reply, stated that he did not agree that we had taken advantage
and copied the gains of the militant Unions. We had gained and held more by arbitration
and to go on to any platform and say, that we ought not to go in for an increase in wages
than the others had been able to secure by other methods. But I am prepared to say,
until the Miners, Engineers, Agricultural Workers, &c., have been brought up to us.
policy of the Trade Boards and its relationship to membership was also commented on,
and Mr. Richards also stated he was prepared to trust the Judges to do the right thing.
MR. I. H. JOHNSON (Vice-President) Daventry, then moved that the best thanks
of the Council be extended to Mr. Richards for his informative address. MR. C. BATES
formally supported, and the motion was heartily and unanimously carried.
The President then declared the meeting closed.
The delegates were then entertained to Tea by the Desborough Branch, to whom
thanks were extended.
BOOT & SHOE FACTORIES IN NEW ZEALAND.
The following information will doubtless be of interest to our members seeing that
it has been taken from the official statistical report on the Factory Production of the
Dominion of New Zealand, 1923-4.
In connection with the manufacture of boots and shoes there are 81 factories in the
Dominion, at which 1,449 males and 859 females are employed. The salaries and wages
giving an approximate average of £4 per week for males, and £2 2s. 6d. for females for
50 weeks each year.
The production for the year 1923-4 was: Boots and Shoes, 1,471,093 pairs; Slippers,
17,217 pairs: Shoe-ettes, £56,299; Leggings, 53 pairs.
BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out:-
SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
To December, 1924 667,902 8 7 To December, 1924 358,625 13 7
January, 1925 2,840 1 10 January, 1925 3,954 7 9
February.. 3,952 4 8 February 5,226 1 9
March 4,124 16 0 March 3,682 10 3
April 4,054 10 6 April 3,031 5 0
May 4,023 13 8 May 3,510 14 9
June 3,993 2 6 June 4,823 1 9
July 2,653 13 10 July 4,221 6 9
£693,544 11 7 £387,075 1 7


---
485
of the relief granted on loan shall be in force and applicable to the relief so chargeable to
Court any sum paid to a poor person as relief by way of loan. The procedure would be
the common fund as aforesaid. This section enables the guardians to recover in the County
the same as in any other action to recover a debt and the judgment would be enforced in
order on a master or employer to pay the debt out of wages, and in so far as that may have
the usual way. But the section does not itself authorise the County Court to make an
this point the wages attachment Abolition Act, 1870, 33 and 34 Vict. C. 30.
been done I am of opinion that the Court has exceeded its jurisdiction. See further on
London, E.C. 4.
3 Temple Gardens, Temple,
7th July, 1925.
ALEX. MACMORRAN.
WHAT THE GERMAN EMPLOYERS ARE SAYINC ABOUT PRODUCTION.
FEDERATION OF GERMAN INDUSTRIES.
Need for Greater Production.
The Sixth General Assembly of the Federation of German Industries was held at
Cologne from 24th to 26th June.
Dr. Kastl, Director of the Federation, in explaining the programme of the Congress,
referred to the necessity of increasing production and of finding new markets when pro
duction was increased.
In Germany (he said), as in almost all other European countries, the machinery of
production is working too slowly. Waste of effort, incomplete utilisation of labour and
plant, difficulties in the transport system, lack of development on the technical side, and
other causes are preventing production from attaining its full capacity.
As regards the labour factor, the working classes, or rather the trade union leaders,
are unfortunately adopting a mistaken policy, Instead of endeavouring to help the
development of production, they are trying to reduce it, in the hope of creating further
possibilities of employment. Account must also be taken of the psychological factor-
the fact that the working class consider production and those responsible for it as the
incarnation of capitalism, which conception is entirely opposed to that held by the American
working classes, for example.
Both as regards hours of work and as regards wages, the workers should try to get
a better understanding of the situation. Although many arguments militate in favour
of the eight-hour day, the fact is that there is to-day a pressing need for a reduction in
the cost of production.
The workers have a false conception of the wage question. In order to arrive at a
system of high real wages (which is to be desired) it is necessary that a return should be
made to the system of piecework, seeing that a general increase of wages without an
increase of output would put German industry in a state of inferiority on the world market.
The heavy social charges, the burden of interest, the burden of taxation, and freight
rates, all of which are a heavy charge on production, should be considerably reduced.
Germany's Position in World Markets.
A special report was presented by the Chairman, Dr. Duisberg, dealing with the
economic situation of Germany, and, in particular, with the trade balance, and the question
of the share of the Reich in world commerce as a whole.
The report surveyed possible methods of increasing exports, in view of the fact that
Germany, which before the war held the eighth place in world commerce, now held only the
twentieth, It concluded by suggesting that it would be better to make an improvement
in the quality of German exports rather than in the quantity, in order more easily to
secure markets for German goods in competition with the goods of other countries.
[From the above statements it is quite plain that German Employers are using exactly
the same arguments about costs, &c., as are British Employers. It is also very
significant that according to the said reports Germany now holds "twentieth " place
in the world commerce as as against" eighth "before the war.-E.L.P., General Secretary.]


---
Here is the extracted text:
487
Two of the States included in the study, Missouri and Ohio, have laws limiting the day's
work in most industries to nine hours, while three-Alabama, Indiana and Iowa place
no limitation on hours of work in any industry.
EMPLOYMENT OF SEAMEN.
Conference, held at Genoa in 1920.
Australia Ratifies International Convention.
Information has been received at the International Labour Office of the League of
Nations at Geneva that Australia has ratified a Convention dealing with the employment
of seamen which was adopted by the second annual session of the International Labour
By this Convention, the State which ratifies it agrees that "the business of finding
employment for seamen shall not be carried on by any person, company or other agency,
as a commercial enterprise for pecuniary gain; nor shall any fees be charged directly or
indirectly by any person, company or other agency, for finding employment for seamen
in any ship," and undertakes to provide punishment by law for any violation of this
provision. Such agencies are allowed to carry on their work temporarily under Govern-
ment licence during the period of reorganisation and the establishment of free public
exchanges for the finding of such employment for seamen. Committees of equal repre-
sentatives of shipowners and seamen are to be set up to advise on questions connected
with these exchanges while seamen and shipowners are to be guaranteed freedom of
choice.
Italy, Japan, Norway, Poland and Sweden.
The Convention has already been ratified by Belgium, Bulgaria, Esthonia, Finland,
This brings the total of ratifications of Conventions adopted by the International
Labour Conference to 160.
POSTAL WORKERS IN RUSSIA.
"Considerable Unemployment."
The following summary of conditions among postal workers in Russia, as shown
by reports to the Ninth Congress of Russian Postal, Telegraph and Telephone Workers,
a Union numbering 102,500 members, held at Moscow in June, is given in Industrial and
Labour Information, the weekly publication of the International Labour Office of the
League of Nations.
Whereas in industry wages are now on an average 78 per cent. of their figure before
the Communist revolution (60 per cent. in heavy industry), the average wage in the postal,
telegraph and telephone services is only 50 per cent. of its 1914 level, and in the provinces
it is even sometimes lower.
In view of the fact that there is no longer a deficit in the working of the postal, telegraph
and telephone services, but even a certain excess of revenue over expenditure, the delegates,
in agreement with the Central Committee, demanded that the Commissariat of Posts,
Telegraphs and Telephones should increase wages 40 per cent. The employees also
demanded that the wages of provincial employees should be brought to the same level
as those of employees in the great centres, and that there should be an end of the existing
difference in the wages of telephone operators, who were generally better paid than tele-
graphists and postmen.
The Commissary for Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones stated that he hoped to be
able to increase wages by 25 per cent. during 1925, but was unable to promise any further
increment.
The greater majority of the delegates pronounced in favour of an uninterrupted day's
work (with the exception of a break for meals), and against the "spread-over" system.
The delegates urged the necessity of supplying all employees, in accordance with the
Labour Code, with special working clothes. At the moment only employees in the big
centres benefited by this regulation. It was also stated that housing conditions were
extremely unfavourable and prejudicial to output. Employees were often compelled
to live at a considerable distance from their work and to spend several hours a day in the
train. They were thus tired when they came to work, and the work suffered.
It was also stated that many employees were living in deplorable conditions of over-
crowded and insanitary dwellings. The result was a general lowering in the average level
of health, which could not but be harmful to efficiency.
The Central Committee was accused by many delegates of paying insufficient attention
to the question, and of not bringing sufficient pressure to bear on the Commissariat of
Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones, in order to obtain the sums ear-marked for the con-
struction of dwellings for employees, which sums it would appear that the Commissariat
was unwilling to pay on its own initiative.


---
**COST OF LIVING.**

Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914: All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light
&c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.

|          | 1915 | 1916 | 1917 | 1918 | 1919 | 1920 | 1921 | 1922 | 1923 | 1924 | 1925 |
| :------- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| January  | 10-15 | 35   | 65   | 85-90 | 120  | 125  | 165  | 92   | 78   | 77   | 81   |
| February | 15   | 35   | 65-70 | 90   | 120  | 130  | 151  | 88   | 77   | 77   | 81   |
| March    | 15-20 | 35-40 | 70   | 90   | 115  | 130  | 141  | 86   | 76   | 79   | 84   |
| April    | 20   | 40-45 | 75   | 95-100 | 105  | 141  | 128  | 81   | 74   | 73   | 79   |
| May      | 25   | 45   | 75-80 | 100  | 105  | 150  | 119  | 80   | 70   | 73   | 79   |
| June     | 25   | 45-50 | 80   | 100-105 | 105-110 | 152  | 119  | 84   | 69   | 71   | 75   |
| July     | 25   | 45-50 | 80   | 110  | 115 | 155  | 122  | 81   | 71   | 76   | 72   |
| August   | 25   | 50   | 80-85 | 110  | 115  | 161  | 120  | 79   | 71   | 76   | 73   |
| September| 30   | 50-55 | 75-80 | 115-120 | 120  | 164  | 110  | 78   | 75   | 76   | 73   |
| October  | 30-35 | 60   | 85   | 120-125 | 125  | 176  | 103  | 80   | 75   | 76   | 76   |
| November | 35   | 65   | 85   | 120  | 125  | 169  | 99   | 80   | 75   | 86   | 81   |
| December | 35   | 65   | 85   | 120  | 169  | 99   | 80   | 75   | 86   | 81   |

Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March
Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement. December (1922) Agreement, and present date.

**CHANGES IN COST OF LIVING: STATISTICS FOR 1st AUGUST, 1925.**

Summary: Average Increases since July, 1914.
All Items included . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73 per cent.
Food only . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68    
FOOD.

At 1st August the average level of retail prices of the principal articles of food showed
a slight upward movement as compared with 1st July. Eggs, butter, margarine, cheese,
and milk were all dearer than a month earlier, but these advances were largely counter-
balanced by a seasonal decline in the prices of potatoes and by a slight reduction in the
average prices of flour and of bread. The remaining articles included in the statistics
showed no appreciable change in price.

As a net result of all the changes recorded, the average increase over the level of July,
1914, in the retail prices (in Great Britain and Northern Ireland) of the articles of food
included in these statistics was about 68 per cent. at 1st August, as compared with about
67 per cent. at 1st July and 64 per cent. at the corresponding date in 1924.

**SUMMARY OF EMPLOYERS' RETURNS.**

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE. - Number of Workpeople Employed, week ended 25th
July, 1925, 48,696; Decrease on a month ago, 0.8 per cent.; Decrease on a year ago,
1.8 per cent. Total Wages paid to all Workpeople, week ended 25th July, 1925,
£107.676; Decrease on a month ago, 3.4 per cent.; Decrease on a year ago, 7.6 per cent.
- The Ministry of Labour Gazette, August, 1925.

**UNEMPLOYMENT IN INSURED INDUSTRIES.**

BOOT, SHOE, SLIPPER AND CLOG TRADES. - Estimated number of insured persons at
July, 1924 (Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 92,220; Females, 50,270; Total,
142,490. Number of Unemployment Books remaining lodged at 27th July, 1925
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Males, 12,103; Females, 4,687; Total, 16,790.
Percentage Unemployed at 27th July, 1925: Males, 13.1; Females, 9.3; Total,
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland), 11.8; Great Britain only, 11.6. Total Percentages
(Great Britain and Northern Ireland) compared with 22nd June, 1925, increase, 1.6;
28th July, 1924, increase, 4.3; 23rd July, 1923, increase, 1.3. - The Ministry of Labour
Gazette, August 1925.


---
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
NATURAL UNION of BOOT
& SHOE OPERATIVES
LONDON
PHONE, LONDON
Seat of Government, 34, GUILFORD ST. LONDON, W.C.1.
Affiliated to the English & Scottish Trades Union Congresses & National
Labour Party. Approved under the National Health Insurance Acts.
Approval No. 281, and the Unemployment Insurance Acts, Code No. 245.
NAT TEL: MUSEUM 4438
TEL ADDRESS NATUMISHOP
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
MONTHLY REPORT.
21ST SEPTEMBER, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
TRADE.
We regret to have to report that trade upon the whole is worse rather than
better, and the immediate prospect from the point of view of employment is
not at all a hopeful one. The figures in the Ministry of Labour Gazette are as
follows: -
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment remained depressed during August. In a number of districts the
factories were closed for extended holidays, while after the resumption a very considerable
amount of short time was worked in the majority of centres. Compared with August,
1924, employment generally showed a decline.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 12.5 on 24th August, 1925, as compared with
11.8 on 27th July, 1925, and 8.7 on 25th August, 1924.
Returns from firms employing over 40,000 operatives in the week ended 29th August,
showed that 48¼ per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that week, to the extent
of over 12 hours each, on an average.
Employment remained quiet in London and was generally worse than in August,
1924. At Leicester and Northampton many firms extended the holidays; and after
work was resumed employment was generally depressed, with much short-time working.
At Hinckley employment remained bad. At Rushden, where most factories closed
down for to days at the holiday, employment was bad, with general short-time working,
though there was a slight recovery towards the end of the month. On the other hand,
employment in the Raunds district was again good as a result of Government contract
work. The majority of the workers at Wellingborough were on short time, and employ-
ment remained bad and was worse than a year ago. At Kettering there was little change,
employment remaining poor and only a few firms working full hours.
At Leeds employment showed little change, and was poor in the heavy boot section
and fair in the light footwear section. Employment was very slack and slightly worse
than in the previous month at Stafford, short time again being largely worked. At Norwich
a number of factories were working short time, and employment was only moderate and
worse than in August, 1924. At Kingswood and Bristol employment was fair on the whole,
and better than in July; but at Street it continued poor and was much worse than a year
ago. In the slipper trade of the Rossendale Valley employment was fair on the whole.
B
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
517
Apart from the question of unemployment in our own industry the growing
volume of unemployment in the country is indeed very serious. The Govern-
ment, however, so far as outward appearances go do not appear to be looking
upon the matter in a way which the gravity of the position demands. The
fact of such a vast army of unemployed, and their dependents added, makes
it the main problem in our opinion which the Government should tackle very
seriously.
We would urge upon the members the necessity of keeping this subject
prominently to the front in their several districts, it being a matter upon
which there ought to be no division of opinion-either employment should be
found, or maintenance provided. We much prefer employment being found,
because despite statements that one reads and sometimes hears as to the
workers not wanting work, we know this is a gross libel upon them. Here and
there may be found a few (as in other grades of life) who do not want work,
but we know the great majority of the workers prefer work rather than idling
about. For ourselves, we resent the statements which are sometimes made,
reflecting as they do upon the workers as a whole.
RUSSIA.
It is generally known that a short time ago, a number of women went over
to Russia to enquire into the general conditions obtaining in that country.
During their visit they had a meeting in connection with the women employed
in the shoe industry, and Miss Loughlin, one of the members who went over.
to Russia, was entrusted with a red leather banner printed on one side in
Russian, and the translation in English on the other side, to hand over to the
Women Leather Workers and Boot Workers of Great Britain. Miss Loughlin
handed this over to the General Secretary during the Trades Union Congress
week. We highly value this banner, and shall take the necessary steps to have
it properly framed, and next month we propose having a photo of it produced
in our Monthly Report with a statement of good wishes that the Russian
Women entertain towards the Women Workers of Great Britain.
We hope in the not distant future, whatever the differences may have been
in the past, such differences will be wiped away and a proper understanding
arrived at with the workers in all parts of the world. We may not be able to
agree upon many matters and methods, but we ought to be able to agree to
come together to try and understand one another's point of view, and thus
remove differences in the struggle of the workers for a better and fuller life.
THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS
was this year held at Scarborough, under the presidency of Mr. A. B. Swales.
On the whole the Congress was a very successful one, and once more confounded
the prophets who for some time past have been telling the public of the divisions
existent between the Trade Unions and the Labour Party, and the definite
split that would take place at this Congress.


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**Page 518**

With two such vast movements there naturally is some difference, and differences will from time to time arise from various standpoints. This is not only inevitable, but tends to bring about more likelihood of success because of the discussions that from time to time take place. For ourselves we should look upon it as a backward step if there was any serious division between the Trade Unions and the Labour Party.

The Congress represented 4,350,982 members. The President in his address made a strong appeal—after surveying the position—for a still wider outlook, and a greater determination to resist any attempted reductions in wages or lengthening of hours, and finally stated: "It is the duty of all members of the working class to so solidify their movements that, come when the time may for the last final struggle, we shall be wanting in neither machinery, nor men, to move forward to the destruction of wage slavery and the construction of a system of society based upon co-ordinated effort and world-wide mutual goodwill and understanding."

As usual, a considerable number of resolutions were dealt with, and the report of our delegates appears elsewhere. We feel bound, however, to refer to the two resolutions standing in the name of the Union, both of which were passed.

The one on UNEMPLOYMENT was as follows, and was carried unanimously :-

"That this Congress views with the greatest concern the serious volume of unemployment now existing, and deplores the lack of effective measures on the part of the Government to attempt to alleviate the situation. It further declares its emphatic opposition to the spurious remedies of lower wages and the degradation of established working conditions, and calls upon the Trade Union Movement to offer its utmost resistance to any attempt to increase the hours of work. It asserts the unquestionable right of the unemployed worker and his dependents to adequate maintenance, and reiterates its demand for the establishment of a National Employment and Development Board for the purpose of devising and co-ordinating measures whereby the extent of unemployment may be reduced."

The second dealt with the question of VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS :-

"This Congress instructs the General Council to urge upon H.M. Government the desirability of giving to National Agreements voluntarily entered into and approved by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity as awards under the Trade Board Acts, 1909 and 1918, with the object of ensuring the observance of fair conditions of labour by all engaged in the industry whenever requested by the parties to the agreement."

This resolution was strongly opposed by the Rt. Hon. J. H. Thomas, of the N.U.R., Mr. J. Hill, of the Boilermakers' Society, Mr. Hallsworth, of the


---
Here is the extracted text:
519
N.U.D.A.W., and a representative from the Garment Workers' Union, whilst
delegates from the Weavers, General Workers and Transport Workers, spoke
in support of the resolution. Upon a card vote being taken there voted :—
IN FAVOUR OF THE RESOLUTION
AGAINST
2,790,000
942,000
Thus the Congress has approved of a serious attempt being made for
Voluntary Agreements—when asked for by both sides—being enforceable by
law. This is indeed gratifying to us, and we can only hope that ere long we
may see upon the Statute Book of this country, an Act giving such authority.
As previously stated the Congress was a very successful one, and we venture
to say is increasingly making its influence felt in all parts of the country.
POLITICAL.
Although Parliament is not sitting, many momentous matters are being
dealt with by Statesmen which might easily bring about disturbances between
nations. We would remind the membership that although THE WAR which
was to end war has ended, nevertheless there are more men under arms to-day
than was the case in 1914. Wars are still going on in various parts of the
world. Europe is still very unsettled, and it needs wise and courageous
statesmanship to deal with the situation in which the nation finds itself con-
fronted.
We are more and more convinced—and it may be even against themselves
—that Statesmen will be driven to deal with the abnormal situation largely
upon the lines which Labour has pointed out to escape from the troubles with
which mankind is beset. Meantime, a good deal can be done to bring about a
changed outlook among the people of this country to ensure labour views and
labour proposals securing ascendancy. We appeal to the membership to do
their part in accelerating the time when this state of affairs have become a
positive fact.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACT.
In March last, MR. A. T. WALTERS, of the Kingswood Branch, died from
Tetanus owing to a small wound under the left finger nail, whilst he was carrying
on in connection with his occupation of laying electric cables in the district.
We are pleased to report that the question of compensation has now been
satisfactorily settled, and the sum of £300 has now been paid into Court on
behalf of the late Mr. Walters' dependents.
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to
push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement.
By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by
Labour can be read.
C


---
521
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN,
LONDON, N.W. 5.
16th September, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
I regret not putting before you the agreement made between our Union and the
C.W.S. Directors in 1913 in my last report, and upon which we claimed the Management
at Leeds and ultimately the Directors, on the advice of an expert in law, their Secretary.
The agreement is as follows:-
"That no strike or lockout take place before the whole of the facts in dispute
are submitted by the Union, first to the Management, and then, failing settlement,
and the Executive Council of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives."
to a Joint Meeting of the Productive Committee of the Co-operative Wholesale Society
(Signed) WM. LANDER, Chairman.
It will be seen that the Union ought to have had an opportunity to investigate the
cause of the victimisation of two members for acting on Trade Union instructions, which
is in strict accord with the National Agreement governing the trade, and the full support
of the Council of the Union, who claim the right to advise members to lower their quantities
when an employer reduces the earnings. The Directors have already been informed that
a repetition of the C.W.S. conditions, and no orders will be given to return to work until
old conditions prevail, as in the case of the Woollen Textile dispute, and the advice given
by the Minister of Labour, which was, that all return to work as they left off. The directors
now know the prospects for the future.
The above statement is made for the benefit of many co-operators who do not think
it reasonable that operatives in C.W.S. Factories should ever be driven to take immediate
action.
LOOM'S, MARKET HARBOROUGH. This firm has again been visited as the outcome
of some correspondence and attitude I have taken up with them, and also Faire Bros.,
of Mansfield, but of Leicester fame, and that is to ask these firms if there is any reason
why we should not appeal to their customers and point out the actual conditions, as far
as we understand them. At this firm I was shown the Wages Sheets for the week previous
to my visit, and they showed that at least sixty-six out of a total of eighty-one are in
receipt of our scale and over, and the firm is also paying the Holiday Pay that week, so
they informed me. The only two points to put them equal with any other firm is to
regulate the boy labour to its proper proportion and remove the embargo on Trade Union-
ism. I was pleased to find the firm in a much better condition than I expected, and we
hope the firm will do its best to meet us in order that we could give them a clean bill of
health.
We are bound to appeal to all Manufacturers and Merchants, as we have to the Govern-
ment, to only deal with those firms who respect and pay and work to our National Agree-
ment.
THE TRADE UNION CONGRESS by nearly two million majority, have encouraged us
to ask the Government to compel all firms connected with shoes, to work and pay to our
national conditions.
It has been my pleasure to interest myself in the competition we have from abroad,
and although I have never attended the International Conference of Boot and Shoe Opera-
tives, my interest has not been void, and the most important place to which I wish to
direct members attention is Czecho-Slovakia. The wage in this country is about 14s. 6d.
against our 60s. for 48 hours, but they have all food at cost price, and doctors are provided.
I have also been in close association with a friend in the largest Shoe Factory in
Austria, and my visit to Brussels with attendant inquiries and ultimate results whet my
appetite to know more, and now I am in correspondence with two gentlemen who have
both worked at Bata's, Zlin, Czecho-Slovakia, who began in 1894, employ 6,000 workers,
(4,000 Machine Makers, 2,000 Hand Makers,) and work on the American system. Every
man has a set quantity to do per day, the firm provide Dinner and Supper and other food
at cost price. Hospital, Theatre, and Cinema; owns most of the houses (building more),
they also own Woods, Sawmills, Brickyards, Herds of Cattle, Butcheries, Tanneries,
Linen Factories, Paper Factories, Box Factory, Printing Press, Ships, and even Railways
are owned by the firm. This firm have just given the operatives three weeks' holiday
with pay, accepts workers' savings, and gives about 10 per cent. interest on all monies,
and all monies remain in the firm. They pay no extra for overtime, and the worker
has to do his quantity day by day even if he stays late. This firm is from America and
is subsidised by the Czecho-Slovakian Government. I am still getting more information.


---
FAIRE BROS., LEICESTER AND MANSFIELD. — I am in close touch with this firm and
expect developments this week.
522
MANSFIELD. — The factory of the Sherwood Shoe Co. is also receiving attention respect.
ing several matters, and a further visit has been made with not very satisfactory results,
but here we want to quietly persuade, rather than to unduly press. It looks as though
we shall have to organise some places by public appeals with such bright prospects we
may wait a little longer.
THE CONGRESS AT SCARBOROUGH has been a success, as all Congresses are, and those
who thought the movement would make a colossal blunder, have been mistaken. The
members refused the One-Union motion, but it has come and is coming much nearer
unification, as was shown by the support they gave to many resolutions affecting the whole
movement. Power to buy was refuted; our Unemployed resolution was carried, and our
power to compel non-federated and non-unionists to observe our National Agreement was
carried by 2,790,000 to 942,000, a majority of 1,848,000. The General Secretary moved,
and I seconded. Mr. Sherwood supported, but neither of these are mentioned by the
Daily Herald. Mr. Bevin and Mr. Rowlerson also supported. We had the support of the
Miners, Transport Workers, and all the Labourers, and the opposition of Boilermakers,
Railwaymen, N.U.D. & A.W. and the Garment Workers.
In spite of the Daily Herald's bad treatment, I ask you to buy it, and some day it will,
Daily Herald were too busy "puffing pals," and so missed the best speeches of Congress,
photos and empty pictures. The General Purposes Committee of Congress improved
without prejudice, print others' speeches as well as their friends—put in matter instead
Congress business on two important points: Local papers recorded the fact that the
We shall again ask them directly for an explanation, and before this report reaches your
hands, if I can add their usual excuse I will do so, but buy the Daily Herald, we then have
the right to give to them a piece of our mind.
My visit to Scotland was undertaken to assure the members that the demise of
Mr. Bleakley being so sad in itself, may have caused an impression that such an event
may cause the Central Executive to be less vigilant respecting the interest of our Scottish
members, because the newly-elected Council Member being an employee and in work
was out of work, other than the Council gave him for several years. He had made two
attempts on business lines to become his own employer as a repairer, but we took him
may be prevented from giving as much time to the work as Mr. Bleakley, who unfortunately
away so much that even in the initial stages, he was bound to give up because he was
often away on Union business at a time when his customers wanted him, and like his
predecessor he had to forfeit that small effort.
I have, therefore, assured the Scottish members that we shall do our best not to harass
or embarrass the new Council Member, but undertake to attend to all his difficult cases in
or embarrass the new Council Member.
Therefore, at Kilmarnock, we had a meeting of the " faithful," who took,
and do take much interest in the Union's activities. Although the meeting was not
Education was a theme considered, but it was that we should as a Union support a scheme
largely attended, I hope that the members will agree it was immensely interesting.
which is neither Ruskin or the W.E.A.; these latter the Union support, and we are inter-
ested in educating all members, especially the absent ones and the old ones, and would
ment, and I hope will refuse to support the attackers whoever they may be. If the angels
not refrain from helping all. But we must decline to attack other sections of our move-
let the mistaken ones learn by the newcomers' good work and stand or fall by their own
have come to earth then let them build up their good work on their own foundations, and
merit.
AYR.—The Ayr meeting was said to be much larger than usual, and much interest
was exhibited by the members in the activities of the Union in its political outlook especially;
supporters of the Labour Party, even if they differ with its Socialist aspects. One
support has undertaken a self-denying ordinance until such time as Ayr Burgh is one
for Labour; he thinks this constituency is at present the bulwark of the reactionary
party, and it is for this reason that he and others, like myself, cannot imagine any Trade
Unionist putting a cross against the name of any member of any party which is opposed
to his own wage-earning political party.
MAYBOLE.—Here we had a very good meeting in the dinner hour, the major portion
of the Maybole workers attending, and I addressed them on the great need of organisation,
quoting especially the need for another 30,000 members in the standing of our Union and
in the Labour world, with emphasis as to the benefit of the Holiday Scheme. The meeting
in the evening was not so big as usual, owing to the annual visit for one day of a Broncho
Bill Circus and Exhibition, which certainly depleted our gathering. I also had to investi-
gate the discharge of a young man who had been discharged for alleged bad language
indulged in by both the foreman and the employer, who were informed that we did not
defend bad language, bad work, or bad time, neither should we admit the right of foreman
or employer to use bad language to our members, who themselves were to blame if opera-
tives copied them.


---
GLASGOW. Here the two branches of our Union had been trying to organise and
improve the conditions of Messrs. A. Strachan & Co., Graham Square, where there were
girls in the Finishing Room. As the firm which has been in existence some twenty-five
years have had very little attention paid to them, have now become of interest to us, as
they are willing to comply to the National Agreement in detail, the only difference being
the time when these girls should be transferred from this Department. We tried to obtain
the services of the Manager of the S.C.W.S. as Umpire, but after seeing him a second time
he begged to decline for several important reasons. We again saw the firm and agreed
to a date; the relationship of our branches and the firm is very cordial and bids fair to be
an important help, as two of our old Secretaries have found employment there.

EDINBURGH. Here I found the branch interested in the firm of which Mr. Rankin
assures me they have no antipathy to Trade Unionism, but as the work is mainly rubber,
construction, and can make allowances for that portion who are engaged in any other
but to help, and the Shoe Section is the part we must preserve for all engaged in shoe
he hopes we will bear that factor in mind. Needless to say we are not anxious to embarrass,
occupation. We had an interview with the firm, whose Manager informed us that he was
prepared at an early date, say October, to put into operation the Holiday Scheme, which
will give immense satisfaction to the operatives, and as we have already all but a few
members, we hope that this action of the firm will have beneficial results to all concerned.

The meeting of the members was as usual attended by those who really feel that
Trade Unionism is a vital force in their lives, and they appear never to miss an opportunity
to try and make an official visit as pleasant and successful as possible, but they all expressed
themselves that our visits were not frequent enough, but as explained before, they may
see more of some of us if there is a real demand for our presence.

DUNDEE. - Dundee being visited found the faithful in attendance, and good intent
was shown in the address, and the many phrases of Union work caused much surprise
that we had any further outlook than the objects of our Union, and I was reminded that
it was just thirty-three years ago since I moved and got carried the Socialist resolution
which at that time made no references to the sexes, which finds many opposed to who are
supposed to favour the same.

ABERDEEN was next visited and again there was nothing approaching the size of the
ment of things as they are, and as Morrison's have closed down the factory and only now
factor, the few employed by them have had to seek other employment. This leaves the
branch to consist now of repairers only, and here, as elsewhere, the members think that an
Organiser would do good. I had to tell them that to send an Organiser to go round to each
place where one man was employed would be too costly, and advised them to form a small
Committee, of two say, and let them try their hand during their spare time, get and keep
a detailed report, send it on to the Council after three months' work, and ask them to make
a grant towards it, they would then be able to judge of its effect.

ARBROATH was next visited, and I called on our old comrade and ex-Council Member,
Alex. Smith, who was busy with his Registrar work. He looks well, and appears to me
better in health than he has been for many years. I also visited Fairweather's factory
whilst there, and had an informal chat with one of the employers. Like other firms,
trade with them is flat, but as I had arranged an evening meeting at Carnoustie, we called
Fairweather's men to a meeting at five o'clock, and they turned up well. They listened
intently and did not prolong the meeting as they had not had their tea. The officers
were all pleased with the splendid attendance, as this to them was a new innovation.

CARNOUSTIE was then visited, and the night was very cold indeed, which may account
for the smallness of the meeting, coupled with a benefit night of the Pierrots. The
accustomed faithfuls were there as is their desire - come weal, come woe, they can always
be relied on. I had to leave here rather early to reach Scarborough for the Trade Union
Congress General Purposes Committee, who were warned to meet on Saturday morning
in order to arrange the business of the week, and to get as many of the composite resolutions
in the hands of the printers as soon as possible, This was our work for the Saturday, and
on Sunday all our Union delegates met to consider what support we could give the various
resolutions, and make any other arrangements affecting us during the rest of the week.

Yours fraternally,
W. T. Richards
General President.


---
524
BRANCH REPORTS.
BELFAST. - Trade both in the manufacturing and repairing continues to
remain in a deplorable state without any signs of an early improvement.
BURNLEY. - Our members have been watching with keen interest the
negotiations concerning the miners, as we know they are literally starving here.
They are working-those who are working-about three days a week, and are
not able to get a living. We do not know what happens anywhere else, but
we do know some miners have to go down the pit and risk their lives to get
coal for IS. IId. to 2s. 8d. per ton. The men who retail the coal get from IOS.
to 15s. per ton. We can all see, whatever our political outlook may be, that
there is something wrong. If an industry cannot provide a living for the
people engaged in it, it is time it was closed down. To starve the producers
to pay for motor cars for the investors of capital in the industry is to ask for
trouble.
CHESHAM. - The slight improvement in trade reported last month has
been maintained, but we still have some members unemployed, and some
working short time.
CHESTERFIELD. - There is an improvement in trade, yet we have some
of our members still out of work.
DERBY. - Trade in Derby continues very bad, many operatives only
making about three days a week. A number of clickers at Clemson's have
been suspended during the last eight weeks. Clickers at C.W.S. are also only
making about four days a week.
DESBOROUGH. - Trade with us is very bad, and very few are fully
employed. Long holidays have been the rule, whilst a great many are only
working three days per week. A few of our members have not yet restarted
since the holiday, which makes our Unemployment Pay this month rather
heavy, but it is very welcome to those who are suspended.
DUNDALK. - Trade remains uncertain, but as the all-share-alike system
is pursued to some extent, the workers are quite agreeable to the half-loaf
policy. This, though a very natural attitude, deserves commending, as most
of the members are inexperienced in regard to Trade Union principles. We
feel sure the employers will find it to their advantage also, as the men seeing
they are treated equally, will give entire satisfaction when the industrial
depression rolls by. At any rate by adhering to this policy of reciprocity
they will not be incurring the risk of being looked upon in a philanthropic
sense. It is also well to remember the tree of industry will never bear fruit
unless it is watered from the well of justice, equality, and fair play. Some
members, because they receive the minimum rate of wages, consider pay-
ing a sort of monotony; still, if ever they appear on the unemployed list,
the benefits to be derived from Union membership will not be above their
consideration, or what guarantee have they of even a minimum continuity?
None save the Union itself. The Union alone was responsible for the 48-hour
week and the minimum pay they receive. Ancestorial contributions gave the
Union birth. If we are to do something worthy of our posterity's appreciation,
then by being loyal members we are taking a stride in the right direction,
and when acting rightly and legitimately, fear of consequence should not
deter us from performing our moral obligations. New members should con-
sider the great future the Union affords them. A living wage for an honest
week's output, out-of-work benefits, &c. Those principles should appeal to
every intelligent worker, male and female alike. Up to the time of writing
we have not heard from Emyvale. Probably they have started a branch on
their own.


---
DUNDEE. Trade reports are such depressing reading that we have no
desire to dilate on such a theme, as our trade barometer is very low indeed at
present. There is, however, a slender streak of the proverbial "silver lining."
A report has just reached us that there is greater activity in Blackford than
has been experienced for a considerable time. May it continue. September
Ist was a "red" (not a Communist) "letter night" in our branch. We had
our genial General President with us, from whom we had an excellent discourse
on what had been achieved by our organisation during the past year. In
passing he mentioned that next to the trade of compositors, who were the
highest paid workers, our trade came second. This is very creditable to the
Council, whose duty it is to keep a watchful eye on the interests and advance-
ment of the members of our Union. At the close of the meeting the hope was
expressed that Mr. T. F. Richards might consider the advisability of paying an
annual visit to Scotland. Failing his ability to do so, our General Secretary,
or some member of the Council. These visits would be highly appreciated
and good results would accrue. It would act as a stimulus, especially to the
younger members, and break down the apathy which is apt to grow without
stimulation.
EDINBURGH. The following is the amount received for the Bleakley
Fund :-
£ s. d.
Dr. Drummond Shields
I I
Branches:-
£ s. d.
Worcester
0 10 0
Ayr
0 10 6
Daventry
0 10 0
Branches :-
Bromsgrove
Kettering No. 2
2 0 0
1 0 0
Norwich No. 2
3 0 0
Stafford
5 0 0
Street
1 0 0
Leicester No. 1
2 10 0
Leeds No. 1
0 10 6
Leicester No. 2
5 0 0
Wolverhampton
100
Leicester Women's
2 0 0
Newcastle
2 0 0
Higham and Rushden
2 2 0
Wellingborough
1 1 0
Kilmarnock
3 0 0
Arbroath
5 0 0
Manchester
1 0 0
Maybole
3 3 0
Kingswood
2 0 0
Aberdeen
1 0 0
Kettering No. 1
5 0 0
Edinburgh Trades Council
50 0 0
Northampton No. 1
5 0 0
Council
20 0 0
Northampton No. 2
1 0 0
Edinburgh Branch
11 5 3
Chesham
5 0 0
Subscribed by Edinburgh Members
21 6 0
Glasgow No. 1
5 0 0
Scottish Federation of Employers
Glasgow No. 2
10 0 0
TOTAL
£190 12 3
London Metro.
IO 0
The Branch wish to thank all who have subscribed so liberally in making
this appeal so great a success. The Misses Bleakley wish to thank the Union
for their kindness.
GLASGOW. Trade with us has slowed down since the holidays, and a
number of members have been suspended, while others are working short time.
We hope this may only be temporary. Generally the repairing section of the
trade is fair. We were glad to have a visit of the General President, Mr. T. F.
Richards, for whom we arranged a joint branch meeting, but although this was
fully announced, the attendance of members was disappointing. However,
those present appreciated the spirited and encouraging address they heard.
We are also grateful for the attention and services rendered by Mr. T. F.
Richards on Union business while here.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. The month has been a bad one for our
Branch. Extended holidays at beginning of the month generally, in some cases
meaning 14 days away from work. The last two weeks of the month trade has
improved, Rushden being better now than prior to August holiday, Raunds
fair, Finedon poor, Irthlingborough worse than for months past. Irchester has
suffered through extended stoppage of Closing Factory (now restarted) of T.
Brown & Co., Leicester. Wollaston and Bozeat, slight improvement.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
526
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. -Trade in this centre has improved
slightly, and generally speaking much difficulty is experienced in making full
time. There is therefore a reluctance to set on men unemployed. The apathy
and sluggishness affecting the volume of trade seems also to infect the opera-
tives, and we have to be constantly on the alert-educating, agitating, organising.
LEICESTER No. 1. - We are sorry to report that trade is still very bad
amongst our members, no less than £1,608 15s. od, being paid during the
month in Out-of-Work Benefit, almost half of which is Suspension Benefit.
Even this does not reflect the true position, as quite a good number of our
members have, unfortunately, drawn their full allowance, and are still out.
We do hope to be able to give a more favourable report of trade next month.
We trust our members will not fail to notice (and REMEMBER at the proper
time) that the unemployed will shortly "enjoy" more of the "benefits," of
a Conservative Government, i.e., six days waiting instead of three, as from
the 1st October. During the month a deputation from the Branch visited
Waterfoot, Lancashire, and valuable information was obtained regarding the
conditions of working in that district. Every facility was given by our friend,
Mr. Taylor (Secretary) and his Executive. We are much indebted to them,
and we hope to be able to return the compliment in the near future. We have
had Mr. W. R. Smith (Union Organiser) in this district during the last month
or so. He has worked very hard amongst the several sections in the County,
and although he has been seriously handicapped owing to the very short time
being worked, he has been successful in obtaining good results, quite a number
of new members joining.
LIVERPOOL. - The boot repairing trade has shown a marked improve-
ment since writing up our last report, which is probably due to the change in
the climatic conditions, and that the holiday season is nearly over, and also
the fact that the troubles in the Labour world are not so acute as they were,
although we are living in a critical age. We desire to draw the attention of
our members to the Council's Address in the August Report, which contains
interesting items which affect every member, on page 470. Another item of
interest is to be found on page 481, dealing with the history and cost of disputes
since 1895.
MANSFIELD. -Trade here is very fair. During the past month the
General President, Mr. Richards, with Mr. Len. Smith and Mr. J. H. Baum,
have been in Mansfield endeavouring to organise the operatives at the firms
of Messrs. Royce & Co. and Faire Bros. Although they have not been able
to deal with the situation as reported at Faire Bros., quite good progress has
been made at Royce & Co., where over 60 new members have joined, and four
from Ward Bros. have joined us, and there is every prospect of further increasing
our membership.
MAYBOLE.-Trade is much better, Messrs. J. Lees & Co., R. Crawford &
Sons and J. M'Creath & Sons, all working full time. James Ramsay & Co. are
still working short time. We had a visit from Mr. Richards during the month.
We had an outside meeting in the dinner hour which was well attended, but
we were disappointed at the evening meeting, and while there were other
attractions at night it is no excuse for members not turning up. Mr. Richards
and the Secretary visited one of the firms on a small matter, and we believe
this visit will do no harm. At the evening meeting Mr. Richards agreed to
take up the question of an Arbitration Board for Scotland, and we hope he
will succeed.
NORWICH. -Trade in Norwich during August suffered a further set-back,
many additional operatives becoming unemployed; in fact, but for three leading
factories in the city which are running very well, the industry is in a very
shaky condition.


---
```text
527
NOTTINGHAM. - Trade very bad in this part, many of our members
only working two and three days each week, and short days at that. Repairers
also quiet.
land of cream and cider.
PLYMOUTH. - Trade is still on the dull side, and we have several of our
members on the Out-of-Work Book. Some of these men would not object to
work anywhere in the United Kingdom, and are all-rounders. If any branch
secretary would do us a good turn he could rely on the best wishes from the
WATERFORD. - Trade continued fair during the past month.
GREAT YARMOUTH.-Sorry to report again Water Boot trade still
cheaper for them as they are not earning enough to buy our Water Boots.
very slow. Fishermen still buying Rubber Boots imported from America, being
COMPARATIVE REAL WAGES IN LONDON AND OTHER CAPITAL CITIES.
Index Numbers of Comparative Real Wages (or Comparative Purchasing
Power of Money-Wages) in London and certain Cities Abroad at
1st April, 1925.
Average for all Occupations covered by the Inquiry. (London = 100.*)
Index Numbers based on Quantities
of each Kind of Food Consumed in
Working-class Households in
CITY.
Belgium
and France.
(1)
Central
European
Countries.
(2)
Great
Britain.
(3)
Southern
European
Countries.
(4)
Scandinavian
Countries and
Netherlands.
(5)
Overseas
Countries
(Canada and
U.S.A.)
(6)
General Average Index
Nos. (based on food
only).
(7)
General Average Index
Nos. (with allowance
for rent).
(8)
London
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Amsterdam
86
89
80
85
92
86
86
86
Berlin
67
72
58
59
67
67
64
62
Brussels
58
56
55
55
58
55
56
60
Copenhagen
85
107
88
86
106
94
94
97
Lisbont
34
35
32
33
36
34
34
.
Lodz
46
58
45
49
55
52
51
57
Madrid
56
57
47
64
48
54
46
49
Milanţ
44
50
41
45
48
45
46
49
Oslo
85
83
76
84
89
82
83
85
Ottawa
158
166
164
155
171
173
165
148
Paris
62
76
61
63
69
63
66
67
Philadelphia
189
190
200
190
208
211
198
198
Prague
48
53
50
48
51
49
50
54
Romet
43
46
46
47
47
46
47
50
Stockholm
68
72
72
70
83
78
74
72
Sydney
146
135
156
151
129
186
151
151
Vienna
37
47
40
39
47
44
42
46
Warsaw
44
53
40
46
50
47
47
50
* Although London is taken arbitrarily as base (= 100), the ratios would be the same
whichever city were chosen as base.
† The figures for Lisbon, Rome and Milan are relatively low. This may be accounted
for in part by the differences in the items of food consumption in the southern countries
from those ordinarily consumed in most of the other countries included in this Table.
The budgets used in the comparisons do not make adequate allowance for the consumption
of vegetable foods in Southern European countries.
D
```

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
528
ORGANISERS' REPORTS.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
In my last report I said that we had made about 120 new members at Manchester.
I should have stated that 110 of those were females engaged in the Rubber Shoe Making
at Messrs. Frankenburg's. Since then nearly another 100 have joined. A good many of
them belonged to the Rubber Workers' Union a few years ago, but the firm refused to
recognise this Union only on the side where workers were engaged in the manufacturing
of rubber. This left the girls in the closing and binding of the canvas uppers, as well as
the girls who shaped the shoes and put the rubber soles on, unprotected, from a trade
union point of view. The Council gave me permission to set about organising these females
if the other Union would agree to forfeit all claims to them. On a few visits from Mr.
Mason and myself to the General Secretary of the Rubber Workers' Union, this was
agreed to. One of the directors of Messrs. Frankenburg's said that if our Union could
organise the other four firms engaged on this class of goods, that it would be a good thing
for the trade and for the workers employed in it. I followed this work up during a few
weeks of this month at Manchester and Liverpool. There is a big firm at Walton, Liver-
pool, engaged in the making of rubber, rubber cable and rubber shoes. The term " rubber
shoes" does not strictly define the meaning of the goods, as the bulk of the work would be
black, brown and white canvas uppers with rubber soles.

On 8th September I went to the Walton Rubber Works, and gave several hundred
bills to the females in the dinner hour and evening. To me it was sad to hear the com-
ments of many of the girls when they were comparing the wages they were getting with
our Union's scale on the leaflets I had given them. The girls have had no voice in making
the piece rates which they work to. Many of the girls agreed that they needed a union
badly, but the usual difficulty presented itself to them: “Who would make a start?"
"If the others join I'll join." The men employed here in the making of rubber and rubber
cable belong to the Rubber Workers' Union. It is our business now to come to the rescue
of the girls, and if they will help us like their sisters at Manchester have done, by joining us,
Walton will be made brighter for them. We had a fine meeting of the newly-joined
females at Manchester on the 9th. Three Shop Presidents were elected and two from
each of the three departments were elected as a Shops Committee to assist them. It is
worth placing on record that 130 females on a cold wet night came to a trade union meeting
and gave two hours discussing matters touching their lives in the workshop.
D. MCCARTHY.
23rd September, 1925.
FELLOW MEMPERS,

During the past month I have chiefly been engaged at Mansfield, endeavouring
to follow up the work of the previous month. I have frequently met the girls working
at Messrs. Faire Bros., and despite the efforts that I have made the position has not altered.
The girls are fully conscious of the inadequate wages they receive, and are desirous of joining
the Union, with a view of obtaining substantial increase in their wages. Up to the present
time the firm is absolutely refusing to them their rights, which, if the girls wanted to interfere
with the rights of Mr. Tewkes, would no doubt soon be resented. To terrify girls by
dismissal is sometimes the only defence some persons have, and though it may appear to
be an eminently satisfactory thing to do, it sometimes has the same results upon those
types of individuals when the same methods are adopted, with regard to their business
methods. I have continued the work at the Mansfield Shoe Company; though the progress
in membership has not increased so rapid as last month, the membership is still increasing,
but there is still a further need of increasing our members. I am fairly confident
that over a period of time this firm will eventually become well organised. I have met the
girls working at Thrall's, stiffener makers; the wages paid here are exceedingly poor, and
it is almost impossible to organise them. I understand that a well-known Leicester
gentleman has financial interests in this firm, and it would be advisable for him to pay
some attention with regard to the wages paid at this firm, because out of their scanty
earnings they can hardly afford to pay a few pence towards a trade union.

I had occasion to visit the firm of Betts & Broughton, Huthwaite, a little difficulty
having arisen in one of the departments, and after meeting the operatives and the manager,
matters were adjusted satisfactorily. This is not a very large firm and we are well organised
and all our conditions are observed. The firm of Ward's has again been visited, and six
of them have joined the Union. All our conditions are adhered to, but somehow the men
don't seem to respond, but I think now that a beginning has been made and a Shop Presi-
dent appointed, no doubt others will soon follow. The firm of F. & C. Brown, repairers,
were called on, though there are only six men engaged here. After explaining to them the
work of the Union, they eventually all decided to become members at the end of
the week.


---
I have again visited the firm of Looms’, Market Harborough. Since my last visit
the firm have adopted the Holiday Scheme, and improvements have taken place with
regard to wages. The men seemed very reluctant to talk to me, and I thought that they
rather resented the stoppage of payment for holidays, in view of the fact that they were
working very short time. But by the distribution of literature dealing with the Scheme
the men seemed more satisfied. I am not altogether satisfied with the attitude of this
firm with regard to the men joining the Union. I am fairly confident, however, that this
attitude will eventually cease, but until it does cease, there is very little prospects of in-
creasing our membership at this firm.
During the month I was afforded the opportunity of speaking to the Mansfield Trades
Council. I felt that some statement was necessary in order to call their attention to the
position of the girls at Faire Bros. and Thrall’s. Though Mansfield is chiefly a mining
centre, unfortunately Trade Union organisation is not very strong, which is reflected in
the organisation of girls in the town. I impressed upon the Council the need of giving
some attention to women workers, because of the information I had received. I found
there was not any factory in the town which was paying anything near our scales. As a
result of this meeting the Trades Council have decided to convene a conference of the
various unions catering for the trades, with a view of a united effort to organise the women
in Mansfield.
J. H. BAUM.
21st September, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
In the first two weeks of the past month I continued my work in the Leicestershire
area that is covered by the Leicester Branches. The places visited were Syston, Wigston,
Blaby, Oadby and Earl Shilton. Meetings at factories were held at three of the above,
the results on the whole being good. Members have been made, and at the factories
where the membership is practically complete, appreciation was shown of a visit from
a national official.
In most of the places the state of trade is a handicap to organising, but the seed thus
sewn will give a return later on. Looking at the position nationally one cannot help a
feeling of satisfaction in the steady growth of membership in spite of bad trade, and the
propaganda work now being done will help to consolidate that membership, and one hopes,
I would like to express my thanks to the branches for the support
add to it later on.
given to me in my work in this area.
The No. 1 Branch as the one most affected readily
granted assistance in the service of a member of their Committee, who is able to canvass
for members while I am speaking outside the factories.
Perhaps the most important event of the month has been the meeting of the Trade
Union Congress at Scarborough, and though the main decisions will be given in a general
report, the gathering merits a word or two of special reference.
I am afraid the general result has proved disappointing to our critics. A large section
of the Press was looking forward to a clash between contending sections, with the rout of
the one they were particularly opposed to. The disappointment lies in the fact that there
was no clash as they expected. There were some keen debates, but the tone all the way
through was mainly that of trying to find the right path to achieve the end we all have in
view, rather than to accomplish a sectional victory by dialectical skill.
True, some of the resolutions were of a nature that call for a detailed consideration
by affiliated bodies. There is always a danger that at times of a great crisis, we may in
our anxiety to find a solution of our difficulties take a line that perhaps on more mature
consideration might be different, it may not be so here, but whether or not, one can say
that if the decisions are right ones, then the sooner we give the rank and file of our members
the chance of realising their obligations and responsibilities in regard to them the better,
for it is certain that in these matters any movement or change without their intelligent
support will be fraught with danger.
One question of great importance was dealt with on lines that gives time for considera-
tion as to what is best to be done. There is a desire to give to the General Council greater
powers. There has been a steady movement in that direction for some time. The estab-
lishment of a General Council on its present basis, in place of the old Parliamentary Com-
mittee, had that object in view.
The suggestion now made seeks to give them powers in regard to all wage movements,
to render assistance to any Union on strike-evidently in a more direct form than pre-
viously—as it is suggested they should have power to levy all affiliated members, to give
them power to call upon an affiliated body to bring out all or part of their members in sup-
port of another Union who is defending a vital trade principle, and to arrange with the
C.W.S. to make provision for the distribution of food, &c., in the event of a strike or other
action calling for same. And the Unions are asked to make such alteration in their rules
as will regularise the same.


---
Here is the extracted text:
530
The Congress refused to come to any decision upon this matter apart from referring
the whole subject to the new General Council for them to consider and report to next
Congress. This is a wise course, as it would be nothing short of madness were decisions
reached, that would prove useless when it was sought to put them into operation. It
must not be forgotten that different unions have different policies, that what might be
vital to one might not be so vital to another, and further that a Union in giving support
to another might place in jeopardy their own position, which so far as wage arrangement
is concerned is satisfactory if not vital to them.
If any move is made in this direction there must be the fullest consultation with all
the main Unions, so that every consideration may be given to the difficulties that are
bound up with such a procedure. In any change that takes place I am sure our members
would wish to play their full part and for that reason I would like to see this matter
adequately discussed, if possible, at our next Conference. We might refrain from some
of the trifling subjects and get our minds on to these bigger issues. Whatever we may
think of the question, there is an undoubted tendency in this direction, whether it is
temporary or otherwise time alone can decide. It may be that the Miners' dispute has
given it an added importance, which will subside if a satisfactory way out of that problem
can be found; but if so, it may be only for a time, as undoubtedly something of that char-
acter is the logical development of trade union organisation.
The subject lost some of its importance by being brought forward by small unions,
one with less than 400 members. The thought which naturally arises in one's mind, is, that
if the time is ripe for such a step, why have we these small unions to-day? Would it not be
far better for them to link up with the larger bodies ? Could not the National Union of
Vehicle Builders find a way of joining the Transport Workers ? Is it possible for us to
operate successfully on a wide area, if there cannot be a linking up within these narrower
limits ? I would strongly urge that this must be our first step. I know a great deal has
been done in this direction, but there is room for a great deal more. It is up to every
Union to do its best in this direction. If by next Congress we had cut down the number
of unions by one-half, a not impossible thing to do, we should be much nearer to this
greater power, not merely in the passing of a resolution upon it, but in applying it with
advantage to the great problems before us.
By general consent the Congress was a great success. The attendance was splendid,
and the delegates were more seriously-minded than at any previous Congress I have
attended. It may be the Miners' dispute is responsible, or it may be that on all sides it is
recognised that we are approaching a period when our forces may have to be marshalled
to meet an attack on all fronts. The year 1926 promises to be a critical one for organised
labour. The Miners' question is not settled, but postponed. The issue next time may be
more difficult, but we must win through. To do this there must be no dissension in our
ranks, there must be no attempt to decry political action in favour of industrial. One
felt there was this tendency at the Congress. We claim they are the two arms of the
Labour movement, each to be used as occasion demands, as a means to achieving our end.
We may make mistakes, but they are not confined to one policy alone. There are as many
will give us all we want at once, but both acting co-operatively will in the end get us
made on the industrial field as on the political, while each have their successes. Neither
through.
I wish these important questions that were before Congress could be discussed at our
Branch meetings, they must be understood at the bottom as well as at the top. It is the
members who will have to act in the hour of crisis. We can but advise and lead according
to our lights, but leadership will be all the more effective if the bulk of the army under-
stand the purpose in view.
It only remains to be added that our Union was successful in its objective-Mr.
Richards was elected to the General Purposes Committee for next Congress (subject to
the enquiry as to the accuracy of the counting); Mr. Poulton was elected to the General
Council unopposed; while both our resolutions were carried, the one relating to the legalising
of voluntary agreements by an overwhelming majority.
19th September, 1925.
WALTER R. SMITH.
THE SPITALFIELDS DISPUTE.
On page 492 of the August Report a balance sheet appeared showing the amount
of money received from branches in connection with the appeal issued on behalf of the
operatives concerned in the dispute at Messrs. Jackson & Joseph. In this connection the
sum of £127 12s. 6d. was remitted by the Manufacturers' Federation for disbursement
to the dependants (under 14 years of age) of the operatives on strike.


---
Here is the extracted text:
531
TRADES UNION CONGRESS.
The Fifty-Seventh Annual Congress in connection with the Trades Congress was
held at the Central Hall, Queen Street, Scarborough, on Monday, the 7th September
and the five following days. The President this year being Mr. A. B. Swales.
His address, after reciting the sacrifices that have been made during the past year,
especially with the two outstanding cases of the Miners and the Textile Disputes, were
and on the other hand the solidarity that has been shown by the workers, dealing most
enlarged upon.
He also pointed out the necessity for a wider outlook regarding not only as may be
said to be strictly industrial, but also the economic and political side of our work, showing
increased necessity for Trade Union unity throughout the world, pointing out finally that
those who believe that a new order of society is inevitable before we can remedy the existing
evils-and to which in this address I have directed attention-"cannot do other than rejoice
at last there are clear indications of a world movement rising in revolt and determined
to shake off the shackles of wage slavery. Just as our people have passed out of slavedom
into serfdom, and out of serfdom into wagedom, so will they finally pass out of wagedom
into freedom."
The General Council were able to report an increase in membership over 1923-24,
the figures being 4,350,982 with a delegation of 724, the number of affiliated societies
being 200.
The report of the General Council dealt with a very considerable number of matters
and is a document of 250 pages, ranging over all phases of industrial work.
The question of new premises upon which there has been a great deal of talk and
unwarranted statements made as to differences between the Labour Party and the General
Council were finally disposed of, making it quite clear that negotiations must continue
between the two wings of the party with a view to working together on their respective
sides.
Full support was given to the General Council regarding the position they took up in
connection with the Mining and Textile disputes, and the feeling of Congress was un-
doubtedly in the direction of the General Council using its full powers to help Unions on
the one hand, and to prevent if possible serious upheavals of industry on the otheri
As usual there were a great many resolutions, too many for us to tabulate here. We
are glad, however, to be able to record the fact that both of our own resolutions were
carried.
The first one on UNEMPLOYMENT reads as follows :-
"That this Congress views with the greatest concern the serious volume of
unemployment now existing, and deplores the lack of effective measures on the part
of the Government to attempt to alleviate the situation. It further declares its
emphatic opposition to the spurious remedies of lower wages and the degradation of
established working conditions, and calls upon the Trade Union Movement to offer its
utmost resistance to any attempt to increase the hours of work. It asserts the
unquestionable right of the unemployed worker and his dependents to adequate
maintenance, and reiterates its demand for the establishment of a National Employ-
ment and Development Board for the purpose of devising and co-ordinating measures
whereby the extent of unemployment may be reduced." -Carried unanimously.
Our second resolution which created a very good discussion, was as follows:-
VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS.
"This Congress instructs the General Council to urge upon H.M. Government
the desirability of giving to National Agreements voluntarily entered into and approved
by Joint Industrial Councils the same validity as awards under the Trade Board Acts,
1909 and 1918, with the object of ensuring the observance of fair conditions of labour
by all engaged in the industry whenever requested by the parties to the agreement."
This was also carried, despite the opposition of the N.U.R., Boilermakers, N.U.D.A.W..
and Garment Workers, by a majority of 1,848,000, the voting being :-
For
Against
2,790,000
942,000
Thus we have been able, after a time to secure the concurrence of Congress that
agreements (when both sides agree) should be adhered to by those in the industry and
should have the force of law behind them.
We hope that the resolution will be put into force within the near future, and that
we may be able to record the fact that the Government has given practical effect to the
same.
---

---
536
NORTHANTS' DISTRICT COUNCIL.
The Quarterly Meeting was held in the Foundry Place School, Daventry, on Saturday,
25th July, 1925.
Mr. W. Langley, J.P., presided, and a full complement of delegates were present.
There were also present additional delegates from most Branches, as well as Mr. C. Bates,
Mr. W. R. Townley, Mr. L. P. Poole, and Mr. E. L. Poulton, as representing the National
Council. Altogether 62 members of the Union attended.
In introducing Mr. Poulton to the meeting, the Chairman said how proud we felt
of the new Office held by the General Secretary, and expressed the general feeling that it
was a compliment not only to the personal qualities of Mr. Poulton, but also to the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives. He then called upon Mr. Poulton to address the
meeting on:-
"THE WORK AND POLICY OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR
OFFICE OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS."
MR. POULTON said: Allow me, first of all, to thank you Mr. Chairman and fellow
members for the compliment you have just paid me. I feel that it has been a great honour
not only to myself but to the Union that we occupy such a position in the first world
Parliament that has just closed; because I look upon this as the nearest approach yet
to an International Parliament. I entertain the hope that out of it will arise a real Inter-
national Parliament, not merely to determine conditions and policy, but also to determine
political policy as well, so that men and women shall learn to know one another and under-
stand the hopes and aspirations of each other, and thus develop a spirit which will prevent
them from plunging into war in the future. I hope that all members will be behind the
League of Nations, of which we form part. It will, however, only be as we ordinary
individuals press our views upon statesmen and members of Parliament from time to time.
that we sha'l prevent war taking place, because, whatever we may say, the fact remains
that more men are under arms to-day than there were before the War. for even during the
time that a recent Conference in Geneva was discussing the limitation of the manufacture
of arms by private firms, the smaller nations were greatly opposed to it. Their advocates
in dealing with the case said that if countries like Great Britain, France, Italy, America
and Germany were allowed to manufacture arms, and they were not allowed to manu-
facture them, they would be at the mercy of the big states, and therefore they should be
allowed to contract for arms with private firms. These are amongst the difficulties we
have to deal with and to counteract in pursuance of a peace policy. Nevertheless I do
not lose heart or feel dispirited because I believe that there is a generation growing up
whom we shall be able to influence, and with the additional education they will make it
increasingly difficult for statesmen and politicians to indulge in warfare.
The International Labour Office is, I think, an Office which, at the moment, very
largely unknown. I have spoken at a great many League of Nations meetings in various
parts of the country, and many times I have been thanked for bringing before the meetings
the wide ramifications and activities of the Office, and what it has done. I must make it
quite clear that we are part and parcel of the League of Nations, and one of the few good
things that has emerged from the Versailles Treaty is the idea of the League of Nations
and the Labour Office. I hope we shall be able to accomplish the work that has been given
us to do.
Whilst the League of Nations has for its object the idea of universal peace, such a
peace can only be established by the establishment of social justice. The Labour Office
assists by dealing with such injustices and hardships. It is engaged in the regulation of
working hours all over the world and the improvement of working conditions. For
example, the regulations as to hours worked include the establishment of the maximum
working day or week; the regulation of the supply of labour and the employment of
children. It also seeks to regulate the conditions as to the employment and protection
of women and young children and the provision of certain forms of technical education,
Certain rules and regulations are laid down as to how best we can do that work, but
I will not take up your time with these. The first meeting was held at Washington in
1919, and strange to say, the Labour movement in America, who took part in the business,
has not yet seen its way clear as a country to join the League of Nations. I regret this,
especially as they are always standing at the door and giving advice, without actually
taking part in the business and being prepared to take responsibilities for the things done.
I find that the great obstacle from the point of view of America is that they have a great
ideal of a combined American League, that is, the development of those many countries
which are outside and around the United States, and which, combined, could dominate
the world. The point which they emphasise, however, as their principal objection is that
Great Britain, or the Empire-to accept the wider sphere-has an undue preponderance
of votes and influence, because Great Britain and each self-governing colony send their
representatives, and the Americans object to this, and say that only an equal number of


---
representatives should be at the meetings to represent the Empire. This is the real
difficulty why America will not come into the League of Nations. It is, however, doing
useful work, and it has helped in moulding policy. It is to be hoped that ere long America
will take her place amongst the representatives of this world-wide League.
I look upon the question of hours as one of the most important that can be dealt
with at the present time. We have drawn up a convention dealing with the 48-hour
week; the provision against unemployment; women's employment and maternity:
night work for women: the employment of children of immature age; the age at which
children shall be employed at night minimum age for employment in agriculture: white
lead weekly rest, &c., &c. Since the Office has been established we have been working
very hard, and we have accomplished much that is vital to the welfare of the workers.
Some people grumble about the slowness with which the work proceeds, but I submit
that we have accomplished a wonderful amount of work in the six years we have been
established, having regard to the slowness with which a nation itself does its work, apart
policy.
Representation at the Conference is as follows: Governments have two represen-
tatives; the workers of each country have one representative and the employers one.
Advisers are also allowed to act in an advisory capacity. These delegates are selected
by the government from the most representative organisations existing in the country,
and the government of this country have decided that so far as Great Britain is concerned
the Trade Union Congress is the authority, and therefore every year the Government
sends to the Council of the Trade Union Congress, which body nominates the delegates
and also the advis rs. The Government also send advisers who act along with the repre-
sentatives of the Government and the whole body splits itself up into Committees. The e
were seven different Committees this year. As we sent a number of advisers there was,
with myself, a British representative on each of the Committees that was sitting. Now
these Committees have the duty of putting into words what they think should be the
method adopted regarding matters submitted to them by the Office. When they have
finished their decisions are set out in the form of a report and presented to the full Con-
ference. The Conference then decides whether they will pass that report as a recom-
mendation or convention. You can understand that with 52 countries, with their different
outlook and development and the backwardness in industry of some of them, that progress
is necessarily slow. But we had better go slow
but pass reports which we do not put into operation.
Each country has a questionnaire sent to them at the end of the year in the form of a
book of questions for the next year's Conference, and are asked what they consider their
Government would be likely to support. The answers that are received form the basis
on which the Committee work and upon which the Conference finally decides its policy
and the form such policy takes, either a recommendation or convention.
During the past four years we have passed Conventions and Recommendations
which are a milder form of Convention-upon the Hours question. A number of countries
have adopted them and put them into force, but I regret to have to say that the British
Government has not yet put it into force, and that is why it is being held up in other
countries. Great Britain is the foremost industrial country in Europe, and the smaller
countries say that we in Great Britain have not adopted the Convention to put the 48-hour
week into force by law, and I have been told both in the governing body and in the Con-
ference that they will not put it into force until Great Britain does so.
Our statesmen
tell us that we have already millions of our people working the 48-hour week under their
different craft agreements, or even less. We do not dispute that, but this is not the same
as if it were law, and we need something to put it into law. When you get back to your
districts ask your Member of Parliament what he proposes to do in the matter, and go on
asking him until he does something in the House of Commons, because the more questions
there are put, the greater the likelihood of Great Britain adopting it.
At Washington, Great Britain voted for this Convention, and not only voted for it,
but they sent a cablegram over here to our statesmen as to whether they should support
it or no, and the answer was "yes," and yet, strange to say, they have not yet brought it
before the House of Commons. It is something of a disgrace to this country, and the other
countries are continually using it against us.
We have also passed a Convention upon Unemployment and what help we can give
in this respect, and a number of countries have adopted these proposals, and are putting
them into operation at the present time. Regulations as to night work for women we
have passed because we believe that there should be a minimum of work not only for
women, but also for men at night, and as far as possible we should not have them working
at night. We have also dealt with the question of the minimum age at which boys and
girls should start work. We have also passed resolutions upon white lead poisoning in
paint. We had a tremendous fight to get this through, and I again regret to say that Great
Britain has not carried out her word in this matter, and again, as in the question of hours,
the other countries are playing upon this. We have passed regulations as to the age at
which boys shall go to sea, and provided for their being properly looked after whilst on
---

---
the boats. We have also passed regulations regarding the weekly rest. We look upon it as
and parcel of the life of the nation, and
weekly rest as quite the ordinary thing and part and
believe it is so, and we must be careful to safeguard this weekly rest. On the Continent
they are still working on Saturday afternoon and on Sunday, and any of you who have
weekday. They are making a great fight to get the English Sunday. Quite apart from
travelled abroad will have seen the men and women working just the same as we do on
religion, you cannot get the equivalent of Sunday, and I was very surprised to hear from
one of our Australian employer representatives that they were working Sunday without
much sooner or rather see a five-day week. In any case I am very
extra pay. I would much
strongly opposed to Sunday work.
When we have done with the Conference and have gone to our respective homes, the
governing body, which is really the Executive Committee, carry on the work from one
Conference to another. That body is elected for a period of three years. There are 24
members of the Governing Body, 12 being government representatives: 6 employers and
6 workers' representatives.
At our last Conference I believe we had 27 workers' delegates because unfortunately
Union Congress select their delegates for the Conference, and it is these delegates who
them for full delegations, so that we should have our full voting strength. These 27
some of the Governments did not send complete delegations and therefore we were pressing
delegates select the workers' representatives for the ensuing three years. Our own Trade
for the Conference, and it is these delegates who
the governing body. Our representation on that body is dependant on the votes, not only
follow because we are one of the big countries that Great Britain will be represented on
elect the governing body, and not any particular country, so that it does not necessarily
of European countries, but on the votes of Australia, Canada, South Africa, Japan, China,
and the rest of the countries represented. Therefore you can easily see that there is
competition for the seats on that body, and I look upon it not only as an honour, but as a
great privilege that I have been re-elected to represent the workers, and I think I may
fairly say that the other delegates feel that I have done something to uphold their work
This body deals with the programme and secures information and details which
affect the work of the Office in all parts of the world, and there is growing up a more and
more extensive bureau, and nations are looking towards the International Labour Office
for information on industrial matters, and it is becoming more and more a basis of research
work. In a period of six years we claim to have collected in our Office at Geneva the
biggest industrial library in the world, recording all matters, so far as they can be got
together, in any part of the world, and that information is available for any nation.
on the governing body.
The Director is a brilliant Frenchman who played a great part in the Socialist move-
ment in France, and some think if he cared to return to play an active part in the work
of his nation, he would yet be Premier of France, and so you see we have a man who has
been brought up in the best traditions of social justice.
We are now engaged upon another great work apart from its industrial side. There
are wandering about the world men and women and children, who have practically lost
their country in consequence of the war. Many of them belong to the unhappy country
Labour Office to either get these unhappy people back to their own country, or to get
of Russia, and who cannot or will not go back there. We are endeavouring through the
they are established. The
believes that we are the body who are most likely to do this work effectively, and I think
it is a great compliment that such a young body has been entrusted with this work.
by the efforts of the International Labour Office. It is work which will also show to
think it is an encouragement to feel that thousands of men and women are being helped
people, in my opinion, that we can rise above the ordinary routine, and from the stand-
point of humanity we are doing this work at the moment with a considerable amount of
success. The methods adopted by the I.L.O., in relation to its work is broadly as follows.
We try to get to know the present laws of a country and by convention or recommendation
try and induce them to bring new laws into being regarding the workers and to bring
influence from the more advanced countries to bear on the backward countries. We do
not lose any opportunity with countries that are not carrying them out in trying to secure
conformity to the various proposals passed at the Conference. Last year I reported to
my colleagues (and when I got back they put the report into the form of a pamphlet).
This year I have just presented my report to the General Council of the Trade Union
Congress, and they have decided to publish it as a pamphlet and circulate it throughout
the whole country, because they feel it is well worth while that other people should know
what has been done at the Conference just ended. This year, apart from the Conventions
that were passed, we made progress in other directions. For instance, when one of the
Conventions was being discussed it was somewhat remarkable that nearly the whole of the
plaints that we workers had made earlier in the proceedings, and apologising for their
speakers were representatives of governments, and they were getting up in view of com-
pountries not having yet ratified the conventions, and wanting to assure us that they had
had no opportunities in their countries, but they would at once assist to put into operation
---

---
539
machinery which would bring these conventions into operation. When you get ment
equal in standing to our Chancellor of the Exchequer doing this you will see that we have
consider the Conference this year to be an advance on those previously held.
made some impression on the statesmen of a number of the countries, and that is why I
One other example to show how we have progressed. I was surprised to learn that
Spain had sent one of her chief Officers of State, and he came all that way to deliver a
ten minutes' speech because they wanted it recorded that they regarded favourably the
matter under discussion, and were willing to put it into operation.
I wish to speak of the wider question of Articles and Conventions that have been
passed since 1919. In my report I state: " I beg to express, on behalf of all the workers,
approximately 150 ratifications, when there should have been eight or nine hundred.
their keen disappointment at the fact that we had at this meeting this year to record
They kept this hope for some considerable time, but as the years passed and they found
This, to the workers, is a very great disappointment, for their hopes in 1919 were high.
this lack of progress their hopes began to go down."
we have not gone a long way along the path, the fact that there are these ratifications is a
great tribute. You will easily see that if this country adopted the white lead convention
and the hours convention, there would be a great deal accomplished, and it would affect
ratify the hours convention you can easily see what an enormous advance would be made.
many more countries. If we could get Great Britain, France, Belgium and Japan to
might have secured. We have made an impression, and I believe a permanent and good
We must not lose sight of proportion when we think that we have secured all that we
impression on many countries, and we will carry out these reforms if the workers will but
back up the efforts being made on their behalf and thereby raise the general standard
of life.
We have put in a good deal of work among the backward nations of the world. This
countries, such as India and Japan. India is ratifying more conventions than any other
is a thing that is full of hope. Some of our conventions have been adopted by the Eastern
country, and to its great credit is carrying them out. They have passed the eight hours
convention, but it is a ten hours day in India. If we could get Japan and China to pass
the ten-hour working day it would make a wonderful difference. Regarding China,
we have only five of them. But in these factories in China there are poor little mites of
five years of age. We are trying to create an impression upon the Chinese representatives
to deal as far as possible with the things complained of, and to appoint factory inspectors.
We have now got to this stage, and you will see how necessary it is for international action.
This year the Indian employers complained of the competition of Japan. Usually it
has been the Lancashire goods which have suffered and complained of Indian competition.
You will see how intricate trading has become, and how necessary it is that these nations
should be brought up to our standard, but of course their standard would always be a
different standard to ours, largely on account of the climate. My reference to the term
standard means of course the productive standard per person.
We had workers' representatives of India and Japan at the Conference this year, and
I hope next year we shall have a Chinese representative present. We have been talking
to these men and they are very anxious to know our conditions, and they are bringing
pressure to bear that we should send representatives to these countries and see what
actually is taking place.
I come finally to the question of cost. As you have doubtless read, or been told,
that the I.L.O. is a great waste of money and that we have a palace in which to do our
work, and wherein we waste the taxpayers money of this and other countries. As regards
the palace we have a staff of about 300 people in one building and a big building is neces-
sary for all these. It is quite true that the place we meet in at present is situated in a very
nice part of Geneva, and we can look across the Lake and see the great mountains, but so
far as furnishings are concerned, I go into many offices in this country which are furnished
much more elaborately than ours.
If you go into the Board Room you will find ordinary
boards for shelving so that we can save expense. This is where we do our work, and as
economically as possible. We must have our documents translated into various languages,
and nobody should object to this translation so that other nations may use them. We
spend less than £40,000 per year, on the I.L.O., that is Great Britain, but the country is
going to spend many millions of pounds on ships of war, and yet questions are constantly
being asked about the expenditure in " our nest of luxury" at Geneva. In bringing to
bear our intellects and knowledge and taking part in conferences with the rest of the world,
and gathering information of great value to the industrial world, we spend the sum of
£37,000. That money is better spent than on ships of war which may go to the bottom
of the sea in two or three minutes, and I am anxious that we should take up the challenge
and show what great advantages lie therein. I hope you will continue to give us your
backing. One of the foremost representatives of the workers on the Continent said to
me not long ago, "You have got to remember this, that you have had your legislation
many years regarding many matters affecting the lives of the workers, whilst some nations


---
difficulty that besets the organisation."
540
many questions that the Office deals with, you will therefore realise our task and the great
have only had legislation recently: other countries have not yet passed legislation on
Let me, in conclusion, assure you that your representatives will not shirk the work,
but will carry on for the sake of humanity, until such time as we can get rid of unemploy-
ment, secure a maximum working day or week, a living wage for all, provision against
disease or injury, and for old age, and so assist in making the world better and brighter
than it is now for so many millions of toilers.
other?
Discussion and Questions.
MR. CHESTER (Kettering). How far does the work of the Office bear relation to our
own Arbitration Boards? Do you first have a Board to jointly discuss the material
to come before the full body or do you go there and debate without first consulting each
government representatives, and opinions are freely expressed. A vote is taken of the
Conference. On questions of International importance we first talk them over with the
MR. POULTON. The usual procedure is that the governing body discusses the Agenda
The idea is that the governing body shall talk over what we consider suitable for the
before them again, then the governing body must carry this out. The governing body
Conference has supreme power, however, and if they decide that something should come
governing body, and if they turn it down it does not come before the Conference. The
has to get the material for the Agenda a long time in advance. We are now discussing
MR. CAMPBELL (Kettering) desired further information as to the position of our own
Government in relation to the 48-hour working week. Why is our Government opposed
the Agenda for two years ahead.
to this good work?
and was generally operative. He did not think the British Government had any need to
who said that the principle of the 48-hour week had long been recognised in Great Britain
MR. POULTON quoted an extract from the speech of a government representative
said that there were great difficulties in the way of the enforcement of the convention
take action in this matter. Mr. Bettington, this Government's representative, further
I (Mr. Poulton) argued at this meeting that this should not prevent the Government from
difficulties of other countries which were already enforcing it. We, as workers, were forced
trying it. There were bound to be difficulties, but they would be no greater than the
to the conclusion that behind the refusal of the Government to enforce this hours con-
hours convention could be enforced if the will was there to do it. Believe me, there is no
agreements and increase our working day. If the law was there it would stop this. The
vention was the fact that many people are hoping before long to break our voluntary
real difficulty, but they do not want to put it into force.
MR. POOLE,
representatives should number 12, and the workers and the employers six each. Why
not have the 12 from each, which seemed a fairer proportion?
MR. POULTON. We cannot alter the basis of representation. It is embodied in the
Versailles Treaty.
MR. CROUCH (Rushden) asked for more information about the homeless people. Who
are these people who have had to leave their home country and are afraid to go back?
MR. POULTON gave figures from his reports and said that Dr. Nansen was on the work
of the attempted reestablishment of these people and was doing the work well. Many
wanted to go to America and we were endeavouring to get them settled there.
Mr. ATTEWELL (Northampton) expressed opposition to our connection with the
International Labour Office. He claimed that we ought to work through our own Inter-
national. He further stated that the League of Nations was a gathering of the ruling
classes and that the dice was loaded against the workers because their representatives
were in a minority. All the information which the Office sends out could easily be got
from our own International. He quoted the case of the British Government's failure to
enforce the hours convention after agreeing to it as an example of the futility of putting
any faith in the I.L.O. He also agreed with the American view that the Colonies were
part and parcel of the Empire and this gave this country a larger proportion and repre-
sentation compared with other countries.
MR. POULTON stated that he agreed with a good deal of what had just been said, but
he wished his friend would look into economic history. With regard to our own Inter-
national, he agreed that it should be developed, but the International could do nothing
from a legislative point of view. Whilst they had accomplished hardly as much as could
be wished, yet it must be claimed that they were bringing up the standard of the workers
get the most backward countries and legislation we must try to
Office to be successful because it would tend to improve present conditions. The last
get these things through our own House of Commons, who appeared not to want the
---

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

541

speaker thought that it was bolstering up present conditions, but legislation was the only
medium to effect what was wanted to be done, so very little international improvement
in industrial conditions could be generally effected through our own International.
MR. LYNE (Northampton). - Would it not be possible to get information through the
I.L.O. as to the amount of finance that is in these foreign enterprises, and what proportion
is put in by western financiers ?
MR. POULTON. Our own department this week has issued a statement on these lines.
We have a good deal of information on the lines indicated, and this is supplied through the
Labour Magazine.
Out of 49 factories in Shanghai we own only five, and we own about one-sixth of the looms.
MR. TOWNLEY (Northampton). -The Government has 12 representatives, the em-
ployers six and the workers six; if the whole world had Socialist Governments would
workers' representatives in matters of primary importance.
they send along 12 socialists? I should think they would, and would join with the
MR. TOWNLEY moved:--

"That, this Council, representing 31,728 members of the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives, hereby places on record its deep and earnest appreciation
of the services rendered to the International Labour movements and to the cause of
International goodwill and peace, through the International Labour Office of the
League of Nations, by Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P. We note, with considerable pleasure,
the recent honour conferred upon Mr. Poulton, and trust the utmost facility will
continue to be afforded by the Union to enable our General Secretary to carry out the
arduous duties entailed."

I think that everybody will be satisfied with the enormous amount of work that Mr.
Poulton is doing on behalf of the workers of the world. We should all agree that Mr.
Poulton has done splendidly. It is work that calls for all the thought, energy and con-
sideration that can be given to it, and I am sure that in selecting Mr. Poulton for this work.
we shall all agree that the Trade Union Congress could not have found a better man. I
have much pleasure in moving the resolution.
MR. I. H. JOHNSON, in seconding the resolution, expressed the hope that every
member of the Union would interest themselves in the work of the I.L.O., and give to Mr.
Poulton their whole-hearted support in the magnificent work he is doing.
MR. POULTON, in reply, expressed his thanks and said how interesting and yet how
hard the work was. He would rather wear out than rust, and he felt that this work was
essential and helpful.

The delegates were then entertained to tea by the Daventry Branch, to whom warm
and appreciative thanks were extended.

Many of the delegates afterwards visited the new Wireless Station at Daventry,
the arrangements for which had been previously made by Mr. Johnson, the Secretary of
the Daventry Branch. The opportunity was much appreciated and the Council's thanks
were extended to the Manager of the works and also to Mr. Johnson.

APPENDIX.

EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS READ BY MR. POULTON DURING HIS SPEECH.

Organisation and Objects of Department.

Whereas the League of Nations has for its object the establishment of universal
peace, and such a peace can be established only if it is based upon social justice; and
whereas conditions of labour exist involving such injustice, hardship and privation to
large numbers of people as to produce unrest so great that the peace and harmony of the
world are imperilled; and an improvement of those conditions is urgently required;
as, for example, by the regulation of the hours of labour, including the establishment
of a maximum working day and week, the regulation of the supply of labour, the pre-
vention of unemployment, the provision of an adequate living wage, the protection of the
worker against sickness, disease and injury arising out of his employment, the protection
of children, young persons and women, provision for old age and injury, protection of the
interests of the workers when employed in countries other than their own, recognition of
the principle of freedom and association, the organisation of vocational and technical
education and other measures;

Whereas also the failure of any nation to adopt humane conditions of labour is an
obstacle in the way of other nations which desire to improve the conditions in their own
countries;
The High contracting parties, &c.


---
Apart from the spoilt papers it was quite evident that a considerable number of
delegates had been under misapprehension as to the number of votes they were allowed
to cast. In numerous instances unions had not used their full vote, but where there was
more than one vacancy in the group they had divided their total number of votes by the
number of vacancies, and had thus failed to exercise their full voting power. We consider
it desirable that steps should be taken to prevent this happening in the future and suggest
that the instructions printed on the ballot paper be fuller and clearer and also that the
Scrutineers be thoroughly instructed in order that enquirers on this point may be in turn
correctly advised.

The Scrutineers and Recount Committee further suggest that the General Council
should consider the advisability of making such arrangements as will secure that there is
not a complete change in the personnel of the Scrutineers each year.

The Scrutineers and Recount Committee suggest that it should not be competent for
properly nominated candidates to withdraw their nominations at a later date than, say
14 days prior to the opening of Congress. If this were done and ballot papers not printed
until after the last date for withdrawal had passed, it would obviate the possibility of the
names of persons appearing on the ballot paper who were not condidates.

(Signed) HERBERT SMITH (Chairman).
GEO. LATHAN.
JOHN JAGGER.
W. R. SMITH.
DOROTHY EVANS.
EDWARD DUXBURY.
THOMAS CHADWICK.
J. S. BROWN.
ARTHUR JENKINS.
GEORGE ILLINGWORTH.
SIDNEY TAYLOR.

CO-PARTNERSHIP WORKSHOP.
Report of the Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Limited for the
Half-Year ended 1st August, 1925.

We have pleasure in submitting the 65th Half-Yearly Report and Balance Sheet.
The Sales for the half-year amount to £27,170 15s. 6d., a decrease of £825 15s. 1d. compared
with the corresponding period of last year. After providing for Interest on Share and Loan
Capital amounting to £1,034 11s. 11d., and depreciating Fixed Stock, Buildings, &c,
£1,336 6s. 3d., there is a balance profit of £705 9s. 2¼d., which, with the balance of £237 19s.
brought forward from last half-year, gives a total of £943 8s. 2¼d. for disposal.
We have added 13 new members during the half-year, 11 have lapsed, the present
number of Shareholders being 607.

The decrease in Sales and Profits is somewhat disappointing, but the corresponding
half-year with which the comparison is made was an exceptional one with regard to large
orders of a special character which could not be repeated. At the same time the half-year
just completed has been one of the busiest we have experienced, and in view of the general
condition of trade which is reflected in the printing industry the Committee consider
that the result is satisfactory. The London Branch is doing remarkably well and shows
a substantial increase in trade. Another valuable machine for rapid printing has been
installed there during the half-year and has already justified the rather heavy outlay.
The Kettering Branch has maintained its position fairly well and continues to render
good service.
Detailed figures for the half-year's trade are as follows --

Leicester Printing Works £ s. d.
Box Department 16,790 11 11
London Branch 5,891 8 7
Kettering Branch 3,365 15 0
1,123 0 0

We are glad to be able to report that a definite scheme for the rehousing of the Box
Department is now in hand. The Society has purchased a freehold building site in Gravel
Street, separated only by a narrow passage from the Printing Works in Short Street.
Plans are being prepared for consideration for the erection of a three storey, well-lighted
and up-to-date factory, with provision for an additional two storeys when future needs
warrant an extension. The advantages of having this department in closer proximity to
the general offices and works, with the extra accommodation and facilities generally that
this scheme provides are obvious, and we feel sure will lead to considerable expansion
and development of this important branch of our business.
The present half-year has opened well with a considerable number of orders.


---
548
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Council do not hold themselves responsible for the views expressed by Correspondents.
INTERNATIONAL SUMMER SCHOOL, SWEDEN.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
I attended an International Summer School held at Brunnsvic, Sweden, from
1st to 15th August, as a student sent by the General Council of the T.U.C., through the
National Council of Labour Colleges.
These schools have been inaugurated in view of the ever-increasing interest being
paid by the trade unions to the educational side of their work, and the I.F.T.U. run two
schools this year, one at Brunnsvic, and the other at Prague in Czecho-Slovakia.
On our arrival in Sweden, the students to the number of about fifty were the guests
of the Swedish Co-operative movement on the Saturday and the Trade Union movement
on the Sunday. During both these days everything possible was done to demonstrate the
warmth of the welcome extended to us, and in our tour of Stockholm and the mills and
shops of the Co-operative Societies we were shown many interesting sights, some of which
I may give in more detail in a later report, as the briefness of this report makes necessary
the exclusion of some valuable information as to the work of the young and virile Co-
operative movement in this country.
On Sunday our comrades of the L.O. (the initials denoting the general T.U. organisa-
tion in Sweden) took us for a sail up the beautiful inland lochs, and on our arrival at Vasteras
we parted with the singing of the "Internationale," the students proceeding onwards by
rail to the school and our comrades of the L.O. returning homewards.
Work commenced at the school on Monday morning with a lecture on the working-
class movement in Sweden. This lecture was particularly interesting from the point of
view of a comparison with our own country. Although only a small labour movement
(Sweden has only a population of 6,000,000) the workers of Sweden maintain an extensive
system of Workers Education through a body known as A.B.F. This body is constituted
by representatives from all phases of the workers' movement and every shade of opinion
from Co-operators to Syndicalists is represented in the governing Council. The Brunnsvic
school is a permanent organisation to which trade unionists are sent for six months' training
during the winter months. The location of the school on a lakeside among trees is com-
ducive to study, and the fact that the nearest town (Ludvika) is five miles away, also tends
to make the school free from interruption.
Albert Falkenberg, an ex-Cabinet Minister from Germany, dealt with the trade union
movement in that country and its latest developments.
Richard Sandler, Prime Minister of Sweden, gave an extensive lecture on Socialisation
Problems in Sweden. This lecture dealt in part with the problems of the present govern-
ment in Sweden, and in part with the programme of the Social Democratic Party and
probable methods of application.
J. W. Bowen, a member of the General Council of the T.U.C., gave a lecture on British
Trade Unionism, and dealt with it effectively in the brief time at his disposal.
Z. Piotrowsky dealt with the Polish workers' movement and the educational move-
ment also. A member of the school from another post-war country, viz., Czecho-Slovakia,
gave a very good lecture on the problems facing the workers in that country. Belina's
lecture was one of the most interesting I have heard for some time, and he was able to
explain from the point of view of a native of the country, the very complicated racial and
economic problems in that country.
C. V. Bramsnaes, Finance Minister in the present Danish Government, gave us some
information with regard to the workers' movement in that country. The S.D.P. in Den-
mark have only 55 seats out of 144 total, but are the government of the country.
Englebert Graf, the noted German economist, gave lectures on "Modern Tendencies
in Capitalism," and the "Materialist Conception of History." The best parts of both
these lectures were lost in the translation, as the technical terms did not correspond and the
correct meanings were very difficult to get.
Spencer Miller, junr., M.A., who is the General Secretary of the Workers' Education
Bureau in the U.S.A., gave a series of lectures dealing with American history and the
American Labour and Educational movements. Miller is a very capable lecturer and the
W.E.B., of which he is secretary, has over 2,000,000 members attached to it.
Comrade Brown, of the I.F.T.U., who was in charge of the school, was late in coming
owing to the fact that he was a member of the committee of eight in charge of the coal
strike, and was unable to come earlier. As most of us had not seen an English paper for
over a week, we were very keen to hear all the latest news with regard to the Coal crisis
---

---
549
Comrade Brown gave us a lecture on the crisis and was able to give us first-hand information
on the various negotiations between the Government, the Miners, the General Council,
and the Labour Party. I may say in passing that the Swedish Trade Unionists are very
interested in the present trend of the British Trade Union movement, and I was questioned
several times about the Quadruple Alliance and the Minority Movement. Comrade Brown
also lectured on "Migration," dealing with the emigration question over the last 100 years,
and another lecture was on the "International Trade Union Movement."
greater degree than usual.
The discussion on the lectures was very keen and the fact that each country had
lecturers of international repute representing them made the data obtained reliable to a
During the whole of our stay everything was done to make us feel at home, and
especial thanks are due to Mr. and Mrs. Hugo, the genial Rector of Brunnsvic, and his wife,
for their kindness during our stay.
31st August, 1925.
Yours fraternally,
THOMAS CAMPBELL (96068).
ITEMS OF INTEREST.
During the first six months of this year the Empire has taken 42.6 per cent. of our
exports of British manufactured produce and manufacture, whilst foreign countries have
taken 57-4 per cent. Of our re-exports of imported produce, the Empire has taken 17.9
per cent. and foreign countries 82.1 per cent.
*
*
*
On 13th July the price of the 4lb. loaf in London was 10d. At the same period of
last year, when the Labour Government was in office, the price was 9d.
*
*
*
The profits of brewing concerns were £9,971,000 in 1913-14; £18,400,000 in 1922-23,
and £17,840,000 in 1923-24.
*
*
*
The cost of a battleship of the latest type, inclusive of torpedoes, ammunition, &c.,
is approximately £7,000,000. The cost of a battle cruiser similar to H.M.S. "Hood"
is £6,000,000. The corresponding figures for a modern light cruiser are £2,000,000, a
modern destroyer £325,000, a modern submarine £400,000.
*
- The Labour Magazine, September, 1925.
*
*
As against the above, the British contribution to the League of Nations (including
the I.L.O.) is approximately £100,000 per annum. The whole of the expenses of the
League of Nations (including the I.L.O.) are under £1,000,000 per annum; the work of
the League is to save life; raise the standard of working conditions, and improve the
lives of the people. WHICH IS BEST? One million pounds for the League of Nations,
or the above-named sums spent on battleships ?
*
*
*
In the month of August this year, after eight months of Tory Government, the number
of registered unemployed increased by over 28,950 in one week. There was in registered
unemployed an increase of 176,085 over the number registered twelve months earlier,
when Labour was in office.
*
*
*
Instead of trade improving, the figures quoted show unemployment is again increasing.
So far from improving trade, the loss of this spending power has helped considerably to
destroy the home market. Every branch of the trades and industries supplying the home
market is necessarily affected by the loss of purchasing power by these successive cuts.
To Him That Hath-
*
*
*
Contrast the position of the wage-earner with the investor of capital. Figures show
that 1,411 companies, after payment of debenture interest, distributed profits as follows:-
In 1923, £130,759,424; in 1924, £139,362,273; an increase of £8,602,849. There was a
total return in capital invested in these 1,411 companies in a single year of more than
£110,250,000.
The average rate of net profits being about 10 per cent., the investor in these com-
panies gets his capital back in profits every ten years.
While wage-earners suffer reductions, the banking accounts of directors and employers
increase, as the following figures show:-In 1918-19 the receipts from super-tax were
£35,500,000; in 1923-24, £62,500,000; an increase of £27,000,000.
In 1918-19 the receipts from death duties were £30,750,000; in 1923-24, £59,500,000,
almost double, and being an increase of £29,250,000. - Speakers' Notes.


---
550
ENGLISH C.W.S. ALL-ROUND INCREASES.
Another Dividend of 2d. in the £.
ONE MILLION POUNDS OF TEA PER WEEK SOLD.
Increases of 10 per cent. in the trade, 21 per cent. in the output from
the productive factories, and a net profit of £487,444, are the most
attractive features of the C.W.S. Committee's Report for the half-year
ended 27th June, which is now issued and will be considered at the forth-
coming meetings of the shareholders on 3rd and 10th October.
The total sales for the half-year were £37,160,319 an increase of £3,543,552 on the
The total value of the supplies sent out from the
corresponding period of last year.
productive works was £13,563,668, an increase of £2,362,993.
The net profit, or surplus, after providing for all expenses, interest on capital, and
depreciation of property, amounted to £487,444; to which there is added the balance
£114,249 brought over from the previous half-year. This leaves a total sum of 601,693
available, from which it is proposed to pay a dividend of 2d. and of 1d. in the pound on
the purchases of members and non-members respectively; 186,936 1s. 2d. is proposed to
be written off buildings, fixtures, accounts, &c.; and this leaves £132,548 13S. IId. to be
carried forward.
The society's reserve fund stands at £742,270, and the insurance fund at £1,181,146,
The bank deposits and withdrawals for the half-year reached the remarkable sum of
£290,827,808, which is an increase of £26,891,538 on the corresponding period of last
ferred to the reserve fund. There are 19,459 current accounts, of which 5,632 are with
year; and the bank shows a surplus of £69,342, which it is recommended should be trans-
individuals and the rest with co-operative societies, trade unions, friendly societies, clubs,
and other mutual organisations.
The sales of tea show a net increase, 1,355,535 lbs. for the half-year; but Newcastle
shows a decrease of 9 per cent., and Scotland a decrease of 2 per cent. The total
sale of tea is 26,168,838 lbs.; or more than 1,000,000 lbs. per week,
withstanding London's decrease of 20 per cent. and Scotland's 7 per cent. London's
increase is only 9 per cent.; but Manchester district romps in splendidly with
Chocolate shows an increase, which amounts to the splendid figure of 61 per cent., not-
Manchester's increase amounted to 2,626 cwts., and the total sale was 6,526 cwts. The
increase of 261 per cent. in its purchases of Luton chocolate.
same for the corresponding period, or 5 per cent. of a decrease. The whole of the
The total sale was 9,224 cwts., 540 cwts. less
thants, including Scotland, share responsibility for the decrease; but Newcastle and
an
same cheering tale cannot be told of cocoa.
Scotland are again the heaviest.
A big increase, 424 per cent., is shown in the trade of the flour, meal, and provender
mills. All the ten mills did well in sales, and all showed profits except the Liverpool
Provender Mill, which registered a deficit of £2,498; but the Liverpool African Oil Mills
showed an increase in trade and also earned a profit. -Co-operative News, 19th September,
1925.
S.C.W.S. PROGRESS.
Mr. Robert Stewart, J.P., presiding at the half-yearly meeting of the S.C.W.S. at
Edinburgh last Saturday, spoke of the continued progress of the society. Despite all the
critics said, they were marching on to greater triumphs. The sales for the half-year
were £8,673,158, an increase of £132,198 over the corresponding half-year, whilst the
productive departments showed an increase of £354,398, or 13.1 per cent., over the corres
ponding period of last year. A dividend of 4d. to members and 2d. in the pound to non-
members was recommended. There was a grand total of over £9,005,157 in reserves.
The S.C.W.S. was one of the largest distributors of milk, and in regard to fishing, the
curing works at Aberdeen had received several good orders from Russia and Poland.
Notwithstanding the smaller catches, they had good orders from Rus the orders. He
pleaded for better support of the soap works. -Co-operative News, 19th September, 1925.
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
552
TECHNICAL EDUCATION.
BOOT AND SHOE MANUFACTURE.
The Executive Council of the Union desire the attention of members
to be called to the following in the hope that the classes may be
both interesting and helpful to members.
LEEDS TECHNICAL SCHOOL.
The work consists of Practical Instruction in all branches of the Trade, in addition
to Lectures and Demonstrations.
During the Session, students have the advantage of working on any machines in a
Evening Classes are held in Pattern Cutting, Clicking, Closing, Bottom Stock Cutting,
selected Department and on various classes of Light work.
&c., Handsewn Making, Hand and Machine Lasting, Machine Making, Hand and Machine
Finishing.
NORTHAMPTON TECHNICAL SCHOOL.
This scheme of classes is as follows:--ー
1.-Day Continuation School for boys and girls under 16.
Day Continuation School.
2. Branch Technical Schools for those who, for any reason, are unable to attend the
3.- Advanced Day Courses in Boot and Shoe Manufacture and Leather Manufacture,
which may be attended either full-time or part-time.
4.- Senior Evening Classes in the following departments: (a) Boot and Shoe Manu-
facture; (b) Leather Manufacture; (c) Commerce; (d) Domestic; (e) Engineering
(f) Building; (2) Science.
LEICESTER TECHNICAL SCHOOL.
full-time and part-time Day Students. The series of lessons is designed to meet all possible
A complete Course of Instruction in Boot and Shoe Manufacture is provided for
requirements of the Trade. The subjects dealt with are as follows:-Anatomy of the
Cutting and Design Clicking Closing; Bottom Stock Cutting and Preparation; Lasting
foot; Leather Testing by Physical and Chemical Methods: Leather Selection: Pattern
and Bottom Stock Attaching by Hand and Machine Methods: Finishing: Costings:
Factory Organisation and the Principles of Commerce.
A thoroughly representative plant of modern machinery is used throughout the
College, and such additions as may be deemed advisable are made from time to time.
Boots and shoes in sufficient numbers are put into work during the session to allow
of a liberal amount of practice, and all students are expected to reach a satisfactory stage
of mechanical proficiency before the conclusion of the Course.
COUNTY COUNCIL OF NORTHANTS.
At Welingborough the Boot and Shoe Industry work is divided into Junior, Senior,
Advanced and Honours Courses.
THE JUNIOR OR PRELIMINARY TECHNICAL COURSE is intended for boys from 13 to
17 years of age.
THE SENIOR TECHNICAL COURSE, for students of 17 years of age and upwards, includes
Lecture Classes in Applied Science and the Principles of Boot and Shoe Manufacture,
together with practical instruction in different branches of the trade. This Course should
ordinarily occupy two sessions, and consists of two parts-Elementary and Intermediate.
The Practical Classes include Pattern Cutting (at all centres), Hand-Sewn making
(at Daventry and Long Buckby), and Clicking, Closing, Bottom Stock, Lasting, Attaching
and Finishing at the Practical Schools of Boot and Shoe Manufacture.
to those who have passed the Intermediate Stage in the particular branch selected. Elemen
As the accommodation for the Machinery Classes is limited, preference will be given
tary and Intermediate students who desire later to attend classes in Machine Lasting,
Attaching or Finishing, should first attend a course in the corresponding hand process.


---
STAFFORD TECHNICAL SCHOOL.
THE EVENING CLASSES IN BOOT AND SHOE MANUFACTURE commenced early in Septem-
ber, and intending Students should join at once.
CLASSES WILL BE HELD IN :- Pattern Cutting (Elementary), Monday: Pattern
Cutting (Advanced), Wednesday: Hand Lasting, Monday: Machine Lasting, Monday:
Blake Sewing, Tuesday: Hand Sewing, Friday: Machine Welting, Thursday: Hand
Finishing, Friday: Machine Finishing, Tuesday.
SPECIAL CLASSES :- Theory Uppers, Tuesday: Theory Bottoms, Tuesday: Theory
Management, Thursday: Closing Classes for Girls, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thurs-
day and Friday.

CORDWAINERS TECHNICAL COLLEGE.
ST. JOHN'S LANE, FINSBURY, E.C. 1.
DAY AND EVENING CLASSES are held in the Technology of BOOT AND SHOE MANU-
FACTURE AND BOOT AND SHOE MAKING: Pattern Cutting and Designing: Clicking;
Upper Closing; Bottom Stock Cutting; Lasting (Machine Sewn, Welted and Turnshoes);
Machine Lasting (Consolidated System); Sole-Sewing and Stitching (Blake, Welted and
Turnshoes); Machine Finishing.
Hand-Sewn Making; Finishing; Sewrounds Making; Last Making; Last Fitting.
For detailed Programme of Classes, No. 310 (post free), apply personally or by letter
to the Registrar, Cordwainers Technical College, St. John's Lane, Finsbury, E.C. 1.

CITY AND COUNTY OF NORWICH EDUCATION AUTHORITY.
BOOT AND SHOE MANUFACTURE. — Classes will be held on five mornings each week
and the instruction will cover the whole subject of Boot and Shoe Manufacture including
organisation and management. These classes will be especially suitable for “pupils”
in factories and for the most promising departmental students preparing for the higher
and responsible posts in the industry.

BENEFITS.
Since the inception of the Sick and Out-of-Work Funds, the Union
has paid out :—

SICK & FUNERAL BENEFIT.
OUT-OF-WORK BENEFIT.
£
s. d.
£
s. d.
To December, 1924 667,902 8 7
To December, 1924 358,625 13 7
January, 1925
2,840 1 10
January, 1925
3,954 7 9
February
3,952 4 8
February
5,226 1 9
March
4,124 16 0
March
3,682 10 3
April
4,054 10 6
April
3,031 5 0
May
4,023 13 8
May
3,510 14 9
June
3,993 2 6
June
4,823 1 9
July
2,653 13 10
July
4,221 6 9
August
2,520 1 8
August
4,914 8 0

£696,064 13 3
£391,989 9 7
"The will is free:
Strong is the soul and wise and beautiful:
The seeds of God-like power are in us still:
Gods are we, bards, saints, heroes, if we will!"
- MATHEW ARNOLD.


---
REPAIRING TRADE BOARD.

Half-Yearly Report.

The following report on inspection and enforcement in the boot and shoe repairing
trade (Great Britain) for the six months ending 30th June, 1925, makes interesting reading
The number of firms on the Trade Board lists on 1st July, 1925, were 27,350; the
number of firms inspected for the first time during the period of six months were 933;
the number of inspections made during the period were 91; making a total number of
1,024.

No. of firms employing less than 2 workers was 534
"
"
2
"
5
"
273
10
28
II
20
9
21 -100
5
over 100

(Excluding 175 firms employing no workers).
The total number of workers employed by the firms inspected was 1,911 (1,530 em-
ployed by firms inspected on routine, and 381 employed by firms inspected on complaint).
the total number of complaints investigated during the period of six months was 196
The total number of complaints received during the period of six months was 175, and
(including 65 outstanding from 1924); 25 of these were dealt with by correspondence,
Arrangements have been made for the investigation of 49 complaints outstanding.

The results of inspection are as follows: - 856 firms were inspected on routine and
168 firms were inspected on complaint. The number of firms on whose premises current
notices were not posted were 194 on routine and 49 on complaint. Dealing with the
question of records. The number of firms in which no records were kept or inadequately
so were 629. These refer to persons engaged on time only. The firms who were found
to be keeping no records of wages or inadequately so were 319.

The total number of firms found to be underpaying workers on inspection of routine
or complaint were 150, and the total arrears claimed from these firms was £1,879 13s. 9d.,
whilst the total amount of arrears paid was £1,221 15s. The total number of workers
underpaid under inspection of routine and complaint was 198, and the total number of
workers to whom arrears were paid was 157.

Of the total arrears outstanding £54 13s. 9d. - due from 10 firms - is being paid by
instalments. The remainder, due from 25 firms - was claimed comparatively recently.
complaint), Scottish, 193; North-Eastern, 138; North-Western, 153; Midland, 117;
The distribution of inspections throughout the following areas were (routine and
Wales, 218; South-Western, 122; and London and South-Eastern, 83.

There were 913 inspections occupying one day or less, 85 occupying 2 days, 18 occupying 3 days, 4 occupying 4 days, and 4 occupying over 4 days. There have been many visits which have not involved inspection; 725 have been paid to establishments, whilst 154 have been paid to workers; 45 visits have been paid to Trades Union Officials, Association
secretaries, and others, whilst 8 visits have been paid in connection with permits of exemption, making the total of such visits amount to 932. The importance of the above inspections is the fact that where an inspection is made it is usually done with great thoroughness and often involves a considerable time being spent upon the premises. The fact that during the last six months 85 inspections have been made, occupying 2 days' time in each case, bears out the above statement.

WAGE BOARD IN SOUTH AFRICA: NEW ACT.

The Under Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs has transmitted to the Ministry
of Labour a copy of an Act recently passed by the South African Parliament which provides
for " the determination of conditions of labour and of wages and other payments for labour,
the appointment of a wage board and investigations as to wages and conditions of labour."
Persons exempted from the application of the Act are those engaged in agriculture and
forestry, domestic servants in private households, officers of Parliament, those whose
wages are governed or regulated by any Act relative to the public service or the railways
and harbours service; workers covered by an award or agreement which has been made
binding under the Industrial Conciliation Act of 1924 and which provides for wages not
lower than those in force under the new Act; and apprentices under the Apprenticeship
Act of 1922.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
556
IMPORTATION OF FOOTWEAR TO THE UNITED STATES OF NORTH-AMERICA.
The American Boot and Shoe Manufacturers' Association publishes statistic statements relating to Footwear Imports to United States. The following table shows the importation of boots and shoes in 1924 and 1923 classified after countries of origin, amounting to about 90 per cent. of total importation.
Boots & Shoes for men
1924.
Austria
8,691
France .. 36,001
Germany 8,458
Switzerland 155,294
Great Britain 38,537
Canada 24,088
All others
Boots & Shoes for women
1924.
16,268
72,112
100,667
34,893
4,862
15,573
262,024
Boots & Shoes for children
1924.
468
3,659
17,810
6,206
1,054
17,774
46,971
Total
1924.
25,083
125,923
109,125
196,393
44,453
57,435
558,411
279,416
Total Importation of leather footwear increased by 48 per cent. in 1924 compared with previous year. - International Correspondence, September, 1925.

SWITZERLAND.

Import of certain goods permitted.
The "Feuille Officielle Suisse du Commerce " for 1st September contains a Decision of the same date, effective as from 7th September, which grants a general licence for the importation into Switzerland of the goods shown below. These articles were already permitted to be imported over the Franco-Swiss and Italo-Swiss frontiers without licence except in the case of those falling under Tariff No. 182.
Tariff No.
18
182
184
190
199
201
Articles.
Skins and leather for the uppers of footwear of all kinds, except calf skin and upper leather of cow or ox hide, white (natural) or waxed.
Leather for harness, belts and military equipment, black or natural colour.
Skins and leather not specified elsewhere in the Tariff.
Leather parts of shoes and slippers.
Shoes and slippers of canvas, felt, &c., with leather soles or fitted with leather.
Shoes not specified elsewhere in the Tariff.

COST OF LIVING.

Average Percentage Increase since July, 1914; All Items (food, rent, clothing, fuel and light, &c.), operating at the commencement of EACH MONTH.

1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
10-15 35 65 85-90 120 125 165 92 78 77 80
15 35 65-70 90 120 130 151 88 77 79 79
15-20 35-40 70 90 115 141 86 76 78 79
15-20 35-40 70-75 90-95 110 132 133 82 74 73 75
20 40-45 75 95-100 105 141 128 81 70 71 73
25 45 75-80 100 105 150 119 80 69 69 72
25 45-50 80 100-105 105-110 152 119 84 69 70 73
25 45-50 80 110 115 155 122 81 71 71 73
25 50 80-85 110 115 161 120 79 73 72 74
30 50-55 75-80 115-120 120 164 110 78 75 76
30-35 60 85 120-125 125 176 103 80 77 81
35 65 85 120 125 169 99 80 77 81
Figures in bold type show the cost of living figure at the time of the 1919 Agreement, 1920 March Interim Agreement, 1922 February Interim Agreement, December (1922) Agreement, and present date
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
579
unity may be brought about. A report of the delegates to this Congress will
be found on pages 598-601. Here again much of the time was taken upon the
Communist question instead of it being devoted to purely trade union work.
THE PASSING OF MR. FRED BRAMLEY.
It is with sincere regret we have to record the fact that Mr. FRED
BRAMLEY, Secretary to the General Council of the Trades Union Congress,
passed away very suddenly whilst attending a meeting of the Inter-
national Federation of Trade Unions in Amsterdam on the 10th inst.
It is well known that Mr. Bramley had been ill for some time he felt.
however, after a recent sea voyage, somewhat improved, and determined
to take up the work in which he had spent most of his life.
It was seen both at the Congress at Scarborough and the Labour
Party at Liverpool, that he was not at all well. His desire, however,
to help the movement was so great that he felt compelled to carry on the
work, and it may be truthfully said he died in harness. As a matter of
fact he died after attending a meeting, and passed peacefully away in
his sleep.
Mr. Bramley did yeoman service for the cause of trades unionism
generally, and it was hoped he had some years of service in front of him ;
this was not to be.
We can only hope that the loss of Mr. Bramley will be a spur and
incentive to others to continue to carry on the work of humanity in
which he spent most of his life.
To Mrs. Bramley and the family we beg to tender our sincere con-
dolences and trust the appreciation and high regard in which Mr. Bramley
was held by his colleagues will be some consolation to them in their
irreparable loss.
COSSACK OR RODEO HIGH LEG BOOT.
The Leicester Closing Joint Committee has fixed Closing prices as under for the
following method of Closing this boot:-
METHOD OF CLOSING.
Front Quarter Seam closed, silked and rubbed down.
Top Bands run on-Tape held in when doing second row.
Back Quarter Seam closed, rubbed down and back-strapped.
Sides of Vamp joined to Quarter.
Lining closed back and front.
Lining solutioned and fitted to inside of Quarter.
Front is then fitted.
Front machined through lining forming Mock Row on Golosh, one Single Row.
M. J. BELL-RICHARDS,
President of the Leicester Women's Branch of the
National Union.
T. W. SMITH,
Secretary, Leicester Boot Manufacturers' Association.


---
Closing Prices for Cossack or Rodeo High Leg Boot.
Per gross Pairs.
Fitting fronts on leg and lining all round
Machining on Vamp and Mock Row forming Golosh on Post Machine (lining
Closing sides
and front previously fitted
Machining on Backstrap (14 inches in length) on Post Machine (say 1/3
Machining on Topbands, two rows including holding in tape
per inch)
Silking front seam, two single rows, on lining strips (6/-), including cutting
strips (2/-). See 104) AA. in Closing Statement
(If silked on Union Special Machine, twin needle, Statement prices,
according to height, to be paid).
Closing front seam
Rubbing Down (Statement price according to height to be paid)
Closing back seam
Silking back seam, two single rows, on lining strips 4/- per gross pairs for
fraction of an inch over 7½ inches, plus 15% extra for the Post M/c.
the first 7 inches (size 5), plus 10% extra for each additional inch or
A boot 12 inches high would be 4/-, plus 50%=6/-, plus 15% extra
for Post M/c...
Total
(The Committee recommends that the cutting of strips on back seam should
be done on the Table).
Rubbing Down back seam by hand (if done by machinist), 1/6d. per gross
inch or fraction of an inch over 7 inches. A boot 12 inches high
pairs for the first 7 inches (size 5), plus 10% extra for each additional
would be 1/6 plus 50%
Total
NOTE. -The above price is fixed on the understanding that a special stick
is provided for the Rubber Down.
Closing Toe Lining (linen or leather)
Closing back seam of linings, seam not exceeding 3¼ inches in length
For each additional inch or fraction of an inch, over 3¼ inches.
Extra
18/-
4/-
18/-
18/-
9/-
8/-
2/9
3/-
6/10
2/3
2/-
9d.
3d.
The Folding and Skiving Prices will be paid as according to Statement
plus Extras for height as given thereon.
The Lasting Joint Committee for Leicester has decided that the following Extras
shall be added to the Statement Prices for the operations mentioned below:
Seat Sinking
Pulling Over
Consol
Knocking-Up or Pounding-Up
Sole Attaching
Getting Off
Blake Sewing
Levelling
Loose Nailing
Heel Attaching
d. per dozen Pairs.
d.
1d.
Id.
d.
1d.
2d.
d.
1d.
1/-
Total Extras over the Lasting Dept.
NOTE. The above prices to come into operation and to be paid from the commencement
of the working week ending on 1st, 2nd, or 3rd October, 1925.
T. W. SMITH,
Secretary, Leicester Boot Manufacturers' Association.
FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.


---
THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement. By purchasing the Herald daily a full report of the political world as seen by Labour can be read.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union Stamp. Members and their families should wear only " Union Stamped Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
R. WHITE.
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
Please Note. - CHEQUES NOT "PRINTED PAPERS."
The Postmaster-General draws attention to the fact that considerable numbers of cheques are posted in open envelopes prepaid d. only. Cheques, whether crossed or not, and paper money generally, are inadmissible at a lower rate of postage than that applicable to letters, and if packets containing them are posted insufficiently prepaid they are liable to be surcharged double the deficiency.


---
582
THE GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
60 LADY SOMERSET ROAD,
KENTISH TOWN,
LONDON, N.W. 5.
19th October, 1925.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Buy no boots unstamped or unbranded; the makers are usually ashamed of
them.
The work for the month calls for great comment, inasmuch as the LABOUR PARTY
CONFERENCE by overwhelming majorities decided to prevent any new organisation from
disrupting the Party by personal attacks on the leading and Executive members, which
has been the policy of a section calling themselves Communists and based upon the Russian
régime, most of them openly advocating the change made in that country as a legitimate
means for a similar movement to take place here; but history counts in the matter, and
although all of us, proud of the term Socialist, know full well that the communal life of
mankind is worth striving for; also that dictatorship by any section or class is the direct
opposite to the policy advocated by the genuine Communists such as the late William
force put forth as a remedy, one would think that only by such means can a national
Morris. When these new organisations come forward with old ideas, rehashed, and physical
change be brought about. Our opponents were never tired during the past twenty years
in telling the public. My own experience in West Wolverhampton was mainly taken
up during the seven years of my close attachment to that constituency. We were con-
stantly assailed with the statements that the advent to power of the Labour Government
or Socialists would see a violent revolution, but Labour has been in office, although not
in power, for nine months, and left the state of the country better than they found it,
and not a single institution suffered nor been afraid. The attitude of these so-called
Communists has left a lasting impression on the movement since their attack on the
Chairman of the Labour Party and Leader in the House at the Woolwich By-Election,
and their belated friendship is looked upon with suspicion. If they think they have a
claim on the workers for support, then let them proceed with their propaganda anywhere
and everywhere that they have the chance. Those of us who admire their enthusiasm
find it difficult to distinguish between their policy and that of the Anarchists of old, and
the Syndicalism of a few years ago, but we only have to look at their ideal country, Russia,
and we shall not be happy until the Soviets, instead of electing themselves, go to the
polling stations and take their power from the elected of the people. We are informed
by deputation from the General Council of the Trades Union Congress that the imprison-
ment of the Russian Social Revolutionaries is being continued, and this is because they will
not give an undertaking from doing the very self-same thing that the present régime did
towards the revolutions when Kerensky was in power. Without the ballot box this
method appears in all countries where violent revolutions have taken place, that having
served power when having no one to fight, they fight each other, and if war is bad, it is no
better having vanquished the enemy to then turn your attention to your friends. In
Italy (Mussolini), in Ireland (the deaths of Mr. Griffiths and Michael Collins remind us),
in China several would-be dictators, and in this country the Communists only believe in
Parliamentary action for a purpose, and it is for these reasons that my colleagues and myself
voted against these attempts to be party of a party whose constitution and policy they
were opposed to. Their motto should be "Do as we say, not as we do."
In spite of all this, I consider it a most disgraceful thing if a Minister of the Crown has
publicly gloated over any of this country's citizens being placed under arrest. There
will be time enough after the trial to express his joy, but at present one can safely say
that the Home Secretary will be greatly disappointed if he cannot bring about a conviction
in the light of his alleged hilarity. It is only those of us who have been condemned behind
our backs that can vividly feel for others so placed.
NORTHANTS BOARD OF ARBITRATION had referred the price of a Blucher to be dealt
with by the Army Board, and upon inquiry it was found that a special price allowed some
years ago, and then withdrawn, had been maintained. This was a very unusual thing,
and if permitted, once the facts were known, would have resulted in a firm being permitted
to make something in leather at a rate less than the statements provide for under the
heading of "all other leathers." That in itself provides for this particular article, and
ultimately the Army Board came to the conclusion that the statement already
provided for this boot, and the same was referred back on that understanding.


---
f
583
ders could be dealt with at rates
whereby bulk orders
es less than the existing statements which
STREET - A visit was paid to Street to confer with the Branch on a proposition
before me and after working them out, the matter will be placed before the Executive of
have been compiled on a system of small orders and sizeable lots. The details were placed
the Union, as there appears to be an advantage when a firm makes for the wholesaler,
compared with firms who deal only with the retailers.
MARKET HARBOROUGH has been again visited and we have had a very pleasant inter-
about the change, and we are hopeful that as we have removed our embargo, that the
view bordering on our activities with the firm's customers who had helped us to bring
firm will do the same, because we cannot vouch for the future unless this is done in a
FAIRE BROS., MANSFIELD AND LEICESTER, Mr. A. W. Faire, Shoe Manufacturer,
views with the firm. It is well for us that a gentleman so much respected, and with whom
of Messrs. Smith, Faire & Co., has taken this matter in hand, and we have had two inter-
task of straightening out a tangle that would never had occurred if the Management of
we have always been able to deal without friction, should have undertaken the unwelcome
the Mansfield firm had made themselves acquainted with the customs of the trade, We
friendly spirit.
SUPERANNUATION. - The Council of the Union has been considering this matter and
have had special meetings and sub-Committees appointed for the purpose, and when they
have formulated their proposals, will place the matter before the members.
hope to be able to report more favourably later.
LEATHER FAIR. Our visit to the Fair did not enlighten us much, as officers, owing
having appeared to have made itself master of the industry. There will always be minor
to point in the direction of the coming together of buyers and manufacturers, machinery
to the small amount of machinery of the newer kind being shewn. The tendency seems
improvements, but few convulsions.
TRADE BOARD. Three more days have been spent in this work and several important
and operations more uniform and understandable. A fall back rate for juveniles has been
things done. The removal of anomalies has taken much time in trying to make the rates
recommended to the District Committees, which means that if any employer exceeds
the number of boys allowed, then he must pay from 7s. to Ios. per week more to that boy,
than any other bov, as a
penalty or deterrent, as the Ministry are advised that to claim
hours from 48 as govern factories to longer hours by one employer to the Shop Hours Act
the adult rate would fail to get any bench of magistrates to commit. The extension of
limit, on the pretence that no repairing is to be done over forty-eight hours, has been
referred by the Minister of Labour to the Law Officers of the Crown.
-over one thousand, and the claims for
INSPECTION. The number of firms inspected for the first time-over nine hundred.
Number of firms inspected during the six months-
back pay amount to nearly two thousand pounds. This alone is sufficient for the justifica-
tion for the existence of Trade Boards, and although some grumble at the Inspectors,
I am going to pay them this tribute that with all their shortcomings, THEY ARE DOING
SPLENDID WORK, and deserve much more praise and encouragement than they get. In
fact they are more thorough than many Trade Union Officials (whom I know), some of
their inspections taking over four days time. Take the case of the London firm who were
fined fro each, man and wife, and £5 5s. od. costs, because their Manager caused false
records to be made and over £20 in arrears of wages ordered to be paid.
I wonder there is any man in the repairing trade mean enough not to pay his weekly
contribution to Trades Unionism, who benefits and receives the advantages obtained by
his more generous shopmates. I make this appeal to all repairers to join up, and also to
the Trade Union element: Don't take your repairs to any shop where non-unionists are
employed.
FROME. With Mr. J. Manners we met the Executive Committee of this Parliamentary
Division respecting the appointment of an Agent, and we gave reasons the Council had
for not appointing an Agent at once, and as they were going to review the matter in six
months' time from August, there is little doubt of the matter being favourably considered
then, should nothing occur to hurry matters in that division.
JOINT INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL. -The sub-Committee appointed by this body has met
and considered how best to help on the principle of the legalising of National Agreements.
Negotiations are proceeding with the General Council for a Deputation from our Union
to the Ministry. The resolution re joining the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives
is proposed to be strengthened, and I hope, get put up in every factory.
SHODDY. This matter received attention and is to be dealt with, probably, by a
deputation to the Minister of Labour, Board of Trade and Minister of Health, and a cam-
paign ought to be started by the Union, and ultimately the Trade, for the elimination of
shoddy materials, and the slogan by Manufacturers, stamping on the soles of the shoes


---
WARRANTED BENEFICIAL TO HEALTH. This would at least create a fear amongst the
spurious manufacturers of shoddy, and would equally affect the factors and multiple
keepers, and other soulless individuals who engage in the black traffic of cheating
public. I am not at all satisfied that Stiffenings and Shoes coming into this country
made under proper conditions, so beware of several Stiffenings used very much in
Buy no boots unless you can trace their origin. No firm puts their name on
The Daily Herald still supplies the most news of the position of Labour. Every
country: we must boycott sweated labour at home or abroad,
they are ashamed of.
member should buy and read it daily.
Yours fraternally,
Wy Richard
General President
LEICESTERSHIRE COUNTY ARBITRATION BOARD
The Annual Meeting of the County Arbitration Board was held at the City Hall,
Leicester, on Thursday, 22nd October, 1925. Mr. G. A. Denman, the Chairman,
were also present Messrs. J. H. Bott, G. Ward, W. Harvey, G. A. Burton, J. W. Hot
J. Palmer and F. Wain, representing the Employers; Mrs. M. I. Bell-Richards, Messrs.
D. Astley, T. F. Richards, W. Warner, J. H. Osborne, G. Parbury, M. A. Parker, J
Greaves, A. Needham, W. Woodward. F. W. Burchnall, T. H. Vallance and P. Leade
in, representing the Operatives; and H. A. Flavill, Secretary.
The claims of the Operatives' side for extras for cleaning heels with aluminium plat
insertions and for lasting the Ladies' Rodeo Boot were referred to an Umpire.
Lasting Statement to a 7 to 8 boot upon which the Statement Joint Committee had failed
The question of the application of the 2-8 prices in the Nurseries' and Children
to reach an agreement was referred back to the Committee for reconsideration.
The fixing of closing prices for the Ladies' Rodeo Boot was referred to the Closing
The Chairman, Mr. G. A. Denman, and the Vice-Chairman, Mr. D. Astley, were
for the ensuing year, with Mr. I. H. Bott as Vice-Chairman. The Secretary, Mr. H.A
thanked for their past services, and Mr. T. F. Richards was elected Chairman of the Board
Flavill, was reappointed.
It was arranged that each side should send to the Secretary the names of their repre
Joint Committee.
sentatives on the District Enquiry Committees.
C.W.S. BOOT PRODUCTION.
For the half-year ended 27th June the total sales of the Co-operative Wholesale Society
Ltd., were £37,160,319, of which £13,563,668 was from the Society's own works. Included
headquarters, and of £309,213 at the London branch, these being increases of £56,646 and
in these totals were sales of shoes, leather, findings, &c., of £551,179 at the Manchester
£50,248 respectively. At the Newcastle branch the shoe and leather sales were £214,353,
as compared with £227,033 in the corresponding period of 1924.
The distributive sales in the shoe and leather departments were £1,074,745, while the
supplies from the Society's own works, tanneries and fellmongeries were £1,207,809, an
increase of over £130,000, or about 12 per cent. The value of the production in the boot
works at Leicester was £304,685, followed by the Rushden works with £228,305. Leeds
with £86,311. Heckmondwike with £63,950, Norwich £29,367, and Derby £26,191. The
supplies from the Pontefract fellmongery were £349,410, and from the tannery at Grappen-
hall £46,555.
Apart from the fellmongery at Pontefract, all the boot and shoe works made a profit
after charging interest on capital and depreciation. At Rushden the profit was £7.586
and it ranged down to the £591 obtained at the Norwich works.--Shoe and Leather News,
24th September, 1925.
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
BRANCH REPORTS.
BELFAST. - Trade continues to remain very dull in Belfast and district,
while the Derry Section sends the encouraging report that trade is good with
them. A meeting of the Trades Board (Northern Ireland) was held on the
23rd September. This was the first meeting of the reconstituted Board,
which is composed of thirteen members on each side. Our Union has five
seats allocated to them on the Board, all of whom we are pleased to state were
present at the meeting. The most important items on the agenda for the
meeting was the motion from the employers' side, moved by Mr. Smyth and
seconded by Mr. Kerr, "That the Time and Piece Rates be reduced by 25 per
cent." There were two motions from the workers' side sent forward by the
Branch Secretary; one was for a 10 per cent, increase on the present Time and
Piece Rates, and the other motion was one complaining of the unsatisfactory
system of inspection, and urging upon the Government Department responsible
to increase the staff of Inspectors so that the regulations made by the Board
would be better complied with. After considerable discussion, which occupied
the whole day, it was agreed to defer further consideration pending reports
from District Committees which have been set up till the next meeting of the
Board.
CHESHAM. - We are pleased to report a further improvement in trade
for the month, and that some of our members who have been unemployed for
a long period have obtained work again.
CHESTERFIELD. - Trade is still improving; we have, however, several
members still out of work.
DERBY. - Trade in Derby has slightly improved, but it is still very bad.
We have had two of our National Organisers with us, Messrs. J. H. Baum and
Len. Smith, who are doing good work, their only difficulty in making a good
number of new members is the short time that is being worked. Mr. Baum
addressed a Special Meeting of the Branch, when we had a fair number of
non-members present. He gave us a very good address, and answered a
number of questions satisfactorily. We, in Derby, are of the opinion that if
we could have the services of our organisers more often in the district we should
not be one of the backward centres.
DUNDALK. - Trade remains very uncertain, with future prospects
nothing more than hopeful, notwithstanding the fact that this, the boot indus-
try, happens to be one of the numerous tariff protected industries which exist
in the Irish Free State. Basing one's remarks on, if not authoritative, at least
pretty authentic information, we regret to say more pairs of boots and
shoes, particularly in the better class have, and are being imported into the
Irish Free State than before Protection. Something is wrong. We wonder if
the ministerial advocates of Protection fail to see the opening Protection
affords (profiteering!) Or are there only going to be two elements which
shall derive benefit from Protection-first, the Government; second, the
capitalist. The Government, by way of revenue raised from imported con-
signments; second, the capitalist by availing himself of the opportunity of
putting an additional three shillings on every pair. Boots or shoes usually
sold for £1 may now be sold for £1 3s. od. This may suit the classes, but what
about the masses? Are they beneath consideration? Painful rumours are
afloat in regards to solely appointed agencies extracting or rather endeavouring
to extract a 90 per cent. profit. Further, it is rumoured interesting aspirants
must do likewise or go without the goods. This state of affairs, if true, is
desperate, without even waiting to get hold of the market as business concerns
do. We are heading for the precipice of catastrophe, present omens prog-
nosticate industrial and commercial stagnation. The consumer, who pays the


---
piper, should name the tune. We are pleased to report that as a result of a
preliminary discussion, quite cordial relations exist between the employers and
our Union. Apparently those gentlemen consider combined organisation has
not destruction for its aims. We give it as our word of honour, and in doing
so speak for all fellow members, that it is our intention to assist any well.
meaning company to conduct its business in accordance with principles of
kindness first, and hope to demonstrate that social service is compatible with
industrial and commercial enterprise.
EDINBURGH. Repairing Section have been fairly busy during the
past month. New Workers are still quiet. Like other centres the Ministry of
Labour working of new regulations are showing more workers who are being
refused uncovenanted benefit from Labour Exchanges. Could not the Labour
movement organise a protest against the treatment meted out to workers
unable to find useful work. We see by Unionist Conference that the present
from the tyranny of the Trade Unions. As far as our knowledge goes they
Government are asked to pass into law a Bill to protect Unionist members
Branches have had another successful meeting in connection with Advisory
are quite at liberty to contract out. Why don't they do so? The Scottish
Committee. Several items of interest were under discussion.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - Trade generally remains fair, in com-
month, although certain factories have a number of operatives standing off.
parison with rest of the country-a general improvement on the previous
KILMARNOCK. - Trade in Kilmarnock not so good this month, but
pleased to say that our Section in Kilmaurs is improving this past month,
The repairing trade is very steady throughout the district.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT. - The general volume of trade in this
centre has improved, but lacks the briskness usually associated with this season
of the year. The industrial situation in the coal mining areas indicate a poor
demand for heavy footwear, and consequent short time for om operatives.
LEICESTER. - We are sorry we cannot report any improvement in trade.
LEICESTER WOMEN'S. - The Leicester Women's Branch have to
We have our share of the Rodeo or Russian boot here in Leicester, prices of
report unemployment is still as rife as ever.
There seems no improvement.
which we immediately settled with our manufacturers. The same have proved
very satisfactory having regard to the bulkiness of the boot. We have
sent a copy of the prices to all branches where there are women members
We hope they have been helpful. Only one branch has acknowledged the
copy. Some weeks ago we despatched from this office 80 copies of our revised
statement, and with the exception of about four, we do not know whether
they have reached their destination. The prices for treeing the Cossack boot
are:-Patent, per pair, 3d.; Glacé, per pair, 2d.; Willow, per pair, 24d.
We would like the Leicestershire County prices published for machining as
we know there are large quantities being done on piecework. Our members
at Wigston and Blaby are working to Leicester prices.
LIVERPOOL. We are pleased to report a clean bill of health and every
member employed. The boot repairing trade has been fairly good during the
past month. We have had quite exciting times and plenty of oratory, with a
divergence of ideas and views expressed by delegates to the Labour Party
Conference held in St. George's Hall, Liverpool, the last week in September,
besides all the outside meetings organised by different sections of the Labour
movement. Our Organiser, Mr. D. McCarthy, has been down here trying to
enlist a few recruits for the industrial army.
with no prospects in view. A meeting of the Board of Arbitration was held
LONDON SOUTH. Trade in London South continues to be very bad
on the 8th of September in connection with indoor workshop question in the


---
Sew-round trade. A long discussion took place between workers' side and
employers. Some of the employers are in favour, others against. Finally
decided to call a full meeting of the Masters' Federation to see if they can come
to terms. The Board adjourned until the 21st. Another Board Meeting was
held on the 21st in connection with the Sew-round trade. The employers and
workmen have had this question before them several times. The employers
want a 4th quality glacé kid sew-round, our side objects. Finally it was sent
to the Umpire, who decided on a 4th quality, but the workers' side still refuse
to accept the Umpire's findings, and the meeting adjourned until the 10th
October for a further report.
NORWICH. -Trade becomes rapidly worse and the immediate signs do
not hearten one to optimism in the future. Unemployed claims are heavy
and likely to remain so. The new members joining the branch in the early
weeks of the year are being lost in many cases through unemployment, although
we are confident of regaining them when work improves. The turnshoe
section has slightly improved in one or two factories on the evening shoe trade,
and we wait with some anxiety the coming of Spring orders.
NORWICH No. 2. Trade is not at all flourishing. With two or three
exceptions every factory is working short time as well as standing the men off.
Yet for all that it would not be surprising if the output for the City is not in
excess of what it was before the war. It is very apparent, excepting for a
short period during the year, the trade (under our economic conditions) is
carrying more labour than it can utilise during the normal week. What was
considered a fair sized factory a few years back is only considered a standstill
affair to-day. We believe we are holding our own with the other shoe centres,
though that is rather poor consolation. Our sick experience has been rather
heavy, due no doubt to the very changeable weather and to a mild epidemic
of influenza.
PLYMOUTH. -September has been very slack with us, and we are re-
minded by one of our unemployed members that October has brought with it
the "six waiting days," instead of the three as previously, before Unemployed
Insurance Benefit is paid. This means two weeks' unemployment before one
penny-piece is secured to keep the home fires burning; but it must be pointed
out that this is only part of the price to be paid for placing in power the Con-
servative Party after a big majority of working men were made to see red."
Now we see it was only a red illusion to attract attention while the swindlers
rifled the pockets of our poor down-and-outs. It only makes nine shillings
difference, but nine shillings to a poor unemployed man is much more than
nine thousand shillings to a rich one. Apparently the Government considered
that the unemployed benefits were too easily obtained, and encouraged working
men to be idle. They grew suspicious and could not trust the workers, there-
fore they made it a little more difficult and discouraged idleness by cutting
off nine shillings from the first week of unemployment, so please allow us to
record the following : October, 1924: The British working man entrusted
the Conservatives with the reins of government and graciously paid them four
hundred pounds per annum as a minimum only, Cabinet Ministers more accord-
ing to size of hat. October, 1925: The Conservatives show their appreciation
of the British working man by distrusting him, and recognise his kindness
by cutting off nine shillings from the first week of unemployment, then blandly
tells him it is a little pick-me-up for his moral fibre, that he is relying too much
on State assistance, that he will really be better without the nine shillings
than with it. When these platitudes are uttered at political meetings there
are some working men who actually nod their approval and bray like donkeys.
Yet there are intelligent people who say "man came from monkeys."
STAFFORD. Trade in this centre still remains very slack.
WATERFORD. -Trade was fair during the past month,


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since my last report I have been engaged mainly at Manchester and Liverpool
I went to the New Liverpool Rubber Works at Walton on 29th September, and spoke in
the dinner hour and evening to the girls engaged in making rubber shoes and boots. Con-
tinued the work next day and engaged a room for an indoor meeting on 1st October. My
Conference at Liverpool, were invited to the meeting. Fifty of the girls attended this
colleagues, Messrs. W. R. Smith and Len. Smith, being delegates at the Labour Party
say that we were surprised at the low earnings of the pieceworkers would be putting it
meeting. They were invited to give us some idea of the conditions of labour obtaining
mildly. They unanimously agreed that it was necessary to join the Union to protect
at the firm in their particular line. There was no hesitation in giving particulars. To
them and improve their position. The meeting was postponed to the following evening
and they were rewarded in the fact that 121 women and girls became members of the
with the view of getting a better attendance. My colleagues again joined me at this meeting
Union. Three Shop Presidents were elected and we promised to come again and give
further help to make them strong enough to elect a full-time Secretary on their own, owing
mentioned in my last report that we had joined 200 women at Manchester engaged on this
been there on a few occasions since and the membership is now bordering on 200. I
in making plimsolls and rubber shoe goods generally if they would join our Union and give
class of work. It would be a blessing to the women and girls at the five factories employed
North British, of Edinburgh, Stuart's, of Dunfermline, and the firm at Leith, could only be
chester, are in favour of uniformity of rates being fixed if the New Liverpool Co., The
us a chance to improve the piecework rates and weekly wages. Frankenburg's, of Man-
brought into line. Members in the area of the Scottish firms named might send any
to the peculiarity of their work
information they have on these shops to the headquarters in London.
I have
For a considerable time efforts have been made to get the firm of Parker & Barlow,
County Statement. With this object Mr. W. R. Smith and I met Mr. . H. Parker at
Mountsorrel on the 22nd. We are to meet again on the 29th, when we hope to make a
of Mountsorrel, to recognise the graduated scale of wages and minimums, and the Leicester
settlement that in fairness the employees and the trade are entitled to.
26th October, 1925.
D. MCCARTHY.
During the past month I have chiefly been engaged in the Derby district, visiting the
following firms: C.W.S., Clemson's, Maden & Ireland's, and the Derby Boot Company
Unfortunately trade is not very good, and has therefore interfered with any marked
improvement in organisation. I have frequently met the operatives working at Maden &
Ireland's, where our organisation is very weak, many of the operatives having ceased
membership some time ago. They have been working very short time for some months
now, but by coming in personal contact with them and explaining the work of the Union,
further interest has been added, which I think over a period of time will eventually have
beneficial results. No Holiday Fund is in operation, and the operatives consider that as
two other firms in the town are paying, the position is not fair. This appears to be an
excellent reason why they should all belong to the Union, but as I have pointed out to them,
that until they show a better appreciation of the power of organisation, the matters that
they complain about can never be adjusted. With trade improving, I think that by
consistent work the operatives' confidence can be regained, whereby negotiations could
proceed which will gradually improve their conditions. Clemson's have also been working
very short time, and a fairly good number have lapsed, but definite promises are being
made that as trade improves they will eventually commence paying. Conditions are
decidedly bad at the Derby Boot Company, the operatives are not very responsive, only a
few of the girls seem to have any spirit, the rest accept the conditions and just grumble.
Fear appears to be the usual driving force at this firm, and no doubt the employer would
be at a loss if he depended upon anything else to conduct his business, and the only way to
end this condition of affairs is for the men and women to assert their position as human
beings, and demand humane conditions of employment.
I called a meeting of the whole firms in the town, which was fairly well attended.
A good discussion took place on the work of the Union. As a result of this meeting several
matters were raised with reference to the C.W.S., which no doubt will be adjusted.
I have again visited Mansfield, and met the operatives working at the Mansfield
working at Faire Bros., but no improvement is possible until negotiations are completed
Shoe Company. Our organisation is steadily improving at this firm. I also met the girls
with this firm. The girls resent very much the interference of the firm with their rights,


---
806
BRANCH REPORTS.
29th. Reports were brought in of work being slow and a large numbe
BRIGHTON. -The Branch Meeting was held on Wednesday, Septer
men out of work in the town. On September 30th the Brighton Town Cot
Trams, and Boot and Shoe Trades were present. The Public Gallery
the Secretary of the Painters' Society commenced to protest by speakin
packed with people out of work. The Mayor opened the meeting, and at
Meeting was held, the Secretaries of the Building Trades, Painters, 'Bus
the Councillors from the Public Gallery. The Chairman appealed for on
Another start was made to carry on the business of the Council, but
Secretary of the Painters was on his feet again and a united protest was m
for work. The Council proceedings were stopped for an hour; the wor
Clerk asked the men to send delegates to speak to the Council in the tea ro
refused to move after the Council had rested for over an hour, and the T
notice to leave. We have had a reply from the Secretary saying he will
We have to report trouble at the Co-operative Stores, the foreman ha
our letter before the Committee.
ment in trade during the past month; enquiries have been made, and we h
BRISTOL AND KINGSWOOD No. 2. We cannot report any impro
and short time is operative throughout the district. Our members are stron
had visions of big contracts, but up to the present they have not materialis
and hope it will be possible for us to administer it, as they are convinced t
in favour of a scheme being set up to deal with the Unemployment Insuran
it will be to the advantage of those engaged in the industry. We hope it
Insurance advertises that the present Social system cannot eliminate this,
set them thinking, as the fact of the Government setting up an Unemployme
greatest horror of a worker's life, to be without work. In spite of the prese
to change the system, which brings comfort to only a few, is brought abo
dark outlook, we do look into the future with hope, and, if the determinati
through bitter experience of the many, it will be no less welcome when
does come.
CHESTERFIELD.-Trade fair; men who are employed making ne
work are losing Saturdays still, and Repairers report slackness. The settl
ment of the Miners' question we hope will relieve matters, but everybody
waiting and little or no orders are coming in for new work here. We ar
hoping the settlement will not be long, and we hope wise counsels on both side
will prevail and they will settle the matter without a strike, for at the presen
time it would paralyse all industries round here. We have plenty of un
employment already in this district at the present time.
of Repairing Section are pleased that a move is being made for some increase
EDINBURGH.-Trade is quiet at time of making returns. The members
in private firms ? Will they require to wait Wages Board drawn-out negotia-
on present rates, but if Co-operative Societies pay, what about the members
Monthly Meeting, when it was agreed to send along some items to be considered
tions? We had Circular about new Agreement before the members at the
for the improvement in the wages and conditions of the men workers. Accord-
whether time or piece, to bring us up to pre-war conditions. There are some
ing to present cost of living we want at least 75 per cent. on all present rates,
price given in Basic Statement. We are of the opinion that as the employer
operations in one of the factories which cannot make the minimum wage at the
cannot see his way to raise same, that a case should be put before our Arbitra-
living. We are in the position of not knowing how we stand with regard to
tion Board to try and get prices which will at least bring the men a decent


---
807
the Unemployment Act, 1920. The Council were expected to contract out
If we are to get our own members to join under their own Union then it is time
something definite was done. Reports being now so much increased in price
of this scheme, but up to the present time we have no lead from Central Office.
strange that 1d. per copy should be charged to Branches when the actual cost.
they should be made to go over two or three members; it sounds somewhat
is six times that amount. Members are paying new contributions without
much grumbling.
HALESWORTH. - We held our Annual Meeting on Friday, September
from our point of view. It would make a great deal of difference to this Branch
24th, and we are glad to say that we had more members than was expected
writing and make things go smoother; we only have one meeting a month,
if the members would turn up at every meeting the same, it would save a lot of
and we don't think it fair to the Branch officers if four members out of twenty
turn up; we should like members to bear this in mind, both for the present
and also the future. Our next meeting will be held the first Friday in November,
so will you all make a special effort to attend ? Trade is very slow and a lot
of short time has been contended with, but still there are better days in store
for us; we went through our first year with a struggle through members
being discharged from their situations.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. There are signs of some improvement in
trade, some factories that were on short time are now on full, and there is a
considerable falling off during the first week of October of out-of-works; as
Messrs. Green's (Leicester) Branch Factory at Finedon has closed
down temporarily; also Messrs. Brown's (Leicester) Branch Factory at Irchester
has closed down for the month.
HULL.-Trade at the present is very bad and the prospects of improve-
ment do not look very bright. We were pleased to notice in the Trade Press
of our President's intention of asking for a 50 per cent. advance at the next
Board meeting, as we can all do with it and we hope he will be able to secure
that amount. We noticed also that the nominations of the District Committees
have gone through, and earnestly hope they will soon get to business. Our
Organising Campaign has ended favourably, considering the bad times and a
local fair on hand. We also wish to state we would have done better had the
age limit to include sickness been raised at the last Conference. We heartily
support our Plymouth brethren in their last report, and hope the Council
could give us legal advice or sanction a case going through the Courts; it only
We have quite a
wants one to be fought successfully to make them all come up to the scratch,
which they would very soon do should such a case be won.
number of cases which for barefaced evasion of the Trade Board Award beats
anything we have seen. We hope the Council (through our President) will press
for the immediate appointment of more inspectors, men fully conversant with
the repairing trade, and are of the opinion that the Government can find plenty
of ex-soldiers (Repairers) who could faithfully fill these positions. We are
sorry to have to report our President has resigned on conscientious grounds;
he and myself have done good work in getting this Branch formed, and after
a bit of persuasion Mr. T. Mansfield now accepts and will occupy the position
until the end of the term.
LEICESTER No. 2. In response to the appeal by the Daventry Branch
on behalf of their ex-President, C. S. Coleman, £2 10s. was granted.
of trade during the past month; the same remark might be applied to our
LIVERPOOL. "Nothing doing," may be aptly described as the state
Branch meetings when only a few members turn up. We are pleased to report
that a compensation case, where the member lost the sight of one eye, has been


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
817
(b) the entry in or upon Insurance books or cards of particulars of contribu-
tions and benefits paid in the case of the persons to whom the Insurance books
or cards relate;
(c) payment of contributions due from an Employer, including payments of
contributions made by and/or on behalf of an insured contributor employed
by him by means of cheque or otherwise at such intervals as the Committee may
prescribe;
(d) the issue, sale, custody, production and delivery up of Insurance books
or cards and the replacement of Insurance books or cards which have been lost,
destroyed, or defaced.
16. Unemployment Benefit.
(1) The statutory conditions for the receipt of Unemployment Benefit by a person
insured under this Scheme (in this Scheme referred to as " an insured contributor") are-
(i.) that he proves that not less than twenty-five contributions have been
paid in respect of him under this Scheme;
(ii.) that he has made application for Unemployment Benefit in the pre-
scribed manner, and proves that since the date of the application he has been
continuously unemployed;
(iii.) that he is capable of and available for work, but unable to obtain
suitable employment;
(iv.) that he has not exhausted his right to Unemployment Benefit under
this Scheme;
Provided that a person shall not be deemed to have failed to fulfil the statutory con-
ditions by reason only that he has declined-
(a) an offer of employment in a situation vacant in consequence of a stoppage
of work due to a trade dispute; or
(b) an offer of employment in an occupation different from that which has
hitherto constituted his usual employment, except that the Committee may
decide that either generally or in a particular case a stated occupation is suitable
employment in which case this provision shall not apply.
(2) For the purposes of this Scheme-
A person shall not be deemed to be unemployed on any day on which he is following
any occupation from which he derives any remuneration or profit, unless that occupation
has ordinarily been followed by him in addition to his usual employment and outside the
ordinary working hours of that employment, and the remuneration received therefrom in
respect of that day does not exceed three shillings and fourpence, or, where the remunera-
tion is payable in respect of a period longer than a day, the remuneration does not on the
daily average exceed that amount.
(3) A person shall be entitled to receive Unemployment Benefit for any period not
exceeding twenty-five weeks in all at the rates stated in the First Schedule to this Scheme,
and such benefit shall be payable from the first day of Unemployment, providing that if a
person is unemployed for less than three consecutive days no Unemployment Benefit
shall be payable in respect of that period of unemployment.
17. Under-employment Benefit.
Under-employment benefit shall be payable at the rates and under the conditions
stated in the Second Schedule.
18.
(1) An insured contributor who has lost employment by reason of a stoppage
of work which was due to a trade dispute at the factory, workshop, or other
premises at which he was employed shall be disqualified for receiving Unemploy-
ment Benefit so long as the stoppage of work continues, except in a case where he
has, during the stoppage of work, become bona fide employed elsewhere in the
occupation which he usually follows or has become regularly engaged in some
other occupation.
Provided that an insured contributor who has lost employment by reason
of a stoppage of work which was due to a trade dispute in which he is not directly
concerned shall be disqualified for receiving Unemployment Benefit for a period
of six working days; and this period of six working days shall be dies non both
in respect of Unemployment and Under-employment Benefits.
C


---
22.
819
Provided that where upon a recommendation by a Court of Referees Un-
employment Benefit is, in accordance with regulations made under this Scheme,
determination of the claim, the benefit shall, except where the regulations
paid during any period intervening between the claim for benefit and the final
otherwise prescribe, be treated, notwithstanding the final determination of the
question is adverse to the claim, as having been duly paid and shall not be recover-
able from the employed person under the provisions of this Scheme or otherwise.
(5) The Arbitration Act, 1889, shall not apply to proceedings under this
Scheme except so far as it may be applied by regulations under this Scheme.
The Committee may appoint such officers, inspectors, and servants for the purpose
of this Scheme as it may, with the sanction of the Council determine, and there shall be
paid, out of moneys provided by the Scheme, to such officers, inspectors and servants,
such salaries or remuneration as the Committee may determine and any expenses in-
curred by the provisional Committee appointed by the Council to prepare this Scheme or
by the Committee in carrying this Scheme into effect, to such amount as may be sanctioned
by the Council, shall be defrayed by moneys provided by the Scheme.
Provided that such sum as the Council may direct, not exceeding one-tenth of the
receipts paid into the Unemployment Fund established under this Scheme on account of
income, shall, in accordance with regulations made by the Council, be applied as an appro-
priation for the purpose of such salaries, remuneration, and expenses as aforesaid.
23.
(1) A Court of Referees for the purpose of this Scheme shall consist of one
or more members chosen to represent employers, with an equal number of members
chosen to represent insured contributors, and a Chairman appointed by the
Council.
(2) Regulations under this Scheme may provide that any claim or question
which is reported or referred to a Court of Referees may, with the consent of the
claimant or the person or association in whose case the question arises, but not
otherwise, be proceeded with in the absence of any member or members of the
Court other than the Chairman, and in any such case the Court shall, notwith-
standing anything in the Scheme, be deemed to be properly constituted, and the
Chairman shall, if the number of the members of the Court is an even number,
have a second or casting vote.
(3) Panels of persons chosen to represent Employers and insured contributors
respectively shall be constituted by the Council for such districts and such trades
or groups of trades as the Council may think fit, and the members of a Court of
Referees to be chosen to represent Employers and insured contributors shall be
selected from those panels in the prescribed manner.
(4) Subject as aforesaid, the constitution of Courts of Referees shall be
determined by regulations made by the Council under this Scheme.
(5) The Committee may authorise the payment of such remuneration to
the Chairman and other members of a Court of Referees, and such travelling
and other allowances (including, subject as hereinafter provided, compensation
for loss of remunerative time) to any such Chairman or members or to any persons
required to attend before any such Court, and such other expenses in connection
with any Referees as the Committee, with the sanction of the Council, determines,
and any such payments shall be treated as expenses incurred by the Committee
in carrying this Scheme into effect;
Provided that compensation for loss of time shall not be paid to any person
in respect of any time during which he is in receipt of remuneration under this
section.
24. Financial Provisions.
(1) For the purpose of this Scheme there shall be established, under the control and
management of the Council, a fund called the Unemployment Fund, into which shall be
paid all contributions payable under the Scheme by Employers and employed persons
and out of moneys provided by Parliament, and out of which shall be paid all claims for
Unemployment Benefit and any other payments which, under the Scheme, are payable
out of the Fund.
(2) The accounts of the Unemployment Fund shall be audited in such manner as the
Treasury may direct.


---
29.

Where an employer has failed or neglected to pay any contributions which, under
this Scheme, he is liable to pay in respect of any employed person in his employment, or
has failed or neglected to comply, in relation to any such person, with the requirements of
any regulations relating to the payment and collection of contributions, and by reason
thereof that person has lost in whole or in part the Unemployment Benefit to which he
would have been entitled under this Scheme, he shall be entitled to recover summarily
from the employer as a civil debt a sum equal to the amount of the Unemployment Benefit
so lost.

(2) Proceedings may be taken under this section notwithstanding that proceedings
have been taken under any other provision of this scheme in respect of the same failure
or neglect.

30.

Section 26 of the Act shall apply to this Scheme as if it were incorporated in this
Scheme.

31.

In determining whether out-door relief shall or shall not be granted to a person in
receipt of or entitled to receive Unemployment Benefit or benefit under this Scheme, the
Committee shall not take into account any such benefit except in so far as it exceeds ten
shillings a week.

32.

(1) The regulations made under this Scheme shall provide for the return to a person
who is not an employed person within the meaning of this Scheme, and to his employer of
any contributions paid by them respectively under the belief that that person was an em-
ployed person within the meaning of this Scheme, subject, in the case of the employed
person's contributions, to the deduction of any amount received by him in respect of
Unemployment Benefit under a similar belief:

Provided that no return of contributions shall be made under this provision except
on an application made in the prescribed manner and within the prescribed period, not
being less than one year from the date on which the contributions were paid.

(2) Where under regulations made under this Scheme any sum has been paid out of
the Unemployment Fund by way of reward for the return of an Insurance book or card
which has been lost, the person responsible for the custody of the book or card at the time
of its loss shall be liable to repay the sum so paid, not exceeding one shilling in respect of
any one occasion.

33. Powers of Inspectors.

(1) An inspector appointed under this Scheme shall, for the purposes of the execution
of this Scheme, have power to do all or any of the following things, namely :-

(a) To enter at all reasonable times any premises or place other than a pri-
vate dwelling-house not being a workshop, where he has reasonable grounds for
supposing that any employed persons are employed;

(b) To make such examination and enquiry as may be necessary for ascer-
taining whether the provisions of this Scheme are complied with in any such
premises or place;

(c) To examine, either alone or in the presence of any other person, as he
thinks fit, with respect to any matters under this Scheme, every person whom
he finds in any such premises or place, or whom he has reasonable cause to believe
to be or to have been an employed person, and to require every such person to
be so examined, and to sign a declaration of the truth of the matters in respect
of which he is so examined;

(d) To exercise such such other powers as may be necessary for carrying
this Scheme into effect.

(2) The occupier of any such premises or place and any other person employing any
employed person, and the servants and agents of any such occupier or other person, and
any employed person shall furnish to any inspector all such information and shall produce
for inspection all such registers, books, cards, wages' sheets, records of wages, and other
documents as the inspector may reasonably require.

(3) If any person wilfully delays or obstructs an inspector in the exercise of any power
under this Section or fails to give such information or to produce such documents as afore-
said, or conceals or prevents or attempts to conceal or prevent any person from appearing
before or being examined by an inspector, he shall be liable on summary conviction to a
fine not exceeding five pounds.


---
827
He told me they had tried to get out a scheme for cheap boots and shoes, but that
the scheme met with failure. He also stated they had raised the wages of boot operatives
to amongst the very best in Germany, but that the conditions generally were very bad
and very serious for the population there.
What was interesting was the length of time which some of the speakers took to
address the conference, varying from one and a half to two hours without expressing for
or against the resolution, and then at another time quite a number of delegates would
want to speak at one and the same time.
At the public meeting the general trend of all the speeches was for toleration and
broad mindedness and a determined attempt to try and understand the varying conditions
generally as to help forward the movement of the workers for a better standard of life and
obtaining in the several countries with a view to seeing if such action could be taken
better conditions appertaining to the people as a whole.
Paris, 1920.
E. L. POULTON,
General Secretary.
ORGANISER'S REPORT.
DUBLIN,
FELLOW MEMBERS,
October 19th, 1920.
Since my last report, September 20th, I have been working in London. I also
paid a visit to Manchester and am now in Dublin, where I worked 26 years ago.
I visited several shops at Manchester on the 21st September, on questions of wages
and prices. One firm had not carried out their agreement with us in regards to charging
the machinists for cotton. Last Easter there was a definite promise given that the cotton
would be supplied free for the future. The pledge was given again this time that no charge
would be made for the future. The girls were to blame for not letting the local Secretary
know about this breach of faith.
Mr. C. Mayes, Council Member, and I, visited Chesham on the 23rd over a number
of our members working overtime and not charging for same. It appears that the
employers called the workers together in several factories and asked them to work over-
time without charging the extra demanded by our rule. They were told a nice plausible
tale about the order being a lean one, &c. The local Secretary and President did all
they could to keep their members up to a sense of responsibility and loyalty to a vital
trade union principle, but sad to say that in the cases of four shops they failed. There
is no clause in all of our agreements that a stiffer fight had to be put up for than this one
on pay for overtime, and yet our members thoughtlessly fritter away their rights and
undermine the very structure of the Union.
On September 24th the President of the London Metro. Branch, and I, visited some
shops in Bethnal Green. We visited many shops up to October 2nd, and found an extra-
ordinary variation in prices, particularly in the clicking, according to the position of each
shop in the way of organisation and trade union spirit. At the firm of Zimmerman's,
where we joined about 20 members, the conditions are bad. The Consol operator was
doing about £7 worth of work for £4. We had a good meeting of the workers of this firm
on the 30th. and they all agreed to stand by one another, and left it to us to try and bring
about an improvement in the factory. Mr. Mason and I had a long interview with Mr.
Zimmerman on October 9th, and I have hopes that as a result of this that a considerable
advance will be effected.
Our Union has tried its best to unite the whole of the workers in every branch of the
trade into one united body. The need for this was brought home to me when I visited
the firm of Messrs. Raynes, Waterloo Road, and found that there were as many as four
unions represented there and the majority outside any union.
When the General President and myself were in Ireland some weeks ago the manu-
facturers we met asked for piecework rates to be got out for the different shops. I am
in Ireland at present trying to do something along these lines. The organisation of some
of the shops makes this a difficult problem. A deputation of our Irish members visited
Leeds, Leicester and Northampton to see for themselves how the conditions differed in
the way of organisation, pay, &c. They unhesitatingly say that they could accept the
English rates of pay if the conditions all round were similar. The deputation are more
than thankful for the generous way in which they were received by the officials and members
of the branches named. Personally I join them in my thanks for the comradeship and
good feeling shown wherever they went.
D. MCCARTHY.


---
Here is the extracted text:
832
SEATS FOR WORKERS IN FACTORIES AND WORKSHOPS.
The strain caused by prolonged standing at work makes it important that seats should
be provided to enable the workers to sit at their work where practicable, or, where the work
which almost invariably occur in the course of a spell of work. Change of posture is
cannot be done sitting, to take advantage of the occasional opportunities for resting,
that such variation, by preventing unnecessary fatigue and other troubles, promotes
helpful and beneficial to the health and comfort of the workers, and experience shows
efficiency.
The provision of seats at particular works or classes of works is one of the matters
with which the Home Office is empowered to deal by Welfare Orders under Section 7 of
the Police, Factories, &c. (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1916; and Orders requiring
seats for women and girls have already been made for several industries. The provision
of seats is thus recognised as an integral part of good welfare arrangements.
importance of this question, and to assist them in taking the matter up by placing before
The object of this pamphlet is to direct the attention of employers generally to the
Majesty's Inspectors of Factories, and by indicating how the difficulties sometimes met
them a short summary of the information and experience on the subject gained by His
from employers, managers and others as to their experience in this matter.
with can be overcome. The Home Office and the Inspectors would welcome information
The subject may be conveniently considered on general lines, under three main heads,
as follows:-
(a) Seats for work which can be done sitting.
(b) Seats for occasional rest when work must be done standing.
(c) Seats outside the workrooms for rest during intervals.
The types of seats suitable for use under heads will vary considerably according to
the character of the work and the occupations of the workers.
2. SEATS FOR WORK WHICH CAN BE DONE SITTING.
possible. Workers are often unnecessarily made to stand at their work either through
The aim in every factory should be to arrange for the work to be done sitting wherever
the mistaken idea that they will work harder and better, or simply because it has always
been the tradition or custom of the factory to do so.
It is certain that by some readjustment of tables or benches, the adoption of suitable
chairs, the introduction of mechanical conveyors, or other similar means, much work
now done standing could equally well be done sitting.
Two things have to be considered-(a) the type of seat, (b) the adjustment of the seat
to the work.
(a) If the beneficial results looked for are to be obtained the kind of seat used must
not be left to chance but must be selected with due regard to the nature of the work. A
badly designed or badly adjusted seat produces a cramped position of the body and inter-
feres with the proper functions of the body. The abdominal organs may become distorted,
predisposing the worker to disorders of the digestive system; or a position may be neces-
sitated which prevents full expansion of the chest and so tends to weakness of the lungs
and impoverishment of the blood. Again, a seat, which is too short from front to back
and has a sharp front edge or which is fixed too high from the ground causes pressure
on the back of the thighs and by hampering the blood supply produces cold feet. The
seat should be so designed and its position in relation to work so adjusted as to allow
the worker to carry his body in a normal position while at the same time relieving his
legs of the weight of the body.
(b) Where it is impossible to adjust the work to the worker, the worker must be
adjusted to the work by a proper arrangement of the seat. A rule suggested by the
elbows will bear the same relation to the working level when he is sitting as they would
Gilbreths in their "Fatigue Study" is that the seat should be such that the worker's
if the workplace were properly adjusted for him to do the work standing. Different
workers require seats of different height, and it must not be overlooked that seats which
are perfectly comfortable to one worker may be very uncomfortable for another. This
point can be met by providing chairs of different sizes, but the better and more usual
way is to provide adjustable seats.
as vertically.
seats should in general be easily movable, or they may be made to swing aside. But
In order that the workers may have the opportunity of sitting or standing alternately,
be fastened to the ground, and in such case it should be adjustable horizontally as well
where a worker is seated before a dangerous machine (e.g., a power press), the chair should


---
833
No general rule can be laid down as to providing backs to seats. In many cases
seats without backs are preferred, and are found to be more convenient in practice. Where
backs are provided they should be inclined only slightly backwards from the vertical,
and should be of a height which will afford support to the lower part of the back, if made
too high they interfere with the free movement of the arms.
A separate seat should be provided for each individual. Forms are inconvenient
for the worker, and if used should be made short and should accommodate at the most
three or four persons.
For occupations where the work extends over a considerable area, and cannot be done
from one position, a sliding seat may be adopted. The use of seats may sometimes be
facilitated too by making the top of the work-table adjustable, as in the case of "burlers
and menders."
Where the seats must necessarily be so high that the worker cannot rest his feet on
the ground, foot-rests should be provided, and if the work is carried on in a room where
the vibration is considerable, a spring attachment to the legs of the chair is very desirable
to minimise its effect, or blocks of rubber or other similar material may be placed under
the legs of the chair.
The shape of the seat should be square, of ample breadth, and saddle-shaped. These
will be found more comfortable for prolonged sitting than a round flat seat.
3. SEATS FOR OCCASIONAL REST WHEN WORK MUST BE DONE STANDING.
Even if it is impossible for the work to be done sitting, opportunities occur in most
kinds of work for occasional rest, e.g., during machining operations when the worker has
for considerable periods merely to watch the machine, at intervals between the conclusion
of one operation and the commencement of the next, or on unexpected occasions, as when
a machine breaks down or the supply of material runs short. Workers should be given
every facility for taking advantage of such opportunities, and the greater the physical
efort involved in the work the more urgent of course is the need for rest. The use of
makeshift seats, such as piles of material or an upturned basket, crates or boxes, so often
observed in factories and workshops, affords ample evidence of the workers' feelings.
Where such natural opportunities of resting do not often occur, the employer will be well
advised to consider the question of arranging for short pauses for rest during the working spell.
The seats should be provided in the workrooms if practicable, and will generally
consist of forms or stools placed along the walls or at other convenient points.
Difficulty may sometimes arise in providing seats in the workrooms without causing
congestion or interfering with the work, more particularly in factories closely laid out with
machinery or plant, but such difficulties are apt to be exaggerated and can generally be
overcome. Flap seats fixed to the workroom walls, or other structures, or attached to
machines, circular seats round support columns, and seats fixed so as to swing in under the
machines, are some of the expedients which have been resorted to.
4. SEATS OUTSIDE WORKROOMS FOR REST DURING INTERVALS.
Even if seats be provided in the workrooms, there should also be sufficient seating
accommodation outside for workers who remain on the premises during rest intervals.
These seats should be as easy and comfortable as possible so as to allow the workers
to rest themselves thoroughly, and should include reclining chairs, such as deck chairs,
more particularly where women and girls are employed. Such provision is sometimes
made on rather elaborate lines, but it can also be made on quite simple lines. In suitable
cases and under suitable conditions arrangements may be made for workers to rest out of
doors.- Extracts from an Illustrated Pamphlet issued by the Home Office.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.
MEMBERS
should see to it that the members of their families, who are members of
the Union, should BELONG to their own Approved Society. All persons
belonging to the Union, upon attaining the age of 16 years, should
approve AT ONCE with the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
Transfers can now be dealt with.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
JOHN W. MURBY, Manager.


---
837
THE BOOT REPAIRING TRADE BOARD.
Administrative Committee (Training).
The Administrative Committee of the Trade Board, sitting as the Central Training
Authority, met on Wednesday, September 29th, Mr. W. Addington Willis presiding.
Messrs. H. Crabb, T. Malone, W. B. Noble, J. Parsons, and J. Westley, with Councillor
Tallant and Mr. T. John represented the employers, and Messrs. P. Brennan, J. Buckle,
T. F. Richards, W. Orchard, W. J. Jarratt, and J. T. Rees, the employees.
It is understood that the question of the delay in the supply of materials to certain
boot and shoe classes was gone into, and action taken thereon.
Administrative Committee.
The Administrative Committee met on Wednesday afternoon. After formal business,
correspondence from the Ministry of Labour in respect of the interpretation of certain
terms in the notices issued by the Trade Board was considered.
The question of the objections raised by the Surgical Instrument Manufacturers'
Association was then discussed. The points raised by the deputation from that association,
which waited upon the committee at a previous meeting, were:- The definition of a sur-
gical boot maker, and why, being a maker, he should come under the Boot and Shoe
Repairing Trade Board. It was presumed that the 2s. minimum was merely to be paid
to a man when he was making a surgical or cork boot. It was contended the piece work
rates were not in proportion to the time rates, and were too low. Why was a foreman
shoe makers entering the surgical shop to be trained as surgical boot makers, the advisa-
to be paid 80s. per week when men working under him got 96s. ? The question of ordinary
bility of consulting surgical boot makers when any alterations are made in future, and the
prices for various jobs not mentioned, such as "T" straps, valgus plates, &c., were points
raised.
The committee then considered points put forward by trade correspondents, including
such questions as "What is the wage to be paid to a girl of 18 who cleans shop for an hour
or so in the morning, serves and attends on customers, does a little on patching machine,
puts ink on edges and irons them?" This came from Yorkshire. From a home county
town: "All coloured work (including covers), Is. 4d. Who is to find the covers, the
employers or the workmen?" From Scotland: "Is a benchman supposed to file the tops
of the rivets and level the bottoms and square them up ready for finishing?"
Subsequently, the committee dealt with applications for the registration of male
indentured apprentices, and considered the draft model form of indenture of apprentice-
ship, while considerable time was as usual spent in examining applications for permits
of exemptions.
Full Board Meeting.
The full Board met on Friday, under the chairmanship of Mr. Willis, when the nomi-
nations of employers' and workers' representatives on the District Trade Committees
were made.
The report of the Administrative Committee was received (as already reported) and
adopted with one or two minor alterations. It was agreed that in the case of one person
employed on various occupations, the rate of pay should be that laid down by the Trade
Board for the time occupied on each operation concerned, where such occupation was pro-
vided for under an order of the Board, and that in the case of benching the operative need
not file the tops of rivets.
Lord Haig and the Board.
Mr. J. H. Boraston, representing Lord Haig, attended at the invitation of the Board.
The Chairman detailed the various efforts that had been made by the Board Committee
to employ ex-service men, and instanced the large numbers of men who had actually been
drafted into the trade. Statements were also made by Mr. Baucutt, the chairman of the
semployers' representatives, and Mr. Richards, the chairman of the employees' repre-
sentatives. Mr. Boraston said he had listened with interest to the facts laid before him,
and he should convey the information to Lord Haig.
The motion, of which notice had been given by Mr. Baucutt, calling for the registration
of all boot repairers in order that it should be made possible to see that the orders made
by the Board from time to time were complied with, was referred to the Administrative
Committee to consider and bring up a report at the next meeting of the Board.
The question of apprenticeship and boy labour also occupied attention. - Shoe and
Leather News, October 7th, 1920.


---
the coal industry is a "key" industry.
they considered to be a reasonable request, notices were tendered to cease
work and thus force the issue by that means. These notices were allowed to
run out, and the strike took place. It was speedily brought home to the people
what a calamity this meant to the nation. Under such circumstances the
Parliamentary Committee of the Trades Union Congress fully considered the
other countries. After consideration they decided to call a Special Congress
whole question and its bearing upon the industrial situation both in this and
of the Executives or representatives of the Executives of the affiliated societies
to consult together as to how best to meet the situation, seeing many millions
Parliamentary Committee passed the following resolution and circularised the
were likely to be affected by the stoppage of the miners. Meantime the
Societies thereon and also informed the Press :-
situation created by the mining dispute. After full consideration, it was un-
"The Parliamentary Committee met this morning to further discuss the
animously decided to hold a Special Conference of the Executives or representa
tives of the Executives of affiliated Unions on Wednesday afternoon next at the
help to the miners as would ensure success in their efforts for a settlement of the
Central Hall at 2.30 o'clock, for the purpose of considering how best to give such
dispute.
"It was considered that this matter is of such importance that it should be
expressed the desire that no action will be taken by separate bodies which might
dealt with by the whole of the movement and not by sections, and the Committee
have the effect of defeating unity in the efforts to ensure a settlement."
us (with the
whose members wanted to strike in sympathy with the miners, no such action
It should be placed on record that though there were a number of Unions
was taken. The Special Congress referred to was attended by
exception of Mr. A. J. Dobbs, who was engaged on important work in Leeds)
as your representatives, the same being held in the Central Hall, Westminster,
on Wednesday, the 27th October, at 2.30 p.m., under the presidency of our
General Secretary, the new Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee. In
the interval-between the calling of the Congress and it taking place-important
negotiations had been taking place between officials of the Miners' Federation
and the Government to see if a settlement could be arrived at, and when the
Congress actually met the position was such that an agreement seemed so near
between the miners and the Government (who were then in consultation) that
the Congress without doing any business adjourned until 4.30 p.m. of the same
day. Upon re-assembling the outstanding difference was still unsettled, and
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., with the Rt. Hon. C. W. Bowerman, M.P. (Secretary
to the Parliamentary Committee of the Trades Union Congress), went to the
Prime Minister's at 10, Downing Street, Westminster, where the meeting
between the Government and the miners was taking place. Meantime the
Vice-Chairman, the Rt. Hon. J. H. Thomas, M.P., took the Chair of the Congress
and explained the reason for the absence of the Chairman. Although the
with, a matter of VITAL IMPORTANCE to the movement generally was brought
business proper for which the Congress had been called could not be proceeded

---
876
the coal industry is a "key" industry. Finding it impossible to secure what
they considered to be a reasonable request, notices were tendered to cease
work and thus force the issue by that means. These notices were allowed to
run out, and the strike took place. It was speedily brought home to the people
what a calamity this meant to the nation. Under such circumstances the
Parliamentary Committee of the Trades Union Congress fully considered the
whole question and its bearing upon the industrial situation both in this and
other countries. After consideration they decided to call a Special Congress
of the Executives or representatives of the Executives of the affiliated societies
were likely to be affected by the stoppage of the miners. Meantime the
to consult together as to how best to meet the situation, seeing many millions
Parliamentary Committee passed the following resolution and circularised the
Societies thereon and also informed the Press:-
situation created by the mining dispute. After full consideration, it was un
"The Parliamentary Committee met this morning to further discuss the
animously decided to hold a Special Conference of the Executives or representa
Central Hall at 2.30 o'clock, for the purpose of considering how best to give such
tives of the Executives of affiliated Unions on Wednesday afternoon next at the
help to the miners as would ensure success in their efforts for a settlement of the
dispute.
It was considered that this matter is of such importance that it should be
dealt with by the whole of the movement and not by sections, and the Committee
expressed the desire that no action will be taken by separate bodies which might
have the effect of defeating unity in the efforts to ensure a settlement."
It should be placed on record that though there were a number of Unions
whose members wanted to strike in sympathy with the miners, no such action
was taken. The Special Congress referred to was attended by us (with the
exception of Mr. A. J. Dobbs, who was engaged on important work in Leeds)
as your representatives, the same being held in the Central Hall, Westminster,
on Wednesday, the 27th October, at 2.30 p.m., under the presidency of our
General Secretary, the new Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee. In
the interval between the calling of the Congress and it taking place-important
negotiations had been taking place between officials of the Miners' Federation
and the Government to see if a settlement could be arrived at, and when the
Congress actually met the position was such that an agreement seemed so near
between the miners and the Government (who were then in consultation) that
the Congress without doing any business adjourned until 4.30 p.m. of the same
day. Upon re-assembling the outstanding difference was still unsettled, and
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., with the Rt. Hon. C. W. Bowerman, M.P. (Secretary
to the Parliamentary Committee of the Trades Union Congress), went to the
Prime Minister's at 10, Downing Street, Westminster, where the meeting
between the Government and the miners was taking place. Meantime the
Vice-Chairman, the Rt. Hon. J. H. Thomas, M.P., took the Chair of the Congress
and explained the reason for the absence of the Chairman. Although the
business proper for which the Congress had been called could not be proceeded
with, a matter of VITAL IMPORTANCE to the movement generally was brought


---
EMERGENCY POWERS BILL.
This Bill, under cover of making provision for supplying the people with
the necessaries of life during an emergency was, and is in reality a Bill to
give the Government authority to put into operation powers which were
really more drastic than the famous Act known as D.O.R.A. The Labour
Members' fight against the Bill was explained to the Congress, and as a result
of their opposition very considerable alterations were agreed to by the
Government. The Conference, after full discussion, unanimously passed the
following resolution :-
"This Congress, representing the organised Labour Movement of this country,
condemns the action of the Government in forcing through Parliament the Emer
gency Powers Bill, which, in our opinion, strikes at the existence of the Trade
Union Movement.
"We hereby enter our emphatic protest against the Government's action
and instruct the Parliamentary Committee, in conjunction with the Labour Party
Executive and the Parliamentary Party, immediately to consider the whole
matter in order that a Special Conference may be called if necessary to deal
further with the question."
If it is found necessary another Conference will be called to further deal
with the question. The passing of such an Act-because, as amended, it is
now an Act (though we doubt whether it will be put into operation, there
being really no moral force behind the same) - ought to shew the workers how
necessary it is when an election comes along to return such members to the
House of Commons as will ensure legislation being passed which will benefit
the people instead of passing repressive legislation. The arguments for the
Bill were to ensure food, &c., being supplied to the people; we venture to
suggest that the offers which we know were tendered to the Government to
ensure this being done, had they been accepted, would have rendered it altogether
unnecessary for any such Act. We trust, therefore, that the lesson will not
be lost sight of, because an election may be sprung upon the country at any
time. Members should therefore get all their machinery in order, so that
when an election does come along it may find us ready for the same.
After this resolution had been dealt with, the report given in to the Congress
was that there had arisen between the Government and the miners some points
which it was impossible to settle; under such circumstances the Congress
adjourned shortly after 6 p.m. until 9.30 a.m. the next morning, as it was
fully expected that the matter would by then be settled. It was, however,
found, when the Congress re-assembled next morning, the 28th October, no
agreement had been reached, and a further adjournment was decided upon
until 2.30 p.m. At 2.45 p.m. the Congress had the satisfaction of knowing
that an agreement had been concluded between the Government and the
Miners' Executive. A statement on behalf of the miners was made by Mr.
F. Hodges and Mr. R. Smillie, stating the broad outlines of the proposals agreed
B


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

878
the Miners upon the settlement secured.
appears on pages 902-903 of this Report.) Both the speakers thanked the
assembly and through the delegates the Movement generally for the loyal
to, and which were to be submitted to their members. (Copy of the Agreement
manner in which they had stood by the miners in their struggle. After the
statement had been made a resolution was unanimously passed congratulating
representatives would be called together again. We hope the net result of
The Congress then concluded, it being understood that if necessary the
adjustments are called for. It ought also to bring home clearly to each and
that the machinery about to be set up will render stoppages unnecessary when
the fight will be not only that the miners will secure advances sought for, but
all how absolutely essential it is to capture the political machinery of the
country, and thereby bring into being such Acts of Parliament as will render
strikes unnecessary for the securing of the wherewithal to live.

UNION'S WAR MEMORIAL.
As a mark of respect to those of our members who were either killed
in action or died of wounds in the Great War, we have during the month sent
a beautiful Memorial emblem to each Branch of the Union-copy of which
appears in this Report with the request that the same shall be hung in the
Branch Offices of the Union, thus keeping in constant remembrance the fact
of their sacrifice-
abolition of war.
"They died that men might live."
We sincerely hope that the result of the great sacrifices made will be the
The loss of life has indeed been terrific and the attendant
misery is beyond words to describe; surely the people will not any longer
tolerate a few men being able to plunge the nations into the maelstrom of
war again.
The outlook even now is not one to greatly encourage us; nevertheless,
we must not lose heart, but ever press on and strenuously support the idea
of differences being settled by the arbitrament of reason.
If this is done,
great as has been our loss and grief-as we feel the loss of our comrades-they
will not have died in vain.

To the relatives of 2,591 members of our Union who have laid down
their lives in the Great War, we once again wish to express our deep
sympathy.

The Union paid in all, over £81,000 to keep nearly 25,000 of our members
serving with the Colours in benefit; £12,500 has been paid out to the relatives
of the men as death benefits, and over 6,000 men have been trained in the
industry since their discharge, the overwhelming majority of whom were in
other trades before the war.


---
JOINT STANDING COMMITTEE MEETING.
During the month a meeting of the above has been held to deal with a
question of an application to the Leicester Board for an increase in Wages,
Standing Committee; also a question from Kingswood as to an interpretation
due to increased cost of living, and which the Board remitted to the Joint
Heavy Work (Hand Work). The decisions of the Standing Committee were
regarding a 10% claim of the operatives on an award regarding the Kingswood
as follows:-

34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
7, TAVISTOCK SQUARE,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
November 16th, 1920.
DEAR SIR,
With reference to your communication of 5th November, relative to the request from
your Board that the National Joint Standing Committee be asked to give a definite answer
to whether or not the 10 per cent. is to be paid on the 1919 Kingswood Hand-Making
Statement, we beg to inform you that this matter was duly considered by the Joint
Standing Committee, on Tuesday, 16th November.

If your Board asks the Joint Standing Committee for an interpretation, they are agreed
that they have nothing to add to the March 1920 Interim Agreement, which states that
to per cent. shall be added to all Piecework Statements compiled or revised under the
Terms of the 1919 Agreement, and which came into operation on or before 31st December,
1919.

If on the other hand, your Board requests the Joint Standing Committee to act as
Arbitrators in the case, it must be remembered that the Statement to which you refer
was one of which the National Conference had no knowledge whatever, and the Joint
Standing Committee would have no other alternative than to give the same decision as
was given for the Northampton County Clickers' Statement, that is an additional 5 per
cent, on the Statement already in existence.
Yours faithfully,

F. SHEPPARD, Chairman.
T. F. RICHARDS, President of Operatives' Union.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary of Operatives' Union.
A. E. MARLOW, President of Boot Manufacturers' Federation.
G. W. HEATON, Secretary of Boot Manufacturers' Federation.

W. T. SING, Esq., Bristol.
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
7, TAVISTOCK SQUARE,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
November 16th, 1920.
DEAR SIR,
With reference to your communication of November 5th, we beg to inform you that
the resolution passed by the Leicester Board of Conciliation and Arbitration relative to
a claim made by the Operatives' Union for an advance of 25 per cent. for all Dayworkers
and Pieceworkers, was duly considered by the Joint Standing Committee on Tuesday,
November 16th, 1920.

After careful discussion of the matter the Joint Standing Committee unanimously
agreed that the question raised by your Board cannot be properly be submitted to this
Joint Standing Committee for decision, their province being solely to interpret National
Agreements. The resolution of the Leicester Arbitration Board raises an entirely new
question, and is one for settlement by your recognised local machinery.
Yours faithfully,

F. SHEPPARD, Chairman.
T. F. RICHARDS, President of Operatives' Union.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary of Operatives' Union.
A. E. MARLOW, President of Boot Manufacturers' Federation.
G. W. HEATON, Secretary of Root Manufacturers' Federation.

A. E. W. CHAMBERLIN, ESQ.,
41, Friar Lane, Leicester.


---
DAVENTRY.- Trade is still very bad here. This continued slump is
a very serious matter for our members, who find it quite impossible to make
ends meet on the scanty wages they have received during the past few months.
and we hope the trade will speedily improve so that there may be a much
brighter outlook for all those engaged in the industry. We wish to heartily
thank all those Branches who have so generously responded to the appeal
made on behalf of C. S. Coleman; the subscriptions to hand amount to £19 5s.,
and this has been the means of relieving him of a good deal of anxiety, for
which he is most grateful.
EDINBURGH.-Trade is very quiet at present; some of our Sections
are only working two days per week, especially in the mining districts. Repair-
ing section expect that with the miners' strike being settled work will become
more plentiful. We are glad that the Council are taking up the matter of
members being suspended from work to become entitled to out-of-work benefit.
Labour in our District at Town Council elections have had a severe defeat, as
Edinburgh and Leith became amalgamated, where in Edinburgh Town Council
there were six Labour members now there are only four; not one being elected
for Leith. The great fight in Scotland is, Shall we have Prohibition? At time
of writing the "wets" are winning, although some have gone "dry," so
that travellers will have to be on the outlook if they want a "Scotch."
Congratulations to General Secretary on his promotion to Chairmanship of
Parliamentary Committee.
HALESWORTH.-Trade is still slow and during the month several
hands have had to stand off, some only doing 2 to 3 days per week; the
shop has been closed on Saturdays for a decent while now, and during the
remaining five days we work 61 hours. Once again we wish to draw the atten-
tion of members about our Monthly Meeting; we could have the meeting in
the dinner hour, it would save expense.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. - There has been an improvement in most
factories, although there are a number in a far worse position. The whole of
the workpeople in Bozeat were out the last week of the month and do not
know when they will resume work. Two out of three firms closed at Irchester;
T. Lilley Ltd., Irthlingborough, one of the oldest firms in the trade, only twenty
at work, others suspended. Most other firms are doing much better than
previously.
KENDAL. Trade has been very quiet during the month, the depression
affecting us in common with other parts of the country. This has been
accentuated by the restricted hours of lighting for power purposes in con-
sequence of the Coal Strike. We anticipate an extension of hours shortly.
A lengthy discussion took place at the Monthly Meeting regarding the two
proposals issued by Council as to the continuation of the present supplementary
system of working or a day-work system with limited output and wages. The
reasons for the slump are not easy to ascertain, but we venture to think that
boots and shoes are being produced too rapidly, hence the depressing period
in which the shoe industry is passing through. If there is a likelihood of
going back to the old days when the trade alternated between overtime and
short time, and which the supplementary system of intensive production
makes possible, then we think a day-work system should be evolved, whereby
operatives will be more regularly and uniformly employed. We are pleased
to say that our President, Mr. J. T. Rooke, was returned at the head of the poll
in the recent Municipal Elections; both President and Secretary are thus
members of the Town Council-a somewhat unique position.
KILMARNOCK. -Trade is fair in this district. We are at present
working 33 hours per week, this being put down to the Coal Strike, but now
the strike is finished we hope for better times. At our Branch Meeting we


---
Here is the extracted text:
889
President of the Trade Union Congress next year. As this will be our last
recent promotion in the Trade Union Parliament of Labour and he will be the
report that will be in the hands of members before Christmas, we wish all
officers and members the "Compliments of the Season."
MANCHESTER. — Trade is slack in the factories and very bad with
some cannot get one day in, but we hope now the Coal Strike is over things
repairers; the majority of repairers are not working two days a week and
will settle down in a week or two.
MIDSOMER NORTON. — "What shall we do to be saved?" is surely the
incessant cry of the unemployed and under-employed boot operative. Now
mean? It certainly is not clear that the Council and officers believe a change
we are being asked to take a ballot on methods of payment. What does it
is necessary. The very wording of the ballot paper has prejudged the question.
The vote should have been taken on the principle of day-work and a minimum
had no business there, and we want to suggest to all our members that they
wage as against piece-work and payment by result. The question of quantities
record their votes on the principle only. The question of the quantity an
employer gets for a given minimum should be first raised by an employer and
fought out with employers, but certainly not by trade union officials who are
principles, i.e., day-work and piece-work. Under the present system of
asking their members to register their votes on two different fundamental
production, which enables a trade such as ours to produce enough footwear
in four months for the whole of the community's twelve months' needs, we
shall commit a fatal error if we decide to continue the policy of mass production,
bringing in its train warehouses full, shoemakers' cupboards empty and chil-
shoeless, a mad scramble for the bit of work, with disunity and despair. If
this is the law of supply and demand then let us control the supply.
NOTTINGHAM. — The Coal Strike has affected trade around here, which
is very quiet. We are in favour of the 12 days' out-of-work pay under present
circumstances. We have to report the death of T. Parrott, aged 83, one of
our oldest members. He took a great part in the formation of this Branch
in 1874, and was for many years a very active worker in the Trade Union
Movement of this town. As a mark of respect several of his old shopmates
attended the funeral.
OLDHAM. — We would like to see an Organiser or some official from
headquarters, as the Branch has not been visited for nearly three years.
PLYMOUTH. — Trade is very quiet. The new Insurance Act was the
main topic at our Branch Meeting, and this being held on November 1st our
members had little opportunity to study the Union's special scheme, and we
are now informed by the General Secretary that this scheme does not include
the Repairers at present, but we understand the possibility will be considered;
we hope it will, and as the Master Repairers are fairly well organised the
difficulties should not prove insuperable, and we feel sure the majority of our
members would rather have their interest watched and controlled by their
own organisation and the officials who are constantly in touch with their
requirements, than by a huge unsusceptible and unfamiliar machine such as
the Labour Exchange. We are pleased to hear that our General President
is moving for an advance of 50 per cent. on the Trade Board rates. Mr.
appreciation and encouragement for his efforts on
Richards well deserves our
behalf of repairers, and we wish him every success in his attempt to uplift
the status of our trade, but something must be done to obtain for every man
are doubtful if our President will find a large following for the splendid lead
he is giving.


---
its own in the mat
there is plenty of room for improvement, but there appears too much of a selfish
feeling at times. What is required is a
work for the benefit of all.
town
feeling of brotherhood, so that each can
WALSALL. It has come to our notice that several repairers in this
are treating Boot and Shoe Repairing Boards' Trade Wages Act with
scorn, and they have said openly that it is now a dead letter and no heed to
be taken of it. Could they not have their memory jogged in some way?
WATERFORD. We have eighty members in our Branch at present,
and considering the state of trade our members pay well, a fact which gives us
good hopes for the future. On behalf of the delegates visiting the various factories
last month, we beg to return thanks to the officials whom we had the pleasure
the genial comradeship of the Boot and Shoe Union. Wishing all good health
to meet; their interest in our welfare, so brotherly, shows the true value of
and best wishes for the future.
WELLINGBOROUGH. The one all-important question now in our
Branch, and we expect in every Branch, is the very bad state of trade, and the
sticking to the Union. It would gladden the hearts of our founders if it were
members in general are to be congratulated upon the manner in which they are
possible for them to see the seed which they sowed bearing fruit at last. But
dustrial system? The problem is a big one, and one which calls for big ideas
the question is, can these periods of trade shortage be removed from our in-
forefront with a scheme to remove this evil? The suggested scheme to meet
and big action. Is it too much to expect that our Union should be in the
meet the case, but what we want, and what we have to fight for, is the removal
mould the words of the poet into actual things-
"Say not the days are evil, who's to blame,
And fold the hands and cry, 'Oh, shame!'
Stand up, speak out, and bravely, in God's name."
It is the same old story, if you want anything doing you must do it yourself.
Now, shopmates, yours is the fight, and yours will be the victory! We con-
gratulate the General Secretary upon being appointed Chairman of the Con-
gress; we shall not be robbing him of his honour if we say through him the
Union as a whole has been honoured.
WHITWICK. At time of reporting we are bound to say that we are still
on short time, but now that the Miners' Srtike is over we are hoping that the
boot and shoe trade will be more brisk. We are looking forward in the near
future to having a much higher minimum wage in the boot and shoe trade, as
it has been undergoing a very trying time since the war was over; so when the
time comes for the Council to meet the Masters' Federation we do hope that
they will make a very bold bid for us in wages so that we can be somewhat
in line with some of the other trade unions as regards our wages.
GREAT YARMOUTH.-Trade is very bad, rivetters and closers working
about half time only; handsewers and repairers are making full time at
present. The large stocks we have make the outlook for the future very
gloomy. Councillor W. G. Knight, J.P., Managing Director of Boot Depart-
ment of Johnson & Sons, has been elected Mayor of Great Yarmouth. Local
Labour reports progress in gaining two seats on Town Council.
express my thanks
congratulations to me upon my election to the chairmanship of the Parliamentary
Committee of the Trades Union Congress and needless to say, I look upon
the elevation to such position as an honour to the Union as well as a personal
honour.
E. L. POULTON.


---
LABOUR DAMNS "DORA."

Special Congress may be Called.

Dora's latest daughter, the Emergency Powers Bill, was discussed yesterday by the
special Labour Conference called by the Parliamentary Committee of the Trades Union
Congress.

When the conference resumed after waiting for a report on the miners' negotiations,
J. H. Thomas, M.P., took the chair, and announced that the chairman (E. L. Poulton,
J.P.), and the secretary (C. W. Bowerman, M.P.) had gone to Downing Street to ascertain
the views of the miners on the coal situation.

The Congress, which was private, thereupon proceeded to consider a resolution put
forward by. J. H. Thomas on behalf of the Parliamentary Committee in these terms :-

This Congress, representing the organised Labour movement of this country,
condemns the action of the Government in forcing through Parliament the Emergency
Powers Bill, which, in our opinion, strikes at the existence of the Trade Union move-
ment.

We hereby enter our emphatic protest against the Government's action, and
instruct the Parliamentary Committee, in conjunction with the Labour Party Execu-
tive and the Parliamentary Labour Party, immediately to consider the whole matter
in order that a special conference may be called, if necessary, to deal further with
the question.

Action in Commons.

The Daily Herald understands that Mr. Thomas justified the action of the Parlia-
mentary Labour members in the House, and cited numerous valuable amendments, which
tended to diminish the powers of the Bill against Trade Unionism.

James Sexton, M.P., seconded, and outlined objections to the Bill from the trade
union point of view.

J. Bromley, of the Locomotive Engineers, spoke in favour of more drastic action,
and Jack Jones, M.P., described the Bill as a concentrated attack on the trade union
movement. He was in favour of the resolution, however, for he did not want any hasty
action.

The feeling of the Congress was well expressed by J. R. Clynes, who declared that
we were living in difficult and dangerous times, when people in authority talked of the
rights of the people, but Labour was confronted with a new Taff Vale decision. It was
that decision which had created the Labour Party, and he was confident that the new
legislation would solidify both wings and make them one.

Robert Williams also spoke in favour of the resolution, which was then carried.

The Congress will remain in session until the miners' dispute is settled.-Daily Herald,
29th October, 1920.


---
Here is the extracted text:

Excess Profits to Vary. 903
As part of the settlement hereby concluded, the Government undertakes to make
an order under Section 3 of the Mining Industry Act which shall provide for the variation
of the one-tenth share of the excess profits of the industry payable to the owners under
the Coal Mines (Emergency) Act by the deduction therefrom or addition thereto of one-
quarter of the said tenth part for each 6d. by which the men's advance is reduced or
increased.
The certificate of the Secretary for Mines as to the amount of the proceeds and the
advances payable shall be accepted as final.

STATEMENT ON SCHEME.
Hodges and Smillie Thank Miners' Comrades.—" Remain on Guard."
The provisional settlement between the Government and the miners' leaders was
announced during the afternoon to the waiting conference of trade union executives called
by the Trades Union Congress.
Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., presided, and, the Daily Herald understands, immediately
called upon the miners for a statement.

Hodges' Hopes for Peace.
Mr. Frank Hodges' opening sentence "We have arrived at a settlement," was received
with enthusiasm.
But, he was careful to add, it is a temporary settlement. It did, however, show pro-
mise of a permanent settlement, and he hoped would usher in a period of peace in the coal-
fields for several years to come.
"You will notice we are not wildly enthusiastic," he remarked, "but we have got a
settlement which we believe is acceptable."
This had been brought by the solidarity of their organisation, and they appreciated
the desire of their fellow-workers to do all they could to support them in claims which
were right and just.

"Be Ready."
Mr. Robert Smillie, after referring to the strain of the negotiations, said that for
a long time they had endeavoured to establish a National Wages Board, and now they
believed it would be accomplished.
The way in which organised labour had supported the claim of the miners had been
most helpful, and he suggested that they should hold themselves in readiness in case
their help might yet be needed.
Had there been a Labour Government in power, he did not believe the miners' dispute
would have existed.

Labour Solidarity.
Mr. J. H. Thomas moved a resolution congratulating the miners on their stand and
in effecting a settlement. Mr. Harry Gosling seconded. Organised Labour, he said,
had taken off their coats. Let them see to it that they did not put them on again.
The Chairman intimated that the Congress would be called together again if necessary.
-Daily Herald, October 29th, 1920.

"WHO PAYS FOR THE ATTACKS ON LABOUR?"
The Independent Labour Party Information Committee follows up "The Capitalist
Press" with a most useful pamphlet entitled "Who Pays for the Attacks on Labour ?"
In this the various strike-breaking and propaganda Agencies of Big Capital are exposed-
The British Empire Union, Middle Classes Union and the like. Besides giving the facts of
the capitalist interests concerned in these organisations, the pamphlet gives useful and
amusing details of the aims of these organisations and the methods they adopt to further
their ends. The facts show that the organisations "represent," not the British people,
the British Constitution, Liberty, the Commonwealth or any of those high-sounding phrases
used to fool the ignorant. They represent Big Capital. It is Big Capital organising its
blacklegs, undermining the Trade Unions and poisoning the minds of the workers against
their own class, their own interests and the highest welfare of their country.”


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

912
people who lack the courage to sign their own names.
of the Trade Unions of Great
Federation of Trade Unions.
them whenever opposition is in the interests of the workers.
of Trade Unions to waste time defending itself against absurd attacks made by a few
We desire to say that there is no necessity whatever for the International Federation
sents nothing more than bluff and humbug. This is proved by its claim to speak on behalf
This so-called International Council of Trade Unions has no real existence. It repre-
at Britain, France, Italy, and Spain. The truth is that the
Trade Union movement of these countries, together with the Trade Union movement
of eighteen other countries are affiliated to the International Federation of Trade Unions.
The anonymous writers of this very extraordinary manifesto are either wilful liars
or they are woefully ignorant of the principles, the work. and the aims of the International
Office is a case in point. The International Federation of Trade Unions is jealously
independent of these institutions. It has opposed and will continue to oppose both of
The charge of subservience to the League of Nations and the International Labour
the record of accomplishment during the few months the Federation has been in existence.
The charges of barrenness, of incapacity, of treachery, and of yellowness are met by
At Washington the International Federation of Trade Unions compelled the League of
workers were dying of hunger the International Federation of Trade Unions took them
people the same rights which workers of other countries had acquired. When the Austrian
Nations to concede the same rights of representation to the Germans and to the Austrian
Trade Unions which interfered, and when the situation between Poland and Russia
food and helped them to uphold their organisation and their industrial power.
When the White Terror overran Hungary it was the International Federation of
of Trade Unions and its affiliated organisations which stopped the transport of munitions.
threatened once more to plunge the world into war it was the International Federation
Always it is the International Federation of Trade Unions which takes action while
its critics amuse themselves with manifestoes and revolutionary speeches.
The International Federation of Trade Unions will continue in the future as in the
will oppose all dictatorships, whether these come from Moscow, Geneva, or any other
past. It will look neither to the right nor to the left for instruction or for guidance. It
place. It has only one objective, and that is the liberation of the people of all countries
Federation of Trade Unions will oppose to the Moscow tendency to divide the workers
from tyrannies, no matter whether these be political or economic. The International
on political issues the old cry of "Workers of the World, Unite.""
The Bureau of the International Federation of Trade Unions:
W. A. APPLETON, President.
L. JOUHAUX, Ist Vice-President.
C. MERTENS, 2nd Vice-President.
EDO FIMMEN, Secretaries.
J. OUDEGEEST,
}
-International Trades Union Review, September, 1920.
LEICESTER COUNTY ARBITRATION BOARD.
Mr. W. Warner (Hinckley) Elected President for Ensuing Year.
The Annual Meeting of the County Arbitration Board was held on the 3rd November,
1920, at the City Hall, Leicester, under the Presidency of Mr. G. Geary.
for approval and was adopted, and it was decided that the Statement should come into
The Nursery Closing Statement as prepared by the Joint Committee was submitted
operation as from the working week commencing November 18th, 19th or 20th, 1920.
Joint Committees were received and confirmed.
The additions to the Lasting and Finishing Statements agreed upon by the respective
The thanks of the Board were accorded to the retiring Chairman, Mr. Geary, for the
able services he had rendered to the Board in that capacity during the past year. Mr.
W. Warner (Hinckley) was appointed Chairman of the Board for the ensuing year, and
Mr. G. Geary (Barwell) was elected Vice-Chairman, and the Secretary, Mr. H. A. Flavell,
was re-appointed.
of the Board.
that the constitution of such Committees should be confined as far as possible to members
The appointment of the District Enquiry Committees was considered, and it was felt
A financial report of the Board for the past year was presented and confirmed.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
913
LEICESTER SHOE TRADE.
Application of Operatives for More Wages.
A meeting of the Leicester Boot and Shoe Trade Board of Conciliation and Arbitration
was held yesterday, when there were present: Mr. G. Parbury (in the chair), Messrs.
W. H. Tomlinson, G. W. Hunt, J. W. Morton, J. A. Sabin, W. Russell, H. Hollingworth,
and T. W. Smith, representing the manufacturers. Messrs. T. Adnitt, M. A. Parker,
H. Cramphorn, G. Knight, A. Hill, W. H. Lowe, and G. Smith, representing the operatives,
and Mr. A. E. W. Chamberlin (secretary).
Additional piecework prices agreed upon by the clicking and lasting joint committees
were approved and confirmed by the Board.
The operatives' side submitted the following application:-"That, owing to the
continued increase in the cost of living, an immediate advance of 25 per cent. is claimed
for all dayworkers and pieceworkers." The manufacturers' side submitted the following
proposition:-"That the manufacturers are unable to entertain the application as, in
their opinion, the claim is one which should be made to the National Conference under
Clause 25 of the National Agreement of 13th February, 1919."
It was resolved by the Board, "That without prejudice to the powers of the Board
under its rules, the question as to whether the claim of the Operatives' Union for an
advance of 25 per cent. for all dayworkers and pieceworkers should be dealt with nationally
or locally, be referred to the Joint Standing Committee under Clause 23 of the National
Agreement of the 13th February, 1919, for adjudication." -Leicester Mail, October 3rd,
1920.
PROFITEERING ACT.
CENTRAL COMMITTEE, 54, VICTORIA STREET,
LONDON, S.W. 1, 2ND NOVEMBER, 1920.
A Mr. Coward complained of the price charged him for Soda Crystals by Messrs.
Manger & Son Ltd., of Kingsland Road, and the complaint came before the Tribunal
last June.
The Respondents put in evidence their invoices, which showed that the high price
they had charged was due to the price they had had to pay Messrs. A. G. Collins & Brother,
of Cardiff, and in view of this evidence the complaint was dismissed.
The Department in working up the case for the Tribunal found out the names of the
various merchants from whom Collins had purchased the Soda and the prices they had
paid for it.
The Tribunal considered that the case should not end with the dismissal of the Com-
plaint, but the transactions of Messrs. Collins should be thoroughly investigated and laid
before the Preliminary Investigation Sub-Committee. This was done, and the Com-
mittee decided that Messrs. Collins' profits were so unreasonable, that the case should be
referred to the Director of Public Prosecutions, with a view to proceedings being taken.
This case is a very good example of the thorough way in which the Tribunal does its
work, as owing to the order that the transactions of Collins and the other merchants
concerned should be investigated, one profiteer has already been fined and it is anticipated
that at least twelve other cases will be sent to the Director of Public Prosecutions.
REX V. COLLINS.
On 29th October, 1920, at North London Police Court, at the instance of the Com-
plaints Committee, Mr. L. G. Collins, the Manager of Messrs. A. G. Collins & Brother,
Manufacturers and Shippers, Cardiff, was fined £475 and 45 guineas costs for profiteering
in Soda Crystals (wholesale). Twelve summonses had been taken out, six of which were
for aiding and abetting his firm in the transactions, but as the defendant assumed entire
responsibility, these six were dismissed.
In giving the decision the Magistrate (Mr. Clarke Hall) said:-
This case is one of very serious public importance, and therefore I make no complaint
against the time it has taken, because it was necessary that everything should be brought


---
949
SOME OF THE CAUSES FOR THE BAD STATE OF TRADE.
In our opinion the bad state of Trade has been largely brought about owing
to the fact of the money exchanges of the world having been completely upset
by the war; the lack of transport to a very considerable extent; and the
need for a system of international credits to be set up to enable the wheels
of commerce to again be set going between the various nations. We would
once more call attention to the fact that money for the carrying on of the
Government of the country has to be found, and there has either, in our
judgment, to be a Capital levy enforced or a Forced Loan, and it must not
be forgotten that financiers of Europe of some repute feel one or the other
MUST shortly take place if an entire collapse is not to ensue, as a result of
the present chaotic condition of the World's commerce.
The present situation is indeed a tragic one. On the one hand, a vast
multitude of people asking, nay entreating, that they be allowed to work to
enable them to procure the wherewithal to live and on the other hand,
millions of people lacking the necessaries of life, and in many instances dying
because they cannot procure the barest minimum of those things that would
enable them to keep alive. Such a serious situation calls aloud for the
application of such remedies as will abolish the present terrible state of affairs.
We are convinced that with the will to alter the same it can be done: but it
will not be accomplished until there is such a live interest taken in all such
matters as will compel statesmen to not only talk, but act in a way to
relieve the awful situation at present existing throughout a great part of
the world.
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
A special Congress of the International Federation of Trade Unions was
held in London from the 22nd to 28th November, 1920, at which our General
Secretary attended as representing the Parliamentary Committee of the Trades
Union Congress. As a full report appears on pages 973-977, we do not think
it necessary to reiterate any matters here, but hope as a result of the
Conference that there will be in future a closer unity between the workers
of the world than has been shown in the past.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.
Acting upon our instructions the General Secretary made application to
the Ministry of Labour for powers to administer the Unemployment Act, 1920,
but up to the time of going to press it is not possible to give any further official
advice upon the matter.
In furtherance of our own scheme, meetings have been held during the
month with the Manufacturers' Federation relative thereto. So far we have
nothing tangible to report.
B


---
950
THE RESULT OF THE VOTING
*British Trade Union Congress.
MR. T. ADNITT; MR. R. HARRIS.
MR. L. POOLE; MR, G. CHESTER.
MR. A. W. LYNE: MR. W. PITTS.
MR. F. C. JEX MR. W. R. SMITH,
MRS. M. J. BELL-RICHARDS; MR. ALEX. SMITH.
Scottish Trade Union Congress.
MR. M. GAMBLE.
MR. W. COLLINS.
General Federation of Trade Unions.
MR. W. TOWNLEY.
MR. E. L. POULTON.
MR. T. F. RICHARDS
*National Labour Party.
MR. W. R. SMITH.
| MR. L. SMITH,
MR. S. THOMPSON.
* The General President and General Secretary attend by virtue of their office.
REVISION OF 1919 AGREEMENT.
The result of the voting upon the following question is :-
"Are you in favour of the present system of allowing
both Piecework and Daywork methods, regulated by Quantity
Statements, to continue under our Agreements with the
Employers, with no limit of output or wages ?"
YES.
7421
NO.
8295
10917 2965
Or, "Are you in favour of a Daywork system of working with
Quantity Statements, with a limited output and wages?"
The letter containing our demands in connection with the proposed revision
of the 1919 Agreement is in its final draft, and will be sent to the Manufacturers
Federation in a few days; full details and a copy of the letter will appear
in the January Report.
RESTRICTIONS OF MUNICIPAL SERVICES.
It is significant of the present state of society that although we are being
implored by Statesmen and politicians that economy on the one hand and
efficiency on the other are desirous-with which we agree-that when real
attempts are made by municipal bodies to bring about such a state attempts
are at once made by interested parties to thwart municipal effort in this
direction. Two recent cases will shew the trend of the opposition in this respect.
One of a London municipality-FULHAM-who set up a municipal laundry,
whereby the ordinary people could have their washing done at a reasonable
price, and thus help to bring about a lowering of the present excessive prices.
The aid of the law was at once enforced to prevent any such policy being
pursued by the municipality, the decision of Mr. Justice Sargent being that
whilst a municipality might provine building and machinery for other people
to use, they themselves could not use it although the community might
benefit thereby.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
951
In another case the LONDON COUNTY COUNCIL endeavoured to
link up their present system of trams by suggesting that buses should be used
and thus supplement the existing facilities for taking the millions of London
working people to and from their homes. The matter was referred to a Select
Committee of the House of Lords, who have thrown out the provisions of a
Bill which was being promoted for this purpose. It should further be pointed
out in this connection that a private company can run its buses without special
powers, subject of course to the ordinary regulations connected with traffic
being adhered to, but a public authority has to go to all the expense of pro-
moting Bills to present to Parliament (and in the case named above the
expense is now waste).
We hope this reactionary tendency will be taken note of by the workers,
and at the proper time when appeals are made to elect persons to either
parliamentary or municipal positions, the vote will be used in such way and
manner as to ensure those being returned who will act in the interests of the
whole of the community, rather than in favour of vested interests.
ANNUAL CONFERENCE, 1921.
Under the new Constitution of the Union the first Annual Conference
will be held in LONDON on May 16th, 17th, and 18th, 1921, and if any Branch
has questions of procedure or principle they wish to raise, the same should
be sent along AT ONCE to the General Secretary.
FUNERAL ALLOWANCE RECEIPTS AND BRANCH RETURN SHEETS, Etc.
The above are continually being received by the Central Office incom-
plete the President of the Branch having omitted to sign. In many cases
too the "Exact Occupation" of the deceased member is not stated in the
place provided for the purpose on the Funeral Receipts. This information is
required for statistical purposes, and Branch Secretaries are requested to see,
in future, before sending to the Central Office, that all the particulars asked
for are given.
MONTHLY RETURNS.
We feel bound once again to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the LATEST day for
returns to reach the General Secretary. Last month many returns were late.
Branches failed to send off their returns to reach the Central Office by the
15th of the month, and this tends to upset the organisation of the work in the
General Secretary's Office. We trust in future every Branch Secretary will
endeavour to get in his returns as soon as is possible after the month (or five
weeks as the case may be) ends, and NOT to wait until the latest date for
them to reach the Office; also before sending them to see that they are in
order and properly signed.

---
953
GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
UNEMPLOYMENT. - The appalling unemployment in many trades in the country
calls for immediate attention and practical help by Government assistance of a permanent
character and the adoption of a National subsistence allowance for all who cannot obtain
remunerative employment. When one remembers that there are at least 250,000 ex-
Service Men who had offered their lives in defence of their countrymen's unprecedented
institutions one would think at least that the present Government would have practical
sympathy with them who they pretend served them, the Government, in the Great War.
We Trade Unionists need not be surprised if the present Government, whose opposition
notice for reductions in some instances and the refusal to consider advances in others.
to organised labour is growing day by day, leads one to believe that with the troubles in
the Tramways, Electric, Engineering and Hosiery trades, who have practically been given
that we shall not get much relief from the Government in this respect. We therefore
need not be surprised if in the vote now taking place in our Union the members in their
belief that a set wage will improve the position, may vote for it. In any case, whatever
happens, I hope we shall not alter the position of our abilities, and carry the same out in
accordance with the wishes of the members and give any prospective system a trial.
although speaking candidly, my own experience, if employers who want a great output
are desirous of getting the same, and their operatives to-day when on full work are aver-
aging 44 to 14 ros. per week does nothing to prevent the employer from fixing the rate
consent. I hear in many directions men who say they voted one way but intended their
vote to count the other. Excuses of that kind cannot be admitted, and whatever the
from £5 or 15 IOS., and by that means set a very high standard of output with the members'
the result, it must be respected.
JOINT STANDING COMMITTEE. On the 16th of last month I attended a meeting of
the National Committee which decided that in the Leicester case in which the Operatives'
side asked for 25 per cent. increase in wages, that was a matter for the Leicester Board
tion which you probably saw in last month's report and up to the present we have heard
and not for the National Committee. With the Bristol case we also made a recommenda-
nothing further from either Branches.
PROFITEERING. On the 19th I attended another meeting of the Profiteering Com-
mittee to inquire into the cost of repairing and to find out, if possible, whether profiteering
in boot and shoe repairing was being indulged in. As this work is very largely private
Until the Reports are issued, I have no wish to go into the details, only to say how interest-
ing it is to find the method by which these small employers conduct their business.
Although an opportunity has been given to some of our members, who think it might serve
our purpose as a National Union to take up a similar thing with the employers, I find
that those who were the advocates of this plan have not made the slightest move to carry
it into effect. I can therefore conclude that they have come to the conclusion that such
enquiry would do no good.
COUNCIL MEETING. On the 21st and 22nd we held our usual Council Meeting and
had the opportunity of meeting once more our old German friend, Herr Simon, who was
here as a delegate for the Trade Union Internationale. He, like ourselves, had no sym-
pathy with the great struggle in which we were engaged from 1914 to 1918, and like our-
selves, not only wished such had never been, but hopes that the latest estrangement will
soon be forgotten. I think we can all express in similar words our wish that that may
be the same.
TRADE BOARD. On the 25th, as one of the special Deputation of the special Sub-
Committee, we met at Chancery Lane, for the purpose of correcting some of the Trade
Board anomalies in the various statements already issued and to correct some of the
prices in order to make such anomalies more tangible and reasonable. In this respect
I should like to say that when we arrived at the conclusion of hand-sewn work some of
the employers were very anxious to agree to a 25 per cent. increase on some of those
anomalies, but we at the same time pointed out that this advance and advantages could
not be accepted as adequate to meet our claim of the 50 per cent. addition, which matter
is likely to come up for consideration on the 16th of this month.
GENERAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS. On December 1st we held our Monthly
Meeting of the General Federation of Trade Unions, and at that made arrangements for
the Trade Union Internationale being held, to which we were for the last time sending
three delegates. This has given to the General Federation of Trade Unions a 21 years'
experience with the Trade Union Internationale. At this same meeting the question was
raised regarding the relationship of the General Federation of Trade Unions with the paper
known as The Democrat, and a resolution was carried that we were in no way responsible
for that paper. We were also informed by the Secretary that the paper is wholly and
solely under the control of his son, and in premises not connected with the General Federa-
tion of Trade Unions either directly or indirectly.


---
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since my last report I have been working at Wolverhampton, Stafford, Atherstone
and Manchester. On November 15th Mr. Alex. Smith, of Wolverhampton, and
I had a good meeting of the workers at Edge's, of Bilston. We met with a good deal of
opposition, but at the finish there were nearly twenty gave in their names to join. This
factory was the only one in the area outside the control of the Union, and as the firm
contemplates considerable extensions it was timely that we should gain the right of entry
in bargaining for wages, &c. From the 16th to the 19th, I was engaged at Stafford with
the Secretary in trying to get women removed from men's departments and men's work
asking that the work and hours be equalised as far as possible during the short time. We
had occasion to visit Messrs. Bostock over the discharge of eight girls from their factory
at Stone. Mr. A. Smith, Mr. R. Dunn and I had a long interview with Mr. F. Bostock
on November 18th on this matter. The contention of the management was that the girls
were exceptionally slow and could not earn the £2 minimum which they were receiving.
We argued that the piecework statement to which they were working was solely of the
firm's making, and could not be taken by us as a fair basis whereon to judge any body
of workers. We got the admission that the discharges were somewhat irregular and that
it would have been better if the prices had been agreed to by both sides - the firm and the
Union. We asked for their reinstatement pending the compilation of piecework prices.
Mr. Bostock promised to consider the question and let us know of his decision.
November 21st and 22nd, I attended the Council meeting. On the 23rd the President
of the London Metro and I visited two shops over questions of wages and the division
of work during short time. On the 24th we had a good meeting of the repairers at the
"True Form" factory, Edgware Road. The men complained of dismissals, particularly
over the discharge of their Shop President, the unequal distribution of the work and the
playing off of weekly wage men against pieceworkers. We had an interview lasting for
nearly three hours next day with the Manager of the factory and it was only when we
said that the particulars would be taken to the headquarters at Northampton that he agreed
to go into details with us. He said there would be no more discharges and that the work
would be distributed as fairly as possible, that any men set on in the future would come
through the London Metro. Branch, and that the new Shop President would be welcome
to see him from time to time as the men required. It is difficult to convict men on their
motives. The men at the "True Form" believe that their late Shop President was
victimised because of his outspoken ways. The manager utterly denies this and we could
get no further in this case. Zimmerman's, of Hackney Road, has taken up a good deal
of our time since the men joined the Union a few months ago. Had they been members
when trade was good the shop would not be in the state it is now in in regards to wages
and conditions. Mr. Mason and I tried our best to patch up a settlement here.
On November 29th and 30th we spent several hours at the above firm trying to get
the clickers back to work. They were sent away indefinitely simply because we asked
that they be put on the statement. The management said it was because of slackness of
trade. We also visited a shop in Mile End to ask the men to elect a Shop President, and
they agreed that it was the right thing to do. The firm of Solomon's, in Brushfield Street
has engaged the attention of the officers of the Metro. Branch for some time. I visited
this place and found that Mr. Mason's report of the place was true. The finishing room
is full of girls and the highest wage paid is 31s. There are two men on general work,
getting only £2 a week. I could not help telling one of the owners that it was places such
as his that brought discredit on the religion and name of his people.
It is not often I get an opportunity of attending a meeting of my old branch, Leicester.
On December 1st I went to the branch meeting and got a resolution carried that the Branch
Committee be elected for twelve months instead of six months.
On the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th, I went to Hinckley and Atherstone. Mr. W. Warner went
with me to Atherstone, when we held good meetings of the workers at the factory there.
On the 6th I went to Manchester. On the 7th I visited Frankenburg's with the Secre-
tary, and got a few concessions in some minor matters. We then visited Libstein's. The
eight women working in the machine room were locked out because they would not work
to piece rates of 2s. a dozen for doing the work through. We submitted prices which the
women wanted 3s. Finally we got an offer of 2s. 6d., but the women reluctantly came
firm would not accept. We saw them again on the 8th, when 2s. 2d. was offered. The
down to 2s. 9d., but Libstein's would not go beyond the 2s. 6d. So there is a deadlock at
present. In the other slipper works of Manchester the skilled machinists get fairly good
wages compared to the past, but at Libstein's the highest wage was £2 5s., and the women
are capable of doing any sort of work. There are five on 35s., one on 30s., and one on 25s.
The last two are not as experienced as the others. Hoping that our branches may grow
in strength and fellowship, with the compliments of the Season to colleagues and members.
DECEMBER 13TH, 1920.
D. McCARTHY.
---

---
Ireland is still the skeleton in the Parliamentary cupboard, and Members can never
free themselves from the sense of its grisly presence. It has affected the lobbies and
smoking rooms in a peculiar degree during the week. It was believed, with good reason,
that negotiations were on foot to bring about a truce, or a reciprocal arrangement whereby
all acts of violence and other provocative acts, official and unofficial would cease while
representatives of the Government and of the real leaders of Irish opinion endeavoured
to come to terms on the constitutional question. These negotiations have so far come to
nothing. The Prime Minister's habit of blowing hot and cold from one day to another
is partly responsible for the failure; the belief of the Irish administration that it can,
by calling in Beelzebub, cast out devils, has been a factor in bringing these promising
discussions to naught; but the most potent factor appears to be the existence of a group
within the Cabinet which is opposed to any settlement by conference and conciliation.
Mr. Arthur Henderson was credited with having brought back from Ireland definite pro-
posals from the leaders of the Irish people, and was believed to be prepared to return to
Ireland to carry the discussions a further stage; he may still go back to Ireland, but it
does not seem likely that he will be in possession of any useful information or offers from
the Government which would enable him to explore further the avenues he found open
in Ireland leading to peace.

There is one feature of this Irish question that is worth notice, all sections state they
deplore the present state of things, but the Labour Party alone make any real effort to
find a way out. We who are supposed to be unfit to govern are singular in the endeavours
made for permanent peace in Ireland.
Perhaps the most disturbing matter affecting Parliament during the month, or it
may be said for many months, has been the attack made on Members by the "Yellow
Press." Rarely has the House been roused to indignation like that shewn on Wednesday
last. The honour of Right Hon. and Hon. Members had been attacked, men who had
been described as "hard faced" boiled with indignation, they had been called "wasters,"
they who had saved so much during the War, erstwhile clerks who had become men of
great wealth during the War, were being told they knew nothing of economy. Had the
authors of this calumny been struck like the people of Sodom and Gomorrah it would
have been a fitting punishment. For these people had offended against the law, they had
attacked their own kind; if they want to make attacks, if they must abuse and misrepresent
someone, let them confine their efforts to the workers, let them tell the world the cause of
all our troubles is because the workers drink too much, or better still, tell the world we are
in our present state of chaos because the working class, belieing their name, will not work,
that the reason why ex-soldiers cannot get employment is due to the fact that unemployed
boot operatives will not permit them being trained in their trade. There is plenty of scope
for the purists of the journalistic world, and for them to leave that sphere in order to turn
and rend their own kind! This is the most unkindest cut of all.

The House was determined to do something, they would pass a resolution telling
these scoundrels what they thought of them, and if they persisted in their wrong doing,
then they would consider what further could be done. It was certainly a case where it
was difficult to say what ought to be the punishment, but judging from the manner of
those on the Coalition benches, it should be something with boiling oil attached to it.
One can quite readily agree that this economy stunt is most mischievous in its character,
and if allowed to have effect will be damaging indeed to the people of this country. This
was most apparent in the debate on Thursday. A resolution was moved to limit the
amount which the Government should spend in a year, but without saying in what direction
expenditure should be curtailed. Is there any need for doubt as to what branch of our
activities would be curtailed; the main part of the criticism of expenditure is against
Education, schemes for the raising of National Health, and the Ministries responsible are
singled out for attack. The extent to which the economist will go in this direction is
manifest from their statements, and the Labour Party cannot be a party to this short-
sighted policy. We have been told the struggle between nations will be keener than ever,
and can we hope to hold our own with our people starved mentally and physically? Is
it at the expense of these things we are to economise? We say, you cannot save by
impoverishing the intellect or continuing the ignorance of the people.
If looked at from the mere commercial standpoint it is false economy, viewed from
the human side it is a tragedy. Are we still to remain a C3 population? Is the sacrifice of
four and a half years war to count as nothing? It is not as if we cannot do it, the means
are here. It is a question of method, of system, of policy. While we allow passion and
prejudice to govern our actions we shall fail to accomplish anything in the nature of pro-
gress. And further, while we permit a few to monopolise that which is essential for all,
there must be inequalities, some must lack that which is vital to their well being. As I
write I have an advertisement before me asking for capital in which it states the profits
were 15 per cent. in 1917, 24 per cent. in 1918, and 25 per cent. in 1919, and while we are


---
```text
959
BRANCH REPORTS.
BARNSLEY.—We are sorry to have to announce that one of our oldest
members has passed away, Arthur Crosland (1803). He had been a member
of this Branch about 35 years, and was always clear on his card during that
long time; a very quiet man and well respected by the shopmates who came
in contact with him; a shopmate for some time with Mr. John Buckle, J.P.,
of whom he was fond in every respect; a good number of his late shopmates
and the Secretary attended his funeral. Trade has been slack here for some
time, but now the strike has ended there is a better prospect of regular work.
We wish all our members the Compliments of the Season and also to all the
officials of the Union, and hope that a brighter time for trade will be ushered
in with the new year.
BELFAST.—Trade still continues very quiet both in the manufacturing
and repairing. In reference to the application made to the Master Bootmakers
and Repairers' Association for a revision of the Piece and Time Rates, the
following offer was made on behalf of the Masters:—Three halfpence on Men's
Soles and Heels; one penny on Women's Soles and Heels and all other sizes;
a proportionate advance on Heels and Pieces ; no advance on Extras. Time
workers' claim to be considered at a later date. This was submitted to the
members at a Special Meeting. After very full consideration it was decided
to accept the offer. The new rates were payable from November 8th. The
Secretary was instructed to write the Masters' Association respectfully request-
ing that the claim of the Time Workers be considered without delay. Might
we again appeal to the members and urge upon them the necessity of taking
an intelligent interest in the workings of the Branch. We cordially con-
gratulate the General Secretary on the very high honour that has recently
been conferred upon him by being appointed Chairman of the Parliamentary
Committee of the Trade Union Congress. We extend to every officer and
member of the Union the Season's Greetings, and hope the dark cloud of un-
employment which is now hanging over us may soon pass away.
BRISTOL.—Our report this month is a very gloomy one indeed; trade
is so bad that we wonder sometimes if it is coming to a standstill. No doubt
many things have operated to bring us to the present state, but of one thing
we are certain, if Russia and Central Europe were opened up there would
certainly be a good trade open to us. At a very largely attended meeting to
discuss the system of working before the vote was taken, it was almost the
general opinion that the Quantities Statement piece system, with the rush
that goes with it, was not good for the majority of members, but that a system
of daywork properly arranged by Statement would result in a fairer distribution
of work.
BRISTOL AND KINGSWOOD No. 2.—We can only describe trade as
desperately bad, and it requires the spirit of "Mark Tapley" to give utterance
to the good wishes which is customary at this season. The sudden death
of one of our manufacturers, Mr. Bees, has caused the factory to be closed,
temporarily we hope, but over 100 operatives are at present idle, and we
hope that arrangements will speedily be made for them to resume work. Some
good meetings have been held during the month. These dealt with the recent
vote on Controlled or Uncontrolled output, and we favour Control. In our
view, after four years' unexampled prosperity in our trade, the present depres-
sion has pinched the operative more than the manufacturer, the position
being more manufacturers riding in motor cars and more operatives in want.
This result leads us to believe that a change is badly needed. We close with
the sincere wish that 1921 will bring a revival of trade to our own and other
industries, and that we shall enjoy the blessings of a real Peace on Earth and
Goodwill toward all Men.
```

---
Here is the extracted text:
and a Happy New Year.
962
sequence our out-of-work list has been increased. During the month we have
LEEDS. We regret to report that trade here is very bad, and as a con.
been successful in getting a ro per cent, increase on all hand lasting, and also
15 per cent, increase on Fixing Bottom Stuff on all Rivetted work. This being
our last report for the year we wish all officers and members a Merry Christmas,
satisfactory, short time being the general rule, but we are looking forward to
LIVERPOOL. We regret to say that trade in this district is far from
a brighter outlook in the New Year. We have been advised by the Central
entitled to Funeral Benefit on death of member's wife "unless she is a member
Office that Trade and Funeral members paying eightpence per week are not
of the Union." This is an important point, as we have recently had to refuse
a claim. We desire to point out to our members that our Annual Meeting will
in February. Our Secretary has advised us that if nominated he will stand
for re-election. We have decided to commence our meetings in future at
be held in March for the election of Branch officials: nominations to be taken
8 p.m. instead of 7.30p.m. the first Wednesday in the month at the LLP
Rooms, 264, Upper Parliament Street, Liverpool. We have made grants to
the local League of the Blind and Chesham Branch, of IOS. each in response
LONDONDERRY. - Trade is very bad; unemployment is rife; and our
Branch has suffered a big decrease in membership, as the Coleraine, Ballymoney,
refusal to pay the increased contributions. We have done our best to point
out to them their folly, but as they consider Is. per week too much to pay,
Kilrea, and Limavady Sections have dropped out of the Union, owing to their
and unless things take a turn for the better shortly we shall be driven out of
we have no alternative but to scratch them. Trade here was never worse,
looking to our English brethren in
the Labour Movement to do their bit to see justice done to our unfortunate
to appeals.
existence as a Branch. However, we are
country.
MAYBOLE. - Trade is very slack, several members having to stand off
for a week at a time; the whole trade is very discouraging. We are losing
several members owing to some being displaced and others getting jobs awar
from the trade. We are having an opportunity this month to vote for or
against the Piecework system, when it is hoped every member will take the
trouble to vote and not blame the officials for everything. Wishing all the
Council and members a Merry Christmas and a much Happier New Year for
the whole trade.
NEWCASTLE. By the time this report is in the hands of our fellow
members we shall have entered upon another year. We extend to all our
fellow members the Season's Greetings, and hope that the New Year may be
more prosperous than the present one.
is not what it was previous to the Coal Strike; we felt it rather severely here,
being in the centre of the Northern coalfields. At our last Monthly Meeting
Trade here is picking up a bit but it
to the conclusion that a younger member should hold the position, because
our Branch President very reluctantly resigned that office, he having come
he thought the coming New Year would be a trying one for all trade unions
and officials. He has held the office as President for the last eight years, and
him for all his past services by all the members present.
was held in respect by all the members. A hearty vote of thanks was accorded
NORWICH. -Trade in Norwich continues very bad, the position becoming
much worse during the month. Some smaller factories are entirely closed
and the prospects at the moment seem to show that larger factories will share
the same fate. There is now no factory in Norwich working full time those
that are running rarely exceed half time, and he would be a wise man indeed


---
963
in store for our members. However, in spite of the gloom we look hopefully
who would, with any degree of accuracy, forecast what the New Year has
that would stimulate trade. We take this opportunity of offering congratula-
to the future, as there appears an awakening amongst the workers that must,
we beg to suggest, alter and redirect the policy of the Government in a manner
tions to one of our members, Mr. W. E. Savage, on his elevation to the
Aldermanic Bench of the Norwich City Council.
The members of our Branch at our last Monthly Meeting showed
the General President in using the columns of the Norwich Eastern Daily
their disapproval in no unmistakable fashion of the policy pursued by
importance upon which the members were being asked to vote, viz.:
Press to promote an individual point of view dealing with an issue of
"Piecework v. Daywork," and we sincerely hope that in future responsible
officers will refrain from such a policy.
No officer worthy of the name of man would refuse to advise members on the
policy of the Union which had been in operation without challenge for
45 years, and I shall always claim the right to advise at the right time
and in the proper place. -T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. Pres.]
NORTHAMPTON. - Trade
here is very bad, large numbers being out of
work and all others on short time this we are afraid is to continue for some
time, thus causing perpetual unemployment and general distress. What have
our highly-paid Government and their officials to say to their neglect of pre-
paration for the crisis we are going through? Why have they not had schemes
boasted foresight? Where is the added land under cultivation, producing the
of temporary and permanent employment in readiness, and where is their
golden headed corn that we are dependent on other countries for? Why not
even now, late as it is, set about the great question in a serious and capable
owing to other countries not being in need of our manufactured goods, whilst
way to see that the people of this country are not in constant fear of famine
we must have their agricultural produce. This is the greatest single question,
and our Ministers have not a settled policy; all of them are trusting to luck.
We had a large vote on the proposed new Agreement, the vast majority hoping
that a change of system of working will abate the unemployment which is
so acute here. Well, we must "wait and see."
PLYMOUTH. We wish all members the Compliments of the Season.
Trade is quiet here, but the question of daywork versus Piece-work livened up
our Branch Meeting considerably; this is one of those questions which go
straight as an arrow to the vital point. Our members have read the President's
arguments for Piece-work in the daily papers, and our Secretary read the letter
in full which Mr. Richards had written to the Shoe and Leather News, in order
to give the members the best information and argument obtainable, but the
members would have none of it, not even with the sugar and syrup of "un-
limited wages." Mark the words, lads! it's a new one to piece-workers.
What visions of unbounded wealth this brought before our minds. We have
some very old workers at Plymouth but they have never yet seen a millionaire
Piece-worker; probably we are rather slow in the South, but if there were no
limit we should get there alright. Our Branch has passed a resolution calling
upon the Council to take a ballot of the members on the straight issue of Piece-
work versus Day-work, without reference to quantities, being of the opinion
that Quantity Statements is but another form of piece-work; this is in accord
with our General President's declaration at the Special Conference held at
Leicester, February 20th, 1919, when, explaining the Agreement, he said,
"I know some of our members prefer to go on daywork, but if they work to
Quantity Statement they become piece-workers." We realise to the full
that the present depression of trade is largely the backwash of the War, but
under-employment and unemployment is no new thing to our trade, and our


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:

964

present system of Piece-work unfortunately lends itself to it by allowing the
employers to bring hundreds of men to the trade without the responsibility
of finding them a week's work or a week's money, but merely keeping them
as a reserve army in case of a push.

PORTSMOUTH. -We have to report with regret this month that trade
does not seem to improve, and many men are still walking about in despair;
we know of many cases where no job has been taken in for several days, and
each morning the men hear the words "nothing to-day." We can only hope
the New Year may see a great change in industrial conditions. We refrain
from saying more at this time but hope to record signs of improvement in
our next report.

READING. -Trade is very dull here; there are a large number of
Repairers out of work, also all shops working short time. We have a large
number of small shops doing repairs at starvation prices; they do the work
themselves, so we cannot touch them on wages; there is also a man who comes
to Market on Saturdays and takes away repairs, doing gents' at 4s. 6d. and
ladies' 3s., which is not making it better for the men that are walking about.
Wishing all officers and members the Compliments of the Season.

SOUTHAMPTON. -Trade is slack in the boot repairing here, and also
amongst most of the trades in connection with shipping there is a slackness.
several large firms working short time in their various branches of manufacture
May we hope that the coming year will improve very much and that instead
of the present uncertainty all business will get more normal and steady. As
this is out final published report for 1920 we send out heartiest Greeting to
headquarters and all Branches, hoping with them to have a better time in the
coming year.

STAFFORD. - Trade still remains very slack here, in fact, instead of
any improvement it is the reverse, the oldest members of our Branch declaring
they have never experienced such an acute depression; everything points to
the festive season being one which will bring with it great suffering for a lot
of our members.

STREET. - There is no improvement in the state of trade in this district
and a very large proportion of our members are working less than half time.
We are glad, however, that with few exceptions our members remain loyal to
their Union and are determined to keep their contributions up to date. At
such times as these it is more than necessary that our organisation shall keep
up its strength. After long, careful consideration and discussion we have
definitely decided to carry the good work into the political field, and at a
special Branch Meeting held on November 16th, which was addressed by
Mr. Len. Smith, Council Member for Northampton, it was unanimously decided
to nominate Mr. Smith to contest our Parliamentary Division in the Labour
interest at the next election. Most of the polling areas now have their Labour
organisations, and there is no reason why we may not be successful in the
fight.

NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.
MEMBERS

should see that the members of their families, who are members of
the Union, should BELONG to their own Approved Society. All persons
belonging to the Union, upon attaining the age of 16 years, should
approve AT ONCE with the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives.
Transfers can now be dealt with.

E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
JOHN W. MURBY, Manager.


---
973
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.
SPECIAL CONGRESS HELD IN LONDON, NOV. 22nd to 28th, 1920.
Synoposis of Business transacted thereat by E. L. Poulton, J.P., Gen. Sec.
The meetings were held at the Holborn Restaurant. Mr. W. A. Appleton having
resigned as Chairman of the Federation, Mr. J. H. Thomas, M.P., was upon the proposal
of Mr. E. L. Poulton, J.P., appointed in Mr. Appleton's place.
The business of such a Congress must of necessity proceed slowly owing to the diffi-
culty of there being so many languages spoken, the speeches therefore having to be trans-
lated, as a minimum, four times.
The Conference was a great success, there being a wonderfully good feeling shown
throughout the whole week. Seventeen countries were represented, some having as
many as twelve delegates. The principal business dealt with was as follows:
Countries Represented.
Country.
ENGLAND
Organisation.
Trade Union Congress Parliamentary
Committee
Membership.
5,000,000
Delegates.
E. L. Poulton.
J. H. Thomas.
H. Gosling.
A. B. Swales.
Will. Thorn.
Miss M. Bondfield.
R. B. Walker.
T. Mallalieu.
General Federation of Trade Unions
.. 1,500,000
Alfred Short.
Jos. Cross.
12
GERMANY
FRANCE
BELGIUM
DENMARK
NORWAY
bund
Allgemeiner Deutscher Gewerkschafts-.. 8,500,000
Confederation Generale du Travail
Commission Syndicale de Belgique
1,500,000
13
700,000
9
300,000
5
Samvirkende Fagforbund
Arbeidernos Faglige Landsorganisation
i Norge
150.000
5
SWEDEN
Landsorganisationens i Sverige
HOLLAND
Nederlandsch Verbond van Vakver
281,000
4
eenigingen
240,000
8
ITALY
AUSTRIA
C7ECHO-
Confederazione Generale del Lavoro
Gewerkschaftskommission Oesterreichs
2,300,000
5
800,000
3
750,000
SLOVAKIA
Odborove Sdruzeni Ceskoslovenske
4
HUNGARY
SWITZERLAND Union Syndicale Suisse
Ungarlaendischer Gewerkschaftsrat
215,000
2
225,000
1
27,000
2
SPAIN
LUXEMBOURG Commission Syndicale de Luxembourg
POLAND
Union General de Trabajadores de Espana
Komisja Centralna Zwiaskow Zawodowzek
Zjednoczenic Zawodowe Polskie
250,000
2
334,000
3
774,000
6
CANADA
The Trades and Labor Congress of Canada
260,000
1
After the Congress had been opened by the Rt. Hon. J. H. Thomas, M.P. and M.
Jouhaux, the international position was discussed by E. Fimmen. After a full discussion
a resolution was proposed, protesting against all open and covert attempts of the dominant
class throughout the world to suppress freedom of organisation and action by the workers;
it raised emphatic protest against the military and commercial war still carried on against
Russia; declared that it is the primary duty of all national trade union centres and of
all workers to use every means to fight the world reaction which threatens the growth,
existence and very life of the trade union movement.
The opinion was voiced that, both nationally and internationally, the movement,
besides systematic pursuit for better conditions of labour, must join issue against Capitalism
and imperialism; that militarism must be combated in every form, and :
"The trade union movement of all countries should resort to general withdrawal
of labour and to international boycott as a stern and effectual weapon in the fight
against reaction and for progress."
An urgent appeal was made for co-operation "to impress on the working classes
the necessity for international mass action in the assault on reaction, in declaring war
against war, and for the realisation of a new social system."
The resolution was carried by 21,906,000 votes to 2,710,000, Italy, Norway and
Canada voting against.


---
975
"International measures must proceed on lines other than the mere concession of
security of the wealth and resources of all nations without exception. The amount should
Nations or an Organisation attached thereto, promotes an International Loan on the
fresh commercial credits. This can only be accomplished if and when the League of
be placed at the disposal of the various countries in accordance with their needs and under
position and for the restoration and advancement of production.
the control of the League of Nations, for the sole and exclusive betterment of their financial
and that all efforts made by the nations must be concentrated for the achievement of
"This Congress urges that these measures must not serve any military purpose
universal peace.
This Congress declares that the measures should be accomplished within a given
period that they are uniform with the other demands of the working class International
affecting production, distribution of raw materials, and the control of transport.
wise the above Congress concurs in the attempt to achieve the restoration of the world
by labour and by the promotion of solidarity among the nations.'
Resolution on Socialisation.
Like-
"That this International Trade Union Congress, assembled in London, on the 22nd
November, 1920, and following days, condemns the capitalist system of production which
functions to the prejudice of the community and to the sole advantage of certain individuals.
"Taking into consideration the high cost of living which continues to affect adversely
the material condition of the working class and in view of the accumulation of enormous
profits which are being made by great capitalist undertakings.
"And further in consideration of the scarcity of the necessaries of life existing in
practically every country whilst capitalist enterprise is deliberately curtailing production
with the object of obtaining inflated profits.
capitalists.
should pro-
duce wealth with the object of advancing the power and wealth of a small number of
"This Congress regards the situation as of immediate concern to all workers whose
duty it is to consider the facts; and affirms that all available necessaries of life should
be placed at the disposal of the community.
"This Congress declares that an increase of production can only be secured by the
will be directed in the interests of the community to the exclusion of capitalist interests,
capitalism will no longer retain the power to hinder or thwart these efforts
in its own financial interests.
"That improvement of the material and moral conditions of life for the workers will
only be possible if the foregoing changes are accomplished.
"THIS CONGRESS THEREFORE DEMANDS, in the interest of society, the socialisation
of land, and other means of production. The Congress regards it as essential that com-
mencement should be made forthwith on the socialisation of minerals (coal, ores, salt,
phosphate, &c.), all transport undertakings, and, generally speaking, on all branches of
production which in the estimation of the proletariate of every country is realisable.
"That this transformation is not to be affected by mere transfer of industrial control
to the Capitalist State, but by active participation of the whole population in industrial
and national control, exercised in conjunction with the appropriate Trade Unions.
"Furthermore, this Congress specifies that in the case of those industries not included
in this scheme of socialisation, transformation plans must be framed and taken in hand.
The right of the workers to co-determination in regulation of production and enterprise
must be assured.
"This Congress urges the workers throughout the world to use their entire economic
and political power with the authority of the Executive Committee of their respective
organisations, for the realisation of this aim, and instructs the Bureau of the International
Federation of Trade Unions to open negotiations with the International Trade Secretariats
of Miners, Seafarers, and other Transport Workers, for the purpose of using every available
means to attain the object in view as soon as possible."
Resolution against the so-called Moscow Trade Union International.
"The Special Congress of the International Federation of Trade Unions, meeting in
London and representing twenty-six millions of organised workers in eighteen countries.
"Takes note of the fresh attacks and calumnies directed against the Congress by the
leaders of the Third International calumnies and insults which would not possibly be
considered as proper methods of discussion between free and civilised men.


---
309
THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR CONFERENCE.
WASHINGTON, D.C., December, 1919.
It was our privilege, as visitors, to attend the International Labour Conference pro-
vided for in the Covenant of the League of Nations.
In addition to studying the Conference, our instructions were to study and promote
the interests of the International Federation of Trade Unions.
The Conference was held in the Pan-American Buildings, Washington, D.C., and
opened on the 29th October. On the first day there were 32 countries represented, the
principal European exceptions being Germany, Austria, Hungary, and Russia. Owing
to representations made in London prior to the Conference Mr. G. N. Barnes specially
interviewed the Supreme Council in Paris, his object being to secure the removal of any
obstacles to the attendance in Washington of the delegates of the Central Powers. The
American Embassy gave courteous and sympathetic assistance, and before the end of
September the restrictions imposed by the Treaty of Peace and the Covenant of the League
of Nations had been waived. In these circumstances it was confidently expected that the
German and Austrian representatives would be present. Unfortunately, their internal
difficulties were too great, and they were unable to make the journey.
The absence of nations which were certain to be serious competitors for the world's
business was regrettable, both from the moral and material point of view. Their presence
might have helped the healing of the world's wounds and the closing of the breaches
between the peoples. Not being present they could claim liberty to adopt, to modify,
or to reject any of the findings of the Conference in respect of wages, hours, or conditions
of Labour. That they do not regard these findings as binding may be inferred from their
attitude towards piecework, as illustrated at the International Conference of the Garment
Workers, which was recently held in Amsterdam. There they frankly argued that piece-
work offered their only means of industrial regeneration.
In fairness to these countries it must be admitted that they cannot pay the debts
incurred unless every individual within them produces very much more than is required
for his own maintenance and the maintenance of his dependents.
Much more serious than the absence of the Germans and Austrians was the official
abstention of the United States of America. Taking into consideration the object of the
Conference and the importance of the subjects to be discussed, it was more than unfortunate
that the country responsible, through its own President, for issuing the invitations to the
Conference was not officially represented. Unofficially, Secretary W. B. Wilson and Mr.
Samuel Gompers attended.
The attitude of the American people towards the Conference was reflected by the
American Press, which, after the first day, gave only limited consideration and space to
the proceedings. Generally speaking, there was a courteous suppression of actually
hostile sentiments, but there were many who doubted the practical utility of the Con-
ference and not a few who doubted the bona-fides of those who persisted in precipitating
the Conference upon an unready community.
Not all the Americans suppressed their opinions in order to maintain the national
reputation for courtesy. Senators Sherman, Reed, and La Follette all gave utterance
to pungent criticisms. The former, speaking at New York a few days after the Conference
opened, said that the delegates had been dumped there from all parts of the world, that
they were Radicals (Reds) working for no good purpose, and they were bent on fanning
into a flame the discontent in America. If he had the power he would deport the Inter-
national Labour Conference. It was no time for such a Conference. They had enough
stormy petrels in their own country without having the Internationals to swamp them.
Americans were often kind enough to say that Senator Sherman only represented
himself. Our inquiries, however, led us to believe that, while the language used might be
typical only of Senator Sherman, the thought behind was the thought of the great mass
of the American people. They saw no advantage to the world or themselves in discussing
what they regarded as platitudes, and they feared the effect of the discussions upon the
minds and activities of those who in America are hostile to American methods and institu-
tions.
The active opposition to the Conference may be to a great extent attributed to partisan
politics, because there are men in the Republican Party who feel that to the extent they
can belittle the Peace Treaty and its machinery to that extent they can weaken the position
of the Democartic Party and that of the President.
This situation could, and ought to, have been foreseen by the British Government,
and appears to justify our conclusion that the Government, in view of the opposition of
the Senate to the Treaty of Peace and to the action of President Wilson, made a great
mistake in pushing the arrangements for the Conference and in temporarily financing it.


---
310
of America, that such Conferences were not intended to supersede Trade Union effort.
Covenant of the League of Nations we have no doubts whatever. The periodical and
between nations. To bring
Of the ultimate utility of such an Industrial Conference as that contemplated in the
called, and time should have been taken to convince the Trade Unionists, particularly
and Labour, of matters affecting industry, commerce, and human well-being, must make
olic and international discussion, by a tribunal jointly representing countries, capitalists,
public review questions affecting the working hours and conditions of women and
dare continue conditions which the conscience of the rest of the world condemn, and
nothing would so soon ensure condemnation as the public discussion of things that were
children, and the wages paid to them, must result in improvement. No single nation
bad-hours and methods of production, as they apply to men, and as they affect health,
happiness, and national existences can be more advantageously discussed where each
for better conditions and more peaceful understandings be
under public
point of view is put forward.
side talks and where only one
are directed against the gaucherie which precipitated the Washington Conference upon an
It will be understood from the foregoing that whatever criticisms this report contains
future gatherings will not have the same difficulties, but they will have others, and upon
unready people rather than against the objectives of the Conference. Those who organise
between the Departments specifically concerned with foreign affairs and those which
essay to deal with international labour. Demarcation disputes have been known to exist
one of these it will be necessary for the Governments concerned to give very specific
instructions. Unless this is done there may easily be irritating and dangerous friction
between Government Departments, and, though they are carried on more decorously
than industrial conflicts of a similar character, they can be even more paralysing.
The particular interests of the International Federation of Trade Unions did not
delegates than the development of Trade Union understanding was the possibility of
receive that attention which we feel was due to them. More important to some of the
been necessary to arrange beforehand who should be elected to the various offices and
manipulating elections and the pleasure of attending social functions. While it may have
committees, it did not appear to be necessary to sacrifice, without notice, definitely arranged
Trade Union meetings for river trips or dinner parties. Nor was it courteous to change
the place of meetings without notifying either the President or the American Federation
of Labour, whose premises had been placed at the service of the International. This
discourtesy found its fullest expression on Saturday, November 8th. A meeting had been
arranged by consent of the Bureau and the delegates for 3 o'clock in the afternoon. This
meeting was to be held in the offices of the American Federation of Labour. Mr. Samuel
Gompers, Mr. Frank Morrison, Mr. Matthew Woll (representing the American Federation
had thrown over International Trade Unionism for a trip up the Potomac. Owing to the
of Labour), and our two selves waited from 3 o'clock until 5 only to find that the delegates
perfunctory method of dealing with other meetings we took the precaution of visiting
the Pan-American Building on the afternoon preceding the date fixed for this particular
meeting for the purpose of assuring ourselves that no change in the programme was con-
templated. The assurances we received were definite, but the river trip prevailed.
We personally apologised to Mr. Gompers for the slight placed upon the American
Federation of Labour. We reiterate our regret that an international gathering of Trade
Unionists should have acted so carelessly at a moment when the Federation was gravely
concerned with the steel strike, the miners' strike, and the injunction which the Courts
of Law had granted against the mine workers of America.
This expression of the delegates' concern for Trade Unionism determined the length
of our stay in Washington. We discussed the situation as we saw it, and decided that
there was no justification for any longer stay in this city than was necessary to enable
us to fulfil our obligations to the American Federation of Labour. We, therefore, made
our arrangements for returning home.
During our stay we attended meetings, or attended at the places where meetings
had been convened, on the 29th of October and on the 1st, 4th, 5th, 7th, and 8th of Novem-
ber. We also took occasion to see many of the American Trade Unionists who came to
Washington for their special conference on the 9th of November.
capped Mr. G. N. Barnes and our appreciation of his efforts to secure the best results
We cannot close this report without expressing our regret at the illness which handi-
from a difficult situation. Those who come after Mr. Barnes may build an imposing
edifice, but they will build upon the foundations which he worked so hard to lay. We
wish also to offer our congratulations to our old friend Touhaux, who was elected Vice-
President of the Conference. His self-restraint and his capacity gained him many com-
letters received since the Conference-gave thoughtful and eloquent expositions of the
Trade Union situation in France and of their own conceptions of the movement in America.
mendations, while his colleagues--Dumoulin, Bidegary, and Lenoir, as we know from


---
Here's the extracted text from the image:

**TRADE UNION CONGRESS PARLIAMENTARY COMMITTEE.**

**UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BILL.**
Protest against its Administration by Friendly Societies.

TO THE OFFICIALS AND MEMBERS OF AFFILIATED SOCIETIES.

GENTLEMEN, -As you will doubtless have seen from the public Press, the Parliamentary
Committee of the Trades Union Congress found it necessary to record their protest against
an amendment to the Unemployment Insurance Bill, carried in Standing Committee C,
on Tuesday, the 23rd inst., by 24 votes to 16, the effect of which is to make Industrial
and Friendly Societies' and employers' organisations parties to the administration of
Unemployed benefit. The Parliamentary Committee happened to be meeting that day,
and, upon being informed of what had occurred during the discussion of the Bill in Standing
Committee, unanimously passed the following resolution, copies of which were forwarded
to the Prime Minister and to the Press :-

"That this Parliamentary Committee, representing the whole of the organised
workers in the United Kingdom, having been informed of the amendment passed
to-day by the Committee considering the Unemployed Insurance Bill, which enables
Industrial and Friendly Societies and employers' organisations to administer the
Unemployed Benefit, as provided in the Bill now in Committee, desire to inform the
Prime Minister that in the event of this clause not being deleted in the Report stage
of the Bill, they will be compelled to recommend to the whole of the Trade Union
movement to refuse to have anything to do with the Act."

The Parliamentary Committee are convinced that the claim set forth in the above
resolution will meet with the unanimous approval of organised workers throughout the
country, who will readily recognise that the administration of Unemployment Benefit is
essentially a matter for the Trade Unions to deal with, being absolutely distinct from the
sick and other benefits administered by the Friendly Societies.

The Parliamentary Committee therefore urge upon the Executive officials of affiliated
organisations to advise their members to communicate at once with their local Members
of Parliament calling upon them, upon the Report stage of the Bill, to vote for the restora-
tion of Clause 17 to the form in which it left the House of Commons upon second reading.

Yours faithfully,

THE PARLIAMENTARY COMMITTEE.

J. H. THOMAS (Chairman).
G. H. STUART-BUNNING (Vice-Chairman).
M. BONDFIELD.
H. BOOTHMAN.
W. J. DAVIS.
H. GOSLING.
J. HILL.
J. W. OGDEN.
E. L. POULTON.
A. A. PURCELL.
J. SEXTON.
H. SKINNER.
A. B. SWALES.
W. THORNE.
R. B. WALKER.
J. B. WILLIAMS.

C. W. BOWERMAN, Secretary.

March, 1920.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
313

You know what happens when a man spends more money than he makes; he goes
into debt. The same applies to our physical energy. If you exercise more than you should,
illness and sickness will follow. You should take your recreation in a quiet, rather than
a strenuous, manner until your lungs have become healed, which usually takes three to
four years. Avoid active play like dancing, lawn tennis, handball, football, skating, rowing,
swimming, hunting, horseback riding. Golf in a light form, croquet, and walks or short
hikes are most suitable. Gambling is the worse form of recreation. It is too exciting
and is often indulged in at night when players ought to be in bed sleeping. Do not gamble
if you want to stay well. Avoid excesses.

GUARD AGAINST A RELAPSE.

Every arrested case of tuberculosis may have activity again. You should learn the
important points of the disease. You should be on the alert to note the first signs of a break
down.

DANGER SIGNALS.

An undue sense of fatigue, loss of appetite, loss of strength, loss of weight, rise of
temperature, night sweats, increased cough and sputum, spitting of blood, rapid pulse,
are the most important danger signals. The most dangerous of these is the temperature
99.2° F., with headaches; 99.4° or over; difference between morning and evening of
over 2 degrees, are the points to be looked for. Every arrested case of tuberculosis should
know how to take his own pulse and temperature. Do not take temperature for 15 minutes
after smoking, or eating or drinking anything hot or cold. Active exercise raises the body
temperature. Rest at least one-half hour before taking it. Weigh yourself every two
weeks.

HOW TO KEEP UP A FIGHTING RESISTANCE.

Don't worry. Cultivate a cheerful disposition. Be an optimist. Your ability to
stay well depends upon your power to keep up a good fighting resistance to the germs-
tubercle bacilli.

Worrying, the blues, overdoing, poor food, bad housing, reduce your resistance. The
same may be said of colds, attacks of influenza, tonsilitis, or any form of illness. You can
not afford to treat these minor sicknesses lightly. It is your duty to seek in every way to
keep up your resistance your defenses against tuberculosis. Remember that rest and
medical care will aid you in making a more rapid recovery. When in doubt, consult with
your physician. "Safety first" is a good motto to follow. Better be called a health
crank and carry on than be called a good sport and be in the sanitorium again "chasing
the cure."

The more you know about tuberculosis the better you can protect yourself and preserve
your health. The National Tuberculosis Association, 381, Fourth Avenue, New York
City, and the Federal Board for Vocational Education, Washington, D. C., will send you
several booklets on tuberculosis free of charge. The Vocational Summary, March, 1920.

LEICESTER BOOT & SHOE TRADE BOARD OF CONCILIATION & ARBITRATION.

A meeting of the Board was held on 30th March. Present: Mr. A. Wilkes, in the
chair. Messrs. C. H. Roberts, W. A. Thompson, G. W. Hunt and T. W. Smith, representing
the Manufacturers. Messrs. T. Adnitt, G. Parbury, M. A. Parker, H. Cramphorn, G.
Knight, A. Hill, G. Smith, R. Harris and Mrs. E. Goodman, representing the Operatives,
and Mr. A. E. W. Chamberlin, Secretary.
Sincere regret was expressed at the absence of the Chairman, Mr. T. Orton, owing
to a recurrence of illness, and the Board desired the Secretary to convey their sympathy
to him and their best wishes for his speedy recovery.
The claim of the No. 2 Branch of the Union, that an extra be paid to Clickers when
cutting work to quality, was referred to the Arbitrators.
Prices for Stitching and Loose Nailing agreed upon by the Lasting Joint Committee
were approved and confirmed by the Board.
Prices fixed by the Finishing Joint Committee for Heel Paring, Heel Scouring and
Heel Padding, were reported to the Board and ordered to be recorded in the Minutes,
the prices to come into operation and be paid as from and including the working week
commencing on the 12th, 13th or 14th February, 1920.
The question of the revision of Shop Finishing Statements for Canvas Work, was
referred to the Finishing Joint Committee.
41, Friar Lane, Leicester.
31st March, 1920.
Press Report.


---
316
THE REPAIRING TRADE BOARD.
Male Apprentices to be Registered and a Form of Indentures
Approved-Minimum Rates for Apprentices whose Work was
Committee's Repairers and the Shops (Early Closing) Bill-
interrupted by War Service Constitution of the District Trade
The Public and Leather Substitutes.
A meeting of the Boot Repairing Trade Board was held at the Offices, Chancery Lane
their scheme for the registration and supervision of male apprentices, full details of which
W.C., on Thursday and Friday last week. The Administrative Committee submitted
appeared in the last issue of the Record. A form of registration was agreed upon, which
would shortly be issued by the Board, and would in due course be followed by a form
indenture, also to be drawn up by the Board. The scheme was made applicable to all
apprentices in the trade, and only those so registered would be recognised as apprentices
by the Board, the whole object of the scheme being to ensure proper training.
Employment of Young Workers.
With regard to the proposals for the limitation of the proportion of young workers
of a scheme having this object in view, such a scheme to apply to others than learners and
in the trade, it was decided to seek the opinion of the Ministry of Labour as to the validity
apprentices.
The Board agreed to amendments in the rates applicable to apprentices in rivet and
combination making and repairing. On a five years' apprenticeship the rates were fixed
as follows: First year, ros. per week: second year, 15s. per week: third year, 21s. per
The recommendation of the Administrative Committee that the fixing of general
piece rates for closing be relegated to the District Trade Committees, for further information
week; fourth year, 25s. per week; fifth year, 30s. per week.
and consideration, was agreed to.
War-Interrupted Apprenticeships.
The Board considered the application of minimum rates to apprentices whose appren
under the scheme prepared by the Board and approved by the Ministry of Labour. It was
ticeships had been interrupted by service in the Forces, and who were undergoing training
agreed that in no case should the wages for adult workers be less than 65s. for a week of
48 hours, and, further, that the State grant be withheld in all cases pending the production
of evidence that the worker had in fact been paid at that rate since the date on which
the minimum rates fixed by the Board came into operation.
The Board approved the Administrative Committee's report upon the setting up of
District Trade Committees, and of the areas as defined by the Committee. Under this
scheme there will be nine District Trade Committees in England, three in Scotland, and two
in Wales, each Committee consisting of 24 representatives, of whom eight would be
nominated by the Board, 16 to be local representatives (workers and employers in equal
proportion). The appointment of local representatives would be made after consideration
of names submitted by the Administrative Committee to the Board. The members of the
Administrative Committee of each side agreed to furnish the names for submission to the
Ministry of Labour, and it was hoped that they would be ready for selection at the next
meeting of the Administrative Committee on May 6th and 7th.
Shops (Early Closing) Bill.
The Administrative Committee submitted a report on one-man businesses and the
Shops (Early Closing) Bill. After consultation with a representative of the Home Office
as to the practicability of applying the measure to boot repairing businesses, it was agreed
to urge the Home Office to seek the necessary power to apply the Bill to such concerns.
The Committee, it was stated, had appointed a sub-committee for the purpose of examining
the provisions of the Bill, with a view to ascertaining whether they affected repairing shops,
and if necessary to draft an amending clause with a view to covering establishments of the
kind. The sub-committee had prepared a memorandum in support of such an amendment
and had transmitted it to the Home Office. Correspondence was read between the Home
Office and the Secretary of the Board, and from this it was gathered that the memorandum
was under consideration by the Home Secretary. It was decided that the Secretary should
might state their views in support of the suggestion that repairing shops should be brought
write asking that a deputation be received by the Home Secretary in order that they
under the provisions of the Bill.
A case was cited for the determination of the scope of the minimum rates in reference
to men who made up for themselves. The Board agreed that the case came within
the scope of the minimum rates.


---
317
Approval was given to the recommendation of the Administrative Committee that
the Secretary of the Board communicate the following views to the Secretary of the
Merchandise Marks Committee:-(1) That it is highly desirable that all imported goods
should bear a mark indicating the country of origin. (2) That a national mark should
be provided with a view to protecting the public against boots parts of which were made
of substances other than leather. (3) That the development and use of marks should be
secured by international agreement.

The Secretary reported that the Administrative Committee had consulted three
representatives of the Ministry of Labour on the subject of the Unemployment Insurance
Bill. The Committee had considered the provisions of the Bill, by which a special scheme
of unemployment insurance might be substituted for the general scheme in the case of the
boot-repairing trade, but they were not at present in a position to make a recommendation
on the matter. The Board approved of the Report.

Mr. T. F. Richards had on the agenda a motion, of which he had given previous notice,
that general minimum piece rates be fixed for stripping and preparing for machine. He
said he was not prepared to go on with the motion at the moment, and asked permission
to postpone its discussion. The Committee agreed to this course being followed.

In communication with Mr. F. W. Leggett, Ministry of Labour, on a variety of subjects
appertaining to the repairing trade, Mr. James Parsons, secretary of the repairers' com-
mittee of the Federation, has received a letter in which Mr. Leggett expresses the opinion
that the District Trade Committees, which are to be set up under the Trade Board, should
be constituted with as little delay as possible, in order that they might consider the effect
of the new rates in their areas, and report to the Board. By these means information on
the position will be readily obtained, and if any modifications may prove to be desirable
a sound basis will exist on which they can be determined. — The Shoe and Leather Record,
April 23rd, 1920.

OPENING OF THE LONDON OFFICE OF THE LEICESTER CO-OPERATIVE
PRINTING SOCIETY LIMITED.

To celebrate the opening of their new premises in London, the Leicester Co-operative
Printing Society entertained a number of guests to a luncheon at the Hotel Russell, London,
on Monday, April 26th, 1920.

Amongst those present were:-Mr. W. Cattell (President of the Society) and the
following representatives of the Executive Council of the National Union of Boot and
Shoe Operatives: Mr. T. F. Richards (General President), Mr. E. L. Poulton, Ο.Β.Ε.,
J.P. (General Secretary), Messrs. J. Buckle and D. McCarthy (Organisers), Alderman A.
Hill (Treasurer), Mrs. M. J. Bell-Richards, Messrs. A. J. Dobbs, C. Bleakley, W. Hindes,
C. Mayes, J. Manners and W. Townley, Mr. W. J. Murby (Manager, National Health
Insurance Dept.), Mr. Ernest Bordoli (Union's Principal Clerk), Mr. R. D. Mayes (Chief
Clerk, Insurance Dept.). Mr. F. Maddison, of the Arbitration League, Mr. A. Williams,
M.P., Mr. W. G. Hubbard and Mr. J. T. Rhodes (Leicester Co-operative Printing Society),
and others.

After lunch, the Toast "The Co-partnership Movement" was proposed by Mr. F.
Maddison and Mr. E. L. Poulton and responded to by Mr. Á. Williams, M.P. and Mr.
E. O. Greening.

The London Branch of the "Leicester Co-operative Printing Society Ltd." was
proposed by Mr. W. B. Neville and Mr. F. Litchfield, and responded to by Councillor
F. Sutton, J.P. and Mr. W. G. Hubbard.

RETAIL PRICES AND RENTS.

The general level of retail prices, taking into account food, clothing, fuel and light,
&c., as well as rents, at 1st April was about 132 per cent. above the level of July, 1914,
assuming the same quantities and, so far as possible, the same qualities of each article
purchased at the present time as before the War. — The Labour Gazette, April, 1920.


---
321
AUSTRIA, 1920.
Extracts from Report by Mr. W. A APPLETON, President, International
Federation of Trade Unions, upon his visit to Austria, to superintend the
distribution of the Food sent to Austria by the Trade Unions.
The International Federation of Trade Unions must take notice of the sorrows of
the workmen in any country. Austria at the moment affords a pitiful example of the
consequences of war. Many of her citizens are suffering grievously and her little children
are dying for want of nourishment. She has appealed for help and help is being sent, but
whether it is sufficient, or will arrive in time, is still a matter for unhappy conjecture.
The International Federation has already sent large consignments of food into Austria.
On the 16th February I accompanied the second of three trains of thirty-seven truck loads
of potatoes, margarine, corned beef, and condensed milk. Each of those trains costs
twenty thousand pounds. We travelled in an ordinary composite corridor car which was
attached to the food train, and took between six and seven days to get from Holland
to Vienna.
Before the war, Austria was an extensive empire including fifty-eight millions of
people, may of different races, many speaking different languages, but all, in theory at
least, governed from Vienna. To-day Austria is a republic with a population of fivel and
a half to six millions, all of whom are, presumably, of German nationality. The country
has been left with territory of little economic value and with a debt that was heavy when
placed on the shoulders of the old empire, but which becomes paralysing when placed upon
the few millions whom the statesmen of the entente have left in Austria.
Before the war, Austria drew upon the fertile plains of Hungary and of Slovakia
for cereals, roots, and other crops. These territories provided also industrial necessities
and some luxuries. From Bohemia the Austrians drew glass and coal, and from Slavia,
in addition to valuable agricultural products, they benefited by the operation of a number
of industries.
An elementary knowledge of agiculture will at once reveal the poverty of most of the
soil which covers the country passed through on the way to Vienna. It is thin and dry
and lacking in humus, and does not suggest the possibility of carrying any grain crop
heavier than rye or oats. The soil will grow potatoes and crops of a similar character, but
does not appear to offer any encouragement to the men who desire to grow wheat.
Mountains there are in abundance, and these are clothed with forests, but there is
a lack of transport, and whatever wealth lies in the forests can only be utilised slowly and
painfully.
Of water power, Austria has plenty, but she needs millions of capital from the outside
in order to develop this power, and she makes no secret of her preference for the British
capitalist.
It is only, however, when one reaches the cities that the full extent of the disaster
which has overtaken Austria can be realised. Then it is seen that the Entente has left
Austria with an industrial population, but has stripped her of all that industry needs in
order to operate successfully. She has also been left with a great population of non-pro-
ducers, including pre-war pensioners, unemployed civil servants, and workers in luxury
trades and in such occupations as are provided by the theatres, restaurants, and cafés.
Roughly speaking, there are in Vienna itself 2,500,000 people. In the other con-
siderable towns left to Austria there may not be less than 500,000. The agricultural
population is apparently the smaller, and out of a limited and poor soil it has to produce
enough to maintain the town populations.
However much assistance is given, Austria is bound to suffer very severely. The
soil that is left to her cannot supply her reasonable needs, while her debts and circumstances
affect the rate of exchange so badly that it is hardly possible for her to buy from the outside
world.
The industrial position of Austria is indeed a desperate one. Her people are clever
and artistic. They are said also to be very industrious. In every shop there are evidences
of skill and taste. Some of the factories I visited were large and spendidly equipped.
Messrs. Sieman's and Messrs. Shuttleworth's declared that, given fair opportunities, they
could find employment for four times the number of workers at present in their factories.
They had orders for electrical appliances and agricultural machinery sufficient to last
them for two or three years, even if they were working three eight-hour shifts. Their
great difficulty was lack of coal and lack of transport.


---
than my thumb. It was impossible to avoid the conclusion that in many of these cases
it would be better if the children died, and died quickly. There does not seem to be any
hope of them recovering sufficiently to become physically fit.
There are, in Vienna, 4,000 officers of the old army; and in many cases they are without
the means of purchasing civil clothing. There are 8,000 sergeants similarly situated. Army
officers are selling newspapers in the streets, and delivering goods to the houses. There
are generals with five or six campaigns behind them, men who have served on the staff,
who are now laboriously learning to mend boots. Their new occupations may be useful
but they are hard, especially to the older men, and they are made harder by the jealousy
and opposition of those who previously did this work.
It would be possible to multiply cases, but enough has surely been said to show the
gravity of the position in which the Austrians find themselves, and to emphasise the need
for help.
The help that Austria needs is of two kinds. First, it must be charitable and must go
in the shape of food and clothes. She cannot exist until the next harvest unless these
things are sent to her. There need be no fear as to the means of distribution. The fund
with which the Rt. Hon. Frederick Huth Jackson is connected has already sent goods or
money to the value of £200,000. The work of all English relief organisations is said to
be satisfactory. The Society of Friends is spoken of with gratitude and affection. Mr.
F. D. Lindley, the Chief Commissioner, is co-operating with the Austrians themselves.
The Trade Unions have splendidly organised the distribution of the food sent by the
International Federation of Trade Unions. Up to the present three train loads have gone.
Most of the money for these trains has been subscribed in Holland, where the workmen have
worked extra time and given the whole proceeds to the Trade Union funds. The central
Trade Union organisation in Vienna has issued food tickets, and the actual distribution
takes place through the Co-operative Societies without the slightest hitch or sign of dis-
order. The arrangements and the control in this, the tenth, district, were perfect. Part
of this success was due to the excellent organisation of the Trade Unions and part to the
fact that the International had concentrated upon a limited number of commodities.
Where small quantities of varied commodities are sent, the difficulties of distribution are
increased, and there is a possibility of ill-feeling developing amongst the recipients.
In addition to watching the distribution, I attended a great meeting of the workers,
and everywhere found that not only had the food itself helped to keep them alive, but the
action of the International Federation of Trade Unions in sending food had revived hopes
in the hearts of the people and had considerably improved their morale. It was pititul
to hear the expressions of faith in Britain and to feel that Britain might not live up to the
Austrian expectations.
Other help is needed, and this must be of a political character. It is impossible to
visit Austria without coming to the conclusion that all claims for indemnities must be
revised. Austria has already been stripped. To continue the effort to extract indemnities
will be just as useful as attempting to pick the pockets of a man whose clothes had been
previously stolen.
There must also be readjustment of the incidence of Austria's debts. Obviously
6,000,000 cannot liquidate the liabilities incurred by 58,000,000. The force of these state-
ments will be felt when it is understood that prior to the war, and during the war, Austria
borrowed on the credit of her then existing empire and population. The money borrowed
came to Vienna, but much of it was spent in Hungary, Czecho-Slovakia, and Jugo-Slavia
and countries which could produce food and raw materials. In these countries some
people have become exceedingly rich, and with the cunning that always characterises
the arch-profiteers, they have cleverly retained the money while transmitting the liability
for its repayment to the unfortunate Austrians.
Austria cannot exist as at present constituted; she must either be given means and
opportunities to work out her own salvation, or be permitted to attach herself to the King-
dom of Bavaria. She has potential possibilities, including waterpower, but she needs
capital to exploit these. Her people frankly demand the opportunity to work, while they
declare that they are not beggars and that they don't wish to eat the bread of charity a
moment longer than is necessary.
Events in Germany may be said to hinder the giving of help to Austria. Personally,
I do not think this is so. I do not think any Government in Germany will desire to oppose
the giving of help to the Austrians.
These people have not the temperamental austerity of the Prussian, and they freely
manifested their earnest desire to associate with Britain in any moral efforts to check
invasion from the east. The officers whom I met spoke with respect and sometimes with
keen admiration of the British Army. Particularly was this the case of an officer who was
with the section charged to capture the British guns in the retreat from the Piave. His
last request to me was that if ever I met the British officer who commanded the British
guns during this retreat, I would convey the congratulations of one soldier to another


---
325
REPAIRING SHOP MANAGERS' WAGES.

Eighty Shillings Minimum Adopted after Protracted
Discussion by the Trade Board.

The Boot Repairing Trade Board further considered at their meeting held at the
Offices, Chancery Lane, W.C., on Thursday, the 15th inst., the proposal to fix a minimum
wage of £4 per week for managers and foremen of branch repairing shops. The Board
received a deputation which attended to lodge objections against the proposal, the deputa-
tion consisting of Mr. Bilton, of Messrs. J. Coombes and Co., who have over 160 branch
shops; Mr. Rowe (London), Mr. Williams (Liverpool), and a representative of Messrs.
Smith.

A Deputation Received.

The chief objection submitted by the deputation against the proposed minimum was
in regard to it being applied to managers of repairing shops in which the amount of trade
done was very small. The deputation instanced cases in which the amount of the takings
would not justify the payment of £4 a week to the man in charge. It was contended that
the payment of a guaranteed wage of £3 5s. for a 48-hour week was sufficiently high for
the amount of responsibility exercised. This point of view had, it was declared, the
support of the major portion of the trade, and also of the majority of the members of the
Trade Board. No objection was raised to the proposed rate being paid to foremen or
managers in boot repairing factories, but only to its application to men in charge of small
shops.

Many questions were asked by each side of the Board, in order to elucidate various
points, and when the deputation retired the proceedings had lasted close upon three hours.

A Stormy Discussion.

Discussion of the matter was resumed by the Board on Friday, the 16th inst., when
the proceedings were again protracted and at times stormy. The employers' representa-
tives submitted an amendment to the effect that the proposed rate of 80s. a week should be
made applicable only to adult persons in charge of and exercising sole responsibility over
two or more journeymen. This was defeated, a member of the employers' side of the
Board voting against it.

A further amendment was moved from the employers' side to the effect that the
proposed rate of 80s. should apply only in cases where a manager exercised supervision
over one employee. This was also defeated, the same employers' representative voting
against it.

Some Amendments Moved.

During the adjournment for lunch, the Secretary to the Board, acting on instructions
interviewed the Minister of Labour, of whom he inquired whether it was possible to make
a varying rate, according to circumstances, without again submitting the proposal to the
trade of the country. The opinion of the Minister was that this could be done, and accord-
ingly, when the discussion was resumed, a resolution on these lines was submitted from
the employers' side. The contention was that a £4 minimum ought to carry a certain
amount of responsibility, and it was feared that the rate, irrespective of the amount of
business done, would result in the closing of a number of shops owned by private traders.
The fear was also expressed that the universal application of such a rate for managers and
foremen would cause hardship to the men concerned, because many would be discharged,
and the shops in which they had been employed would become one-man businesses, over
which the Trade Board would have no control.

The Voting of an Appointed Member.

The employers' representatives therefore aimed at a further compromise by sub-
mitting an amendment that 70s. per week should apply where one man was employed in
addition to the manager; that 80s. per week should be paid where the employees numbered
more than one and up to five; and that 90s. a week should be paid where the men under
the manager numbered more than five.

On this amendment being put, the voting was equal, but it was lost by reason of the
fact that one of the appointed members voted against it.

The original proposal-8os.-was then put and carried, one of the employers' repre-
sentatives refraining from voting.— The Shoe and Leather Record, April 23rd, 1920.


---
(ii) RIVETED WORK-HAND FINISHED.
Boys' 2 to 5
Men's up to size 10
Ladies'
Per pair.
Sole and Heel.
s. d.
Sole
Per pair
Girls-11 to 1
7
11, 1
7,10
All under size 7
8
1
1 109
010
1
4
1
7
4
1
3
0
0
0
0
1
0
10
3
0
0
4
3
1
5
0
8
0
101
4
8
0
0
1
6
10
0
11
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
51
0
0
5
0
0
0
51
0
Slippers (Men's and Ladies'), sole and heel, 4d. per pair less.
Slippers (broken sizes), sole and heel, 2d. per pair less.
Soles under heel, 101d. per pair extra, Men's and Boys' 2-5; 81d. Ladies' and other sizes.
Soles up to heel, 8d. per pair extra, Men's and Boys' 2-5; 6d. Ladies' and other sizes.
(iii) BENCHING ONLY RIVETED.
Sole and Heel.
Per pair.
s. d.
Sole.
Per pair.
s. d.
Men's up to size 10
Ladies'
0 103
1 0
1
11, 1
1
7,10
71
Boys-2 to 5
Girls11 to 1
All' under size 7
1
0
71
0
0
Heel or
Half-Heel.
Per pair.
s. d.
04
04
0
0
0
Toe and
Side Bits. Cross Pieces.
Per pair.
s. d.
031
0
0
03
04
02
02
031
02
02
04
04
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
024
02
02
less on soleing.
When machine riveted, soleing to be 11d. per pair less for all sizes. Slippers, 11d. per pair
Hand Sewn, per pair, Men's, Is. Od.; Ladies', 91d.
Hand-Sewn, per pair, Boys', 2's to 5's, 10½d.; other sizes, 8d.
Hand-Sewn, per pair, Toe or Side Bits, 2d. Hand-Sewn, per pair, Cross Pieces, 5½d.
Soles under heel, Men's and Boy's 2's to 5's, per pair, hand-sewn, 10½d.; machine-sewn,
8d.; riveted, 6d.
Soles under heel, Ladies' and other sizes, per pair, hand-sewn, 9½d.; machine-sewn, 7d.;
riveted 5d.
Soles up to heel, riveted, 4d. per pair, Men's and Boys' 2's to 5's.
Soles up to heel, riveted, 3d. per pair, Ladies' and other sizes.
All work benched for stitching or Blake machines with channels made and re-laid by the
benchman, 1d. per pair extra on riveted work.
1d. per pair extra for stuff cut on the square for bench work.
(iv) "EXTRAS" TO GENERAL MINIMUM PIECE-RATES FOR
REPAIRING set out in paragraphs (i), (ii), and (iii) of this Section.
1. Pumps, 4d. per pair over sewn work. If grafted, 8d. per pair.
2. All inserted iron tips, 11d. per pair. All rubbers (when solutioned), 21d. per pair;
if not solutioned, 14d. per pair.
3. New stiffeners, per pair, Men's, Is. 4d.; Ladies', Is. 1d. To be lasted in.
4. Toe caps, per pair, Men's and Boys', 2 to 5, if soled, 8d.; if not soled, 10½d.; made
longer, completed job, 1s. 4d. 3d. less if fitted.
5. Toe caps, per pair, Ladies' and other sizes, if soled, 61d; if not soled, 8d.; made
longer, completed job, 1s. 1d. 3d. less if fitted.
6. Lasting in toe caps, Men's and Boys', 2 to 5, 5d. per pair.
7. Lasting in toe caps, Ladies' and other sizes, 3d. per puir.
8. Toe puffs when not re-capped to be paid for as toe caps.
9. Patches, solutioned or machined on, Men's and Boys', 2 to 5, if soled, 4d. each; if not
soled, 51d. each.
---

---
```text
332
PART II.
GENERAL MINIMUM TIME-RATES FOR FEMALE WORKERS.
Section I-
and (2) For Female Workers (other than workers specified in Sub-Section (b) of this Section
Section II of Part II) employed on Finishing or Benching Work :-
1. For Workers of 21 years of age and upwards
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
20 years and under 21 years of age
19
18
17
16
"
"
"
"
"
"
19
18
17
"
20
18
"
"
17
"
Per week of 48 hours.
65s. Od.
45s. Od.
37s. 6d.
32s. Od.
27s. Od.
22s. Od.
Per week of 48 hours.
45s. Od.
40s. Od.
35s. Od.
30s. Od.
25s. Od.
20s. Od.
"
(b) For Female Workers employed in a Productive Department on Patching Machines:
1. For Workers of 21 years of age and upwards
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
20 years and under 21 years of age
19
18
17
16
"
"
دو
"
subject to a proportionate deduction according as the number of hours actually spent in
(c) The above rates are weekly rates based on a week of 48 hours, but they shall be
the factory or workshop in any week is less than 48.
Section II.-For Female Workers employed on Surgical Work
PART III.
2s. per hour.
OVERTIME RATES FOR FEMALE WORKERS (ALL AGES).
In accordance with Section 3 (i) (c) of the Trade Boards Act, 1918, the Trade Board
Section I.-
DECLARE THE NORMAL NUMBER OF HOURS OF WORK IN THE TRADE TO BE as follows:-
In any week
On Saturday
On Monday
On any other Week-day
48
4
8
9
and in such case the normal number of hours on such substituted day shall be 4, and the
an employer and a worker, be substituted in place of Saturday as the weekly short day,
Provided that any other day not being Sunday may, by agreement in writing between
normal number of hours on Saturday shall be 9.
Holidays shall be regarded as overtime, to which the Overtime Rates shall apply.
Provided also that all hours worked on Sundays and on Customary Public and Statutory
Section II.-
The above-mentioned provisions shall not prejudice a worker's claim to a Saturday
half-holiday where it is now given.
Section III.-
The Minimum Rates for Overtime to apply in respect of hours worked by a worker
(so far as is allowed under the Factory and Workshop Acts), whether engaged on Time-
work or on Piece-work in excess of the declared normal number of hours shall be as follows,
that is to say:-
(1) For the first two hours' Overtime on any day, except Sundays and Customary
Public and Statutory Holidays, the Overtime Rate shall be equivalent to time-
and-a-quarter; that is to say, one-and-a-quarter times the minimum rate other-
wise applicable.
(2) For Overtime after the two hours of Overtime on any day, except Sundays and
Customary Public and Statutory Holidays, the Overtime rate shall be equivalent
to time-and-a-half; that is to say, one-an-a-half times the minimum rate other-
wise applicable.
(3) For all time worked on Sundays and on Customary Public and Statutory Holidays,
the Overtime Rate shall be equivalent to double time; that is to say, twice the
minimum rate otherwise applicable.
(a) All employment on a Saturday;
only to require attendance on five days a week, the Overtime Rates set out in sub-para-
Provided that where it is or may become the established practice of an employer
graphs (1) and (2) above shall be payable in respect of-
```

---
333
(b) All employment in excess of 10 hours on a Friday or on one other day in each week
(not being Saturday) as may be agreed between the employer and the worker:
(c) All employment on any other week-day in excess of 91 hours.
But in the application of the Proviso, where the employer requires attendance on
any day on which it is not the established practice of the employer to require attendance,
all time worked on such day shall be paid for at time-and-a-quarter for the first two hours
and time-and-a-half thereafter.
PART IV.
GENERAL MINIMUM TIME-RATE FOR MALE WORKERS EMPLOYED
ON SURGICAL WORK.
For Male Workers employed on Surgical Work
PART V.
2s. 0d. per hour.
Section I. The respective minimum rates set out in this Schedule shall apply subject
to the provisions of the Trade Boards Acts and this notice to all workers in Great Britain
who are employed during the whole or any part of their time in any branch of the Trade
specified in the Trade Boards (Boot and Shoe Repairing) Order, 1919; that is to say the
repairing, wherever carried on, of boots, shoes, slippers and all kinds of leather footwear,
including the making of bespoke handsewn, riveted or pegged leather footwear, but excluding
the manufacture of leather footwear on a large scale, the repairing of saddlery and leather
goods other than leather footwear and the retailing of leather footwear.
Section II. The Minimum Rates set out in this Schedule shall be paid clear of all
deductions other than deductions under the National Insurance Act, 1911, as amended
by the any subsequent enactments, or deductions authorised by any Act to be made from
wages in respect of contributions to any Superannuation or other Provident Fund.
Section III. - The Minimum Rates set out in this Schedule are without
prejudice to workers who are earning Higher Rates of Wages.
DATED this TWELFTH day of APRIL, 1920.
SIGNED by Order of the TRADE BOARD.
OFFICE OF TRADE BOARDS,
F. POPPLEWELL,
Old Serjeants' Inn Chambers, 5, Chancery Lane, LONDON, W.C.2.
It is provided by the above-mentioned Regulations that :-
Secretary
Every occupier of a factory or workshop or of any place used for giving out work
to out-workers, shall, on receipt of this Notice, post up and keep posted up a sufficient
number of true copies thereof in PROMINENT POSITIONS in the factory, workshop or place
used for giving out work in such a manner as to ensure that in each case the Notice shall be
brought to the knowledge of all workers employed by him or on his premises who are affected
thereby. PENALTY for non-compliance, a fine not exceeding 40s.
Under the Trade Boards Acts, 1909 and 1918, it is provided amongst other things that :
1. Where any minimum rate of wages fixed by a Trade Board has become effective
an employer shall, in cases to which the minimum rate is applicable, pay wages to the person
employed at not less than the minimum rate clear of all deductions, and if he fails to do
so shall be liable on summary conviction in respect of each offence to a fine not exceeding
twenty pounds and to a fine not exceeding five pounds for each day on which the offence
is continued after conviction therefor.
In the foregoing provision, the expression "deductions" includes deductions for or
in respect of any matter whatsoever (other than deductions under the National Insurance
Act, 1911, as amended by any subsequent enactments or deductions authorised by any
Act to be made from wages in respect of contributions to any superannuation or other
provident fund), and notwithstanding that they are deductions which may lawfully be
made from wages under the provisions of the Truck Acts, 1831 to 1896, and where any
payment being a payment authorised to be received by an employer under section one,
section two, or section three of the Truck Act, 1896, is made by an employed person to
his employer, the employer shall, for the purposes of the foregoing provision, be deemed
to have deducted that amount from wages.
On the conviction of an employer for failing to pay wages at not less than the minimum
rate to a person employed, the Court may by the conviction adjudge the employer con-
victed to pay, in addition to any fine, such sum as appears to the Court to be due to the
person employed on account of wages, the wages being calculated on the basis of the mini-
mum rate, but the power to order the payment of wages under this provision shall not
be in derogation of any right of the person employed to recover wages by any other
proceedings.


---
335
OUR OVERSEAS TRADE.
EXPORTS AND IMPORTS OF BOOTS AND SHOES INCREASING.
We give below an abstract of the Board of Trade Returns for March so far as the shoe
and leather trades are concerned. It should be noted that comparisons are now given not
with the two previous years, as formerly, but with 1013 and foto, thus eliminating the
war period

Exports of Boots and Shoes.
Month ended March 31st.
Quantities.
Value.
1913
1919.
1920.
1913.
1919.
1920.
Doz.
Doz.
Doz.
pairs.
pairs.
pairs.
£
£
Of Leather-
To Germany
4,564
54
16,392
397
Netherlands
6,681
2,214
4,352
8,899
5,878
21,799
Belgium
6,996
5,502
2,519
31,063
48,918
18,350
France
5,715
11,778
14,915
40,221
103,177
170,146
Italy..
2,602
3
429
11,496
43
3,343
Argentine Republic..
5,357
192
1,114
14,175
376
4,392
"
Egypt
(including
Anglo-Egyptian
Sudan)
2,663
2,048
1,086
7,769
12,932
11,205
British South Africa
42,761
7,799
15,882
110,965
43,950
134,907
British East Indies
11,727
1,928
3,714
34,250
12,372
32,084
Australia
18,886
491
364
26,291
1,323
1,201
New Zealand
8,485
1,048
2,383
23,456
2,161
6,824
British West India
Islands (including
Bahamas)
and
British Guiana
2,195
216
347
3,935
1,052
1,578
Other Countries
16,522
6,514
18,272
45,589
40,199
124,370
Total (of leather..
135,157
39,733
65,431
374,510
272,381
530,546
Of other materials
(except rubber)
12,268
13,450
14,723
9,560
19,375
38,121
Of rubber
7,671
6,187
7,661
7,931
11,631
16,685
Grand Total
155,096
59,370
87,815 £392,001 £303,387 £585,352
For the three months ended March 31st, 1913, 1919, and 1920, our exports of boots
and shoes of leather, rubber and other materials were valued at £1,138,167, £811,920,
and £1,756,319 respectively.

Imports and Re-exports of Boots and Shoes,
Month ended March 31st.
Quantities.
Value.
1913.
1919.
Doz.
Doz.
1920.
Doz.
1913.
1919.
1920.
pairs.
pairs.
pairs.
£
£
£
Of leather
19,241
3,131
18,189
71,722
26,660
290,055
Of other materials (except
rubber)
14,305
395
10,912
7,264
800
10,554
Of rubber
9,169
3,538
30,484
13,717
5,495
82,076
Gross imports
42,715
7,064
59,585
92,703
33,045
382,685
Re-exports
5,301
10
2,044
10,709
49
18,371
Net imports
37,414
7,054
57,541
£81,994 £32,996 £364,314
The particulars of the countries whence our imports of boots and shoes for the month
of March last were consigned are given hereunder :-


---
Here is the extracted text:
336
Countries
whence
Consigned.
Of Leather, or of
which the chief
value is Leather.
Doz.
Pairs.
f
Of Rubber, or of
which the chief
value is Rubber.
Doz.
Pairs.
f
Of other
materials
Doz.
Pairs.
Germany..
Nertherlands
Belgium
France
Switzerland
495
1,810
3,406
6,735
24,889
42,133
1,975
197
China
Japan
United States
New S. Wales
7,630
751
4,384
129,158
9,868
77,272
23,454
6,650
Canada..
18,476
290,055
30,484
82,076
To amend Febru-
ary, 1920-
Deduct: Austria-
Hungary
Total
287
18,189
£290,055
30,484
£82,076
Our imports of boots and shoes of leather, rubber and other materials for the three
months ended March 31st last were valued at £1,109,028 (less re-exports £41,524) as com-
pared with £103,243 (re-exports £6,259) for the corresponding period a year ago, and
£245,320 (re-exports £22,016) for the three months of 1913.
- The Shoe and Leather Record, April 23rd, 1920.
THE ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES OF THE PEACE.
No one who wishes to know the facts about the present condition of Europe and the
causes which led to them should be without a copy of this book. Mr. Keynes exposes the
actions of the Peace Conference and in particular of its chief protagonists, analyses the
economic provisions of the Peace Treaty and the indemnities, and their effect on European
society, and presents the case for immediate revision. The importance of the book may
be gathered from the fact that even of the comparatively expensive edition over 60,000
copies were sold within two months of publication. Of this book the Labour Research
Department is now able to offer a special edition at 2s. 6d. post free, to members of the
Labour Movement only. One free copy will be given for each dozen ordered. The offer
is only open until May 1st, and all orders must be received by then, from the Labour
Research Department, 34, Eccleston Square, London, S.W. 1.
BENEFITS PAID SINCE THESE FUNDS WERE STARTED.
Amounts paid up to Dec.
31st, 1919
January, 1920
February, 1920
March, 1920
TOTAL
Sick & Funeral
Benefit.
£
s. d.
498,965 4 11
1,847 2 6
2,608 6 3
2,374 8 9
£505,795 2 5
Out-of-Work
Benefit.
War
Contributions.
£ s. d.
77,139 13 2
724 12 1
1,324 2 1
1,376 5 2
£80,564 12 6
£ s. d.
78,049 14 8
458 6 10
495 16 11
383 0 4
£80,286 18 9
---

---
Telephone No.:
4438, Museum, London.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Telegraphic Address
"Natunishop, Holb., London."
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
being men on whom we can rely ; should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to
the correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of
Members, the information contained therein must not be divulged.

NATIONAL UNION OF
Boot and Shoe Operatives.

MONTHLY REPORT.

Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. 1.
17TH MAY, 1920.

FELLOW MEMBERS, PROFITEERING.

We have upon a number of occasions called attention to the question of
profiteering and the adverse affect it has upon the standard of living, and
beg once more to refer to the same, because it would appear that the Govern-
ment are very reluctant to deal with this matter in anything like the drastic
way it calls for. It is of comparatively small value to summon a small trader
as to whether he has made an excessive profit on 4 ozs. of sweets, a pound of
candles or a bottle of some patent medicine. The matter needs such handling
as will enable the wholesalers to be dealt with, and it is worthy of note that the
Minister of Food, Mr. C. A. McCurdy, M.P., stated when presenting his estimate
for the ensuing year that, in cases where de-control took place, and upon
representations, prices would go down, but they immediately went up, and
control had to be resumed. Further reference to this is made on pages 382-383.

It is also significant that when the Chancellor of the Exchequer (the Rt.
Hon. Austen Chamberlain, M.P.) presented the Budget for 1920-21 he said :-

"I come now to the Excess Profits Duty. I attempted last year to state fairly
the arguments for and against the Excess Profits Duty when I asked the Committee
to continue for another year at a reduced rate of 40 per cent. But there was one
factor in the situation which I have to confess I entirely failed to forecast. If honour-
able Members will cast their minds back to the circumstances in which I spoke last
year, I do not think they will blame me or pretend to greater prescience. Industry
was then disorganised, unemployment was rife, and there was every prospect of
declining prices and a great fall in profits. But the results have been far otherwise.
There has been no such decline; on the contrary, manufacturers are overwhelmed
with orders in excess of what they can execute. Prices have risen and the level of
B


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
361
THE STATE OF TRADE
shews no improvement during the month, but rather on the contrary; if
anything, there is more short time being worked than last month. So far as
one can see, a certain amount of slackness will obtain for some time yet, unless
there is such an improvement in the exchange markets as will give an impetus
to the export trade, which for a considerable period has been very quiet indeed.
The number of members signing the out-of-work books during the month is
1,073-
The figures as shewn in the Ministry of Laboar Gazette are as set out here-
under :-
In this trade employment was fair on the whole during April, but there was a further
decline in some districts and employment generally was not so good as a year ago. A
considerable amount of short time was reported.
At Leicester, employment was moderate and not so good as a month ago; much short
time was reported. At Northampton and in the surrounding district employment was
also slack. At Kettering there was a decline as compared with a month ago, but employ-
ment on the whole continued fair. At Norwich and Stafford employment continued good;
at Bristol, Kingswood and Leeds it was slack with much short time. In Scotland generally
employment was fairly good.
The following Table summarises the information received from those employers
who furnished Returns:-
Number of Workpeople.
Total Wages Paid to all Workpeople.
Week ended
24th April,
Increase (+) or
Decrease (-) on a
Week ended
24th April
Increase (+) or
Decrease (-) on a
1920.
1920.
Month ago. Year ago.
Month ago Year ago.
ENGLAND AND WALES:-
Per cent. Per cent.
£
Per cent. Per cent.
London
2,324
+ 0.3
+ 8.8
6,150
+ 7.0
+24.4
Leicester
10,986
+ 0.0
+ 6.7
32,758
+13.4
+37.9
Leicester Country District..
2,689
0.9
+ 0.2
6,629
+4.6
+19.4
Northampton..
7,924
+ 1.8
+10.7
23,910
+18.0
+52.9
Northampton Country
8,497 + 0.1
+ 7.6
21,633
+13.2
+38.3
District
Kettering
3,170
+ 0.6
+ 7.8
8,965
+10.7
+46.9
Stafford and District
2,654
+ 1.8
+15.2
6,939
+16.7
+73.2
Norwich and District
4,399
+2.7
+14.5
10,590
+15.9
+44.5
Bristol and District
1,587
+ 0.6
+ 6.5
3,613
+10.2
+21 1
Kingswood
1,642
- I'O
+ 4.9
3,769
+11.5
+5.8
Leeds and District
2,193
+ 01
+ 5.8
5,630
+10.6
+32.8
Lancashire (mainly
4,431
+ 2.5
+12.8
11,502
+3.2
+60.2
Rossendale Valley)
Birmingham and District
Other parts of England and
Wales
987 +2.9
+15.4
2,242
+16.0 +38 4
3,303 +0.8
+ 3.4
6,784 +1.7 +20.5
ENGLAND AND WALES
56,786 + 0.8
+8.5 151,114
+11.9 +39.7
SCOTLAND
2,929
+9.9 +36.8
-0.1
648 +2.2
+8.9 +64.9
IRELAND..
7,353
+92
1,339
+5.8
UNITED KINGDOM
60,363 +0.8
+8.5 159,806 +11.7 +39.7
* Comparison of earnings is affected by increases in rates of wages.
The exports of boots and shoes in April, 1920, amounted to 75,446 dozen pairs, or
12,369 dozen pairs less than in March, 1920, and 41,889 dozen pairs less than in April,
1913.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
363
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can
be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please
note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with
order.
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH !
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of branch secretaries
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
returns reaching the General Secretary. Last month many returns were late.
Branches failed to send off their returns to reach the Central Office by the
15th of the month, and this tends to upset the organisation of the work in
the General Secretary's Office. We trust in future every branch secretary
will endeavour to get in his returns NOT later than the fifteenth of every month,
and before sending them see that they are properly signed.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped
make a success.
Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade
Union Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped
Footwear."
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
THE COUNCIL.
C. MAYES.
W. HINDES.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
A. HILL, Treasurer.
C. BLEAKLEY.
A. J. DOBBS.
H. SIMMONS.
W. TOWNLEY.
J. MANNERS.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
T. ORTON.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
BENEFITS PAID SINCE THESE FUNDS WERE STARTED.
Sick & Funeral
Benefit.
£ s. d.
Amounts paid up to Dec.
31st, 1919
.. 498,965 4 11
January, 1920 .. 1,847 2 6
February, 1920. 2,608 6 3
March, 1920 2,374 8 9
April, 1920 2,357 10 10
Out-of-Work
Benefit.
£ s. d.
77,139 13 2
724 12 1
1,324 2 1
1,376 5 2
1,659 9 2
War
Contributions.
£ s. d.
78,049 14 8
458 6 10
495 16 11
383 0 4
311 18 5
TOTAL .. £508,152 13 3 £82,224 1 8 £79,698 17 2
C


---
BRIGHTON. On the 22nd I went to Brighton and met the Executive Committee of
the Branch and advised as to future organisation and the control of the Union's affairs
in that area, respecting the methods of business as to the work of the district and the policy
adopted by the Trades Boards for the work of the future District Committees.
DISTRICT COMMITTEES for Hand-sewn and Repairing only under the control of the
Trades Boards. England will have nine, Scotland three, and Wales two.
Our Union will have three members on each District Committee, as follows:-
1. Durham, Cumberland, Westmorland to Guisboro'.
2. Yorkshire, East, North and West Riding, Derbyshire, portion Gainsborough
and Caistor, parts of Lincolnshire.
3. Lancashire and Cheshire.
4. Midlands-Hereford, Leicestershire, Lincoln, Notts., Burton, Stoke to Bir-
mingham, Dudley and Worcester.
5. London, Counties of Middlesex, Essex, Herts., Kent and Surrey.
6. County of Northants., Peterborough, Oxford, Hunts., Bedford, Bucks., Herts.
7. Norfolk, East and West, Cambridge, Isle of Ely, Essex County, Norwich,
Borough of Yarmouth, Ipswich, Southend.
8. Dorset, Southampton, Isle of Wight, Sussex, Berks., Kent, Wilts., Surrey,
Bournemouth, Portsmouth and Brighton.
9. County of Cornwall, Scilly Islands, Devon, Somerset, Gloucester, Exeter,
Plymouth, Bath and Bristol.
Northern Scotland.-(6 representatives). Counties of Kincardine, Aberdeen,
Banff, Elgin, Inverness, Ross, Cromarty, Nairn, Sutherland, Caithness,
Shetland and Orkneys.
Eastern Scotland.-(4 representatives). Forfar, Perth, Argyle, Fife, Kinross,
Clackmannan, Stirling, Berwick, Edinburgh, Peebles, Selkirk, Roxborough,
Linlithgow, Haddington.
Western Scotland.-(4 representatives). - Dumbarton, Renfrew, Ayr, Lanark,
Dumfries, Kirkcudbright, Wigtown, Bute.
North Wales. Anglesey, Carmarthen, Denbigh, Flint, Merioneth, Montgomery.
We have no members.
South Wales. (1 representative). Cardigan, Radnor, Pembroke, Carmarthen,
Glamorgan, Brecknock, Monmouth.
We as a Union will have a share of the representatives appointed by the Government
from the Central Committee of London. These are composed as follows:-Chairman
appointed by Government, four operative representatives, four employer representatives
on each Committee, with eight worker representatives and eight employer representatives.
Their duties will be referred to them by the Central Committee. For the present they
will have no power to vary the rates of wages or hours of employment.
Will the Repairers of Wales please wake up and let us have branches in the Prin-
cipality?
TRADE UNION STAMP. -Delegates to Conference will have no excuse if they can't all
guarantee their boots have been made under Trade Union conditions.
34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. I.
May 12th, 1920.
Yous spaternally
chard
General President.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
366
I have been compelled to send the following letter to the Yorkshire
Papers, in reply to an A.U.C.C.E. Official charging our Members
with Blacklegging :
NATIONAL UNION OF BOOT & SHOE OPERATIVES.
DEAR SIR, 34, GUILFORD STREET, W.C. 1.
My attention has been directed to a statement in the Press to the effect that
an Official of the Amalgamated Union of Co-operative and Commercial Employees con-
siders the members of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives are "black-legging"
in Yorkshire. Now, Sir, if the A.U.C.C.E. was acknowledged by the Trades Union Con-
gress or the National Labour Party as a bona-fide Trade Union, we should immediately
take them before one of those bodies and demand an apology; but they, being an un-
recognised body, we can only appear at the bar of public opinion and answer the vindictive
statement made.
Blacklegs are men who work contrary to the instructions of the Union to which they
do, or ought to, belong. The A.U.C.C.E. is not a Shoemaker's organisation, and therefore
have no right to speak on their behalf. Our Union have all the English and Scottish
C.W.S. employees, some 3,500 in the shoe industry, and by recent census among co-operative
societies, we have the majority of the Repairers engaged by co-operative distributive
stores as members of our Union. The census shows 37.9 belonging to our Union: 17
per cent. belonging to the Amalgamated Union of Rivetters and Finishers: this means
54 per cent. of the whole, and the remainder belong either to the A.U.C.C.E. or are non-
unionists.
The A.U.C.C.E. have been condemned by the highest Trade Union authority in the
land for poaching upon our Union, and have been ordered by the said authority to restore
the stolen members to our organisation, as we understand their wants and requirements
That is our answer to the A.U.C.C.E. so far as shoemakers are concerned.
With the above decision standing against them, we cannot accept their marching
orders; but a greater question of principle controls our action, because being co-operators
ourselves, we decline the A.U.C.C.E. methods of bleeding the working class movement,
known as the co-operative movement, whilst they stand by and fail to punish or make
the private employer pay at least as much as the co-operative movement. They only
attack co-operatives where they can get the assistance of well-tried trade unionists
(members of the various committees) to do their work, who smart at the wily tactics of an
organisation which imposes upon the willing co-operative movement, but dare not attack
the private trader. The body who call others "blacklegs" have no standing in the
national labour world, and where they have put themselves upon a par with other hon-
ourable trade unions, we shall decline to work with such a camouflaged organisation,
who hang on to organisations and then claim all the credit with the parrot cry of " alone
I did it." This Union takes our Statements and calls them "logs" because they are not
acquainted with trade terms; then they add from 20 per cent. to roo per cent. and call
the statement theirs, which they present to the co-operative societies on the "go one
better" principle, no matter what our rates are.
The method has seduced some of our weak members, but the honest decline to be
drawn,
Yours faithfully,

y.F. Tilhardy
General President,
Boot and Shoe Union, over 100,000 members.


---
```text
367
ORGANISER'S REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
It has been a pleasure to me to work with the Secretary and Committee of the
Stafford Branch in trying to get the greatest amount of good out of the New Agreement
for the benefit of the members. So far I believe that no other branch can show such a
record in the benefits gained. The members here appreciate this.
On April 22nd I spoke on the settlement to the workers of "Lotus" Ltd., at Stone,
It was a good meeting, and as a result of it I trust that the minority of women and girls
who were outside the Union, have joined before now.
I attended the Council meeting on April 25th, 26th, and 27th. On the 28th I went
to Atherstone to learn of the conditions obtaining at the one factory there. Mr. Warner,
of Hinckley, came over, and we held a meeting of the workers on the 29th. The con-
ditions are bad, grievously bad. I took note of about fifty cases. The next day I went
to the factory to seek an interview with the manager. I got this and nothing more. For
over an hour and a half we talked and talked, but no increases in the minimum wage
packets came of it all. This great man did not look upon it as a reproach on his manage-
ment if he could not pay wages something near to others making similar work. A few
weeks ago a Consol operator at this firm tried to organise the workers. He succeeded well
in his efforts, and his reward for this bit of manly work was to get a week's wages in lieu
of notice. He is still sticking to the work of collecting the money and encouraging the
members with advice.
On May 3rd I had to be at Leicester over a claim of the Clickers for an extra for cutting
more than one quality of upper out of the one skin. The employers were strongly repre-
sented. Ald. Hill and myself put up the case for our side. The Umpire, Mr. Geo. Sedg-
wick, listened patiently to both sides.
In the afternoon I set out for Manchester. I had word from Mr. Poulton that there
was a strike at the firm of Gregg's there. The president of the branch and I saw the
strikers at 9.30 on the Tuesday morning. We got their permission to go and interview
the owners. We spent over six hours on the business. At a full meeting I read out the
terms of settlement and these were unanimously accepted as being satisfactory. In fact
they declared that it was the best victory ever gained in the history of the Union at Man-
chester. If these workers had not come out they would have got no increases or they
would have got them as they did twelve months ago in little driblets. This time men got
increases of 8s., 10s., and in two cases up to 12s. 6d. each. The women and girls in the
Closing Room were doing fairly well, but they, to their credit, came out in sympathy
with the men. I told the firm and I told the workers in spite of what we have gained
that this must not be looked to as the last word for some time to come. The strike began
on the Saturday and they were all at work on the Wednesday morning. I went to the firm
of Sutton's on the Wednesday and got increases similar to those gained at Gregg's. The
workers here were more than thankful at what was done. I then went to Libstein's
and they refused to open the question-their workers are all satisfied, they never complain
about their conditions, &c. We have only a few members at this firm. I visited Johnson's
at Newton Heath. They gave increases a few weeks ago, but in a few cases I managed
to get them moved up a bit. At Funey's we have six members. I thought of asking the
firm to deal with me for these only. The head of the firm, had he been in, I believe would
have accepted this position, but as he was not in I gave particulars of the increases given
at the other factories and got a promise that these would be considered. A few weeks
ago we got considerable increases all round at Frankenburg's. At the request of several
groups of the workers there I went in again this time to try and get some more concessions.
The manager practically conceded all that was asked for. This man is much attached
to the bonus system. A team in the lasting room are paid a fixed wage for a quantity,
all they do over is bonus. I discovered that the bonus work came out cheaper for the firm
than their other work. I got an increase of 20 per cent. on the bonus work, which brings
it fully up to the other.
Since I was last at Stafford there has been a considerable increase of female members.
I am sorry to say that Mr. Simmons, Branch Secretary, is in poor health.
D. MCCARTHY.
```

---
369

impartial tribunal would draw up the ballot paper, disseminate in an unbiassed fashion all
facts and information relevant to the question in dispute, and, of course, would not seek
in any way improperly to influence the votes of the Trade Unions concerned! The working
classes had some evidence of this "fairness" and "impartiality" during the railway
strike, when the daily papers were filled with Government advertisements giving what the
Government presumably considered to be the "real facts" of the case. The Government
are and must always be an interested and not indifferent party whenever any section of
the workers contemplate a strike, and the best way to ensure a decision in favour of
ballot would be for the Government forcibly to extend their own patronage or that of
"independent public officials " to a Trade Union ballot vote. Organised Labour will
not even look at such a preposterous proposal. When Trade Union administration is
taken out of the hands of its duly elected officials, Trade Unions will cease to exist; but
the workers have no intention of allowing their organisation to be scrapped.

The latest increase in the price of coal is calculated to intensify popular grievances,
for it must inevitably lead to a general increase in the cost of living and give a new impetus
to the futile race between wages and prices. During the past twelve months the Govern-
ment's fluctuating action in this matter has been a striking illustration of their ineptitude.
First they increased the cost by 6s. per ton; then they reduced it by 10s.; and now they
have raised it by 14s. 2d. per ton. During the whole controversy there has been an un-
fortunate absence of reliable official statistical data, and the the Board of Trade and the Miners'
Federation have consistently disagreed on important points and challenged and con-
tradicted each other's statements. In the discussion which the Party initiated on an
adjournment motion last week, the Miners' leaders refused to accept the increase and
demanded the facts upon which the Government based its case. It was pointed out that
figures could now be produced which would shew the whole position in a clear light, and
it was urged that before the price was raised the figures should be produced, whereby
the nation could judge for itself what was necessary. It was stated that no increase at
all was needed to avoid a loss, but no matter how strongly the question was argued, the
Government intended to put on the 14s. 2d. The whole thing is a scandal. Nobody
suggests that coal should now be sold below cost, but the needs of the nation are such
that large profits should not be made, and no speaker from the Government benches was
able to shew that this would not be the result of the increased price, but the voting gave
the Government a big majority. And so the people must pay, and with the price of other
commodities rising, the problem becomes intensified. But there is one bright spot on an
otherwise dark horizon, as we are told the demand for Rolls-Royce cars is still very great.
WALTER R. SMITH.

LONDON ARBITRATION BOARD.

The National Joint Conference Interim Agreement.

A meeting of the Board of Conciliation and Arbitration for the boot and shoe trade
of London was held on the 17th inst. at Basma House, 13a, Fore Street, E.C., when the
following resolution was passed unanimously :-

"That in accordance with the decision of the national conference, that piece-
work or payment by results shall become the general system in operation this Board
agrees that the piece-work statement for clicking shall become operative in all factories
in the London district by a date not later than the first working week in July. That
in the meantime weekly wages for males in all departments (where the minimum
wage is increased to 68s. per week) earning 57s. to 70s. inclusive, shall be advanced
according to the following graduated list on the wages paid on the first pay-day in
January, 1920 :-

57/- plus 11/6 68/6
58/- 11/6 69/6
59/- 11/- 70/-
60/- 11/- 71/-
61/- 10/6 71/6
62/- 10/6 72/6
63/- 10/- 73/-
71/- and above, a flat rate of 6/6.
64/- plus 9/6 73/6
65/- 9/- 74/-
66/- 8/6 74/6
67/- 8/- 75/-
68/- 7/6 75/6
69/- 7/- 76/-
70/- 7/- 77/-

The foregoing, the secretary, Mr. John Arthur Craig, announces, supersedes the
resolution of the committee of the London Boot Manufacturers' Association, which was
issued on April 20th last. The Shoe and Leather Record, May 12th, 1920.


---
```text
370
BRANCH REPORTS.
month; we sincerely hope that it is only temporary. What with the cost of
BELFAST. - There has been a serious falling off in trade during the
living still increasing ard the low rate of wages prevailing in the boot maru-
facturing trade, it is not surprising if the workers get dissatisfied when the
opportunities for earning are lessened by depression in trade.
very little new work is now made here. We were sorry to see the tragic result
at Kettering to an old Secretary; we extend our sympathy to the Widow and
BARNSLEY. - Trade is only moderate at present, nearly all repairing:
family.
CHESTERFIELD. -Trade is very bad, members working on new work
of machinery in 1913. This came as a surprise to all our members, and at the
have to lose two days per week, a thing unknown here since the putting down
present time when the cost of living is so high, which means to the worker his
standard of life being lowered. Since our last report we have had a try to
settle the finishing question, which has hung fire since the 1919 Agreement
was fixed up. We have had Mr. Dobbs down here twice, and we have not got
impregnable case for the men.
a settlement yet, though he has made out an
local manufacturers have decided to rescind their former resolution, not to pay
CHESHAM. - Trade here is still dull. We are pleased to report that our
ever possible to put the Statements into operation. The working to Quantity
Statements has caused re-organisation in the factories, and a number of our
the revised rates, and have agreed to fall in line with other districts, and when-
members have been discharged, and practically the whole trade put on short
time. This, with the cost of living continually on the increase, is a very serious
matter for our members. We hope trade will soon take a turn for the better,
so that we can feel the benefit of the recent increase in wages. Our members
voted the sum of £1 towards the fund being raised on behalf of the Widow of
the late Mr. J. Taylor.
DERBY. -" It's a long lane that has no pub" is an old saying, and we
are pleased to report after months of careful work we have at last got the
Melbourne employers and employees preparing to work together harmoniously
for the mutual benefit of all concerned. The employers at an interview ex-
pressed their willingness to comply with the Union principles and make their
firms trade union shops on consideration the workers would accept and adopt
the County Statements, and at a large meeting of the workers they unanimously
decided to agree to the said Statements. Seeing that Melbourne has been
organised by local effort it is most gratifying; the Section is now 250 strong.
Another development has occurred, vide the Derby Daily Telegraph:" Follow-
ing upon the recent announcement that the Co-operative Wholesale Society
have purchased the vacant premises of Brown's Foundry Co. in Abbey Street,
comes the news that they have now taken over the works of Messrs. Jackson
and Davis Ltd., manufacturers of Girls' Boots and Shoes. The latter employ
a large number of hands. It is evident that the Co-operative Society intend
making Derby a centre of manufacturing activity in connection with their
Boot and Shoe Department."
EDINBURGH. -The members here are a little disappointed at employers
not paying to the new Repairing Statement from the 12th April, although
their working week commenced on that date. We have taken our wages that
week under protest. Given a full week's work the Statement should work out
better than the old one. The time-workers in Repairing shops consider that
they must have a substantial increase to bring them into a just proportion
with the piece-workers. To all appearances the makers of new work are
```

---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
371
satisfied that the Council have done the right thing in getting Employers'
Federation to reconsider the present agreement. However, it is scarcely up
to what we expected, but we must bear in mind that the Federation need not
have met our side, but kept to the bargain already settled. We cannot see
what good the District Councils in connection with the Wages Trade Board
are going to do, as they have no legislative power, and therefore cannot alter
any item without the sanction of the Wages Board. Trade Unionists all over
the country should get up in arms against the present proposals of adding
40 per cent. to the rents of dwelling houses of the people. Let us hope that
the Labour Members of Parliament will do their best to defeat this measure.
Of course outside pressure might make their case a good bit stronger. We are
sending two delegates to a Conference to be held in Glasgow on May 22nd, to
try and find a solution to the present housing conditions. The new heaven
on earth seems long in getting matured. Between unemployment, bad housing,
cost of living still increasing, and wages not keeping pace with same, no wonder
there is great industrial unrest. The wonder is that it has not been of a more
serious character. We have met the Repairing employers and have got some
items settled which we thought should have been on the Piece Statement for
Benching, heels built-up being one of them; now this is an important item
for benchmen.

HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN.—We regret the amount of unemployment
in the District; this is chiefly owing to the return of the demobilised soldiers
and sailors, which has resulted in displacing a number of elderly men, and also
owing to the lack of Government contracts in the Army districts. The Closing
Statement has again received certain revisions, and we are confident if the
operatives would agree to work according to the Quantity Statement they
would receive considerable advantage. A large number are doing so, and the
result is fairly satisfactory, and with certain re-organisations in some factories
it would be a good thing for all our operatives. The Pressmen's Statement
has been revised with an increase of 75 per cent. (which includes the 10 per
cent. in new Agreement); they are now in hands of printers. We have con-
tributed £5 to Benefit Fund for the Widow of the late esteemed Secretary of
Kettering No. 2 Branch, Mr. John Taylor, and trust other Branches will do
their best in this case.

KETTERING.—The equipoise of any live Branch of the Trade Union
Movement presents a curiously attractive and interesting problem to a student
of social psychology. To watch the interplay of men's minds; the rapid
absorption of an idea—which does not necessitate deep thought; the response
to certain stimuli, and the effect of such response upon organised development
and spontaneous action, is to largely understand the divergent anomalies at
present existing, and to accurately judge of the future possibilities of organised
labour. Space is here too brief to follow out the problem in any detail, but
the position of a number of the members of the Kettering No. 1 Branch in
their relationship to the new minimum rates and subsequent happenings, well
illustrates the point of view it is our desire to bring out. First of all the differ-
ence in the percentage increase between day and piece workers was accepted
without any open hostility. Many, of course, expressed disapproval and were
desirous of amending the anomaly, but on all sides one could see and feel the
bubble of satisfaction which the increased wages gave. Note the pleasurable
complacency aroused in response to a certain stimuli. But also observe that
hardly one operative in ten consciously associated the increases obtained with
the Boot and Shoe Operatives' Union. This is a strikingly significant illustra-
tion of the average mind of the ordinary trade unionist. He will not—or
cannot—estimate the true value of the trade union movement, and the influence
the movement wields—and is still further capable of wielding—in the social life
and well-being of the community. Let us again illustrate the contention from
D


---
372.
another point of view. An illegal strike of closers resulted in a whole factory
being idle for one week. Note the curious alteration in the sequence of events.
being informed that no payment under any circumstances could be made, a
The first thought was What are we entitled to from the Union?" On
revulsion of feeling was immediately apparent. Forgotten was the increased
such sinecure jobs. Ninepence, as a payment, loomed like so many pounds in
of the trade union movement. Cursed became the Union which did nothing
for them reviled were the officials who so autocratically governed and had
wages: forgotten were the principles, the advantages, and the fundamentals
comparison. But why pursue the subject further ? Are we not all too familiar
their eyes: Shillings, as an increased wage, appeared as so many farthings in
union movement has no hope of reconstructing the social order. When, oh
with these psysic changes, and do not we all know that until the ordinary trade
unionist acquires the habit of thinking clearly and acting wisely, the trade
when, is Education going to be one of our primary claims? Trade with us is
poor; sickness moderate and many members are out of work.
KENDAL. Trade still remains in a most flourishing condition. In con-
sequence of the impossibility of obtaining locally a sufficient number of females
to open premises at Lancaster (21 miles distant) in order to cope with the
for the fitting department, Messrs. Somerville Bros. have found it necessary
demands for the "K" boots. At last we are glad to know the whole of our
members have been released from Army service, have been re-instated and in
full employment. Without hesitation the employers have adopted the revised
1919 Agreement. No provision in such Agreement having been made for
made and accepted by those concerned of an advance ranging from 8s. to Ios.
those employed on weekly wages at above the minimum rates, an offer was
At the April Monthly Meeting
a large attendance discussed and adversely criticised the Council for failing to
take a national vote of members before acceptance of the new terms, a resolution
of emphatic protest being carried nem. con. at the unconstitutional method
adopted by the Council in consequence of Rule 187 not being carried out.
per week for men and to per cent. for women.
KINGSWOOD AND DISTRICT.-Regret to report no improvement in
trade, and unless trade gets busier the prospects for Kingswood and District
are gloomy indeed. Our Section at Paulton is suffering severely, and the
miners are considering whether they will levy themselves to help our members
at Paulton. The rumour that the Government have decided to discontinue
the sale of Army boots, with the object of relieving the heavy trade districts,
is denied in the local press at date of writing, and further sales are announced.
We regret this decision, and trust strong representations will be made by
Council to the proper authorities.
LEICESTER No. 2. In response to the appeal on behalf of the Widow
of the late Secretary, J. Taylor, Kettering No. 2 Branch, we granted £5. We
deeply deplore the untimely end of Mr. Taylor, with whom we have worked
bear the loss sustained. Also ros. to the Sol. Upton's Benefit (Rushden Branch),
so amicably for so many years, and trust Mrs. Taylor may have strength to
and £5 5s. to the Leicester "Save the Children Fund."
are on short time; in one instance a firm here has suspended all the operatives
LEEDS. Trade is very bad, and as a consequence many of our firms
for the week. We regret that our out-of-work list is increasing every day,
proving. We regret also that our sick list is rather heavy, but we are looking
and unfortunately there does not at present seem any prospect of trade im-
forward to an improvement in the weather, believing this will be the means of
reducing our sick list.
more especially with boot repairers, as we have had several applications from
LIVERPOOL. We are pleased to report a marked improvement in trade,
employers for suitable men to fill vacancies. On April 21st, in response to an


---
with thirty or forty men training, five of them belonging to a little country
in fact, the men were wasting their time. The class is now coming under the
town. A rota of the T.A.C. visited Netley and found no system of training,
supervision of the Portsmouth T.A.C. We are opposed to any more T.A.C.'s
being set up, as they would lack the invaluable experience of those who have
been at work. We are sorry it is not possible for a representative from this
district to take part in the Whitsun Conference, as such representative would
be a Repairers' nominee. Some of the members think they are lost sight of,
and perhaps the E.C. might consider the re-grouping of the Branches so as to
afford the younger and smallest Branches a voice in the affairs of their Union.
We are now getting busy in preparation for the visit of the Trade Union Con-
gress. We hope it will stimulate workers in Portsmouth.
REDRUTH. -Trade is good. We have made a grant of £1 Is. to the
fund of the Kettering No. 2 Branch in response to their appeal, and hope they
will be successful in their efforts to erect a fitting monument in memory of one
who has given himself for so long to the cause of organised labour. We notice
with pleasure the General President's report for April, where he says he is
convinced that had we a Trade Board for our industry we should be better off.
We might add that we should in our District, and feel sure the members will
support any attempt that might be made to establish same on the expiration
of the present Agreement. In remote districts, such as ours, the local conditions
is the governing factor. We feel that a Trade Board would remedy this,
therefore we should support it as strongly as possible. We hope to hear more
about it at some future date.

STREET. -State of trade remains good. We offer our congratulations
to our shopmates in Stafford in obtaining the full 12s. increase for all men on
day work and the adoption of the same principle for women. We feel this
should have been secured in the National Agreement (Interim), 1920. It is
obvious that if a man was worth more than the minimum on the 1919 scale
his relative position under the new would be above the 12s. advance, so that
the adoption of the flat rate of increase cannot in any way be regarded as an
unreasonable demand. Looking at it from this standpoint it is unfortunate
that only one district (that we have yet heard of) has been able to secure even
this. With regard to those who had previously been receiving less than the
minimum the case is even worse, because seeing the increase was given to enable
the worker to meet the additional rise in the cost of living these people have a
greater claim than all others for the full amount. (There are important qualifi-
cations regarding the abovenamed, and which are to be found on page 301
of the April Report.-E.L.P., Gen. Sec.).
SHEPSHED. -Trade here is rather slack, short time being the order,
which is much better than full time for some and unemployment for others.
At our last Branch Meeting we voted £1 to the fund for the relief of the Widow
of the late Mr. J. Taylor, late Secretary of the Kettering No. 2 Branch. After
many months of waiting we are able to take stock of the New Statements for
Leicester County, and what a shock for most of us; only in one case, namely,
the Clickers' Statement, has the promised wage been forthcoming.

SOUTHAMPTON. -We welcome the April Report, and although it may
not be all that could be desired it marks a progressive advancement, for it is
something to have gained a minimum rate, for although in some parts of the
country Repairers were working on a fair Statement in other parts the State-
ment and wages were very low and it was much akin to a sweated industry.
It says much for the able way in which the Council of the N.U.B.S.O. have
worked and the amount of tact that has been necessary to achieve such successes
as have been attained. It's all right to "grouse" and criticise, but it must be
fair and constructive criticism to be of any benefit to a cause-the" chipping
and "hair-splitting" variety is usually valueless as a means to an end, and


---
Here is the extracted text:
376
shoe trade here, and there is a considerable number of unemployed in some
very often causes a loss of time and temper. Work is on the quiet side in the
trades and also in general labour, and amongst these are a good percentage
of demobilised men.
WHITWICK. Trade is at the present time slack and we think that it is
men have been and fought for their country so bravely they should find that
of pairs of army-made boots; we think it is a great shame that after so many
now they have come back home they should be walking about out of work,
caused to a great extent by the Government putting on the market thousands
all his time to make ends meet and live when he is getting a full week's wages,
is at top price men cannot afford to be out of work, when it takes one nearly
or on short time, when as we know at a time like the present when living
but we are hoping that the time is not far distant when things will be made
better for all workers, especially in the boot and shoe trade. We are looking
will be 44 hours for a full week's wages, so that it will be the means of bringing
forward to the time when at least the working hours in the boot and shoe trade
all operatives on full work and making full time, and if that fails to bring all
operatives at full swing earning good wages to still reduce the working hours
brow, may at the week end be in such a position that they will not have to
till every man and woman that has to earn their living by the sweat of their
worry so much about the necessary things of this life.
better business. We note President Richard's remarks of a Trade Board for
GREAT YARMOUTH.—Trade is slow with new work; Repairers report
can under present conditions. There are signs that Repairers and others are
the whole industry, and quite agree that we should get better terms than we
not taking the interest in their Union that they should it is taken as a matter
fact that it is every individual's duty to mind their own business, not leave
of course that certain things will be done, members apparently overlooking the
it to others. If unionists want better conditions they must support their
Executive; it is the majority of members who rule and Executives who carry
out their ruling. We are afraid those people who do not believe in the
Nationalisation of the sources of Production are in for a rough time, i.e., if
Trade Unionists are really in earnest in bringing down food prices, and we hope
they are; surely it is a much saner policy than this continual striving for a
few shillings extra. Some attention was given to the Unemployment Insurance
and it was considered it could only be administered through Trade Unions,
and further, that Insurance was not a cure for Unemployment, and the Govern-
ment should have kept possession of the factories used for the production of
war material thereby preventing much unemployment and supplying the needy
with their requirements.
KETTERING'S LATEST PURCHASE.
suitable land
Gretton (Northamptonshire), some thirteen miles from Kettering, for the purpose of
erecting a branch store.
population of about 800 souls. The surrounding country is rich in iron ore, and the village
Gretton is a pretty little village, situated on the banks of the river Welland, with a
is only four or five miles from the large iron smelting furnaces at Corby. The Kettering
Society also possesses a very flourishing branch store at Corby.
of a large farmhouse, from the ruins of which there is a large quantity of building stone,
The site purchased at Gretton covers nearly half-an-acre, and was originally the site
which may possibly be turned to good account. The purchase price amounts to the
modest sum of £200.—Co-operative News, May 8th, 1920.


---
379
LEGAL CASES AFFECTING LABOUR.
TRADE UNION ACTS.
DISPUTE BETWEEN ASSOCIATIONS OF EMPLOYERS: RULES OF ASSOCIATION : WORKMAN
DISMISSED BY ONE MEMBER NOT TO BE EMPLOYED BY ANOTHER: ENFORCING
RULE AGAINST OFFENDING MEMBER: CONTRACT IN RESTRAINT OF TRADE:
RIGHT OF DISMISSED WORKMAN.
A contract in restraint of trade is illegal at common law in the sense that it is un-
enforceable; but there is nothing to prevent the parties from performing it if they think
fit, provided they do not commit any actionable wrong or use any illegal means against
a third party.
An association of employers was formed, the members of which were all the principal
firms carrying on a certain business in the district. Amongst the rules of the association
were the following:--
2. The objects of the association are as follows:
(a) To enable the members to meet from time to time for mutual counsel; (b)
to advise members of all defaulters; (c) to improve the tone of the trade generally
and create a more amicable feeling amongst the members.
8. A special meeting of the members may be called by the chairman and secretary
at any time, setting forth the object of the meeting in the notice convening the same
20. On an employee leaving an employer, who is a member of the association,
the employer shall (if so desirous) report the same to the secretary, who shall advise
all the members, and no other member of the association shall employ or supply him
for 12 months.
In February, 1919, a man employed as a branch manager by one of the members
of the association left that employment, after due notice, and immediately entered the
employment of another member of the association under a contract providing for a month's
notice by either party to terminate the contract. The man avowedly intended to use the
connection he had formed with the customers of his former employer to obtain business
for his new employer and intended to canvass those customers in the interests of his new
employer. The former employer was in fact the secretary of the association of employers.
In these circumstances the secretary wrote to the man's new employer asking him
to dismiss him in accordance with Rule 20. This the employer refused to do, and the
matter was brought before a meeting of the association. There was no rule providing
for the expulsion of a member disobeying the rules, but the persuasion of the other members
was sufficiently strong to induce the offending member to consent to dismiss the man in
question. Accordingly the employer gave the man a month's notice as required by the
contract of service stating that he did so in compliance with the rules of the association.
The dismissed man then brought an action in the High Court against the four officials
of the association, one of whom was the secretary, claiming damages and an injunction
to restrain the defendants from interfering with any person or corporation with a view
to causing such person or corporation to break his or their contract or contracts with the
plaintiff or to cease to employ him. The judge dismissed the claim (see LABOUR GAZETTE,
December, 1919, p. 551) and the plaintiff appealed.
The Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal and upheld the decision of the judge. They
held that clearly Rule 20 was void and unenforceable at law as being in restraint of trade
and so contrary to public policy. The judge was, however, justified in finding that no
threats, coercion, or unlawful pressure had been used by the association to induce the
employer to dismiss the plaintiff, though no doubt strong moral pressure was used to
persuade the member to observe the rules he had agreed to as a condition of membership.
There are two grounds only upon which a person who procures the act of another can be
made legally responsible for the consequences:-(1) Where he knowingly and for his
own ends induces that other to commit an actionable wrong; (2) Where the act does not
constitute an actionable wrong but is a detriment to a third party and is procured by the
use of illegal means directed against the third party. In this case the employer of the
plaintiff committed no actionable wrong, as he gave the plaintiff the month's notice to
which he was entitled and was entirely within his rights in what he did. And as no illegal
pressure, nor anything more than strong moral persuasion, had been used by the defendants
to procure the employer to dismiss the plaintiff the defendants were not legally responsible
for the consequences of that dismissal. Davies v. Thomas and others, Court of Appeal,
30th April, 1920. The Labour Gazette, May, 1920.
F


---
Here is the extracted text:

383

been most grossly exaggerated. Between 7th August and 12th March the quantity of
bacon sold by the Ministry of Food at £60 per ton or under, including inferior qualities
as well as actual wastage, was only 1 ¼ per cent. of the sales made during that period. All
this bacon was privately imported, and, so far from holding back stocks, the Ministry com-
pelled the actual importers to handle those stocks from the time that they landed, and forced
their clearance by every possible means.

I will deal with one or two of the main items of food supplies, taking sugar first. There
is no prospect of any immediate improvement either in supplies or prices with regard to
the sugar which is required in this country. The world's production of sugar is down
approximately by £3,500,000. The price of sugar in America to-day is more than nine
times the pre-War price. In the United Kingdom we have by a rationing system succeeded
in economising the consumption of sugar to the extent of 700,000 tons, which, unfortunately,
is almost exactly counter-balanced by the increased consumption now taking place in the
United States of America. If I might give an illustration of the slowness of the world to
re-establish the productive conditions which have to be re-established before normal supplies
can be once more made normal and prices brought down, I would refer to the unhappy
fact that last year there were something like 4,500,000 tons of sugar beet grown in Germany,
but owing to the disordered industrial conditions in that country, only 3,500,000 tons were
converted into sugar. The rest, for want of labour, was left to rot upon the fields. There
is a further difficulty with regard to the re-establishment of the European sources of sugar
supply, in the fact that sugar beet is an industry particularly suitable for cultivation on
large estates. The division of the large estates all over Germany into small estates arising
out of political changes, will be another obstacle to the restoration of Germany as a sugar-
producing country.

Let me turn to wheat, which, after all, is perhaps the most important commodity to
consider in the world if you are trying to estimate the future course of prices because
wheat prices are the most important factor in determining wages all over the world. Wheat
prices determine the prices of feeding-stuffs. They determine the prices of other cereals and
of alternative foods in a large measure. They determine the price of milk produce. It
is unhappily clear that we are faced in the coming twelve months with reduced world crops
of wheat. In the present cereal year the imports of grain into Europe amounted 18,000,000
tons, of which 9,000,000 tons came from the United States of America. Prior to the War
the average export of grain from the United States was 2,000,000 or 3,000,000 tons. It
was due to the exceptional efforts in stimulating production of foodstuffs carried out by
Mr. Hoover and the American Food Ministry during the war that they were able so largely
to increase their exports. Unfortunately, the enthusiasm of war as worn thin in this respect
and for the coming cereal year the United States of America will have 4,000,000 tons less
to export than they are exporting to Europe in the current cereal year. There is a reduced
production in the Argentine, and there is a large fall in the supplies of Australian wheat;
in fact, the only wheat-producing country in the world in which there is an increase is
India, where there is an increase of something like 1,500,000 tons, which will not, I am
informed, be wholly, if to any large extent, available for export. We are, therefore, faced
with the prospect of a considerable reduction in the amount of wheat available for the
needs of the importing countries the world over, and I am afraid, in the absence of wise
and prudent statesmanship on the part of all the importing countries, that a consequent
rise in price will be reflected in the price of every other commodity.

DISABLED MEN AND SHOE INDUSTRY.

QUESTION 30, MR. W. R. SMITH.—To ask the Minister of Labour, whether the National
Trade Advisory Committee of the Boot and Shoe Trade have made any recommendation
as to the future training of disabled soldiers; that there is no further opening in the
industry for men trained in boot-repairing, but that men can be trained in hand-sewn
making; and will he state whether they have recommended the setting up of national
factories whereby these men can be guaranteed employment after they have been trained.

REPLY.—The functions of the National Trade Advisory Committee for the training of
disabled men in the Boot and Shoe Trade have now been taken over by the Boot and
Shoe Trade Board and this Board have passed resolutions in the sense indicated by my
hon. friend.

It is correct that the National Trade Advisory Committee pressed for the establishment
ment of National Factories for the employment of ex-service men in this trade, for the
purposes of supplying the forces of the Crown with hand-sewn boots and shoes. After
giving the matter careful consideration, in consultation with the Supply Departments,
my Department was unable to concur.


---
391
TRADE CUSTOM AND SHORT NOTICE.
Clicker's Successful Claim Against Boot Manufacturers.
At the Old Street Police Court last week, Messrs, Robert de Lange and Co., boot
manufacturers, Crispin Street, Spitalfields, E., were summoned by W. F. Naman, clicker,
for £4 5s., a week's wages in lieu of notice. The complainant said he had been with the
firm for ten months and had received his weekly wages on Fridays. He was told on
April 20th that there would be no more work for him at present and he was dismissed.
The reason given was that there was so much made-up work on hand that no more was
wanted.
Cross-examined by Mr. Ross, for the defence, the witness said that some time after
April 11th the following notice was put up at the factory: "We hereby agree to be dis-
missed at a minute's notice." The workmen, however, refused to sign it.
MR. Ross: Were you not told by the work-room manager that if you and the others
did not agree to the new terms you could leave?
WITNESS: No.
MR. CLARKE HALL (magistrate): If you want to impose a new contract you must
dismiss everyone and begin again.
MR. Ross: Virtually everybody was dismissed.
MR. CLARKE HALL: You cannot impose new terms without any consideration, nor
force a new contract on old hands without first dismissing them.
MR. Ross: Every man was told.
MR. CLARKE HALL: It does not matter.
MR. Ross: It was brought to the notice of all the men, and they were told if they
would not accept the terms of the new contract they could go. No one objected.
MR. CLARKE HALL: They are not bound to object.
MR. Ross submitted that the custom of the shop was satisfied by the notice. Mr.
Clarke Hall said it would not do in this case, and gave judgment for the plaintiff, with
5s. costs.
On a second summons by Isidore Abrahams, clicker, who also claimed £4 5s., a similar
order was made. -The Shoe and Leather Record, May 7th, 1920.

"CO-OP" STRIKES IN YORKSHIRE.
Refusal to Recognise the Co-operative Employees' Union.
The members of the Co-operative Employees' Union employed by the Halifax Indus-
trial Society Ltd., gave notice to cease work yesterday (Thursday) evening, as represen-
tatives of the Union have been unable to settle the trouble which has arisen in connection
with the Society's journeymen repairers. The latter have been on strike a fortnight.
The Halifax Society are members of the Federated Hours and Wages Board, which
has declined to enter into negotiation with the Union on questions affecting craft trades.
In the neighbouring district of Sowerby Bridge a general strike of "Co-op." employees
took place last week. A meeting of members of the local society was held on Saturday,
at which great excitement prevailed. The meeting broke up in confusion, no decision
being arrived at.
The strike has also spread to the Huddersfield district, business having, as a con-
sequence, been suspended at the stores of the following societies:-Huddersfield, Hillhouse,
Honley, Berry Brow, Close Hill, Brockholes, Netherton, Meltham, Meltham Mills, Milns-
bridge, Hill Top, Paddock, Lane Dyehouse, and Crosland Moor. The trouble has arisen
owing to the dispute amongst the West Riding boot repairers, some of whom are in craft
unions, and others in the Co-operative Employees' Union. A settlement had been effected
between the co-operative societies and the craft unions without an agreement with the
Co-operative Employees' Union, which is not recognised by the District Hours and
Wages Board or the North-Western Hours and Wages Board, as the authority to deal
with craft workers. The Co-operative Employees' Union requested its members to cease
work to enforce the recognition of the union's right to negotiate for craft workers
belonging to the union, and also to bring about a settlement of alleged breaches of an
agreement last August in reference to other classes of workers in addition to boot
repairers. -The Shoe and Leather Record, May 12th, 1920.


---
Here is the extracted text:
393
BOOT REPAIRERS STRIKE AT BRADFORD.
Position Discussed at Meeting of Employers.

A joint meeting of the two sections of the Bradford Chamber of Trade connected
with the boot trade was held on Thursday last week with reference to the position created
by the operative repairers having ceased work the previous Tuesday without giving notice
to the employers.

No formal application for an increase in wages had, it appeared, been received by the
employers' organisation, but it was evident from statements made by different operatives
that there was a division of opinion as to the extent of the demand for an increase some
wanted 100 per cent, and others 60 per cent, on the piecework rates. In addition, it was
understood there was a demand for a £5 per week minimum on day rates.

After discussion, the following resolution was passed:— "That this meeting, as a body,
refuses to negotiate until such demands are formulated and sent in a constitutional manner."
The resolution was forwarded to the local secretary of the Co-operative Employees'
Union.

There are no further developments in the situation created by the strike of boot
repairers employed by the Cleckhetaon Co-operative Societies, who came out on strike
for a 30 per cent, increase above the Board of Trade award. The contention is that as
the Lancashire co-operative societies have given the additional advance, the Yorkshire
societies should do likewise. Shoe and Leather Record, April 30th, 1920.

CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE SOCIETY LTD.
Acquire Boot Manufacturing Businesses at Bristol and Derby.

Our Bristol correspondent states that Messrs. Parsons & Co., boot manufacturers,
Gerrish Avenue, Whitehall, Bristol, have disposed of their business to the Co-operative
Wholesale Society Ltd. It will probably be taken over as a going concern at end of June.
Messrs. Parsons & Co. carried on business for many years in Portland Square, Bristol,
before transferring to their present factory at Whitehall. Mr. W. W. Cann, one of the
directors, who has taken an active part in all matters relating to the local boot trade,
will, it is understood, retire. His numerous friends will wish him many years of happiness
and good health to enjoy the leisure he has so well earned.

The Co-operative Wholesale Society Ltd., have also taken over the business of Messrs.
Jackson, Davies & Co., Derby, manufacturers of boys' and girls' footwear. The Shoe
and Leather Record, May 21st, 1920.

DEATHS FROM CONSUMPTION.

When the medical officer submitted his report at the meeting of Rothwell Urban
Council this week, the chairman, Mr. F. T. Tebbutt, J.P., stated that during the past
20 years an average of 46 per cent. of the deaths of members of the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives was due to consumption. In some years the average was as high
as 60 per cent. The doctor said that all factories were places where people were most
likely to contract consumption. The chairman stated that at the Avalon factory the
fans were a source of contention between the manager, the foreman, and the workpeople.
The workpeople would not have the fans going if the weather was a little bit cold. After
pressure the majority of employees voted for the fans. Nobody, he said, would credit
the difference they made to a place. -Boot and Shoe Trades Journal, April 30th, 1920.

THE HOUSING PROBLEM.
A Very Hard Case.

Judge Snagge was occupied for a considerable time at the Northampton County
Court, on Tuesday, in hearing applications for possession of houses.

In one case the owner of a house said it was being let at 7s. per week, while she has had
to pay £2 2s. a week for two rooms, with no attendance.—Northampton Echo, May 12th,
1920.


---
Here is the extracted text:
3
STANDING ORDERS of the BIENNIAL CONFERENCE.

BIENNIAL MEETINGS.
RULE 80.-Biennial Meetings of the Conference shall be held on Whit Monday
and subsequent days.

TIME OF CONFERENCE MEETING.
RULE 81. - On the first day of Conference the Delegates shall assemble at a
place provided for the purpose, at Twelve o'clock Noon prompt,
and shall proceed to the election of Door Keeper and Two Tellers, and
shall also consider the President's Address and Council's Report ;
after which the Conference shall adjourn. On Tuesday and each
succeeding day, the time of meeting shall be 9.30 a.m., adjourn
at 12.30 p.m., re-assemble at 2 p.m., and adjourn for the day at
5. p.m.

DELEGATES' QUALIFICATION.
RULE 82.-The Conference shall consist of Delegates who have been elected
in accordance with General Rule 69, which reads as follows:-
"Delegates shall be elected in accordance with the number of Financial
Members returned in the December Report previous to the date on which
the Conference is to be held. Delegates to be elected two months prior
to the Conference taking place."
The Council to attend by virtue of their office.

PRESIDENT OF CONFERENCE.
RULE 83.-The President of the Union, by virtue of his office, takes the chair
at all Conferences.

STANDING ORDERS COMMITTEE.
RULE 84.-A committee of five persons shall be elected from the Delegates
of the Conference, whose duty it shall be to examine the Delegates
Credentials, and report thereon. They shall also be at the service of the
Conference to consider any questions or matters that may be relegated
to it with a view to reporting thereon during the sitting of Con-
ference. For such extra services they shall receive additional pay,
to the amount of ros. each.

TELLERS.
RULE 85.—Two Delegates shall be appointed as Tellers, whose ruling as to
numbers shall be final, except in cases of dispute, when the Chairman
shall order a recount.


---
Here is the extracted text:
4
DOOR KEEPER.
RULE 86. A Door Keeper (not a delegate) shall be elected at the commence-
ment of the Conference, whose duties shall be to test all applications
for admittance to Conference, and also to keep the floor of the hall
strictly for Delegates only, and also to regulate the granting of
passes to members of the public to the gallery, and to perform such
other duties as may be required of him by the General Secretary.
Preference to be given to a local man, and his pay shall be 7s. 6d.
per day for any day or days required.
VOTING.
RULE 87. The system of voting shall be by show of hands, the decision
of the majority to rule.
LIMITATION OF SPEECHES.
RULE 88. Every latitude is to be allowed the Delegates for giving expression
to their views on the various subjects that may be brought before
them; but in the event of the Chairman seeing that the business
is not making satisfactory progress, he shall have power to appeal
to the Conference to limit the time allowed to movers of resolutions
to ten minutes, a seconder to seven minutes, and any subsequent
speaker to five minutes. No one shall speak more than once on a
question, except the mover of an original resolution. Should the
President be of opinion that there is no practical difference among
the Delegates, he shall have the power to stop the discussion.
AMENDMENT OF STANDING ORDERS,
RULE 89. Should any amendment of the Standing Orders of Conference be
proposed by any Branch, such amendment shall be forwarded at the
same time and under the same conditions as the amendments pro-
posed to the Rules. Notice of such amendment to be sent by the
General Secretary to the Delegates as early as convenient after
receipt.
DELEGATES LEAVING CONFERENCE.
RULE 90. No Delegate shall leave Conference without the consent of the
President, and Delegates absent one whole sitting without leave of
absence shall be named by the Chairman. The Conference shall
thereupon decide what action shall be taken with any such
delegate.


---
ORDER OF BUSINESS
TO BE TRANSACTED BY THE
TWENTY-FOURTH BIENNIAL CONFERENCE
TO BE HELD AT THE
FREE GARDENERS' INSTITUTE, 14, PICARDY PLACE,
EDINBURGH, ON MAY 24TH, 1920,
AND SUBSEQUENT DAYS.
Chair to be taken by the President at 12 o'clock noon.
1.-Chairman's Welcome to Delegates.
2.-Welcome to the Delegates by the Lord Provost of Edinburgh,
Baillie Allan, Mr. C. Allan, and Mr. Jas. Bachop, Chairman of
the Edinburgh Trades Council.
3.-Election of Doorkeeper.
4.-Election of Two Tellers.
5.-General Secretary to report Result of Voting for Standing Orders
Committee.
6.-Chairman's Address to Conference.
7.-Council's Address.
8.-Amendments to the Industrial Rules.
9.-Amendments to the National Health Insurance Rules.
10. To decide the place for next Conference.
11. General Business.


---
Here is the extracted text:
6
ORDER OF AGENDA
As arranged by the
STANDING ORDERS COMMITTEE,
In accordance with Rule 77.
BIENNIAL CONFERENCE, EDINBURGH, 1920.
Suggested Alterations and Additions to Rules.
Entrance Fees and Contributions.
1 NORWICH. - Rule 165.-" Asks Council to increase the amount of benefit now
paid, and advance the weekly contribution to meet the added liabilities."
2 NORTHAMPTON NO. 2.-Rule 165.-Contributions be increased 33 4 per cent.
The allotment to be recommended to the Conference by the Council."
2A THE COUNCIL.-Suggestion to alter Rule 165.
TO BE DIVIDED AS FOLLOWs:-
Entrance
Fee.
Cons.
Sick.
Trade.
Branch.
Males
Males (Sick)
Males (Trade & Funeral)
Males (Special Trade)
Youths
Females
Females (Sick)
Females (Trade & Funeral)
Females (Special Trade)
Females (under 18)
Now. Propose. Now. Propose. Now. Propose. Now. Propose.
1/- 9d. rod. 3d. 3d. 4d. 4d. 2d.
1/- 4½d. 4½d. 3d. 3d.
3d.
1/- 7d. 7d.
1d.
4d.
4d.
Id.
4d.
4d.
6d.
6d.
2d. 2d.
Id.
6d.
6d.
2d.
4½d. 4½d.
Id.
2d.
2d.
2d.
6d.
3d.
2d.
3d.
2d.
3 LEEDS NO. 1.- Rule 165.-" That the contributions be Is. instead of gd.,
and that the other contributions be raised proportionately.'
4 BRISTOL NO. 1. - Rule 165.-Increased contributions and benefits :-
Males (Full)
Sick Pay, 17/6 per week for 12 weeks. Youths increased to half of above
contributions and benefits.
Cons.
1/-
5d.
Sick. Trade. Branch.
4d.
3d.
Trade and Funeral
Females remain as at present for Sick Pay, but contributions to be 5d.
instead of 4 d., the d. to go to the Branch.
5 EDINBURGH.-Rule 165:
Males
Males (Sick)
Males (Trade and Funeral)
Males (Special Trade)
Youths and Females pay half entrance fees and contributions.
Fees.
1/-
1/-
Cons
1/-
7d.
8d.
6d.
Sick. Trade. Branch.
5d.
4d.
2d.
5d.
4d. 2½d.
4d.
2d.
---

---
SUNDAY, MAY 23rd, 1920.

As a preliminary to the week's conference the Manfield Choir entertained the delegates
to Conference and their friends on Sunday evening, 23rd May, 1920, in the Free Gardeners'
Hall, Edinburgh. The Choir rendered the following items: "The Singers," " Sweet and
Low, whilst the ladies' section gave "Caller Herrin," and "Night." The part song for
male voices was "Comrades in Arms." Solos were appreciated by the audience from
Miss W. Marshman, Miss Violet Wills, Miss Clara Wills, Miss Manning, Mr. T. Phillpot,
Miss Alice Winter and Mr. F. Foskett. Duets were rendered by Miss W. Marshman and
Mr. F. Foskett and the Misses Wills.

Upon the completion of the programme, Mr. T. F. Richards, on behalf of the assembly,
said he was expressing the wish of all in offering cordial thanks to the Choir. The Choir
had gone out of their way to entertain the delegates, and he congratulated them upon
their magnificent tone and for the pleasant evening spent together. He also referred to
the help given to the choir by Messrs. Manfield & Sons, and expressed the desire that it
would be well if other firms adopted a similar practice. Mr. Richards thanked the
choirmaster, Mr. W. F. Marshman, and said he was pleased to know there was such a
choir in the trade, as everyone knows there is nothing like leather. He then proposed
a hearty vote of thanks, to which Mr. Cole (a director of the firm of Messrs.
Manfield & Sons) responded.

MONDAY.

The twenty-fourth Biennial Conference of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Opera-
tives opened in the Free Gardeners' Hall, 14, Picardy Place, Edinburgh, at 12 o'clock noon,
on Monday, May 24th, 1920, the General President, Mr. T. F. Richards, presiding. He
was supported by Alderman A. Hill (Treasurer), Messrs. A. J. Dobbs (Leeds), J. Manners
(Bristol), C. Mayes (Kettering), W. Hindes (Norwich), C. Bleakley (Edinburgh), and Mrs.
M. J. Bell-Richards (Members of the Executive Council), Messrs. J. Buckle, J.P., and D.
McCarthy (Organisers), and Mr. E. L. Poulton, O.B.E., J.P. (General Secretary).

Mr. T. Orton (Leicester) and Mr. H. Simmons, J.P. (Stafford), were unable to attend
owing to illness.

In addition the city of Edinburgh was represented by Mr. C. Allan, for the Boot and
Shoe Manufacturers; Mr. Jas. Bachop, representing the Repairers' Association; and
Mr. Caldwell, Chairman of the Edinburgh Trades Council.

The Chairman's Welcome.

THE CHAIRMAN offered a hearty welcome to Edinburgh on behalf of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, and called attention to the fact that all sections of
the industry were present.

Welcome by Local Representatives of the Trade.

MR. C. ALLAN (representing the Edinburgh manufacturers): Delegates of the National
Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives, I have great pleasure in being here to-day amongst
you, and to welcome you all. It was fortunate for me that I did not previously know
that I should be asked to make a speech. If so I should have had hours of fear, but as
I have been called upon to speak now I have had no time to feel the effects or to think
out a speech. I am glad you have come to Edinburgh at this time and as I am one of those
who know the customs of Edinburgh I sometimes feel we lose its beauty. You have
the privilege of coming fresh into the city, and will see things anew. I hope the sunshine
will continue. I hope you will have a good time. I am speaking as a manufacturer.
before. (Hear, hear.) By coming into contact with them I find they are gentlemen,
and there is no reason why a man, whether he works with his head or his hands, should not


---
I trust social distinction will disappear and that we shall fight for one goal. I know you
have many things to discuss. I know your leaders are doing their best. I believe the
National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives has been wisely led. You have made great
headway and this with the knowledge of not having a wreck. You have had those speaking
thing. We hear so much of unrest and fear that things may not run too smoothly that
for you who are able to put your case and always carried with it weight, and that is a
it is my feeling that some of the demands should be put forward with justification, and
when they are put forward on those lines I do not think anyone will dissent. To-morrow
stay and trust your decisions will be for the benefit of the whole country. (Applause.)
the Conference, because he had been connected with the trade for 40 years; 25 years as
MR. J. BACHOP (Repairing Section of the Trade) said he felt proud to be present at
industry so far as the factory system is concerned. We were rather looked down upon
as an employer of labour. I may say I claim to be amongst the pioneers of the repairing
a workman and the last 15 he had been employed in the repairing section of the industry
some years back, but to-day the position is very different. I look back and think of our
some rough times, and we have been able to solve knotty problems by the spirit of con-
of that spirit of consideration and fairness and equity that has enabled us to tide over
meetings with the men's representatives, which have on the whole been characteristic
sideration for one another. Mr. Allan said we could be gentlemen whether we worked
with our hands or our head: I am afraid in the repairing industry we have to work with
both. I welcome you to this city of Edinburgh, although I was born in the West; never-
theless we give you a right royal welcome. I trust your visit will be successful and bene-
ficial. (Applause.)
MR. J. CALDWELL (Edinburgh Trades Council): To be invited to a gathering such
as this cannot be regarded otherwise than as a distinct privilege, and to be made the
medium of conveying fraternal greetings at such a meeting as this is a proud position.
The Boot and Shoe Operatives have long been held honourably in connection with the
Edinburgh Trades Council, in many of the trials to carry aloft the banner of trade unionism
supported by the Scottish Trade Union Congress, who upheld your position. That is a
It is within my remembrance that the last bit of trouble you had in Scotland you were
to-day for the
skeleton, but I am here to offer you a cordial welcome to our ancient and romantic city
The staple industries of our city are not the manufacture of boots, but the manufacture
of beer and bibles, and I sincerely hope before the delegates leave they will sample both
(Laughter.) You have come to the city in the midst of troublous times. During the
past six weeks we have had 700 plumbers walking the streets almost daily, and in these
times when Cabinet Ministers tell you trade unionists are not doing their duty towards
the ex-service men, probably it will be information to you that these 700 plumbers have
sacrificed something like £5,000 per week, not for improved conditions for themselves,
but for the purpose of obtaining justice for their demobilised apprentices. (Applause.)
That I think is a sufficient answer to the slur placed upon the trade union movement.
Now, as to the building trade. We have 1,200 joiners in this city walking about seeking
employment. They are asking for 2s. 6d. per hour, and it is up to us that whilst this is
being used by the Local Authority to cover the errors in not erecting houses, I tell you that
the working people have done more than anyone else for this country. At the moment
we expect to employ direct labour and we believe our city fathers-no matter how sym-
pathetic they claim to be-believe this great housing problem can be solved by private
enterprise, but we are convinced that day after day it is an absolute impossibility to solve
the problem by private enterprise. During the past few years we have accomplished
another step towards our complete organisation. We have been enabled to form an
future to take a much larger part in the selection of our representatives on public bodies.
amalgamation between the Trades Council and the Labour Party and we hope in the
We believe in the workers saying this should be done. It is with hope we look to the future
and it is at such gatherings as this which are so useful as to provide us with the ammunition
to go forward with our struggle. Our city holds out many attractions and I hope you will
see the beauty of it all. I trust you will return to your homes strengthened and enabled
to carry on the good work for which you have come. The immediate future is full for the
labour movement. We have Capitalistic monopolies round us, and Cabinet Ministers
say we are not fit to govern, but that we must prove otherwise later. In this city we have
membership of 60,000 people. We claim we feed half
a co-operative movement with a
the population of Edinburgh, and it is all carried on with a handful of working men.
labour movement this east windy, west windy atmosphere is one of the biggest things
Edinburgh, although it suffers from a peculiar atmosphere you will understand in the
then here, and no one would look at a trade unionist, but to-day Edinburgh was never in
in our struggle. Fifty years ago nothing like the trade unionist movement as now was
as a result of the war. Factories, fields, and farms were of much greater importance than
a more satisfactory position from an organised point of view, and we have learned much
only be allowed to remain in power so long as they dealt fairly and justly with those who
thrones and dynasties. (Applause.) Representative bodies, and even Cabinets, could
lived by labour. (Applause.)


---
MR. C. BLEAKLEY (Council Member for Scotland): Twenty-six years ago the con-
ference was held in Edinburgh; to-day it is more interesting. My knowledge of trade
members. Not one of that Council sits on the present Council to-day, and as a matter
on the platform, but also in the body of the hall. Then our Council was limited to eight
unionism then was very little indeed. There has been a change not only in the personnel
that time eliminates the most progressive and enthusiastic of our membership. It is
interesting to have you with us, and to me it is a pleasure not only to welcome many old
friends, but to welcome new ones. Many of the pioneers of our Union-who when trade
of fact there are only four here to-day who attended that Conference in 1894. You see
unionism was not so popular as it is to-day, have gone from our midst but they have left
in their trail-100,000 members. It is a great pleasure to look back upon that platform
and to know the most optimistic never contemplated we should ever have 100,000 members.
believe a sincere welcome. I trust during the week you will not only have good weather,
but hope our deliberations will be such as to reflect the greatest pleasure to all those present.
To-day we have the employers with us, and they with us have given you a welcome. I
On behalf of the Edinburgh and Scottish Branches I wish you a hearty and sincere wel-
come. (Applause.)
THE CHAIRMAN thanked the speakers for their good wishes and said he hoped the
it is pleasurable to have such gentlemen who wish us well. We have much to do, and
present cordiality would continue. Mr. Allan's firm have many times assisted us and
trust the manufacturers will put nothing in our way.
MR. C. ALLAN returned thanks for the visitors, who then withdrew.
Roll Call.
The GENERAL SECRETARY reported that all the delegates were present; Mr. W.
Arnott, of Glasgow, and Miss Nightingale, of Northampton, being unable to attend, Mr.
R. White, of Edinburgh and Mrs. R. Burton, of Northampton, were attending instead
He also reported that Councillor H. Simmons, J.P., and Mr. Thos. Orton, members
of the Council were prevented from attending the Conference owing to illness, and sug-
gested a telegram should be sent to these members. Mr. W. H. Lowe, J.P., of Leicester,
Pas unable to undertake the journey. He was not in the best of health, but is enabled to
keep at his work; I am sure we hope he will be able to continue his good work.
The General Secretary's suggestion was unanimously agreed to.
Election of Doorkeeper.
MR. C. BLEAKLEY proposed and MR. R. WHITE seconded that Mr. G. Weir should act
as Doorkeeper for the Conference. Agreed.
Tellers.
Messrs. W. Langley (Higham and Rushden), W. Dickens (Northampton), A. Butcher
(Norwich), G. Abbot (Leeds), and Miss E. A. Timms (Leicester No. 3 Branch), were nomin-
ated as Tellers, and upon a vote of the delegates being taken Mr. W. Langley and Miss
E. A. Timms were elected with 51 and 44 votes respectively.
Standing Orders Committee.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY reported that the following delegates had been elected
as the Standing Orders Committee: - Messrs. S. Thompson, G. Parbury, G. Chester,
J. H. Baum and F. C. Jex. He then read the Minutes of the said Committee meeting,
as follows :-
It was unanimously agreed that Mr. G. Parbury be elected Chairman, and Mr. S.
Thompson, J.P., Secretary to the Committee respectively.
The Committee, after some discussion, agreed that the order of business of the Agenda
should be set out as follows:-
1. Chairman's Welcome to Delegates.
2. Welcome by the local officials, &c.
3. Election of a Doorkeeper.
4. Election of two Tellers.
5. General Secretary's Report re Standing Orders Committee.
6. Chairman's Address to Conference.
7. Council's Address.


---
Here is the extracted text:
22
8. Amendments to the Industrial Rules.
9. Amendments to the National Health Insurance Rules.
to. To decide the place for next Conference.
11. General business.
The Standing Orders Committee recommend that Items 1-5 inclusive be dealt with
on Monday before the adjournment.
Further, the Standing Orders Committee also suggest that the Council's Address
should be disposed of by lunch time on Wednesday of Conference. This with a view to
facilitating the business of the Conference.
The Committee also suggest that Wednesday afternoon should be set apart for the
reports of the Fraternal delegates (if any), and also the Parliamentary Representative's
Report, these to be completed before the adjournment on Wednesday.
It was agreed that the Committee recommend to the Conference to take the National
Health Insurance business on Thursday, immediately after lunch.
The suggested amendments and additions to Rules were then put in their order of
precedence, after which the Committee adjourned.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY moved that the Report be adopted and COUNCILLOR T.
ADNITT seconded, the same being carried unanimously.
Fraternal Greetings.
It was agreed to send a wire to the General Workers' Union as follows:
[COPY].
THORNE, GENERAL WORKERS' UNION CONFERENCE, ABERDEEN.
Boot operatives beg to convey to you fraternal greetings and trust your Confer-
ence will be successful and still further benefit the members of your Union and thus
help forward the general movement for better conditions of living. POULTON.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY: We invited delegates from the American and German
Boot Trade Unions and I regret to say in both instances we have met with failure. A
very nice letter was sent from America, which said owing to their being overwhelmed with
work they were unable to accept our invitation. Nevertheless they send fraternal greetings
and hope to send a delegate to some future conference.
In relation to the German Union the matter has been much more difficult. I sent a
long wire last week asking if a delegate would be coming along, to which I received the
following reply :-
NUREMBERG, May 20th, [COPY.]
POULTON, Boot and Shoe Operatives, 34, Guilford Street, W.C.
Sending delegate impossible-letter on way. We send Conference kindest
greetings and wish every success.
WEICKERS.
In that connection we decided to send our friend Buckle to the German Conference,
but owing to the fact that the Hall was destroyed where the conference was to be held,
it being blown to pieces, we did not feel it advisable for Mr. Buckle to go over. I have
received the following letter from Herr G. Weickers :-
DEAR POULTON AND DEAR COMRADES, NUREMBERG, May 19th, 1920.
Our National Conference has taken place, as was intended, from April 25th to
30th, at Nuremberg, and I am glad to say that the deliberations were very successful.
We regretted exceedingly that Comrade Buckle, whom you advised to us to be present
at our Conference did not come, nor did we receive up to present writing any news
explaining why Mr. Buckle did not come.
From abroad we had the following guests at our Conference : Comrade Johanson,
of Stockholm Comrade Kanka, of Vienna Comrade Junck, of Prag; and Comrade
Zinner, of Zurich. We should have been very glad, indeed, if we had also had the
statements made when presenting the General Report about the present situation
in Germany, the new National Tariff in the boot and shoe industry, Councillors'
system, Working Communities and the trade unions, the question of apprentices in
The extensive Agenda, as well as the
pleasure of welcoming Mr. Buckle among us.


---
in general.
23
English comrades
leather industries, the deliberations about the Rules and Constitution, all these would
the boot and shoe industry, the question of the unification in the hides, skin and
have been subjects of much interest for Mr. Buckle as well as for our F
We are tendering you our sincerest thanks for your kind invitation to assist at
your Conference at Edinburgh: to our great regret we are, however, this time not in
possible for Comrade Simon or another comrade to be present at your Conference,
a position to send a delegate, for on June 6th next the general elections for the Reich-
stag are taking place and also the elections for our local Parliament, so that it is not
and then there is also the low level of our currency, which would scarcely allow of our
Our thoughts will, however, be with you and your deliberations, and we sincerely
and resolutions will be fruitful not only for the British boot and shoe workers, but for
trust that you will have a successful Conference. We also hope that your deliberations
Trusting that Mr. Richards, Mr. Poulton and all the other Councillors we had the
pleasure to get acquainted with are in excellent health, we remain, with best wishes,
coming over.
those of the entire world.
Fraternally yours,
G. WEICKERS, Secretary.
To the Secretary of the National Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P.,
34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. r.
It was decided to send an official reply from the Conference. It was also decided
upon the suggestion of the Chairman to print the letters from America and Germany
through the official copy of the Conference Report :-
DEAR MR. POULTON,
BOOT AND SHOE WORKERS' UNION,
246, SUMMER STREET,
BOSTON, MASS.,
February 28th, 1920.
I am writing to acknowledge your letter of January 26th, 1920, and to say that
the matter of our being represented at your annual conference in the city of Edinburgh
is a matter which will be considered by our General Executive Board within the near
future, and you will be advised of the action taken.
I am in receipt of a letter from F. Simon, former secretary of the International
Union of Shoe and Leather Workers, requesting information similar to that which
was furnished prior to the war.
In connection therewith and for your information, will say that at the last meeting
of our General Executive Board, acting upon two different communications from
former Secretary Simon, it was decided to take no action in connection with requests
from him until such time as the war situation had been definitely cleared up, and a
situation existing which would make it not only advisable, but possible to hold an
international convention, which in our opinion, should be for the purpose of estab-
lishing a new International Shoe and Leather Workers' Union, as such expression
as was given by the members of our Board indicated quite clearly that they were not
in favour of continuing the old International.
I do not know what opinions the officers of your organisation have in connection
with this subject, but I thought it might interest you to know what the officers of
our organisation have in mind.
I trust that you are enjoying the best of health, and remain, with personal regards
to yourself and Brother Richards,
Fraternally yours,
C. L. BAINE,
General Secretary-Treasurer,
MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P.,
General Secretary,
Boot and Shoe Operatives,
34, Guilford Street, London, England.


---
Here is the extracted text from the image:
24
BOOT AND SHOE WORKERS' UNION,
246, SUMMER STREET,
BOSTON, MASS.,
March 24th, 1920,
DEAR MR. POULTON,
It is with great regret that I am writing to advise you that it will be impossible
for the Boot and Shoe Workers' Union to be represented at the Biennial Conference
of the International Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives scheduled for May 24th next.
The situation after the war in our country is such as to make it necessary for the
active executives of our organisation to give the very closest attention to its
affairs.
There has been a general disposition among the employers of labor in our country,
particularly those who can be classed as unfair, to bring about a situation which will
permit them to reduce wages and increase the hours of work, and the propaganda of
employers and others of like mind who claim to represent the public is to the effect
that the cost of living cannot be reduced until Labor agrees to accept lower wages
and to work more hours per week so as to increase production.
Labor leaders of this country, however, insist that the cost of living, if reduced,
must be brought about by the employers either agreeing to, or being forced to accept
less profits, in addition to which a curb should be put upon speculation in the necessities
of life, and that production can be increased by reducing the number of people who
are neither employers or workers.
In this connection, it has been suggested that the Government adopt some
measures to force these non-producers to bear their share of life's burden similar to
the plan adopted during the war when the Government adopted most effectively the
slogan-" Work or Fight."
While the unions of our country have been quite successful in increasing wages
to meet the increased cost of living during the last five years, none of them haes
secured increases in wages beyond the percentage of increase in the cost of living
during the same period, but some of the unions have not been able to secure increases
to equal the increased cost of living, while in the poorly organised industries, the
average increases secured represent but little, if any, over 30 per cent. of the increased
cost of living and these increases were given in the form of bonuses, some of which
have already been taken away.
Briefly speaking, the slogan of the organised workers is that the wages did not
increase until after the cost of living had materially increased, and employers or the
public in general must not expect that there will be any reduction in wages until the
cost of living is materially decreased.
Referring directly to the shoe trade, will say that the year 1919 was the most
successful year in the history of the Boot and Shoe Workers' Union, and for your
information, I am enclosing herewith a letter recently issued by our General Executive
Board covering the progress of our Union during that year. We feel that we have a
right to congratulate ourselves upon the success achieved, especially in view of the
fact that we still have to meet the opposition and antagonism of independent factions
in our trade.
In a previous communication, I believe we expressed the views of the Executives
of our Union in connection with holding an international conference as suggested in
a communication received from former Secretary Simon.
We are still of the opinion that when the former freedom of intercourse which
prevailed prior to the World's war has been established between Germany and other
countries, a conference should be held for the purpose of establishing a new International
Shoe and Leather Workers' Union, and when such a conference is called, I feel certain
that the Boot and Shoe Workers' Union of America will be represented.
I trust that your Biennial Conference will be successful and result in great benefit
to the members of your union.
With sincere personal regards to yourself and colleagues,
I am, fraternally yours,
MR. E. L. POULTON, J.P.,
General Secretary,
C. L. BAINE,
General Secretary-Treasurer.
International Union of Boot and Shoe Operatives,
34, Guilford Street, London, W.C. 1., England.


---
25
BOOT AND SHOE WORKERS' UNION,
246, SUMMER STREET,
BOSTON, MASS.,
TO THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF OUR VARIOUS LOCAL UNIONS.
in the history of our Uinion.
January 15th, 1920.
The General Executive Board at a meeting held in Boston, week beginning
January 5th, 1920, made careful review of the general situation, especially as applied
to the Boot and Shoe Workers' Union.
The General Board feels sure the membership generally will agree that there is
just cause for congratulation when they learn that the year 1919 was the best year
On January 1st, 1920, we had 231 active chartered locals as against 175 local
cinnati, Ohio, shows the largest percentage of increase in members, but is closely
unions, January 1st, 1919, with a net increase of 14,484 members for the year. Cin-
followed by Brockton, Mass., St. Louis, Mo., Chicago, Ill., St. Paul, Minn., Rochester,
N.Y., and Montreal, Que., while nearly every other local union shows an increase
for the year.
The large increase in membership in Cincinnati is due to a considerable extent
to the women stitchers, who for the first time since the days of the Knights of Labor
have again manifested interest in organisation.
The action of the Knights of Labor Cutters' Assembly of Rochester, N.Y., in
voleased our membership in that city, and we find that in spite of the claims of the
voluntarily joining the hot and she workers' Union in a body has substantially
United faction, many shoe workers outside the cutting departments are joining our
union and the prospects in that city are good.
Substantial increases in wages and a general reduction in hours was secured
for the members for the year.
In reviewing the financial condition of the Union, we find that although a year
of heavy expense, due largely to the holding of a convention, the balance on hand in
general funds shows an increase over January 1st, 1919.
The general tendency upon the part of our Union to appreciate the necessity
of maintaining contracts is also a feature for which we have a right to congratulate
the organisation. There have been a number of violations on the part of our members,
none of which, however, created any serious situation, but it seems essential to say
that the result in each case was failure and loss of employment to the violators.
There have been a number of strikes by groups of individuals or sections of
shops' crews without authorisation by the local executive board of the local unions.
Strikes without authority from the Union are unwise, contrary to the constitution
and policy of the Union, and should be condemned.
A fundamental principle upon which the Boot and Shoe Workers' Union was
founded is the bettering of wages and conditions of all shoe workers, and not of any
special branch.
When certain members of the Union employed in any one department create
a strike situation in violation of agreements, or without Union authority, they do so
without giving any consideration to the interests and welfare of their fellow members
in other departments, who have a right to be considered and have a voice in the creation
of any situation which may mean their loss of employment and the consequent loss
of wages.
Acts of this kind are also in violation of the motto for which the Boot and Shoe
Workers' Union stands, "Each for all and all for each," and are in violation of every
sense of honor upon which mutual agreements are based.
These violations are taken advantage of by the opponents of voluntary arbitra-
tion, who advocate compulsory arbitration and enactment of laws to make strikes
under any circumstances unlawful and the participants subject to penalties in fines
and imprisonment.
We urge our Unions everywhere to give this communication their earnest con-
that
of our contracts and constitution is maintained at all times and under all circum-
stances.
In view of the fact that large manufacturers operating strictly non-union factories
are attempting to place advertisements in the Labor Press, and in other ways seeking
of our Union that special efforts should be made to boom the Union Stamp.
to secure the trade of members of organised labor, it seems to be to the best interests


---
Here is the extracted text:
union factories, and the
the members of our Union.
26
for every sale of Union Stamp shoes is diverting trade from non-union factories to
We hope that the local unions will increase their agitation in this direction,
he benefit of Union Stamp agitation should be apparent to all
regular meetings and devise ways and means to reach the shoe workers who are not
along organising lines. Special organising committees should be appointed to hold
vet members of the Boot and Shoe Workers' Union, so that at the end of the year
We urge that special attention be given to the necessity for continuing our efforts
made that we have to-day for the year 1919. In this work, the co-operation and
1920, we will have the same good reason to congratulate ourselves upon progress
assistance of the general union can be depended upon at all times.
successful New Year, and expressing the hope and the confidence that our organisation
Wishing the membership of the Boot and Shoe Workers' Union a happy and
will continue to grow in influence and power from every standpoint necessary to build
up and maintain a successful union, we remain,
Fraternally yours,
GENERAL EXECUTIVE BOARD,
COLLIS LOVELY, Chairman.
GAD MARTINDALE,
C. E. JAMES,
Z. LESPERANCE,
WARREN M. HATCH,
WILLIAM PROUT,
FRED M. KNIGHT,
JOSEPH E. WORACEK,
CLARA KATZOR,
JOHN M. GORMAN,
C. L. BAINE, Secretary.
Credentials.
MR. G. PARBURY reported that all the credential cards were in order except that of
MR. J. H. HOOPER (Street), who had failed to hand his card in. Mr. Hooper stated he
would bring the same to the next session.
The Conference then adjourned at 1.5 p.m. until Tuesday morning.
In the afternoon a most pleasant and enjoyable time was spent at the invitation of
the Edinburgh Branch. A motor drive to Queensferry was taken and then by passenger
steamship round the Rosyth Dockyard, the delegates being given a chance to see some of
our famous warships, including Lord Beatty's flagship, "The Lion," "Queen Elizabeth,"
and others. After a most enjoyable trip lasting upwards of two hours the delegates
returned to a high tea provided by the St. Cuthbert's Co-operative Association. The
General President of the Union expressed the cordial thanks of the delegates to the Directors
of the St. Cuthbert's Co-operative Association for their kindness, and Messrs. Leng and
McGregor having replied the gathering dispersed.
TUESDAY.
Morning Session.
The Conference resumed at 9.30 a.m., the GENERAL PRESIDENT presiding.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY read the roll and reported that all delegates were present.
Upon the proposition of COUNCILLOR C. BATES (Higham and Rushden), seconded
by MR. W. N. BLISSETT (Derby), the minutes of Monday's proceedings, as read by the
General Secretary, were unanimously endorsed.
whilst on his way to Aberdeen to attend the conference of the General Workers' Union,
THE GENERAL SECRETARY reported, with regret, that The Rt. Hon. Will Thorne, M.P.,
had been taken seriously ill, and had had to be taken to a nursing home and undergo an
operation. He suggested that a letter be sent wishing him a speedy recovery, which was
agreed to.


---
27
Presidential Address.

THE CHAIRMAN : I am pleased to find a much larger number of delegates at this
Conference than we have had in the past. We certainly feel our members would require
much larger representation than what we enjoyed when we only had 29,000 members.
From that point of view I presume they have satisfaction for the time being. I well
remember the last time we met in Edinburgh 26 years ago. As Mr. Bleakley said yesterday
there are only four present to-day who attended that Conference the General Secretary
Mr. Alex Smith (Arbroath), my friend Buckle, and myself. It was in this ancient city we
carried the socialistic resolution which was added to our rules. We have not come across
resolution. It is all that is worth striving for this side of the grave. When it comes
many other Unions that have such a democratic object as there is contained in that
to a question of our entering into politics we hold that as one of the most important matters
in the Union. At the present time we find ourselves in the happy position of having
100,443 members, or an increase of 57,289 since the last Edinburgh Conference. Of this
number 26,802 are financial females or 46 per cent. of the membership. In 1894 we had
65 branches and sections, to-day there are 143 or an increase of 78. Our funds in 1894
stood at £47,408 12S. 9d.; to-day they have reached a grand total of £367,604 88. 4d.,
or an increase of £320,195 15S. 7d. I should like to say, although it looks well on paper,
if we had our 100,000 members to cater for in a national trouble, we should soon find our
funds gone. I hope that time will never come.
I have seen the means and methods by
which other people get the best of the good things of this life, and they do not get them
by striking but by subtle means. They do it by a policy of manipulation in which they use
mesmerism and hypnotism. They are on the box of the industrial coach and they hold
the reins, and I say the time has arrived when we should see our man on the box and the
coach going our way, and that is the way of the workers after toil whether by muscle or
brain. There are one or two features I should like to touch upon. One is we are not
very happy in our relationship at the present moment with some of the employers who
belong to the Employers' Federation. Some of my friends have been disturbed by a
foolhardy policy adopted by a local association, where owing to their action the girls of
were surprised to find local people have read into our agreement that we are not guaranteed
and never challenged before, and we have taken steps to have a conference with the em-
ployers in order that we might wipe away any doubt, because most of us would not have
looked at payment by results if the minimum wage had not been guaranteed for the opera-
tive whilst on the premises. I am pleased to say even the Government have not been
so narrow as that, and in their Trade Board regulations every person is entitled to the
minimum wage if he is on the premises for a full week. It has upset us and aggravates
the good relations which exist between the manufacturers and ourselves by them attempting
to disturb that understanding. I hope you will let the Central Office know of any attempt
to ignore that position. It has been the bulwark and pivot of the whole position and with
which we have done the major portion of our business. It has been for us to ask our
members to give it a trial, and if we lose our position we shall reconsider our policy. We
are hoping at this Conference with the employers to get over that difficulty. Now I will
refer to the position in which we find ourselves in Yorkshire. There have been two Unions
fighting one another. The A.U.C.C.E. (against whom we make a charge with the Parlia-
mentary Committee of the Trades Union Congress nine years ago) were informed they
must give up boot operatives to us who cater for boot operatives only. That has not been
carried out. In their judgment they thought fit to withdraw from the Trades Union Congress
and not force the issue. Since then, upon a number of occasions, they would liked to have
got back to Congress and joined the Labour Party, but they have not been able to do so,
because we wanted the resolution carried out. The Council offered to the A.U.C.C.E.
the condition that we would allow them to keep the members they had if they gave us a
guarantee that they would not go into any of the branches or sections in competition
with our Union. They would not accept that position; consequently they went on
poaching and only recently took the whole of the operatives at a Sheffield Co-operative
Society. As a natural consequence we can do nothing else but look after ourselves.
got a Sedgwick Award in 1918 and have secured further advances until we obtained
I have a letter stating this has been accepted by the
The A.U.C.C.E. now
70 per cent. on the Award.
Yorkshire and Lancashire Wages Board for the whole area.
demand roo per cent. on the Award. This is the policy they pursue. No matter what
We dare not bleed co-operative societies whilst private employers escape. It is not just.
we shall have to take the question to the Trades Union Congress. They have no control
over the A.U.C.C.E., but they can bring pressure to bear that these people should not
belong to local bodies. They say we do not belong to the national bodies but we do belong
to the local bodies. I say our local trades' councils want purging, because surely if people
are not eligible for national societies how can they be eligible for local ? (Applause.)
Some day I hope we shall have one big Union. In Germany they are wiser than ourselves,
---

---
Here is the extracted text:
29
THE GENERAL SECRETARY suggested the question should be raised on the Council's
Address. This being agreed to, the General Secretary then read the Address of the Council,
1.
Council's Address to Conference.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
Since our conference at Leicester when the world was at war, we are
glad to be able to report that, speaking in general terms war has ceased, although
it may be said that some amount of fighting is still going on. This we trust
peace. Since 1914, the times have indeed been not only strenuous, but full
will speedily be brought to a conclusion, and that one may say the world is at
anxiety being attended by loss, suffering and pain quite unexampled
of anxiety arising out of, or in connection with the world war; such
present such a united front to any person or group of persons who may
in the history of the world. We sincerely hope that mankind will
intentions being put into operation. We would remind you however, that
attempt to bring about wars in the future, as to thwart and destroy any such
there is absolute need for constant vigilance on the part of the people to prevent
the war party from again becoming predominant, there being from time to
time what we cannot but think are inspired paragraphs as to preparations for
the next war.
In our judgment it is imperative that all workers should
arrive at such understandings with one another as to make it, in the
terms of the proposals which the Labour Party drew up in 1918, "that there
should henceforth on earth be no more war."
desire are not for the killing off of one another and we would here point out,
that if, unhappily there should be any big war in the future, science has devel-
oped to such an extent that words fail to convey the horrors that would fall
upon mankind should such an outbreak take place. This should bring home
to the workers all the more strongly the absolute necessity of unity and concord
-but wars against injustice, against disease, against any conditions that
handicap mankind from attaining to the highest and best humanity is capable
of attaining to.
2.
STATE OF TRADE.
During the period under review, the state of trade has, upon the whole,
been good. In the Closing Department there has been in some centres a short-
age of labour. Special schemes were set up to meet the exceptional circum-
stances brought about by the shortage which we think is only temporary.
3.
DEMOBILISATION.
During the two years-1918-20-not fewer than 18,000 of our members
have been demobilised, and, generally speaking, were re-engaged in their
old situations. In addition to these members having returned, 3,685 men
injured in the war, but who were still capable of working, have been
trained either as handsewn men or for boot and shoe repairing, as well as on
the manufacturing side of the industry. The schemes under which these
persons were trained were schemes drawn up by representative Committees
under the Ministry of Labour or Ministry of Pensions. The Union has had
from the setting up of such Committees representation thereon. Nearly all
of these 3.685 men were before the War connected with some other industry
than the boot and shoe industry, and we may fairly claim that as an industry


---
Here is the extracted text:
30
the boot and shoe trade has taken a full share in helping those unfortunately
injured in the War to earn a livelihood.
4.
Admitted to training to July 31st. 1919
Subsequently admitted (estimate)
In training, July 31st, 1919
Subsequently admitted (estimate)
2.935
750
3,685
1,284
750
2,034
THE NATIONAL JOINT STANDING COMMITTEE'S
RED BOOK
is still in existence, although happily there has not been a great deal of business
has revised the Red Book so that the prices and conditions appertaining to
Government Contracts are readily available for any contract work that may be
to do of late owing to the war having ended; nevertheless, such committee
covering as it does many kinds of work and processes. It is to be regretted
needed. The third edition of such book is looked upon as very valuable
"Fair Wages Contract Clause" to determine the wages question in giving out
that the Ministry of Labour has intimated that in future they will rely on the
contracts. We wish it to be clearly understood that we intend, where the
applicable, to claim payment up to such prices for any
"Red Book" prices are
Government work.
5.
BOOT AND SHOE REPAIRING.
Since we last met in conference, a new body known as the "Boot and Shoe
Repairing Trades Board" has been called into existence by the Government
J. Buckle, J.P. (Organiser), C. Bleakley, A. J. Dobbs (Council Members),
J. Osborne (Bristol Secretary), and W. J. Smith (Great Yarmouth Secretary).
Other societies are represented, along with representatives from the employers'
organisations, with Professor Hobhouse as chairman. The Board deals with
handsewn work and boot and shoe repairing. A considerable number of
meetings have been held and prices fixed up with a minimum wage for males
of 21 years of age and over 65s. per week; females, 45s. per week; 48 hour
week and extra rates for overtime. In addition a very complete piecework
statement has been drawn up for repairing, and 2s. per hour fixed for those on
surgical work; also a scheme for training youths and women. The great
advantage of these conditions is that they are national and have the force
of the law behind them, inasmuch as the Orders for their enforcement are
made under the authority of the Minister of Labour. We are fully satisfied
that despite any shortcomings, and we know there are shortcomings, the
setting up of these conditions has been a distinct advantage not only to the
workers, but also to employers, because here again the statement being
national, prevents so far as the labour cost is concerned-undercutting of one
employer against another.
6.
ORGANISING.
is contained in the fact that since the Leicester Biennial Conference our member-
Organising is still being vigilantly carried on, and the proof of our success
ship has increased by nearly 23,000, making the membership over 100,000.
This, however, does not at all represent the full value of the organising, because


---
31
advantages that have accrued to the membership as a result of both national
altogether apart from membership, we have evidence of the distinct wage
and local officers constantly looking after the interests of the members in
26,658 females, 13,212 probationary, total 100,054, shewing the women prac-
relation to their employment; our membership in April was 60,184 males,
tically 44 per cent. of the financial membership.
7.
AMALGAMATION.
We are not able although a number of meetings have taken place with
during the past two years. The matter however, is one which we never lose
other organisations to report the linking up of any kindred society with us
endeavouring to bring about the amalgamation of kindred organisations with
sight of, and as opportunity presents itself we purpose continuing the work of
ourselves.
8.
JOINT INDUSTRIAL (WHITLEY) COUNCIL.
A Whitley Council has been established in connection with the industry,
and ourselves. Attempts were made to ensure representatives of other organi-
the Council consisting of representatives of the Manufacturers' Federation
sations, both employers and employed, being members of such Council: it
was unanimously agreed to keep it to the two organisations.
Inasmuch, for so many years past machinery had been in existence in
the industry for dealing with many of the matters that Whitley Councils were
set up to deal with, it was decided at the outset to rule out of the jurisdiction
of such Council, such questions as
Hours,
Wages,
Conditions of Employment,
they being already dealt with by the Joint Committee of the Manufacturers'
Federation and ourselves.
A number of meetings have been held of this Council on questions
affecting the industry such as
Holidays,
Sanitary Conditions of the Factories,
Health of the Workers,
To encourage membership of the Union, etc., etc.
The Council has thus done some good work and we feel that with proper
safeguards it can be a useful body to the industry as a whole.
CONSUMPTION IN THE TRADE. This matter has been dealt with not only
by the Industrial (Whitley) Council but also by a new body known as the
Industrial Fatigue Research Board, of which the General Secretary is a member,
and several meetings have been held of this new Council and also joint meetings
of the manufacturers with ourselves and representatives of the Home Office
in connection with the question of consumption, and this disease has been one
of the prominent features which we have dealt with. At the present moment
a special enquiry is being held by the Industrial Fatigue Research Board
with a view to ascertaining, if at all possible, whether there is an excess of any
other disease in the shoe trade, and if so to ascertain if possible what steps
should be taken to deal with the same.
We regret we cannot report more fully upon the subject, the reason being,
that owing to the war, the services of the Medical fraternity were so called
upon to deal with the large number of wounded sailors and soldiers and were
thereby prevented from giving the necessary attention to this subject. We


---
37
before the mid-day interval if they will not
noon.
work shall be found for them for a period of
morning and three hours in the afternoon, or
hours and three hours respectively at not
wage rate.
This clause shall not apply in the case of machinery breaking down in any
factory after the operatives have entered, or in the case of illness or absence of
any operative which interferes with the organisation of the factory, in which
stood that employers and their representatives will take all reasonable precau-
cases the operatives shall be allowed to leave the factory at once. It is under-
tion to avoid the necessity of sending operatives away from the works on account
of breakdown of machinery or disorganisation of the factories.
Uniformity of Organisation.
5.-All operatives shall be subject to the same organisation and discipline
in regard to attendance at the factories during working hours.
Hours of Labour.
6.-As from March 31st, 1919, the ordinary working week shall be one of
48 hours, and meantime all statements shall be built up to ensure the rates
of wages as set forth in clauses 7, 8, 9, 10, 11.
Period of Training.
7.-A person under 18 shall not be eligible for the minimum wages specified
in the succeeding clauses unless and until he or she has had twelve months'
receive an advance in wages at the end of six months. When the twelve
months' probationary period has elapsed, he or she shall be paid at the minimum
rate applicable to his or her age.
Minimum Wage and Graduated Scale Rates-Male Operatives.
8. From the commencement of the first working week on or after 31st
March, 1919, the following scale of wages shall operate for male operatives
employed in other than Heel Building Departments and Stock or Shoe Rooms:
Age.
Minimum Wage.
16
18/-
17
21/-
18
27/-
19
33/-
Age.
Minimum Wage.
20
40/-
21
50/-
22
53/-
23
56/-
Minimum Wage and Graduated Scale Rates for Heel Building Departments
and Stock or Shoe Rooms-Male Operatives.
9.-The national minimum wage and graduated scale rates for male opera-
tives in the operations or processes of the Heel Building Departments, or in
the Stock or Shoe Rooms shall, from the commencement of the first working
week on or after 31st March, 1919, be as follows :-
Age.
Minimum Wage.
Age.
Minimum Wage.
16
16/-
20
37/-
17
19/-
21
..
47/-
18
24/-
22
..
50/-
19
30/-
23
53/-


---
Here is the extracted text:
40
Lists of operations or processes constituting the Heel Building and Prepar-
ing or Fitting-up Departments shall be agreed upon by the Local Arbitration
This matter shall be subject to reconsideration at the end of six months.
Boards for their respective districts.
upon notice from either side.
Classification of Female Labour.
operatives in the Clicking, Press, Lasting and Finishing Departments of the
18. It is undesirable that females should be employed amongst male
trade, in which male labour is now almost exclusively employed. The Con-
ference therefore recommends that where females are now so employed, such
conditions shall gradually cease, and that in future no fresh female labour shall
vent employers having specified operations done by female labour in or in
be employed in the aforesaid departments. Nothing in this clause shall pre-
connection with the Clicking or Press Departments under separate working
conditions, such operations to be defined by the Local Arbitration Boards
for their respective districts in consultation with the Standing Committee of
the Conference.
It is understood that the agreement of 25th June, 1915, regarding the
exemption of females, does not come under this agreement.
Overtime.
19.-Employers shall give reasonable notice of their intention to work
overtime, such notice to be posted in the departments concerned. Overtime
on each working day except Saturday shall be paid for at the rate of time
and a quarter for dayworkers and 25 per cent. over the piecework rates for
piece-workers. Overtime work on Saturday shall be paid at the rate of time
and a half for dayworkers and 50 per cent. above piecework rates for piece-
workers.
Overtime shall only be paid to an operative who has worked the full period
of a normal week of 48 hours, unless an interruption in the normal week has
occurred for which the operative is not responsible; provided that overtime
worked to make up loss of time due to breakdown of machinery or due to
holidays given at the request of the operative, shall be paid for at normal
and not at overtime rates.
The staff employees in the Stock or Shoe Rooms shall not be subject to
any overtime regulations if they are paid for holidays.
Universal Application of New Minimum Rates.
20.- The minimum wage and graduated scale rates fixed by this agree
ment, shall be simultaneously applied to federated and non-federated manu-
facturers, and the Union undertakes to bring every district up to such rates
but if at the expiration of the period for which this agreement has been fixed
it can be shown that the Union has failed to put such rates into general operation
or any of its local Associations to decline to consider any further application
throughout the non-federated districts it shall be competent for the Federation,
to increase such rates.
Less Favourable Terms by Local Arbitration Boards.
21. In no case shall a Local Arbitration Board upon which the Federation
award as to wages, hours of labour, or conditions of employment, which shall
or Union is represented, its Arbitrators or Umpire, make any agreement or


---
```text
42
The Conference agrees to recommend the respective organisations to ratify
this agreement, which shall be submitted for the approval of such organisations
before March 21st, 1919, and if ratified shall be registered with the Board of
Trade and the Ministry of Labour as a national agreement.
Dated this 13th day of February, 1919.
SIGNED on behalf of the Manufacturers' side of the Conference.
OWEN PARKER, President.
F. J. MARQUIS, Secretary.
SIGNED on behalf of the Operatives' side of the Conference.
T. F. RICHARDS, General President.
E. L. POULTON, General Secretary.
COUNTERSIGNED,
FRANK SHEPPARD,
Chairman of Conference.
A great many of the branches (as stated above) at once called their
Boards of Arbitration out and dealt with the question of bringing up to date,
in accordance with the Agreement, their quantities or piecework statements,
or framing new Statements, and in most centres this work has been accom-
plished. There is no doubt at all in our minds that, although the Agreement
does not secure all we should have liked, nevertheless, it has secured very
considerable advances and benefits for those in the industry. We are aware
of some feeling in various parts of the country against the Agreement,
nevertheless, we are convinced there have been many beneficial improvements
both from the workmen's standpoint and also from that of the employer, by
having a standard to which one can appeal so far as output is concerned.
It is true in just a few, very few, instances, some opposition has been put
up against the advantages of the newer methods, but we feel certain such
opposition has been based upon a misapprehension of the development in the
shoe trade. Development is bound to take place from time to time and what
we have to secure is that such development should not be detrimental to the
workers so far as wages and conditions are concerned, but an improvement;
and although it may be that payment by results is a system to which
objections can be urged, it is equally true to say any system which may be
framed is open to some criticism, and can be proved to have some short-
comings in connection therewith.
In our judgment, however, experience has fully justified the adoption of
quantity or piecework statements in connection with the boot and shoe industry.
It should be clearly understood that to those on daywork the statements can
just as easily be applied, viz.: Reckoning up the amount of work performed
and the sum of money such work calls for as measured by the prices set out on
the statements.

1919 AGREEMENT REVISED.
Owing to the fact that for only a few months after the Agreement was
signed the cost of living went down, and then began to take an upward curve
with the prospect of remaining high, we felt bound to ask the Manufacturers'
Federation to reopen the Agreement with a view to setting up a higher minimum
wage. We have expressed our views upon more than one occasion through the
Report that it would be the best thing in our judgment, to bring down the cost
of living and so help to break up this vicious circle in which we find ourselves
at the present time. Seeing however, we are in the circle we felt compelled
to press for an improvement in the minimum rates to meet such increased
cost of living. Our request for re-opening the Agreement being acceded to,
```

---
433

PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.

HOUSING, EARL SHILTON.

MR. PETHICK-LAWRENCE asked the Minister of Health whether his attention has been
drawn to the housing conditions existing in Earl Shilton, in Leicestershire: whether
he is aware that many of the cottages are in imminent danger of falling down, that others,
of the shortage of houses many couples, who were recently married, have no hope of getting
the upper rooms of which are open to the weather, are inhabited, and that in consequence
houses; that consumption is rife in the township; whether any efforts are being made
to deal with the situation; what is the attitude of his Department towards the matter;
and whether he will take action to secure some improvement of the conditions prevailing.

MR. N. CHAMBERLAIN: My attention has been drawn to this matter, and I am in
communication with the local authority for the district, who have submitted proposals
for the erection of houses in this and other parishes.
--Parliamentary Debates, 2nd July, 1925.

RUSSIA.

MR. LOOKER asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Overseas Trade Department
if he can inform the House of the total amount expended by Great Britain in the purchase
of Russian good and products in 1924; and whether Russia, during 1924, expended in
the purchase of British goods the full amount of the credit established in her favour for
this purpose?

MR. SAMUEL: The imports of Russian goods and products into Great Britain in 1924
amounted in value to, roughly, £20,000,000, while the exports to Russia of British products
and manufactures, during the same period, amounted to nearly £4,000,000, and of re-exports
from the United Kingdom of foreign and colonial merchandise to something over £7,000,000.
There is thus an unexpended balance of trade in favour of Russia, in so far as this country
is concerned, of about £9,000,000 sterling. The full amount of the credit established in
the favour of Russia has, therefore, not been expended in the purchase of British goods.--
Extract from Parliamentary Debates, House of Commons, Monday, 6th July, 1925. Vol.
186, No. 98, p. 18.

STATUTORY MINIMUM WAGES.

COLONEL DAY asked the Minister of Labour what are the lowest minimum wages or
time rates at present in force under the Trade Boards Act for the lowest paid adult workers,
male and female, and the minimum rates of wages in force under the Corn Production Act,
1921; and will he state all trades in which there exists a legalised minimum wage, and the
amount of such wage?

MR. BETTERTON: The following Table shows the trades in which a statutory minimum
wage is in force under the Trade Boards Acts, 1909 to 1918, together with the minimum
time rates for the lowest paid classes of adult workers (male and female) in each case.

Summary of Trade Boards Minimum Rates as on 20th June, 1925.

General Minimum Time Rates for the lowest paid class of adult workers. (Except where
otherwise shown the rates are operative at the age of 18 in the case of females and at
21 in the case of males).

Trade.                                       Male
                                                Workers.                Female
                                                                                Workers.

                                                Per hour.                Per hour.
                                                s. d.                     d.

Aerated Water:
England and Wales                                 I 01                     6½
Scotland:
(1) Orkney and Shetlands                      II 0½                    5½
(2) Rest of Scotland                           I 0½                    6½
Boot and Floor Polish                             I 1                     7
Boot and Shoe Repairing*                         I 3                     10¾++
Brush and Broom*                                 I 1½                    6½++
Button Making                                    I 11½                    6½
Chain*+                                           I 4¼                    6¾++
Coffin Furniture and Cerement Making*
(1) Coffin Furniture Section                   I 2¼                    6¾++
(2) Cerement Making Section                    I 1¼                    7½§
Corset                                           I 1¼                    7


488

UNEMPLOYMENT.—It was stated that unemployment was considerable among postal,
telegraph and telephone employees, as the result of the numerous suppressions of posts
carried out with a view to economy.

Out of 102,500 members, about 15,000 were out of work. Of this number about
3,020 were receiving unemployment relief from their Union. Although the number of
post offices has been increased, and although the Commissariat of Posts, Telegraphs and
Telephones intends to develop yet further its service of post offices, it was stated that
it was improbable that the unemployed would find work in the near future, since the State
had not the funds to engage new employees. It was, therefore, thought probable that
unemployment would continue to be acute.

FACTORY INSPECTION IN JAPAN.

Osaka Figures.

Figures recently published with regard to the enforcement of the Factory Acts in
Japan, states Industrial and Labour Information, the weekly publication of the International
Labour Office of the League of Nations, show that in Osaka, where 3,673 factories
come under the operation of the Factory Acts, as employing more than 15 persons, penalties
for violation of the Acts have been imposed in 462 cases.

The offences which were the subject of these cases included:—

Employment of workers under the legal minimum age . . . . . 16
Employment of women beyond the legal maximum hours of work, 12
Other offences included neglect to make known to the workers the regulations concerning
compensation, &c., neglect to make rules for compensation, &c., and infringements of
the regulations issued under the Factory Acts.

The Factory Inspection Department of the Osaka Prefecture, it is stated, intends to
deal even more stringently than hitherto with all cases of infringement, "in order to commemorate
the tenth anniversary of the enforcement of the Factory Act."

INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS.

"WAR AGAINST WAR."

Concentrating the Forces making for Peace.

The anniversary of the outbreak of the world war comes, alas, in the midst of new
warlike developments. New causes of war are arising, and the forces which would blot out
the memory of that terrible time is beginning to fade. Men forget quickly, and the forces which would blot out
remembrance are stronger than those which seek to keep awake in men's minds the sea
of war. Not that nations are inclined to war—that they never were, even before 1914—
but they allow themselves to be blindfolded and led by the makers of public opinion.
Hence the future is dark and dangerous, and will continue to be so unless the friends of
peace set themselves to form public opinion, and fill men's minds with the firm determination
to abolish war and all its horrors.

The working class has never ceased to wage its great fight against war and militarism,
but little has been heard lately of the middle-class peace movement. Not much is achieved
by holding a congress now and then; continuous unremitting work is essential. The
diversity and multiplicity of the middle-class peace organisations are a serious drawback
to effective co-operation. It should be possible to co-ordinate and organise continuous
and systematic work. By the amalgamation of kindred organisations, efficient bodies
could be created, and the formation of national and international peace rings might make
it possible to carry on steady and unremitting propaganda among all circles of the population,
and in dangerous crises to co-operate with the workers and thus exert a decisive
influence upon events. Although the slaughter of innocent men is worse than the financial
burdens which military preparations involve, yet the fact remains that not only is war
itself a burden to the peoples, but also the preparations for war. To put an end to this
mad state of affairs must be the untiring endeavour of all who are desirous of achieving
a happier future for humanity; and this desire must be strong enough to overcome all
political antagonism and all the many diversities of opinion and outlook which separate
men and hamper their successful co-operation.—Thursday, 6th August, 1925.

TRADE UNION PERCENTAGES OF UNEMPLOYED.

BOOT AND SHOE TRADE.—Membership of Unions reporting at end of July, 1925,
80,967. Unemployed at end of July, 1925, 4,449; percentage, 5.5. Increase in
percentage unemployed as compared with a month ago, 0.9. Increase in percentage as
compared with a year ago, 0.3.—The Ministry of Labour Gazette, August, 1925.Here's a transcription of the text from the image:

577

There was much unemployment and short time at
Kettering; some firms, however, were fairly well employed, and the average working
hours were reported to be about three-quarter time.
At Leeds, but employment remained generally poor,
with a large number of boot and shoe operatives unemployed. At Stafford it was very
poor, and about the same as in the previous month, but not
so good as a year earlier; some departments were on short time, others worked some over-
time during the month. A further slight seasonal improvement was reported from Bristol;
short time working was still common, especially
with the smaller firms. At Street there was a further decline, and employment was bad;
it was worse than a year ago. Fair conditions continued to prevail in the shoe and slipper
trade of the Rossendale Valley, though a good deal of short time was still being worked;
Employment was fair at Aberdeen, Kilmarnock, Maybole, and Ayr; quiet at Edin-
burgh and Glasgow; bad at Dundee and Arbroath. On the whole it was somewhat
worse in the Scottish centres than in August, 1925, or in September, 1924.
The following Table shows the number of men and women registered as applicants
for employment at Employment Exchanges, at 7th September, 1925, in the principal
centres in the boot and shoe industry were registered:—

Department.                                      Number of Applicants for
                                                Employment at 7th Sept., 1925.          Increase (+) or Decrease (−)
                                                                                              as compared with
                                                Men.         Women.      Total.          Men.          Women.      Total.

Boot and Shoe Manufacture:
Preparing Department                             207            44          251              −17            −7           −24
Rough-Stuff Department                           620            23          644              +57            +12          +69
Clicking Department                              1,706          24         1,729             +302           +6           +296
Making Department                               28            2,189        2,217              +7             −303         −296
Closing Department                             3,495          815         3,589             +120           +32          +111
Finishing Department                            2,153          192         2,345             +79            +93           +213
Slipper Making                                  553             2           745             +65            +77          +142
Clog Making                                      36               −                    38              +8              −           −9
Repairing and Hand-Sewn                         623             2           625              −41             −1          −42
Work
TOTAL                                          9,421         3,385        12,806           −154           −116        −270

The exports of boots and shoes in September, 1925, amounted to 122,068 dozen pairs,
or 3,319 dozen pairs more than in August, 1925, but 3,944 dozen pairs less than in September,
1924.

THE LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE.

During the past month the Labour Party Conference has been held at
Liverpool. The Conference was not only very largely attended, but the
spirit of the delegates was one of optimism and determination. The over-
whelming majority of votes recorded upon policy and support of the Executive
was very significant, making it quite clear that there must be on the part of
those who from time to time are nominated for positions that they must adhere
to the Party and its declared policy. Two votes especially we would call
attention to—the one dealing with the claim of the
COMMUNISTS,

and the one dealing with the question of another prospective Labour Govern-
ment. In the first case the vote against the Communists was for referring
that it would be unwise to make a special appeal at the present moment, at a time
when we want the employers to give very favourable consideration to an advance and
extraordinary claim we are likely to make upon them. Our demands will be very, very
far-reaching, and we are anxious not to mar the good relationship already existing.

Whitley Council Meeting.

On the 14th we attended a Whitley Council Meeting, the first since January of this
year, and although there are some who have very little sympathy with Whitley Councils,
I for one, do not ignore any kind of machinery, not even the dictates of theorists who are
opposed to Trade Unions and Trade Union Officials, that institutions like the Whitley
Council can be of service to the operatives engaged in the trade. It was my good fortune
when the Memoranda for these Councils were about to be set up in 1918, to get a definite
copy of the Memoranda as sent out to future Trade Union Officials, and I am quoting at the
present moment from that Memoranda to which, on one occasion, I drew the attention of
the employers, which reads: "Functions of Industrial Councils, Clause 5. The collection
of Statistics and Information on Materials, Market Costs, Rates of Wages, and Average
Profits on Turnover." I am not going to say at the present moment that we have no
right to make enquiries into these matters, in fact I think if we were to put up a claim and
ask the Whitley Council to investigate the above, that there is nothing to prevent them
so doing. If such a request was made at an enquiry of this description, I am bound to say
that, as Chairman of the Whitley Council, I could not see my way clear to rule it out of
order.

Terms of Settlement.

On October 15th we had a meeting at Tavistock Square of the Standing Committee
responsible for the interpretation of the Terms of Settlement, when we had the Northamp-
ton case before us, and the following resolution is the result: "Having considered the
representations of the Northampton Manufacturers' Association and the Operatives'
Union, decide that nothing can be added to the decision already communicated to the
organisation in question, that their province is solely to interpret the Agreements of 1919
and 1920, which must be read in conjunction with each other, and they therefore recom-
mend that any difference that may arise in Northampton as to the operations of these
Agreements should be dealt with on their merits by the Local Board of Arbitration and
Conciliation, and in the event of an agreement not being reached, the matter should be
dealt with through the Board's machinery already existing for settling such differences."

Technical Advisory Committee.

On the same day we held a meeting of the Technical Advisory Committee for training
men in the Boot and Shoe manufacturing, when the London Board asked us to train 6
men per month in the Turn-Shoe Louis Heel Work. After listening to all the evidence
that had been produced, we came to the conclusion that it would not be unwise to teach
these men, whom it will take 18 months to learn the business sufficiently to give them an
opportunity of earning their livelihood. The main feature that guided us, was the fact that
for a number of years people from the Scandinavian countries, including Russia and Poland,
have generally emigrated into this country for this class of work, and as we have men who
are unemployed among us, we considered it our bounden duty to look at home first.

Mr. A. W. E. O'Dell, Canada.

We have had staying with us in the country Mr. A. W. E. O'Dell from Canada, and
it makes one think more and more why we are not more successful with the rendering of
the Trade Union Stamp for Boots and Shoes in this country. He is a great believer in this, as
the American people themselves are, and I hope our members will impress at every oppor-
tunity the wisdom of themselves and their families, to wear Trade Union Stamped boots.
It is our intention, at the earliest possible moment, to endeavour to persuade the Govern-
ment Department responsible, to insist upon employers of labour describing in legible
language the materials of which their boots are composed. By this means, if we want to
buy a paper boot we can have one; if we want to buy a leather boot, we ought to have
one, and we never ought to be deceived without a prosecution takes place to prevent people
imposing upon the public by wilfully misleading them.

Yours fraternally,

_signature_

General President.

34, GUILFORD STREET,
LONDON, W.C. I.
OCTOBER 21ST, 1920.Here's a transcription of the text from the image:

882

FUNERAL ALLOWANCE RECEIPTS AND BRANCH RETURN SHEETS, Etc.

The above are continually being received by the Central Office incomplete—the President of the Branch having omitted to sign. In many cases too the “Exact Occupation” of the deceased member is not stated in the place provided for the purpose on the Funeral Receipts. This information is required for statistical purposes, and Branch Secretaries are requested to see, in future, before sending to the Central Office, that all the particulars asked for are given.

THE TRADE UNION STAMP

has been granted during the month to Messrs. Walker & Dunn (No. 25) of Higham Ferrers, and Messrs. Jacques & Son Ltd. (No. 26) of Rushden, and we ask that members will insist upon all their boots bearing such Stamp.
The Repairing Stamp (No. 17) has also been granted to the Dartford Industrial Co-operative Society Ltd., 93, Kent Road, Dartford, Kent, and we hope members and friends in that area will see that their boots are repaired by this Society.

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.

A fresh supply of buttons and brooches has recently been secured and can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries, please note, when ordering buttons or brooches, cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.

Season’s Greetings.

We sincerely wish all the Members of the Union the Season’s Greetings.

MONTHLY RETURNS.

We feel bound once again to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the LATEST day for returns to reach the General Secretary. Last month many returns were late. Branches failed to send off their returns to reach the Central Office by the 15th of the month, and this tends to upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary’s Office. We trust in future every Branch Secretary will endeavour to get in his returns as soon as is possible after the month (or five weeks as the case may be) ends, and NOT to wait until the latest date for them to reach the Office; also before sending them to see that they are in order and properly signed.

We remain, yours fraternally,

T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.     THE COUNCIL.
T. ADNITT.                             W. WARNER.
C. BATES.                             W. HINDES.
E. LAW.                                C. BLEAKLEY.
L. SMITH.                             A. J. DOBBS.
C. MAYES.                             ALEX. SMITH.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.                J. MANNERS.
                                        E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
(5) Fair Trading Councils.

These bodies have advisory functions as to the prices chargeable for certain goods.
From these bodies representatives of the Consumers’ Council are rigorously excluded.
The “Fair Trading Councils” consist almost entirely of persons who trade in those articles,
in the prices of which they, as traders, are directly interested. Thus, the men in the
dock and the members of the jury are recruited from the same cells.

Thereupon, the Council passed the following resolution:

“The Consumers’ Council, having considered the Statement as to the functions
of the Fair Trading Councils, again registers its request to the Food Controller that
it be fully represented on the various Fair Trading Councils as the only means available
for protecting the consumers whom they directly represent.”

In spite of this resolution, which was carried unanimously, the Traders’ Councils
have still no representatives of the Consumers’ Council empowered to watch, criticise
and check any steps the Traders may take in their own interest.

(4) On many other matters the Council has been active and insistent, but their protests
have been ignored.
(a) JAM has been de-controlled and prices are free.
(b) Home-killed MEAT has been de-controlled and prices have risen. IMPORTED
MEAT has been sold to foreign countries at slaughter prices.
(c) The highly successful New Bridge Street RESTAURANT was sold without notice
to the Council, and NATIONAL KITCHENS were discontinued, against the Council’s
protests.
(d) Orders relating to NET WEIGHT AND STANDARD OF QUALITY have been
revoked.
(e) All efforts in favour of the National Control and Co-ordination of the MILK
INDUSTRY have been ignored.

(5) The Consumers’ Council is convinced that the Ministry of Food should be continued
as a permanent Department. That it should be a democratic Ministry, and that
its functions should be to protect the interest of the consumer.

The Ministry of Agriculture protects the interests of the Producers.
The Board of Trade protects the interests of the Traders.
The Ministry of Food should protect the interests of the Consumers.

There is a crying need for a real live Department dealing with the people’s food.
It should control prices. It should maintain standard of quality. It should deal with
Net Weight, Adulteration, Substitutes, and the Poisons put before the public as food
without any indication of their real contents. It should concentrate on the provision of
the necessaries of life, and should have ample powers over distribution.

(6) Are Consumers content that through their apathy Traders and Trusts should
triumph over them once again; that their representatives on the Consumers’ Council
should be ignored; and that the Ministry of Food with its power to protect the Consumers’
interests should be stamped out?

If not, now and now only is the time to make a stand.

5th November, 1920.

BRITISH GLACE KID.

Tanners Decide to make Further Reduction in Output.

A meeting of the members of the British Glacé Kid Tanners’ Association was held
on the 28th ult. at the offices of the Association, 26, St. Thomas Street, Bermondsey, S.E.
The meeting was fully representative and had been called to consider the present
position of the glacé kid industry in view of the prevailing weakness in the market.

After a full discussion the following resolution was passed :-

“In view of the fact that glacé kid has been sold at far below the cost of production,
based on replacement prices of raw skins, labour, tanning materials, &c.,
the British Glacé Kid Tanners reluctantly resolve to reduce their output, which at
present is below 50 per cent. of their pre-war production.”

It was pointed out that the sales which had recently been made at prices below cost of
production had been in many instances the outcome of forced realisations. It was not
anticipated that the present unsound position could continue, for no stocks of any volume
could be expected to be imported into this country which would compete with recent
values.—Shoe and Leather Record, November 5th, 1920.320

CORRESPONDENCE.

The Council do not necessarily agree with the views expressed
by correspondents.

MARCH 26TH, 1920.

5,000 MEN REFUSED EMPLOYMENT!
OUR CA CANNY GOVERNMENT.

The Prime Minister and the Minister of War have on several occasions charged
either directly, or by inference, the Labour Party with being unkind towards the men
who placed their lives at the service of the State and who have suffered the loss of limbs
and received scars that they will carry to their graves. Surely these our Brothers, Sons
and Friends, are not likely to suffer at our hands.

But let us see what the Government has done to find employment and make this
land fit for heroes to live in. Mr. Lloyd George and Mr. Churchill are both aware that
the Technical Advisory Committee set up by the Government for the purpose of training
our heroes in the art of Handsewn Boot and Shoemaking and Repairing, entered upon their
work with zeal and interest, deciding unanimously that these men should not be exploited
by either the public or the Government, and as a precaution they should spend at least
a period of 12 months in a Technical and Practical School before being introduced into
the outside world at the Government's expense, when they should receive a further six
months in a workshop before we could call them fitting to make an effort for themselves.
We also said, and carried a resolution unanimously, and backed by our respective Trade
Unions, that the Government should provide Government Workshops for the employment
of these men in making Handsewn Boots and Shoes for the Army and the Navy, thereby
giving them continuous employment and constant wages for the Trade. We estimate that
five thousand men could be so employed by making the
Handsewn Boot worn by many who can afford to pay for comfortable boots, and according
to Sir John French, who said in 1908 that an Army moves on its stomach and its feet.
consequently good comfortable boots are absolutely essential.

We claim the Handsewn Boot to be the best for all purposes in quality, comfort and
wear. We then assert that these boots could be provided by the Government in its own
workshops at a less price than they are paying for the machine made article being produced
to-day, and three parts of the purchase price would be paid in wages, as against one-fourth
paid in the Machine made boot.

Our Chairman, Mr. Box Kingham, of a well-known Handsewn firm, is heart and soul
with us in the matter.

We have deputised the War Office, Mr. Corner, the Minister of Pensions (then Mr.
John Hodge) who expressed himself willing to do all he could as he wore Handsewn boots
himself. We deputised the Admiralty who expressed sympathy, and lastly Sir Robert
Horne, all apparently sympathetic, but nothing done, and this brings me to the most
important point. Leicester and many other towns have refused to teach any more men
because no employment can be offered them, and as an individual, I want to tell the 2,000
men already trained, and the 1,600 under training, that I simply regret exceedingly that
we have trained so many men, fully believing that the Government would act honourably
and justly to these men; we believed we had a Government who had heart big enough
to find them employment after being trained at the country's expense.

We are fully satisfied that the money spent on equipping a Factory or Workshop
would be repaid at the end of three years.

I wish, Sir, to say it is a downright shame that a single man should be taken into the
Handsewn Making or Repairing for training whilst there are already at the present time
10 per cent. of Repairers unemployed, many of them members of our Union.

I little dreamed that when I advised my sons to join up that I was supporting such a
heartless one-eyed Government who turn down any practical suggestion and seem to be
inclined with the lop-sided idea that the Government must do nothing to encourage direct
employment, not even for the noble fellows who have done so much for us.

I ask the Secretary of State for War and challenge him, that he, nor any of his predecessors has not yet tested the Handsewn Boot as against the Machine made Foot for
the Army by real wear and tear, allowing one regiment of the same number to wear Hand-
sewn Boots and another regiment in the same area to wear Machine made Boots, to take
into consideration the wear and tear and expense at the end of two or three years. We
should then know which was the real economic article to the comfort of the Service, and
the cost to the Taxpayers.

Every Bye-Election fought should be made aware of these facts.

Yours faithfully,

T. F. RICHARDS,
General President.are now hoping that such improvements will be brought about as will not only reduce the excessive mortality, but will completely master this dreadful malady which for so long has been the subject of enquiry.

VOLUNTARY SICKNESS BENEFIT SCHEME.—At one of the meetings of the above-named Council, Mr. F. J. Riley, of Desborough, brought forward a scheme to provide some additional income for those members who suffer from long continued illnesses, and who are therefore, financially in a very unfortunate position. The matter has been discussed at several meetings and ultimately a decision was reached that we should recommend the members of both organisations to adopt the same. In our opinion this is a matter which should receive your careful and favourable consideration, it being a scheme which is not only worth adopting but would considerably help to relieve the anxiety of those members who are unfortunately ill for a long time.

Mr. Riley's suggested scheme is as follows:—

Outline of a Sickness Provident Scheme which might be adopted by Voluntary Agreement in the Boot and Shoe Industry.

(1) BENEFITS restricted to operatives of 20 years of age and upwards who shall have been engaged in the industry at least three years before becoming entitled to benefit, and shall have been medically certified as having been unfit for employment for a period of six months (during this period the worker would enjoy full benefits from the N.H.I.A. and other Friendly Societies to which he may belong).

(2) When the age is reached entitling the worker to Old Age Pension benefits under this scheme to cease.

(3) Women marrying during the period of unemployment shall cease to be qualified for benefits under this scheme.

(4) CONTRIBUTIONS.—Men 3d. per month, Women 2d. per month. the employer to contribute an amount equal to the employee.

(5) A Central Joint Body of Trustees to be set up.

(6) ADMINISTRATION by district joint committees, which might be drawn from existing Boards of Arbitration.

(7) BENEFITS.—Married men 17s. 6d. per week, unmarried men 15s. per week, women 12s. per week.

(8) Estimated number of employees qualified over 20 years of age, 55,000 men and 20,000 women.

(9) CONTRIBUTIONS.—Men 3d. per month Women 2d. per month

Employers’ contribution

(10) BENEFITS.—300 Married Men 17s. 6d.
100 Unmarried Men 15s. od.
100 Women 12s. od.

£8,250 per annum.
2,000
10,250
10,250
£20,500

£13,100
3,875
3,120
£20,095--- OCR Start ---
38
Minimum Wage and Graduated Scale Rates for Female Workers.
Stock or Shoe Rooms, shall be as follows from the commencement of the first
zo. The national minimum wages and graduated scale rates for female
operatives employed in the Closing and Heel Building Department and in the
working week on or after 31st March, 1919 :-
Minimum Wage,
Age.
16
17
18
19
20
15/-
18/-
22-
26/-
30/-
The following operations or processes in the Closing Departments or in the
Stock or Shoe Rooms are exempted from the minimum wage and graduated
scale rates:-
Knot-tying
Inking
Solutioning
Repairs and odd jobs
Brushing off by hand
or machine
Loop-covering
Trimming ends by hand
No Reduction in Wages through New Agreement.
11. The wages of the operatives who, when this agreement comes into
operation, are employed at or above the minimum wages or graduated scale
rates applicable to them by this agreement shall not be reduced in consequence
of this agreement.
Compilation of Piecework and Quantity Statements by Local Arbitration
Boards.
12. Local Boards of Arbitration will forthwith prepare new piecework
or quantity statements, or revise the existing statements on a basis to ensure
the average worker earning at least 25 per cent. over the minimum wage.
Pending the revision of the piecework or quantity statements 5 per cent.
shall be added to present prices in consideration of the reduction of hours
from 521 to 48 per week.
In the event of differences arising on a local Arbitration Board as to the
procedure to be adopted in giving effect to this clause, either side of the Board
may require the Standing Committee of the Conference to advise upon such
procedure, provided always that the piecework rates to be finally fixed shall
be determined in accordance with the rules of such Board.
The new statements shall secure for the average worker an income equal
to that which was secured to him by the piecework statements, the special
percentage or war wage of 1918, together with the war bonus as operative
on 31st December, 1918.
Local Boards of Arbitration operating in outlying districts accustomed
o manufacture goods of cheaper grades shall take this factor into consideration
when estimating the productive capacity of the average workman for the pur-
pose of compiling piecework or quantity statements.
Freedom of Contract with Operatives under 16.
13. The employers shall retain freedom of contract with all operatives
under 16 years of age.
--- OCR End ---powers: but
445
Within living memory Japan too was in a similar state of subordination to foreign
ut Japan has succeeded in throwing off the foreign yoke, and she now ranks
as an equal of the Great Powers, a fact which is of great significance. Attempts to sup-
press the present disturbances in China may for the moment be crowned with success,
but it is inevitable that the anti-imperialist and anti-capitalist movement should in the
near future make rapid progress in the Far East.
Thursday, 9th July, 1925.
Meeting of the Executive of the International Federation of Trade
Unions on 29th and 30th June, 1925.
Strong protest was made against the reaction which is still gaining ground in Italy,
the attention of the workers throughout th
as a result of which the activities of the organisations affiliated to us are severely restricted:
affairs in Italy.
the world was drawn to the intolerable state of
The Italian Workers send their Thanks to the I.F.T.U.
In connection with the protest made by the workers' group at the Seventh International
Labour Conference on the question of the recognition of the mandate of the Fascist repre-
sentatives, the I.F.T.U. has received the following letter from the Italian Trade Union
Centre: "Dear Comrades. It is with very great pleasure that we have noted the proof of
true fraternal soliarity that the I.F.T.U. has just given us at Geneva. The testimony
of international solidarity in such stormy, difficult and unhappy times as those through
which the Italian working class is now passing gives us new strength and courage to con-
tinue our fight for our ideal."
Resolution of the International Federation of Trade Unions
against the Policy of Protection.
The Executive Committee of the I.F.T.U. passed the following resolution at its
meeting held on June 29th, 1925 :-
"The International Federation of Trade Unions of Amsterdam places on record that
since the war a protectionist commercial policy has been carried on to an ever-increasing
degree in all European countries, a policy which divides the peoples instead of uniting them.
Not only the newly-created post-war States, but also the old Free Trade countries are being
swept into this tendency. The International Federation of Trade Unions of Amsterdam
wishes to raise a warning voice against this policy; it herewith urges the affiliated National
Trade Union Centres to fight protectionism in their countries as being a burden to the
peoples and as tending to increase unemployment and the cost of living, and it calls upon
the centres to make an energetic stand for the general withdrawal of customs tariffs and
for the creation of an economic alliance the object of which shall be to secure the inter-
national distribution of raw materials, thereby making impossible unfair competition
between the nations arising out of sweating and dumping."
"HANDS OFF MEXICO!"
The American threat to Mexico, and the protest which it has evoked from the Mexican
and United States Labour Movements, seem to indicate that American capitalist interests
are preparing some move against the Labour Government of Mexico. Mexico, like China,
is a land blessed with largely undeveloped natural resources. It is a land literally flowing
with milk and honey; ninety per cent. of the known plants of the earth grow in its fertile
soil, its plains support herds of cattle, and horses and most important of all perhaps in
its later history-there is oil in abundance to be found. Capitalist interests are resentful
of any interference with uncontrolled exploitation, and are frankly suspicious of the
Labour Ministers of the present Government, who have already succeeded in placing
labour legislation on the Statute Book.
The capitalists seem to have carved out spheres of influence for themselves, by some
tacit and invisible agreement; Great Britain, for instance, seems to be entrusted with the
lead in the protection of capitalist interests in China, while U.S.A. dominates in Central
and South America. The fact that Great Britain is constructing a naval base at Singapore
may not be unrelated from the fact that she has not yet recognised Mexico, but trusts to
the Government of the U.S.A. to watch over her interests in that part of the world.
Although the Labour Party in Mexico is a comparatively recent growth, yet it has
succeeded in getting clauses inserted in the constitution which are in some cases more
favourable to the workers than those stipulated in the Washington Conventions. There
is a maximum 8-hour day, and 7 hours in the case of night work. Overtime must be paid
at double rates, and must not exceed three hours or continue for more than three days,
and is prohibited in the case of women and young people. There are clauses enforcing
payment of maximum wage, and requiring equal pay for equal work, irrespective of sex
or race.

---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

494
LANDLORD FINED £250. 
Excess of Rent to be Refunded.
For charging excessive rents for furnished rooms, an Oldham landlord was yesterday
ordered
To pay $250 in fines,
£25 in costs, and
Refund money received for the past six months in excess of the
standard rent.
The case, brought under the Rent Restriction Act, was the second to be brought
the first having been heard some time ago in London.
Five summonses were issued against the landlord, Joseph Halsall, in respect of two
houses he owned in Cheapside. These he was said to have bought in 1921 for £340.
In the two houses described by the prosecution as "miserable hovels were 10
furnished rooms.
"Out of these," said prosecuting counsel, "which are condemned
property, defendant made £450 a year."
For one room, let, with certain furniture, to a man with four children, he was paid
145. a week.
There could not be more miserable furniture. Some of it was rotten.
Time to consider an appeal against the penalties was granted.
in 1923-where houses, or parts of houses, are let at a rent which includes payment for the
use of furniture, such rent shall not exceed by more than 25 per cent, the normal profit
[Under the Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restriction) Act of 1920-amended
which could be reasonably expected from such a letting in August, 1914. If it exceeds
the 1914 profit by more than 25 per cent., such excess is extortionate, is recoverable, and
makes the landlord liable to a fine of f100. Daily Chronicle, 25th August, 1925.
LABOUR'S NEW WEAPON.
Why Not Make it More Effective.
Mobilise! This, we are told, was the word flashed through Russia and Germany in
nation directly the issue was joined, and historians will marvel at the speed with which
1914 when war was decided upon. It was the word which rang out from every warring
war it is speed that counts, yet speed is neither automatic nor accidental. It is always the
the fighting forces of the world were lined up for the greatest of all world conflicts. In
result of forethought and preparation.
In July last we saw the unity of miners, railway workers and transport workers as
never before. We saw the General Council of the T.U.C. in action, backed by the whole
Trade Union Movement. We saw the Disputes Committee of the T.U.C. equipped with
remarkable powers, and we saw the workers ready to follow their lead.
Why ready? In the main they were ready because they had secured and perfected
a quick and reliable means of contact with each other-The Daily Herald-the recognised
organ of the whole of the Trade Union and Labour Movement. During the last fateful
fortnight of July, 1925, it was urging unity, steadiness and solidarity. It was doing more.
Day by day it revealed the step-by-step strategy of the Trade Union leaders. It kept
every worker, who so desired, informed of the essential facts. Letters, duplicated circulars,
even telegrams, are all of them either more difficult, more expensive or more indirect forms
of communication than the daily newspaper, filtering as it does into every city and hamlet
in the land. By means of the Daily Herald, that hackneyed word "Solidarity" was
transformed from rhetoric to reality.
The Daily Herald's appeal is to justice, intelligence, and that spirit of progress which
will bring in a saner and happier social order. In the main it is the rank and file trade
unionist who can decide whether that appeal shall be heard and which voice the community
shall heed-reason or reaction. The prime business of the moment is to stress the age-long
workers' struggle, and to convince trade unionists that the Daily Herald, their own paper,
gives better industrial and social news than the capitalist papers. When the worker has
that conviction and acts upon it, the building of the new social order will begin.
21st August, 1925.
E. W.


---
533
"And also to have included in the schedule of Industrial diseases such diseases
as miners' asthma, miners' phthisis, and depuytren's contraction.
"The General Council to examine and provide for such other amendments as
shall remove the present anomalies and injustices."
WASHINGTON CONVENTION—48 HOURS.
"This Congress reiterates its demand that the Government shall ratify the
Washington Convention.
"It further instructs the General Council to press for a further International
Conference of Governments for the purpose of securing ratification internationally,
and an agreement as to interpretation and the administration thereof."
UNEMPLOYΜΕΝΤ.
an Amending Act which will provide for continuous benefit being paid to unemployed
(I.) "That this Congress calls upon the Government immediately to introduce
workers without reference to standard or extended benefit.
(II.) "The right to benefit to be established if the applicant is unemployed and
is available for suitable employment at not less than Trade Union rates and conditions.
(III.) "That the stamp qualification shall be eliminated, and that the waiting
period shall be identical with that obtaining under the National Health Insurance
Act, 1924, namely, three days for a first claim, and no waiting period for a subsequent
claim within twelve months.
(IV.) "This Congress also calls upon the General Council to consult with the
Labour Party with a view to introducing a Bill into Parliament to enable the Ministry
of Labour to appoint Trade Unions so desiring as agents to wholly and solely administer
the Unemployment Insurance Acts on behalf of their members to be supplied with
vacancies which occur and in every way to act for their members as if they were
Labour Exchanges, with proper and adequate remuneration for this administrative
work."
INTERNATIONAL UNITY.
"This Congress records appreciation of the General Council's efforts to promote
international unity, and urges the incoming General Council to do everything in their
power towards securing world-wide unity of the Trade Union Movement through an
all inclusive International Federation of Trade Unions.""
RUSSIAN TRADING RELATIONS.
"That this Trades Union Congress expresses its concern and profound disappoint-
ment that the efforts of the Russian Textile Trading Delegation have failed to place
anything more than a small portion of the five million pounds orders for textile
machinery with British manufacturing firms.
"This failure is clearly due to the refusal of the British banking interests to pro-
vide credit facilities, and, in view of the vast amount of unemployment now existing,
especially in the engineering, metal and cognate trades, this Congress regards with
grave apprehension the possibility of the Russian market for machinery and other
commodities being lost to Great Britain.
"This Congress therefore urges the British Government to use its influence with
all commercial and financial interests to secure these orders for British firms, and to
extend to trade with Russia the operation of the Trade Facilities Acts in the same
manner as these Acts have been applied to other countries, believing such action to
be in the best interests of British trade, and that the national burden of unemploy-
ment can be materially alleviated by the fullest use of the economic resources of the
community; further, that the General Council be instructed to take all necessary
steps for the purpose of securing the object of this resolution."
TUBERCULAR TREATMENT.
"That the General Council be instructed to consider the practicability of estab-
lishing a sanatorium in Switzerland for the sun treatment of tuberculosis, a special
fund to be organised for the purpose and treatment to be available only to members
of subscribing societies."
LORD WEIR AND THE FAIR WAGES CLAUSE.
That in view of the attacks made by the firm headed by Lord Weir on the
rates of wages and working conditions prevailing in the building industry, in its
attempts to secure the erection of steel houses by non-building union labour, this
Congress calls upon the Trade Unions and the working-class movement generally to
use their utmost endeavours to repel these attacks; that it regards these attacks as
a very serious attempt to undermine the whole operation of the Fair Wages Clauses

---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---


---
9.
315
WESTERN. The following Administrative Counties: Cornwall, Isles of Scilly,
Devon, Somerset, Gloucester, and the following county boroughs Exeter, Plymouth,
Bath, Bristol, Gloucester.
1.
SCOTLAND.
Inverness, Ross and Cromarty, Sutherland, Caithness, Shetland and Orkney.
NORTHERN. The following counties: Kincardine, Aberdeen, Banff, Elgin, Nairn,
EASTERN. The following counties: Forfar, Perth, Argyll, Fife, Kinross, Clack-
mannan, Stirling, Linlithgow, Edinburgh, Haddington, Berwick, Peebles, Selkirk and
Roxburgh.
2.
3. WESTERN. The following counties: Dumbarton, Renfrew, Lanark, Ayr, Dum-
fries, Kirkcudbright, Wigtown and Bute.
1.
WALES.
NORTHERN. The following administrative counties: Anglesey, Carnarvon,
Denbigh, Flint, Merioneth and Montgomery.
SOUTHERN. The following administrative counties: Cardigan, Radnor, Pem-
broke, Carmarthen, Glamorgan, Brecknock and Monmouth, and the following county
boroughs: Cardiff, Merthyr Tydvil, and Newport.
-The Shoe and Leather News. April 15, 1920.
2.
THE INDUSTRIAL COURTS AСТ, 1919.
INDUSTRIAL COURT (PROCEDURE) RULES, 1920.
DATED 15TH DAY OF MARCH, 1920: MADE BY THE MINISTER OF LABOUR BY VIRTUE OF
POWERS VESTED IN HIM BY THE INDUSTRIAL COURTS ACT, 1919, AND OF ALL OTHER
POWERS ENABLING HIM IN THAT BEHALF.
1. In these Rules:-
The expression
"Act" means the Industrial Courts Act, 1919; and
The expression "Minister" means the Minister of Labour; and
The expression
"Court"
means the Industrial Court established by the Act
and includes, unless the contrary intention appears, any division thereof and any
single member of the Court to whom a matter may be referred for determination; and
The expression "President" means the President of the Industrial Court; and
The expression "Division" means any group of members of the Court con-
stituted as the President may direct to hear and determine any matter referred to
the Court.
2. The Court may sit in two or more divisions.
3. Any matter referred to the Court for settlement may at the discretion of the
President be heard and determined by a single member of the Court.
4. The Court may, at the discretion of the President, in any matter in which it appears
expedient to do so call in the aid of one or more assessors and may settle the matter wholly
or partially with the assistance of such assessor or assessors.
5. The Court may with the consent of the parties act notwithstanding any vacancy
in their number and no act, proceeding, or determination of the Court shall be called in
question or invalidated by reason of any such vacancy, provided such consent has first
been obtained.
6. The Court may correct in any award any clerical mistake or error arising from
an accidental slip or omission.
7. If any question arises as to the interpretation of any award of the Court, the
Minister or any party to the award may apply for a decision on such question and the
Court shall decide the matter after hearing the parties, or without such hearing, provided
the consent of the parties has first been obtained. The decision of the Court shall be
notified to the parties and shall be final in the same manner as the decision in an original
award.
8. Persons may appear by counsel or solicitor on proceedings before the Court with
the permission of the Court.
9. Subject to these rules the Court may regulate their own procedure as they think fit.
ro. These Rules may be cited as the Industrial Court (Procedure) Rules, 1920.
Given under the official seal of the Minister of Labour this Fifteenth day of March,
One Thousand Nine Hundred and Twenty.
SEAL.
-The Labour Gazette, April, 1920.
(Signed) D. J. SHACKLETON,
Secretary.
E

---


---


---


---


---


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

9.  The political atmosphere is somewhat electrical at the present time and it would seem there is a great opportunity for Labour in the near future, if matters are dealt with in a wise manner. The many questions that have become of first rate importance all tend to show the necessity of Labour being adequately represented in the House of Commons, and thereby enabling it to take its proper share in the work of framing such laws as will bring relief to the community from the many burdens now having to be carried. Our representative in the House of Commons, Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P., J.P., has taken up a number of questions and has at all times shewn a great interest in the matters that come before the House. In our judgment we ought, as a trade, to have more representation in the House, and we hope when the opportunity presents itself that advantage will be taken of the same to ensure the return of more of our colleagues to such assembly.

10. FINANCIAL POSITION TO APRIL 30th, 1920.

|                                |                                         |                                                                               |
| ------------------------------ | --------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|                                | Leicester Conference, 1918.             | Edinburgh Conference, 1920.                                                   |
|                                | £          s.  d.                       | £          s.  d.                                                              |
| Cash in Trade Department       | 177,320   16 1                        | 231,339   5 2                                                                 |
| "           Sick           "   | 18,703    4 11                       | 43,427    19 0                                                                |
| "         Fidelity        "   | 405         17 3                       | 485         9 3                                                                |
| "        Political         "   | 5,529     14 1                        | 7.973      3 2                                                                  |
| Total of Central Funds         | 201,959   12 4                        | 283,225   16 7                                                                 |
| "          Branch Funds        | 74,240    7 10                       | 84,378    11 9                                                                |
| GRAND TOTAL                    | £276,200   0 2                        | £367,604   8 4                                                                 |
| Net Increase in two years      |                                         | £91,404     8 2                                                                 |
| GAINS ON THE DIFFERENT DEPARTMENTS |                                         |                                                                               |
|                                |                                         | £          s.  d.                                                              |
| Gain on Sick Fund              |                                         | 24,724    14 1                                                                |
| "          Trade Fund         |                                         | 54,018    9 1                                                                 |
| "         Fidelity Fund       |                                         | 79          12 0                                                               |
| "        Political Fund        |                                         | 2,443     9 1                                                                 |
| "          Branch Funds        |                                         | 10,138    3 11                                                                |
| TOTAL GAIN                     |                                         | £91,404    8 2                                                                 |


---
Here's the text extracted from the image:

Exemptions from Minimum Rate.
39
14.- The minimum wage or gaduated scale rates shall not apply to clerks.
men, caretakers and time-keepers, or to labourers and odd job men not engaged
engineers, mechanics, electricians, stokers, porters, sweepers-up, lift or hoist
in actual manufacturing.
Procedure on Claims for Minimum Rate and for Payment of less than the
Minimum Rate.
15.- The Federation recognises the obligation upon the employers to pay
rates applv, except in cases where they hold the written permit of the Union
the minimum wage and graduated scale rates to all operatives to whom such
upon an employer to pay such rates in cases where the operatives attain the
or the Local Arbitration Board to accept less than such rates, but the obligation
specified ages whilst in his employ shall be dependent in every case upon a
separate application in writing being made to him or to the manager or foreman
of the department, stating the age of the applicant (of which the employer
may require reasonable proof) and the wage claimed, such application to be
anything contained in the award of 10th February, 1898, and the liability of
made by the operative, or by the Union on his or her behalf, notwithstanding
the employer to pay the prescribed rate in the case of every lawful application
shall commence at the expiration of eight days from and including the date of
the receipt by him or his manager or foreman of the application. Should the
employer decide that the operative is not qualified to earn such rate, the
employer, workman and Union representative shall endeavour to arrive at a
terminate the engagement in accordance with the contract for service, but
sum to be paid such operative. Failing any arrangements, the employer may
shall pay such operative of requisite age the prescribed rate for the last week
of employment.
The procedure on claims for the minimum wage and graduated scale rates
contained in the agreements of 26th January, 1909, and 28th July, 1909,
is hereby revoked.
Guarantee under Terms of Settlement.
16.-Subject to the original provisions of resolution 9 of the Terms of
Settlement of 19th April, 1895, and the provisions of the Trust Deed of 8th
March, 1898, the monetary guarantee of the Federation shall not be amenable
in any case of alleged non-compliance by an employer with agreements in
relation to wages, hours of labour, or conditions of employment, until after
the case has been dealt with in accordance with the procedure prescribed by
rule 14 of the Local Arbitration Board for dealing with disputes, and a decision
of the Board, its Arbitrators, or Umpire, has been given; but in no case shall
the retrospective payment of wages be ordered beyond the date of claim in
writing sent either to the employer or to the Secretary of the Board, which-
ever is earlier.
Boy Labour.
17.-The restriction in the employment of boys, as provided by the award
of 22nd August, 1892, and amended by the agreement of 26th January, 1909-
namely, one boy (under 19 years of age) to every three or fractional part of three
men (over 19 years of age) employed in the Clicking, Press, Lasting and Finishing
condition that the Heel Building and Preparing or Fitting-up Departments
and the Stock or Shoe Rooms are exempt from boy labour restriction, and
the number of boys allowed in the other Departments.
that the employees therein are not to be taken into account in computing

---
807
of this scheme, but up to the present time we have no lead from Central Office.
the Unemployment Act, 1920. The Council were expected to contract out
If we are to get our own members to join under their own Union then it is time
something definite was done. Reports being now so much increased in price
they should be made to go over two or three members; it sounds somewhat
strange that Id. per copy should be charged to Branches when the actual cost.
is six times that amount. Members are paying new contributions without
much grumbling.
HALESWORTH. We held our Annual Meeting on Friday, September
24th, and we are glad to say that we had more members than was expected
from our point of view. It would make a great deal of difference to this Branch
if the members would turn up at every meeting the same, it would save a lot of
writing and make things go smoother; we only have one meeting a month,
and we don't think it fair to the Branch officers if four members out of twenty
turn up; we should like members to bear this in mind, both for the present
and also the future. Our next meeting will be held the first Friday in November.
so will you all make a special effort to attend ? Trade is very slow and a lot
of short time has been contended with, but still there are better days in store
for us, we went through our first year with a struggle through members
being discharged from their situations.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. There are signs of some improvement in
trade, some factories that were on short time are now on full, and there is a
considerable falling off during the first week of October of out-of-works; as
against this, Messrs. Green's (Leicester) Branch Factory at Finedon has closed
down temporarily; also Messrs. Brown's (Leicester) Branch Factory at Irchester
has closed down for the month.
HULL.—Trade at the present is very bad and the prospects of improve-
ment do not look very bright. We were pleased to notice in the Trade Press
of our President's intention of asking for a 50 per cent. advance at the next
Board meeting, as we can all do with it and we hope he will be able to secure
that amount. We noticed also that the nominations of the District Committees
have gone through, and earnestly hope they will soon get to business. Our
Organising Campaign has ended favourably, considering the bad times and a
local fair on hand. We also wish to state we would have done better had the
age limit to include sickness been raised at the last Conference. We heartily
support our Plymouth brethren in their last report, and hope the Council
could give us legal advice or sanction a case going through the Courts; it only
We have quite a
wants one to be fought successfully to make them all come up to the scratch,
which they would very soon do should such a case be won.
number of cases which for barefaced evasion of the Trade Board Award beats
anything we have seen. We hope the Council (through our President) will press
for the immediate appointment of more inspectors, men fully conversant with
the repairing trade, and are of the opinion that the Government can find plenty
of ex-soldiers (Repairers) who could faithfully fill these positions. We are
sorry to have to report our President has resigned on conscientious grounds;
he and myself have done good work in getting this Branch formed, and after
a bit of persuasion Mr. T. Mansfield now accepts and will occupy the position
until the end of the term.
LEICESTER No. 2.—In response to the appeal by the Daventry Branch
on behalf of their ex-President, C. S. Coleman, £2 10s. was granted.
of trade during the past month; the same remark might be applied to our
LIVERPOOL. "Nothing doing," may be aptly described as the state
Branch meetings when only a few members turn up. We are pleased to report
that a compensation case, where the member lost the sight of one eye, has been


---
Here is the extracted text:
809
pelled to acknowledge the full conditions of the Union, and the operatives are
where our operatives have been on strike three months. The firm were com-
restarting this week. Our Branch granted £3 to our friends at Stafford who
and we hope he will improve in health and be able once again to join in the
are making an attempt to secure some financial assistance to the dependants
of the late H. Simmons; also £1 was granted to Mr. Coleman, of Daventry,
fight for freedom.
NOTTINGHAM.- Trade around here is still bad; our chief firm are
only working a little better than half time. Bryan's, who opened here some
Kettering. Repairers are also very quiet.
time ago for closing uppers only, have closed down and have returned to
PLYMOUTH.- Trade has been very quiet during the month, and with so
many one-man businesses, leather substitutes, and patent rubber soles and
heels on the market, there seems little hope of improvement. We regret that
painful illness; the physician who was called in towards the end stated definitely
one of our old members has passed away during the month after a long and
bruised by throwing the nails into the mouth according to the custom of our
that cancer was the caiuse of death, and in his opinion the palate had been
trade. This opinion is rather interesting, and we wonder if a similar statement
has ever been made before. Or is this another danger to our trade ?
puss" remarks
PORTSMOUTH.- We were glad to welcome to our September Branch
Meeting Mr. T. F. Richards, Mr. E. L. Poulton, and Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P.
We must record the fact that it was a matter of great regret that more of the
members did not put in an appearance. We have heard some "
suggesting the leaders of the Union left us alone, and when we are favoured
with having them all here three-quarters of the members stay away! It is
little encouragement to the Branch officers, and was not inspiring to our visitors.
Those who were present had a most enlightening time, to listen to men who
are in the forefront of the struggle and who can feel the tug of the leash, the
men who are most conscious of the needs of the workers and are endeavouring
to set the pace. We only hope the words spoken may be fresh in the memories
of our comrades for many a long day. The officers who are doing their best to
keep the flag flying under trying circumstances were greatly encouraged to hear
that small Branches do find a place in the deliberations of the Executive Council.
We regret to say unemployment still abounds in the town-4,000 men with no
work to do. This is reflected in a stagnant state of trade, and other men are
thus standing off. Various committees formulate schemes for improving things,
but the only hope is for the workers to take charge and run their own house-
hold. We are just about holding our own here; we keep pretty steady as
regards financial members, and this month we are glad to register five new
members. We are glad to see Brighton is going ahead. How about Bourne-
mouth and Southampton? Now we have started in the South do not let
us go back but keep plodding on, and building as we go; if we do not see the
perfect, others shall.
REDRUTH.- At the time of writing this report things are going along
smoothly with us and trade remains fair. We are watching with keen interest
the progress of the second ballot of the miners and hope that a way out of the
difficulty will be found without having to resort to a strike. The prospects for
the coming winter seem black enough, with the industrial outlook such as
it is, and we are of the opinion that a strike at this juncture would produce
utter stagnation, and that the deprivations of the war period would be magnified
a hundredfold. We hope the industrial unrest throughout the country will soon
cease and that employers and employed will work hand in hand and drop their
of the strike and the lock-out. Our members will be looking forward for results
good of the country,

---
Here is the extracted text:
rs.
Telephone No.
4438, Museum, London.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
Telegraphic Address:
"Natunishop, Holb., London."
Every precaution is taken by us to ensure accuracy in these Reports, our correspondents
correction as to the original matter. As these Reports are exclusively for the use of Members,
same being pointed out to us, we shall be most happy to give the same prominence to the
heing men on whom we can rely should, however, any errors creep into them, upon the
the information contained therein must not be divulged.
NATIONAL UNION OF
Boot and Shoe Operatives.
MONTHLY REPORT.
No.
Nearest Post Office:
Lamb's Conduit Street, London, W.C. 1.
Nearest Telegraph Office:
Red Lion Street, London, W.C. 1.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
34, GUILFORD STREET,
DISPUTES
LONDON, W.C. 1.
22ND NOVEMBER, 1920.
have not given us any trouble during the month, and in this connection we
have nothing to report.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS.
We beg to call your attention to the fact that Rule No. 231 is now
contrary to the law of the land, and as a consequence is obsolete. It must
therefore be distinctly understood that no further contributions in payment
of Members' Health Insurance Stamps can be allowed after Saturday, the
13th inst., and such matter can only be dealt with in accordance with the
law and through the Union's National Health Insurance Department.
OUT-OF-WORK SCHEME.
The replies received from branches in connection with the Council's
request relative to the above are in the affirmative, and you will therefore
now treat this matter as set out in the October Address.
NATIONAL CONFERENCE Re MINERS' CLAIMS.
As is well known, the miners have been for some time past seeking to
improve (owing to the ever-increasing cost of living) their status financially.
For many weeks they endeavoured to bring this about by peaceful methods
and without any stoppage of work, realising as they do what a serious thing
it would be for them to cease work, especially having regard to the fact that


---
to my attention. Although the case has taken a considerable length of time there is very
in this case, and I
which I have to deal with. I cannot
not exceed that made before the war.
914
two points.
little dispute as to the facts. The whole matter concentrates itself into one or tw
gave his evidence. It has also been reported to me that he was equally fair in the way he
I heartily agree with what Mr. Kingsbury has said as to the fair way in which Mr. Collins
to my attention. Although the case has taken a considerable length of time there is very
gave his evidence before the Tribunal. Mr. Collins has had the great advantage of having
his case very fully and carefully put before me by his counsel. There are twelve summonses
I entirely accept the defendant's evidence as to his sole responsibility.
cannot help but regard this as a very serious case of profiteer.
Therefore the summonses 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 are dismissed. That leaves six summonses
ing. It has been argued for the defence that this was a sale within the meaning of the
Act of an article for export, and therefore it does come within the Act. But in considering
of any kind, although there is an exception to the general principle of the Act. It layS
that, one has got to remember that the Act was passed for the prevention of profiteering
am quite satisfied that he does not. Mr. Collins made no enquiry of any kind as to the
upon the defendant to show that he comes within the meaning of the exception provided.
purpose for which this Soda was being sold. He made no stipulation of any kind to any
have, however, to consider whether Mr. Collins does come within the exemption, and I
of an article for export. Secondly, I am urged to say that the sale comes under the
body that the sale was for the purpose of export. He had an enquiry from Mr. Manger
I am satisfied, therefore, that the sale does not come within the exemption as being the sale
quoted a price, and sold to him without taking any further steps whatever into the matter.
exemption allowed of competitive tender. I am quite satisfied that there is nothing in
that. There was in no sense a competitive tender. It was an enquiry by a would-be
purchaser, and a price fixed by a would-be seller. It has nothing to do with competitive
because the percentage rate of profit does not exceed the percentage of profit charged
tender at all. Thirdly, I am asked to say that the transaction is exempt from the Act
before the war. That contention is not, in any way, in my view borne out by the evidence
Crystals for the home trade before the war at anything like the profit he was making on
Mr. Collins is frank on the subject. He does not contend for a moment that he sold Soda
this transaction. He does say that he sold other articles, Soda Ash and various other
things for the export trade before the war at a profit of £50 upwards to a 100. That
Clearly he has not established, as he should, that the percentage rate of profit made does
was what I put to him. According to his own statement he was making a different profit.
That being so, I think the case undoubtedly comes
within the mischief aimed at by the statute. On March 18th a letter was written in reply
evidence. On March 18th the defendant had already purchased 24 tons of Soda at an
to a letter of Messrs. Manger's of the 17th. On this point we can quite accept Mr. Collins
Manger's, who were the would-be purchasers. The only excuse for the very large profit
average price of f6 5s. od. per ton, and he was asking just double the price from Messrs.
from whom he might purchase might fail. That is a curious excuse for what, to my mind,
of 100 per cent. gross profit, as Mr. Travers Humphrey said, was that the would-be vendors
Brunner Mond & Co., who have the entire cost of buying the raw material, the entire cost
is an outrageous overcharge to Messrs. Manger's. Soda is manufactured by Messrs.
of the manufacture of the raw material, and all the establishment charges are borne by
them and they sell at £5 10s. od. Mr. Collins is flatly asking me to say that although he
has done nothing whatever to enhance the value of the article and in fact disposed of it
without ever seeing it, within a few days of purchase, that he is entitled to ask for himself
a similar sum to that which Messrs. Brunner Mond & Co., ask for the entire manufacture
and production. I am bound to say, and common sense must teach one, that such a
demand cannot possibly be justified, and in fact is profiteering. Mr. Collins said he could
not carry on his business without making a certain gross profit of so much per cent. I
should call his percentage a higher one than he does. Whether that is so or not, and
whether it is possible to carry on the business in the way he carries it on, he does not seem
to be justified in making the profit he did. If a business cannot be carried on without
profiteering then the business must cease.
way. It is a known fact that the Soda was being purchased last March at £5 ros. od. from
If it does cease it is no loss to the public in any
Messrs. Brunner Mond & Co., who sold at that price to any retailer in the country. To
add to the cost price to the extent of doubling it is, in my judgment, profiteering. I am
Seems for Mr. Collins in ways. Many other people are profiteering, and that is what
seems to be what has brought him into this position. Other people are profiteering and
it has added to the cost of living. The defendant purchased at half the price at what he
sold, and he knew the price at which Messrs. Brunner Mond & Co. were selling. I am
bound to consider that these were in fact separate transactions, and the prosecution were
summonses. Mr. Collins made purchases, not from one person, but from several persons,
perfectly justified in treating them as separate transactions and taking out six different
with a separate offence. I feel it is my duty, and I feel deep sympathy with Mr. Collins,
but it is my duty in such a case to inflict a very substantial punishment indeed. On the
and not at one price, but at varying prices. Each summons must be regarded as dealing
first summons there will be a fine of 100 and ten guineas costs, and on each of the other
summonses a fine of £75 and seven guineas costs.
---

---
918
MANIFESTO OF "SECOND.,
Denunciation of the Bolsheviks. On Democracy.
The following manifesto was issued by the Executive Committee of the Second Inter.
national yesterday : -
Workers of All Countries, Unite!
called the modern Labour Movement to life, has been the inspiration of your action for
This re-echoing watchword with which Marx and Engels in their Communist Manifesto
70 years.
In a solid front, the movement in all countries grew from small sections into a power.
victory of Socialism by means of the economic and political organisations of the working-
in ever-increasing power and size. The conquest of political power by the workers, the
ful party. In the broad stream of the International national energies united together
and the workers in the various countries had not sufficient confidence in themselves and
Then the war came, and the International broke. It was not well enough knit together
class beckoned to the disinherited as their glorious reward!
in each other.
A New Unity.
But at Geneva the divided sections came together, and new bonds of unity were
discovered. War divisions were healed, and the International launched anew. Then
it was found that a new division had shown itself.
Frivolous hands were tearing unity to pieces.
amongst you.
Workers, divide !" is now the cry
This is bringing distrust into your ranks, and sowing the seed of poisonous antagonism
Workers, we must speak plainly. The future of the World International is at stake
in our own camp. They have split the rock of proletarian unity from within.
it summons you to the fight against Capitalism. It is waging the battle for the ideals of
Nevertheless, workers throughout the world, the International is not dead it lives
What Capitalism never succeeded in doing fanatical doctrinaires have accomplished
democratic Socialism as against the slavery of Capitalism on the one hand and the tyrannical
dictatorship of Bolshevism on the other.
Socialism means Peace. Bolshevism means Violence and War.
trod the desires of the Russian people in the dust, and in place of Democracy they estab-
We accuse the leaders of the Third International of demoralising the workers. They
lished an armed dictatorship, not of the proletariat, but of a committee.
and Labour Parties of the whole world. These methods belong to the old world of Tsardom,
Now they are attempting to impose their will and their decrees upon the Socialist
not to the new world of Socialism.
They have insulted 27 millions of organised trade union workers by calling them
"blacklegs," and have declared their intention to disrupt the trade unions, the organisation
of the class-struggle of the proletariat.
They may have ended wage-slavery; they have established State-slavery and misery.
They have robbed the workers of freedom of movement and of combination, and are
preventing the creation of economic Democracy.
Socialism alone can fight exploitation and slavery in every form! Nothing but
equal rights, politically and economically for all producers, can break the chains which
capitalism has forged on humanity.
Workers of all countries!
Be united! Owing to the world-war, the concentration of capital has undergone a
tremendous increase, which would otherwise have required decades of peaceful develop-
of the nations and force them and their governments under their sway.
ment. World-capitalist concerns to-day determine the policy and economic conditions
be international.
To this world-capitalism the International opposes the world organisation of workers.
The victory of the working classes must be international, just as our struggle must.
thinks it can establish Socialism for itself alone.
International world-capitalism would destroy every country and every nation that
The class struggle of the workers is extending beyond national limits. The decisive
The working classes must carry out a world policy, to gain the victory for Socialism.
struggle between world Capitalism and Socialism has begun.
is all political and economic power.
In this struggle the workers will be victorious. They are the masses. In their hands
---

---
Here is the text extracted from the image:
920
PARLIAMENT AND THE TRADE.
Upper Leather Imports.
Sir Clement Kinloch-Cooke (Devonport) on Thursday last asked the President of the
Board of Trade if his attention had been directed to the partial cessation of upper leather
from the Continent at prices which, in many cases on account of the exchange, were below
production in the United Kingdom, caused by the importation of finished upper leathers
the cost of the raw material in this country, and what steps he proposed to take in order
that trained labour and factory plants available in this country might resume employment.
Sir Philip Lloyd-Greame (Parliamentary Secretary to the Board of Trade): My
attention has been drawn to the imports of upper leather from the Continent, and I under-
stand that some of this leather has been offered at low prices, but the volume of such
to any great extent, responsible for the unsatisfactory state of employment in the leather
imports is considerably smaller than in pre-war years, and I doubt whether they are.
trade of this country. The situation is, however, being carefully watched.
Russia's Need of Boots.
Mr. Jesson (Walthamstow, W.) asked the Prime Minister if his attention had been
called to statements being made that the present unemployment in the boot, engineering
and other industries in this country was due to over-production; whether, having regard
goods and was now in urgent need of boots for practically the whole of her population
and motor-lorries and locomotives for the re-establishment of her transport system while
to the fact that before the war Russia was an important customer for our manufactured
from Russia, there were any other reasons except mistrust of the present Russian goven-
we were in equal need of the wheat, timber and many other things we formerly imported
ment for the delay in the re-establishment of trading relations with that country
Mr. Lloyd George replied that he had seen statements attributing the present unem-
ployment in certain industries to over-production. With regard to the latter part of the
question, he had nothing to add to previous statements.
Disabled Men and the Trade.
Mr. Waterson (Kettering) asked the Minister of Labour how many ex-Service men
had been trained for the boot and shoe industry, the number of such now unemployed,
and how many were now in course of training ?
Dr. Macnamara: The number of disabled ex-Service men trained for the boot and
shoe trade is approximately 2,800. It is not possible to say how many of these are now
unemployed. The number under training at the moment is 1,732. These figures relate
almost entirely to the hand-sewn trade, as the number of men trained in the machine
trade is negligible.
Unemployment in Leeds.
Mr. Myers (Spen Valley) on Monday asked the Minister of Labour if his attention
had been directed to the state of under-employment existing in the upper leather pro
the causes of such under-employment with a view to remedying the position and to provide
ducing industries in Leeds and elsewhere, and if he will order an inquiry to be made into
fuller employment for the trained men involved ?
and elsewhere. Many of the larger firms in the Leeds district are understood to be work-
the under-employment prevailing in the upper leather producing industries in Leeds
Sir Montague Barlow (Parliamentary Secretary Ministry of Labour): I am aware of
attributed to a variety of causes, including the instability of prices of raw material, the
ing short time, whilst some have recently closed their works. The state of the trade is
in this and other industries. I do not think a special enquiry into the circumstances of
effect of adverse rates of foreign exchange, and other factors which are causing depression
this trade at the present time would serve any useful purpose.
Leather Imports.
principal classes of manufactured articles imported to this country during the first nine
months of the current year. It appeared therefrom that 2,394 cwt. of dressed leather,
box and willow calf, valued at £311,087, was so imported. - Shoe and Leather News, 4th
Sir R. Horne (President of the Board of Trade) on Monday published a list of the
November, 1920.


---
Here is the extracted text:
360
giving capital engaged in industry
profits is still further increased. Had I foreseen this situation there would have been
no such large reduction in the duty of last year, and the Committee will not be sur-
prised to learn that in view of it, and subject to one condition, which I will explain,
first January last, not indeed to the 80 per cent. rate at which it was enforced in
we propose not only to continue the duty for another year but to increase it as from
1918 but to the 60 per cent, at which it was fixed in 1916. I base my
We feel justified therefore, in asking the members to continue to keep up a
occasioned by the war or arising out of the war, creating a state of scarcity, hardly
for that proposal on the continued prevalence of temporary conditions,
of life, and we feel confident that unrest will continue until this vicious circle
in which we find ourselves is not only broken, but completely done away with,
live agitation and not let this matter drop, which so vitally affects the standard
1917 and 1918
distinguishable in effect from monopoly, that is
wholly abnormal and often extravagant profits."
Justification for
and an equitable system put in its place.
HOUSING.
people. Despite all the statements that are constantly being made by the
Interwoven with this matter is the question of adequate housing of the
Minister of Health regarding building schemes, very slow progress indeed is
persons in the community are compelled to exist owing to the lack of any-
thing like proper housing accommodation. The wonder to us is, not that
evidence is accumulating as to the horrible conditions under which many
being made in the building of houses for the people to dwell in. Contrariwise,
horrible conditions prevailing in many parts of the country. The lack of
unrest is prevalent, but that the people are so quiet under the abnormal and
indeed regrettable. Nothing was allowed during the war to stand in the way
energy and determination that exists regarding this most important matter is
we hold there should be equal determination that nothing should stand in the
of securing those things necessary to bring the war to a successful issue, and
to dwell in, under proper conditions, and thereby not only remove a blot on
way to secure an adequate number of houses being provided for the people
civilisation, but at the same time greatly improve the health of the commu-
nity. This matter is further referred to on pages 380-381.
post cards.
POSTAGE RATES.
We beg to call attention to the revision of the postage rates which become
operative on the 1st June, and the letter rate will then be 2d. and 1½d. for
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION CASES.
We have yet once more to refer to this question, and call the attention of
branch secretaries to the fact that they must let the Central Office know before
a solicitor is engaged, i.e., if they desire payment for the solicitor's services
to come from the Central funds. Unless this is done there will be no option
but to refuse payment from the Central fund in all future cases.
FIVE WEEK MOΝΤΗ.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to
make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.


---
377
SCOTTISH TRADES' UNION CONGRESS.
DELEGATES' REPORT.
FELLOW MEMBERS,
The twenty-third annual meeting of the Scottish Trades Union Congress took
place in Dunfermline, on the 28th of April and subsequent days, under the presidency
of Mr. Wm. Shaw, Glasgow Trades Council. The delegates received a very hearty welcome
who trusted the result of the week's deliberations would be beneficial to labour.
from the Provost of the City, and from Mr. John Beck, Dunfermline Trades Council,
economical, which had taken place since Congress had met twelve months ago, not the
The Chairman in his address to Congress, surveyed the many incidents, political and
signed. In conclusion he stated the number of delegates was 240, representing 550,000
least of these being the many political blunders which had arisen since the Armistice was
trade unionists, the largest on record for Scotland.
After the amendments to Standing Orders had been gone through, Congress settled
down to the Agenda. Rent restriction (Amended) Act 1919: "That the restriction
of evicting tenants which is removed in July, 1920, be immediately restored," first con-
sidered and agreed to.
Unemployment Insurance: "That the Bill presently before Parliament dealing with
only," agreed to without dissent.
Unemployment Insurance, should be so altered that benefit be paid through Trade Unions
Housing: "That the Government institute an enquiry as to prices of building material,
to encourage guilds working in conjunction with local authorities," was appoved of.
"That 44 hours constitute a working week," unanimously agreed to
A very able speech by Councillor E. Shinwell in support of "the establishment of a
Co-operative Commonwealth as the only solution of the evils of the present situation,"
was adopted by Congress.
A resolution " to raise the Old Age Pensions to 20s. per week, payable at the age of
60," found no dissent.
That energetic steps be taken to bring "Industrial Insurance" under State manage-
ment, which would bring about very considerable economies, was agreed to.
The result of the vote on Prohibition versus State Purchase, by 110 to 74, caused
much jubilation among prohibitionists. Nevertheless, it is far from approaching the
needful two-thirds majority.
Two Irish delegates addressed the Congress on the political situation existing to-day
in Ireland, advocating the principle of "Self-Determination," which the majority of the
delegates supported, both delegates being thanked by Congress for their addresses.
Mr. Stuart Bunning gave Congress a very interesting address on the League of Nations.
"They had been looking forward confidently to the time when war would be no more,
but their experience since the Armistice had been discouraging. The only part that had
done constructive work was that associated with labour. Already through the labour
section they had been able to secure a considerable reduction of the hours of labour in
Japan." The speaker received the thanks of Congress for his address.
Aberdeen was selected as the next meeting place by the delegates.
The session of Congress concluded by singing "Auld Lang Syne," the Prohibitionists
joining in lustily: "Surely you'll be your pint stoup."
Yours fraternally,
MATTHIAS GAMBLE,
ALEXANDER BROWN,
Delegates.
THE ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES OF THE PEACE.
As a result of requests that the time allowed for orders of the special cheap edition of
J. M. Keynes' book should be extended, it has been decided to fix the closing date for
June 15th. The offer is limited to members of Trade Unions, Socialist and Labour bodies,
Co-operative organisations, &c. The price for a single copy is 2s. 6d., and an extra copy
is given on every dozen ordered.
No orders will be accepted after June 15th.
---

---
FOURTH SCHEDULE.

Rules as to Payment and Recovery of Contributions Paid by Employers on
behalf of Employed Persons.

(1) A weekly contribution shall be payable for each calendar week during the whole
or any part of which an employed person has been employed by an employer.
Provided that where one weekly contribution has been paid in respect of an employed
person in any week, no further contribution shall be payable in respect of him in the same
week, and that where no remuneration has been received and no services rendered by an
employed person during any such week, the employer shall not be liable to pay any con-
tribution either on his own behalf, or on behalf of the employed person in respect of that
week.

(2) The employer shall, except as hereinafter provided, be entitled to recover from
the employed person the amount of any contributions paid by him on behalf of the em-
ployed person.

(3) Except where the employed person does not receive any wages or other pecuniary
remuneration from the employer, the amounts so recoverable shall, notwithstanding the
provisions of any Act or any contract to the contrary, be recoverable by means of deduc-
tions from the wages of the employed person or from any other remuneration due from the
employer to the employed person and not otherwise, but no such deductions may be made
from any wages or remuneration other than such as are paid in respect of the period or
part of the period in respect of which the contribution is payable, or in excess of the sum
which represents the amount of the contributions for the period (if such period is longer
than a week) in respect of which the wages or other remuneration are paid.

(4) Where a contribution paid by the employer on behalf of an employed person is
recoverable from such person, but is not recoverable by means of deduction as aforesaid,
it shall (without prejudice to any other means of recovery) be recoverable summarily as
a civil debt, but no such contribution shall be recoverable unless proceedings for the pur-
pose are instituted within three months from the date when the contribution was payable.

(5) Where the employed person is employed by more than one person in any calendar
week, the first person employing him in that week or such other employer or employers as
may be prescribed, shall be deemed to be the employer for the purposes of the provisions
of this Scheme relating to the payments of contributions and of this Schedule.

(6) Regulations made under the Act providing that in any cases or classes of cases
where employed persons work under the general control and management of some person
other than their immediate employer, such as the owner, agent, or manager of a mine or
quarry or the occupier of a factory or workshop, such person shall, for the purposes of the
provisions of the Act relating to payment of contributions and of this Schedule, be treated
as the employer and may provide for allowing him to deduct the amount of any contribu-
tions (other than employers’ contributions) which he may become liable to pay from any
sums payable by him to the immediate employer, and for enabling the immediate em-
ployer to recover from the employed person the like sums and in the like manner as if he
were liable to pay the contributions, shall have like effect as if made under this Scheme.

(7) Where the employed person is not paid wages or other money payments by his
employer or any other person, the employer shall be liable to pay the contributions pay-
able both by himself and the employed person and shall not be entitled to recover any part
thereof from the employed person.

(8) Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary, the employer shall not be en-
titled to deduct from the wages of, or otherwise to recover from the employed person,
the employer’s contribution.

(9) Any sum deducted by an employer from wages or other remuneration under this
Schedule shall be deemed to have been entrusted to him for the purpose of paying the con-
tribution in respect of which it was deducted.

(10) For the purposes of this Schedule, the expression “calendar week” means the
period from midnight on one Sunday to midnight on the following Sunday.

---
--- OCR Start ---
NT.
ber
of
as
839
WITHOUT NOTICE.
Short Time Prevents Full Penalty at Wellingborough.
Police Court to-day (Friday) by the Wellingborough Upper and Legging Co. for the re-
W. Abbott, legging blocker, Wellingborough, was summoned at the Wellingborough
For the applicants, Mr. J. C. Parker said that the claim was for 70s. in lieu of notice.
In consequence of defendant's sudden decision not to work any longer for the Company,
covery of a civil debt.
the works were seriously disorganised.
Mr. Arthur Kingston, a director of the Wellingborough Upper and Legging Co., said
20th, meeting witness in the street, defendant said he was not coming to work any more,
the defendant was employed in the firm's legging-blocking department. On September
adding, "When I can work full time I will give a full week's notice." In consequence
weeks previous to the date mentioned defendant had been given full-time employment.
In order to keep the workpeople employed the firm had been manufacturing for stock.
of his action, the output of the works was restricted. Witness stated that for several
Defendant (sworn) said he had been on short time, more or less, since Easter. He
did not want to shift if there was any chance of improvement in the trade, but had a bit
of luck, and unexpectedly dropped across a job which he had to take at once or leave.
As he was not getting a proper living, he decided to accept the job.
The Chairman announced that the plaintiffs were not entitled to the full amount
claimed, since their works were not on full time. There would be an order for half the
amount of the claim, with costs.
Mr. J. C. Parker said that his clients had made the application, not so much because
of the money, but because the habit of leaving without notice was becoming rather pre-
valent. - Kettering Telegraph, October 8th, 1920.
RETAIL PRICES AND RENTS.
For food alone the
The average level of retail prices (including those of food, clothing, fuel and light,
&c., as well as rents) at 1st October, as indicated by the statistics prepared by the Ministry
of Labour, was about 164 per cent. above the level of July, 1914.
average increase was 170 per cent.-The Labour Gazette, October, 1920.
CHANGES IN RATES OF WAGES AND HOURS OF LABOUR.
In the industries for which statistics are available changes in rates of wages reported
to the Department as having been arranged to come into operation in September, resulted
in a total increase of £49,100 in the weekly wages of 219,000 workpeople. Changes in
hours of labour affected about 1,500 workpeople, whose working week was reduced by an
average of nearly three hours.The Labour Gazette, October, 1920.
BENEFITS PAID SINCE THESE FUNDS WERE STARTED.
Sick & Funeral
Benefit.
Out-of-Work
Benefit.
s.
War
Contributions.
s.
£
s. d.
t
d.
£
d.
January, 1920
31st, 1919
Amounts paid up to Dec.
..
..
498,965 4 11
77,139 13 2
78,049 14 8
March, 1920
April, 1920
February, 1920..
..
1,847 2 6
724 12 1
..
..
2,608 6 3
..
2,374 8 9
1,324 2 1
1,376 5 2
458 6 10
495 16 11
383 0 4
May, 1920
June, 1920
July, 1920
August, 1920
September, 1920
TOTAL
2,357 10 10
1,659 9 2
311 18 5
..
2,190 10 5
1,729 17 6
270 1 6
..
2,402 15
5
2,514 10 10
311 1 10
1,776 0 5
3,347 7 8
241 15 10
2,305 8 4
9,092 11 5
291 15 1
1,876 10 10
8,892 4 0
212 3 10
..
..
£518,703 18 8 £107,800 13 1
£81,025 15 3
--- OCR End ---

---
881
VOTING

For the various delegations must take place on the December Monthly Meeting
nights and the results posted to reach the General Secretary by the 15th
December, otherwise the same will be disqualified. Voting will also be taken
upon the following question :-

Or, "Are you in favour of the present system of allowing both Piecework and
Daywork methods, regulated by quantity statements, to continue under our
Agreements with the Employers, with no limit of output or wages?"
Or, "Are you in favour of a Daywork system of working with quantity state-
ments, with a limited output and wages?"

FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

Under the new Constitution of the Union the first Annual Conference
will be held in LONDON on May 16th, 17th, and 18th, 1921, and if any Branch
has questions of procedure or principle they wish to raise, the same should
be sent along AT ONCE to the General Secretary.

UNEMPLOYMENT ACT, 1920.

Having regard to the extra demand for last month's Reports, it is evident
our suggested unemployment scheme caused some discussion. During the
month further meetings have been held to help forward our scheme, and an
actuarial estimate and opinion taken in relation to the financial side of the
question.

WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACTS.

Since our last issue a member of the LIVERPOOL Branch has secured a
lump sum of £125 (against £50 originally offered) and the solicitor's costs, in
addition to the weekly compensation.

J.H., of KETTERING, has, through the efforts of Mr. Evan Barlow, the
Union solicitor, secured the sum of £60, in addition to the weekly payments
which are due under the Workmen's Compensation Acts.

We would once again remind the members that lump sums are NOT
obtainable by law, but only by arrangement. The above successful claims
shew the advantage of the member having the backing of a large trade union
such as our own, to enable him to secure justice.

MORE UNION J.P.'s.

During the month cur Branch Secretaries at KINGSWOOD and STREET,
Mr. A. G. Randall and Mr. J. H. Hooper, have been raised to the Magisterial
Bench for their respective districts. We beg to tender our hearty congratu-
lations, and trust they may enjoy good health, and thus be enabled to carry
on the work they have undertaken on behalf of the workers.


---


---
their contributions regularly, even though it may call for some abstention from
other spending. The reason we urge this policy is because we do not want any
member to be refused benefit because of being in arrears with their contribu-
tions.
The outlook generally is not a bright one. We must not, however, become
dispirited or depressed; rather let the times act as a stimulant, spurring us
on to greater effort to so mould public opinion as will ensure all the quicker
the putting into operation of the Labour Policy. The figures in the Ministry
of Labour Gazette are as follows :-
BOOT AND SHOE INDUSTRY.
Employment remained depressed during September, and much short time was worked
throughout the industry. There was little change, on the whole, compared with the
previous month, but employment was generally somewhat worse than in September, 1924.
The percentage of workpeople unemployed, as indicated by the unemployment books
lodged at Employment Exchanges, was 13.1 on 21st September, as compared with 12.5
The following Table summarises the information received from those employers who
on 24th August, and with 8.6 on 22nd September of last year.'
furnished returns for the three periods under review:-

Number of Workpeople
Week
ended
26th Sept.,
1925
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a
Month ago Year ago
Toral Wages Paid to all
Workpeople
Week
ended
26th Sept.,
1925
Inc. (+) or
Dec. (-) on a

Month ago Year ago
Per
Per
Per
cent.
cent.
£
Per
cent.
Per
cent
cent.
ENGLAND AND WALES:-
London
1,962
+ I.I
+8.5
4,278
+2.2
Leicester
8,370
0.7
- 1.4
17,871
-2.5
-11.5
-6.5
Leicester Country District
2,042
2.2
- 7.1
4,206
-2.1-1
Northampton
6,849
0.5
-5.4
15,316
-5-4 -15.3
Northampton Country
District
8,141
+ 0.6
+ 2.1
17,126
3.9
Kettering
3,185
Ο.Ι
0.5
7,963
-3.7
-4-1
Stafford and District
2,623
-0.5
- 2.2
4.356 -25.6 -17.2
4.9
Norwich and District
4,164
+ 0.1
- 3.8
8,616
-0.3
-5-5
Bristol, Kingswood and
District
2,017
1.3
-3.5
Leeds and District
1,885
-1.7
- 2.9
4,146
3,941 + 2.1
-2.2
-12.6
Lancashire (mainly
4.8
Wales
Rossendale Valley)
Birmingham and District
Other parts of England and
ENGLAND AND WALES
SCOTLAND
4,938
+ 0. Ι
+ 4.1
1,026
1.9
- 5.9
9,823
1,878 + 3.2 -11.1
5.6
-2.9
1,204
Ο.Ι
3.8
2,509
4.0
8.3
48,406
4,910
4.7 -10.7
-0.3
2.8
2.0
5.2
4.0
8.5
GREAT BRITAIN
2,471
50,877
0.5
2.1
Returns from firms employing about 47,500 operatives in the week ended 26th Septem-
ber, 1925, showed that nearly 45 per cent. of these operatives worked short time in that
week, to the extent of nearly 12 hours each, on an average.

Employment remained quiet in London, but showed a slight improvement in some
districts. At Leicester it was again very slack, with a very considerable proportion of
the operatives working short time; at Northampton there was a decline, and very few
firms were on full time. At both centres employment was somewhat worse than a year
ago. In the Higham and Rushden area there was very little change, and employment
was only quiet; at Raunds it continued good on Government contract work; but at
Wellingborough, in spite of a slight upward movement, it was still poor with most firms,

---
Here is the text from the image:

11.
Where any employed person proves that he is either :-
pounds or upwards, which does not depend on his personal exertions; or
(b) ordinarily and mainly dependent for his livelihood upon some other
person; or
(a) in receipt of any pension or income of the annual value of twenty-six
(c) ordinarily and mainly dependent for his livelihood on the earnings
derived from an occupation or employment which does not make him an employed
and obtains, in accordance with the Act, a certificate exempting him from liability to become
person within the meaning of the Act under which this Scheme is authorised
or continue to be insured under the Act, he shall forthwith cease to be liable to be an
of exemption granted under Section 2 of the National Insurance Act, 1911, or any class
of such certificates, shall have effect as if granted by him under Section 3 of the Act, such
regulations shall have the same effect in relation to persons insured under this Scheme as
insured person within the meaning of this Scheme.
If regulations are made by the Minister under the Act providing that any certificates
if they were insured under the Act.
12. Contributions.
those persons, and partly from moneys provided by Parliament.
from contributions from employed persons, partly from contributions by Employers of
The funds required for the payment of Unemployment Benefit shall be derived partly
every employer of such person shall be liable to pay contributions at the rates specified
Subject to the provisions of the Act and of this Scheme, every employed person and
in the Third Schedule to this Scheme.
13.
A contribution shall be made in each year out of moneys provided by Parliament
and of such amount and at such times and under such conditions as the Minister may, in
accordance with Section 18 (5) of the Act, determine.
Except where regulations under the Act or under this Scheme otherwise prescribe
the Employer shall, in the first instance, be liable to pay both the contribution payable
by himself (in this Scheme referred to as
"the Employer's contribution ") and also, on
behalf of and to the exclusion of the employed person, the contribution payable by that
person, and subject to any such regulations shall be entitled to recover from the employed
person, by deduction from his wages or otherwise, the amount of the contributions so paid
by him on behalf of the employed person in accordance with the rules set out in the Fourth
Schedule to this Scheme.
Contributions shall not be payable in respect of any person who is in receipt of an
old-age pension.
14.
The Employer of a person who, though an employed person within the meaning of
this Scheme, is not insured under this Scheme by reason that he has obtained and holds a
as would have been payable by him as Employer's contributions if that person had been
certificate of exemption under this Scheme shall be liable to pay the like contributions
a person liable to be insured under this Scheme, and regulations made under this Scheme
may provide that in the event of that person subsequently becoming so insured every
had been one full contribution made in respect of him as an employed person under the
two contributions paid in respect of him under this sub-section shall be treated as if they
other provisions of this Scheme.
tributions paid under this sub-section in respect of exempt persons shall be at such rates
The contributions to be paid out of moneys provided by Parliament in respect of con-
as the Minister may determine.
15. Payment and Collection of Contributions.
under this Scheme and in particular for-
viding for any matters incidental to the payment and collection of contributions payable
Subject to the provisions of this Scheme, the Committee may make regulations pro-
this Scheme referred to as "Insurance Stamps") affixed to or impressed upon
books or cards (in this Scheme respectively referred to as "Insurance books
(a) payment of contributions by means of adhesive or other stamps (in
and conditions in, at, and under which Insurance stamps are to be affixed or
and "Insurance cards"), or otherwise, and for regulating the manner, times,
impressed or payments are otherwise to be made;
"

---


---
380
NO ROOM TO LIVE.
SLUM PERILJADI
Grave Disclosures in a Rich City.
It is for the national conscience and local patriotism, working side by side, to make
great practical response in the next few months to the King's words spoken twelve months
ago.
If this country is to be the country we desire to see it become, a great offensive must
must be delivered is the unhealthy, ugly, overcrowded house in the mean street,
be undertaken against disease and crime, and the first point at which the attack
It is not merely houses" that are needed. The new houses must be also "homes"
leisure, brightness and peace which we usually associate with the word "home"
Can we not aim at securing to the working classes in their homes the comfort
which we all of us know so well.
CITY OF CONTRASTS.
How the Poor Fare Amid the Wealth of Bradford.
Bradford has the advantage of not being typical. It presents you with most of the
social problems of the hour through a magnifying glass. The problems are the same in
other cities, but you might possibly overlook them there because they are not stained
with Bradford's brilliant dyes.
This is the city of the 3,000 per cent. wool profits-the city where men can't help
growing rich if they once get a foot inside the ring. It is also the city where more than
one-half of the workers live in back-to-back cottages, which number altogether more than
33,000; where 32,000 people have less than half a room apiece in which to get born, eat,
sleep, and die in which the death rate exceeds the birth rate by 5 per thousand, and the
infant mortality is among the very highest in the kingdom.
Bradford's overmastering problem, however, is the bad old property. The city dates
from the Stone Age in a double sense. Practically all the working-class houses were built
refuse to fall down, and they were built back to back to save cost. And they date also
of local stone, which has the doubtful advantage in this connection of durability; they
from the Stone one Age of early Victorian economic theory and practice.
squalid, airless, lightless "homes," packed close as biscuit boxes on a shelf, round the
The result is appalling-with a dash of the ludicrous when you contemplate these
towering factories into which pours a perfect spate of wealth.
I spent a whole morning among the back-to-backs (which form over half of working-
class Bradford, remember), and found it a sickening experience. The other day a returned
soldier who was living as a lodger in a cellar with his wife and two children applied to
Dr. Buchan, the Medical Officer of Health, for permission to move into one of these wretched
houses condemned before the war and now falling into ruins. How could the doctor
forbid it? He looked the other way, and the family moved in. He is still looking the
other way, in that and many other cases. There is no alternative. The returned soldiers
have no room to live.
I saw a number of these condemned houses into which the population is slowly oozing
back. Cleared cellars are being re-inhabited. Hopelessly insanitary hovels, vacant for
years, are getting the habit of blossoming out again into curtains and make-shift furniture.
Families will endure a lot in the way of dirt and damp if only they can secure a measure
of decent privacy. Once installed, who dare turn them out? Who can, even if he dare,
try? So Bradford-booming Bradford! is reinhabiting its ruins.
for human habitation still swarming with life-two, three, four, even six men, women and
children to the room. Frederick Street has its rows of one-room cellar dwellings: Regent
In the Bromefield area I found scores of houses condemned six years ago as unfit
Street, in the White Abbey area, its patches of decayed and gloomy hovels, standing
of their own accord: Wapping, its double tiers of back-to-back closets massed horribly
among piles of bricks, where houses, having had all their timber stolen, have fallen down
at street-ends like huge, foul beehives. All through central Bradford that urban abomina-
sanitary convenience, and one is nearly always shared by two houses. Thus civilisation
tion the privy midden jostles human dwellings. There are 13,600 houses with no other
becomes worse than savagery.

---
908
PARLIAMENTARY QUESTIONS.
Parliamentary Questions answered in the House of Commons.
TEA (RESTRICTION OF OUTPUT).
MR. CAPE :-To ask the President of the Board of Trade whether his attention has
been called to the recommendation of the Indian and Ceylon Tea Association that pro-
mend that a commission be appointed to inquire into the various efforts which are being
duction be curtailed so that there may be a recovery in prices; and whether he will recom-
SIR W. MITCHELL-THOMSON :-I have been asked to reply. The answer to the
considerably below the cost of production, owing to the serious decrease in the demand
For some time past large quantities of Indian and Ceylon tea have been sold at prices
for tea from Russia and other continental countries. The Food Controller does not con-
sider at present that it is necessary to adopt the course indicated in the last part of the
first part of the question is in the affirmative.
question.
EGGS.
MR. FREDERICK ROBERTS: To ask the Food Controller whether he has considered
the fixation of a control price of eggs, or a schedule of prices for the coming winter.
under which eggs are at present suspended from control, and embodying also an amended
SIR W. MITCHELL-THOMSON: An order has been issued revoking the General Licence
schedule based on the price to the consumer of 6d. for fresh eggs.
RESTAURANT PRICES FOR COFFEE.
COLONEL NEWMAN: - To ask the Food Controller whether he is aware that the price
of a cup of coffee in certain London restaurants has been increased from a pre-war price
of 2d. to 3d.; whether coffee cost, in 1914, 98s. per cwt.; in April, 1920, 150s. per cwt.;
and in the first week of October IIS. per cwt.; and, if so, how can the rise in price to the
consumer be justified.
SIR W. MITCHELL-THOMSON : - The answer to the first part of the question is in the
affirmative.
those mentioned by the hon. Member at the various dates set out in the question, but I
The wholesale prices of a good average quality of coffee would be approximately
understand that the grounds put forward for the increase in the charge for a cup of coffee
are higher establishment charges. If the increase on these grounds is regarded as unreason-
able, the remedy lies in proceedings under the Profiteering Act.
MEAT.
MAJOR MALONE: -To ask the Food Controller whether the Government have sold
or entered into any negotiations to sell to Messrs. Vestey Brothers Limited, the whole or
any substantial portion of the remaining stocks of imported cut mutton; if so, will he in-
form the House what quantity has been sold and at what price; and what precautions
have been taken to ensure an equitable distribution of this cheap meat to consumers of
this country.
MR. MCCURDY:-A certain quantity of the stocks of imported cut mutton, surplus
to the requirements of this country, has been disposed of to the firm named in the question
of the British Treasury the large stocks of meat which accumulated in this country and
in the Colonies under war conditions, it is inadvisable to publish the details relating to a
single transaction. All information relating to this and other transactions will be put
before the House when these are completed. I may say, however, that in this particular
country. A saving to the taxpayer has thus been effected, while the interest of the
case the price obtained was higher than that at which the mutton is being sold in this
consumer is sufficiently protected by the fact that supplies of imported mutton amply
sufficient for the needs of this country are still available.
how the earliest effective use can be made of the scheme of unemployment insurance?
MR. FORREST asked the Minister of Labour if he can make any statement showing
Insurance (Unemployment) Acts, 1911 to 1919, is at present in operation, and benefit is
DR. MACNAMARA: The Scheme of Unemployment Insurance under the National
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.


---


---
Here is the text from the image:

906
REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE CONSUMERS' COUNCIL.
PART 1-GENERAL POSITION.
when their constituents should have before them the present position of that Council.
(1) The Consumers' Council of the Ministry of Food consider that the time has arrived
frankly into the confidence of the responsible officers and its advice was asked and con-
Heads of the Sections in the Ministry. All documents were at its disposal, it was taken
sidered. That such advice was valuable was recognised by Lord Rhondda and Mr. Clynes
(2) In the past the Council was consulted freely by the Food Controller and the
and had a proper place in a Ministry whose avowed objects were whilst not ignoring the
nterests of traders primarily to protect consumers against unwarranted actions of the
tive as before, but the policy of the Ministry has changed and there has been a corres-
(3) Necessity for the protection of the consumers in these matters remains as impera.
trading classes in respect of prices, distribution and quality.
treatment of the Council.
ponding change in the treat
Food as soon as possible. As the law now stands the Ministry comes to an end in 1922
(4) There seems no doubt that the Government has decided to close the Ministry of
shortage to become the matter of speculation, and in all respects, where outcry is not heard,
to consider the interest of traders; to allow commodities in which there is an admitted
and may be closed earlier by Order in Council. The policy of the Ministry is now primarily
Under this policy the Council has necessarily been transformed from a Council of
Advice and Suggestion into a Council of Protest and Remonstrance. Information is with-
held; advice and suggestions ignored; and action is taken without reference to the Council
to sacrifice the consumers to the traders' interest.
is of the utmost importance that consumers should realise that if they allow the Consumers'
(5) The Council desires to emphasise the consumers' real need for protection, and it
Council to go out of existence, they lose the one opportunity they now possess of securing
that protection.
The Members of the Consumers' Council therefore make a strong appeal to their
passed at the Conference of Bodies represented last February, but that one and all, col-
constituents as a whole not to rest content with the Resolution of Confidence in the Council
should join with the Council in a determined and continuous
importation and distribution of the essential articles of subsistence for the whole people
agitation for a genuine co-ordinated control and administration of the production,
lectively and individually, sho
under a powerful and democratic Ministry of Food.
PART II.-RECENT HISTORY.
(1) The two most important matters arising in the period under review have been-
(a) the Removal of the Bread Subsidy.
(b) the Operations of Fair Trading Councils.
(2) Bread Subsidy.
The Council has protested vigorously against the rise in the price of Bread, the con-
templated further rise and the entire removal at the present time of any control of the
selling price.
The Council has exhausted all the means at its diposal to obstruct a policy which it
knows to be nothing short of disastrous to the whole community, in face of the hardship
and privation threatened throughout the country during the approaching winter and
spring. So far, what the Council has done in the way of argument, protest and remon-
strance has been wholly unsuccessful.
ing the Subsidy.
The price of Bread is being driven up owing to the action of the Government in remov-
In these circumstances the Council requested the Prime Minister (with him the
Chancellor of the Exchequer) to receive a Deputation from the whole Council, in order
that the case for the consumers might be put before him in full. To this request no satis-
factory answer has been received.
all poor families (whose children chiefly depend upon this dear bread for their subsistence),
When the effect is considered which the great rise in the price of bread will have upon
the Council can only express its deep regret that serious and justifiable discontent and
necessary subsistence for the people is much higher than it was when the subsidy was first
unrest should thus be further provoked. This, too, at a time when the actual cost of
granted during the war.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

373
appeal from our St. Helens agent, our Secretary visited this Section and attended
a special meeting, which we hope will prove beneficial. We regret to report
Northampton; he joined this Branch 27 years ago and for many years acted
the death of one of our oldest members, W. Knighton (39.902), a native of
Our members decided to grant ios. out of the local funds in response to Kettering
as Shop's Steward. To his widow and family we tender our deepest sympathy.
appeal.
MAYBOLE. -Trade is slack, and no prospects of improving in the near
being dismissed and others working full time. Some of our people are working
future, but pleased to see departments working short time instead of some
on the Heavy Trade Statement and doing very well, and some are not doing
got to work much harder now than they did before to make the same wages.
so well. In most cases the men think the Statement too low as they have
The operatives still on time work have got a considerable increase for the same
is just as it should be. Sickness fairly
amount of work, and we consider that
heavy, but we are hoping for a decrease when we get good weather.
MIDSOMER NORTON. - Never in the history of the trade, at least in
our district, has there been such a slump, bringing with it the evil results typical
ou the pre-war period. The new Wage Agreement could not have come acad
worse time; we must endeavour to learn the lessons. We are too traditional,
too much tied to the past. We have worshipped at the shrine of production; we
have bowed to the god of output, and our output has put us out. We based
bar calculations on foreign markets; we listened to the voice of big business;
we are working longer hours than the roadmen and our home market is a glut
of boots. Productive machine power, payment by results, or twelve hours'
work in eight. A far-sighted Government that pours on the markets all sorts
of surplus Army boots from any country, foreign exchange values all out of
proportion. Altogether a lack of an intelligent policy in any camp. But we
are the biggest fools of all, for we suffer infinitely more than manufacturers
or Governments. The Labour leaders can have their photos stuck on the
hoardings, and they can shout "produce more "
position is a result of cre thing more than another it is because we are "too
productive," and we must very courteously tarn to these people and inform
them that more production by itself is a capitalistic dodge, and having had
some, we reply with "Shaw," nothing doing, for we have produced so many
boots and our warehouses are so fall that we cannot afford to buy a pair to
wear; we are working about two days a week. Before closing, we want to
express our deepest sympathy with an old member who has lost his partner.
We extend to our sorrowing shopmate, Mr. F. Maggs, and his three children
our united condolence.
if they care, but if our present
NEWCASTLE. -The much looked for Trade Board Award for piece-
workers and female workers is at last a reality. We can hardly believe it is
true. Fancy fifteen months to draw up and discuss, and finally settle, a state-
ment which at the most should only have taken about three months. That
is the root of all the evil in our Government offices; they must not get a hustle
on for fear the work is done too soon, and they, the officials, would be dis-
charged or pensioned off. In Newcastle we are very thankful for its appear-
ance, especially those workers who come under it. It has made a wonderful
difference in our earnings, which we may state are very acceptable, considering
the existing high prices of foodstuffs and other commodities necessary to exist
at the present time. We notice and hear of the A.U.C.E. Union getting very
busy up here in this district; they are doing a great deal of organising and
propaganda work, in fact, they are trying to induce members of our Union
to secede from us and join them. Now, as the A.U.C.E. is not a Craft Union,
we think that as business firms are demanding that all applications "must
come from Craft Unions" for advances in wages, shorter hours, sick payments,

---
958

WALTER R. SMITH.

BUILDING COSTS.

MR. W. R. SMITH, M.P., AND PROFITEERING.

In the House of Commons, on Wednesday, Mr. W. R. Smith, in the debate on the
Board of Works supplementary estimates, said he was surprised to hear that so many
members were very angry because houses were being built. (No, no, and laughter.)
How any other explanation could be given for the condemnation of the Board of Works
he was at a loss to know. He did not remember when he had heard so much exaggeration
and misrepresentation as he had heard in that discussion that night. One would have
thought from some of the speeches that the Board of Works was a terrible body, going
about compelling local authorities to accept its instructions with regard to the building
of houses and that local bodies had no judgment as to what was necessary for the localities
they represented. He was anxious to hear some of the criticisms of members on the other
side who had talked so much about what the Government intended to do

For the Ex-Soldiers.

Was not the development of building schemes a public duty, in order that these men
should have proper houses to live in? Local authorities were anxious to develop such
schemes in conjunction with the Ministry of health, but some had found a difficulty in
getting them erected, whilst the estimates were of such a character as to warrant them
finding some other methods of bringing about the construction of the houses. They
knew also that there had been profiteering going on in this business, and that the economic
rent of the houses would be higher if they were built by private contract than by the
method adopted by the Board of Works. (Hear, hear.) The real ground of the objection
expressed by members was because it meant the breaking down of vested interests. (Hear,
hear.) Figures which had been submitted showed that the work done by this department
had given better service and

Better Results

than had been accomplished by building contractors, and the scheme of the Board of
Works would break down the ring which had surrounded the building of houses and had
run up the cost of construction to its present level. As long as there was an assurance
that the full charge that fell on the Department was properly credited under the scheme
activities of the Board of Works in this direction? In his own locality there was an
instance of tenders for the building of houses at £1,005, there being a clause in the contract
labour during the course of the construction of the houses. Since that estimate was given
these houses had been built for £900 each, or £105 less than the contractors' estimate,
although there had been in the meantime two advances in wages.


---
Here is the text extracted from the image:

490
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACTS, 1920-24,
Decisions given by the Umpire.
Case No. 852/25. Section 7 (1) (iv.) of the Principal Act (as Amended) - Suitable
Employment Unable to obtain-
Lower than the Standard Rate Applicable to Builder's Labourer and Less
Applicant Refused Offer of Arterial Road Work-Alleged Wages Offered
than Generally Observed in the District No Particular Rate Applicable
to District.
near London. The wages offered were rs. id. per hour, plus train fares to and from the
failed to accept an offer of work on the 7th February, 1925, as a navvy on an arterial road
work. The work was expected to last for several months. His claim for benefit was dis
The applicant, a navvy, who had been last employed on the 19th December, 1924,
allowed under the provisions of Section 7 (1) (iv.) (as amended).
It appeared that the rate offered was agreed to between the Ministry of Transport and
the London County Council. The applicant, however, contended that he was a public
works employee and entitled to the full rate of Is. 44d. per hour. On the advice of his
Association he refused the offer of work at the lower rate.
The Court were of the opinion that the applicant was not entitled to claim 1s. 4 d. per hour.
Recommended by the Court of Referees that the claim for benefit should be disallowed.
considered that he was only entitled to Is. Ind. per hour as an ordinary navvy on arterial
He had previously been employed for 19 months as a navvy, and in the circumstances they
relief work.
of the claim. They stated that the applicant was a bona fide building trade labourer
The applicant's Association appealed to the Umpire against the Court's disallowance
were not parties to the Agreement relating to the rate of pay for work on arterial roads
whose rate of pav as a member of their organisation was IS. 4 d. per hour. The Association
A1 Association representative subsequently attended an oral hearing of the case before
the Umpire.
It was contended by the trade union that at least 1S. 2 d. per hour should be paid for
Transport that the rate for arterial roads round London was arranged in 1921, when it was
civil engineering work in the district in question. It was explained by the Ministry of
Engineering Conciliation Board. The roads would pass through districts some of which
decided to pay a uniform rate, based on grade 2 of the grading of districts by the Civil
would be grade 3 or 4 and parts in grade 1, but a uniform rate was better. The men had
their fares paid to the jobs, and for London men this was worth more than another penny
her hour.
Decision." On the facts before me my decision is that the claim for benefit should be
disallowed.
"I am of opinion that the applicant fails to show that on the 7th of February last he
was unable to obtain suitable employment.
" He is a navvy and was offered employment on an arterial road at Bexley at a rate
of wages of Is. Id. per hour with payment of railway fares daily from and to London.
"I have no doubt that the employment was suitable for the applicant unless I am
bound by paragraph (c) to the Proviso to Section 7 (1) of the Act of 1920 to hold that it
is unsuitable on the ground that it was at a rate of wages lower than that generally observed
in the district by agreement between Associations of Employers and of Employees or,
failing such agreement, than that generally recognised in the district by good employers.
"The rate offered was not an agreed rate for the district in question. It was fixed by
the Ministry of Transport and the London County Council, but not by agreement with any
Association of Employees. It is a rate which by agreement is payable for work of the kind
in certain districts, but there was no agreement that that or any other rate should be
applicable to the district in question. I cannot, therefore, say that it was lower than the
rate generally observed in the district by agreement between employers and employees.
Nor can I say that the rate was lower than that generally recognised by good employers in
the district. The only other employer doing work of the kind in the district appears to be
the Urban District Council, and I am informed that they pay a lower rate.
"One firm of contractors is said to have paid a somewhat higher rate recently, but
that is not sufficient to show that a higher rate is generally recognised by good employers
in the district."

---
382
MINISTRY OF FOOD.
Extracts from Speech in House of Commons on May 6th, 1920,
by the Minister of Food, Mr. McCurdy.
The MINISTER of FOOD (Mr. McCurdy): Last year, not only the Members of
this House, but the British people generally, were in an extremely optimistic frame of
mind as to the rate at which the wastage of war would be made good, and as to the rapidity
with which world prices, not only of food, but of all essential commodities, might be expected
to fall. At that time the Ministry of Food was engaged, and, indeed, has been engaged
ever since, in a persistent endeavour to hasten, as far as might be, the time when it would
restraints upon trade which have been endured with patriotism and cheerfulness during
be possible, without injustice to the consumer or the public, to remove all those irritating
recognised, however, what is sometimes overlooked, namely, that it was not exactly the
the stress of war. We recognised that the Ministry of Food was a war Ministry. We also
Germans against whom we were waging war, but against high prices, and the exploitation
of the difficult economic situation to the advantage either of the speculator or the profiteer.
I regret that it has not yet been found possible to declare an armistice against those enemies
of the public welfare.
Last year we were engaged for a considerable time in attempts to de-control commodi-
ties, which attempts, for a time, appeared to be fully justified by the course of food prices
throughout the world. It was, I believe, about this time last year that the Prime Minister
predicted that the then continuing fall in food prices ought presently to result in a reduction
was, in fact, verified almost to the letter. For the first six months of last year prices were
in the expenses of the ordinary household by something like 4s. a week. That prediction
present moment the contrary process has been in operation. There has been, as every
falling. About August of last year that process ceased, and from that itme up to the
of all essential commodities. Of the bona-fide attempts on the part of the Ministry of
rise, not only in food prices but in the prices
householdr knows, a steady but continued
Food to remove control where it seemed to them possible, ever since the Armistice, there
really can be no doubt in the mind of anyone who will take the trouble to follow the course
of the policy pursued by my predecessor in office. I am bound to say that some of
our attempts at de-control were followed by results which were by no means
encouraging. I need only refer to an instance or two. During last summer, urged
by all our expert advisers, we thought the time had come when we could safely
remove the control of home-killed veal; but within a week or two the price of veal,
which under control had been 1s. 8d., had risen to 4s. and 5s. in different parts of
the country. In a few days we were receiving communications from distressed
representatives of agriculture, complaining that that premature de-control had
led to such a slaughter of immature calves that, unless the policy were reversed,
there would be grave danger to the milk supplies of this country in four or five
years' time; and my predecessor found it necessary to re-impose control. We
have been criticised for first de-controlling and then re-controlling bacon. I know of no
comomodity in which the trade interests, acting most legitimately and as they were fully
entitled to do, have been more active in placing before the public their view of what should
be the policy of the ministry of Food with regard to that commodity.
Mr. G. THORNE : May I ask the right hon. gentleman whether that de-control
did not relate only to the retail trade and not to the wholesale trade ?
Mr. McCurdy: No, it was a complete de-control. It was carried into effect by
my predecessor in office, acting on the competent advice of trade interests that the result
would be freedom of competition and the restoration of normal trade conditions,
and a consequent fall in price. In the five months of decontrol the actual result
was that wholesale prices were raised from 15 to 25 per cent., with no justification
in the state of supplies or in the exchange position. Forward quotations were
higher still. Quay congestion rapidly increased and valuable stores were clogged with
landed from the ships in bad condition. The resumption of control eliminated speculation
privately imported during the months of decontrol, August and September, was actually
and at once brought about a break in hog prices and bacon prices in America. Since the
Ministry have regulated shipments, quay congestion and wastage have been eliminated, as
I know from personal observation of the great docks during the last few weeks, but I am
sorry that the resumption of control was not, of course, sufficient at once to change bad
bacon into good bacon or immediately to liquidate the accumulation of food which was
time, I see suggestions as to the wastage of bacon that has taken place. It generally refers to
causing loss and inconvenience to the people and traders of this country. From time to
it refers to supplies secured by the Ministry of Food, and, as a matter of fact, the wastage has
bacon which has been privately imported, though it is very often put forward as though

---
provided the selling prices of the products of labour were not artificially kept
We know prices are unduly kept up; the past six years bear testimony
the ringing down of the curtain of 1920 the New Year will bring with it a period
to the fact. In extending the Season's Greetings, we sincerely trust that with
of prosperity.
Well, it
EDINBURGH. - Trade in the district is still on the decline. The new
while in another shop all the operatives are only working about 30 hours per
workers are being put on short time, one department is off every Monday,
week. The Repairing section have not been so quiet since pre-war times.
for first week. We have put the matter into the hands of the Ministry of Labour
Department. There still seems to be some misapprehension re waiting time.
We are still fighting for back pay to Pieceworkers under Wages Trade Board
Any employee on the premises for the employer's benefit must be paid the
minimum rate according to whatever class he belongs. Now we trust every
member will put in his claim. Failing the demand being granted, if they
Monthly Meeting we had under review the matters to be voted on.
would notify the local officials they would try and put matters right. At our
Statements being introduced there were periods of slackness just the same as
slackness in our trade. The opinion was expressed that previous to Quantities
would seem as if the question of payment by results is the cause of all the
at present. Our General President put the case during Conference week very
found that workers were producing more under the daytime system than they
nice, "That where the Union officials had made investigations it was generally
would require to do under the payment by results for the wages paid." The
local officials having been trying for some time to better organise the district,
they are now proposing to hold a social evening, when every man in the trade
will be invited with a view to capturing them as members of our Union. Let
the year we trust that trade will revive during the coming year, with more
us hope we shall have some small success.
work and money to provide the necessaries of life to all members of our Union.
Wishing every member the Compliments of the Season.
As this will be the last report of
HALESWORTH. - There is nothing particular to report at present
about the trade, things being about the same as usual. At our Monthly Meeting
our members turned up better than on previous occasions. Our Consol Lasting
operative has lodged a complaint, and there seems to be something very wrong
or else he could earn his money; we hope the Council will see into it as it has
been going on a long time now, and it is time something was done for him.
HIGHAM AND RUSHDEN. -Trade remains bad, although hopes are
raised from time to time and then disappointed. The General Secretary had
an enthusiastic meeting here. Difference of opinion was expressed on Items
1, 2, and 3. At time of sending returns the votes have not been counted. We
are pleased with the efforts being made at the War Office by General Officers
of the Union-Mr. Bates and Mr. W. R. Smith, M.P. We trust that the result
will be that all the Hand-sewn men will be in work soon.
HULL. - We tender our thanks to the Council for the visit of Mr. Dobbs,
and while not proving successful at the moment, we hope to receive the benefits
of visits to shops as soon as trade gets normal. These visits of officials are an
education to us, gaining full knowledge of all that is transpiring in connection
with the National, also giving us a chance to rectify matters over which we
are in ignorance or dubious. Our sick list happens to be nil, but we are sorry
to say our out-of-work is heavy. Apathy and arrears seemed to have taken
hold of some of our members, which has meant a great falling off in members
this month. Some only working three days a week, as well as those that
have been discharged, are hard pressed and want their shillings to buy the
necessities of life; also some have drifted into other occupations and cannot
afford to keep two unions going.

---
440
people employed upon it, and that under conditions different to what obtain to-day.
It must yield the maximum supply of food. There must be the maximum number of
the agricultural worker is concerned to ensure this means great improvement in the
There should be a desire to stay, as against a temptation to leave the countryside, so far as
conditions of working and living. To do this we must control the first essential-land,
and have a policy that is in harmony with present national needs. This is our responsi
the issue warrants everyone of our members doing all in their power to assist the Miners
The question of the Miners' dispute will be dealt with elsewhere, but the importance of
bility and we must rise to it.
in their struggle. This time the Miners must win.
25th July, 1925.
WALTER R. SMITH,
THE TRADES UNION CONGRESS GENERAL COUNCIL.
TRADES COUNCILS
As you will probably be aware, the General Council is attempting to co-ordinate the
gratifying success. It is hoped by this method that an essential link in our chain of organi-
Trades Councils in the country, and there is evidence that their attempts are meeting with
sation will be forged, and the branches of your Union, if affiliated to the local Trades
Council, will be kept acquainted with the general trend of national affairs of an industrial
character. Associated with local branches of other Trade Unions they will be affiliated
to a body which, if representative of all industries in the area, should prove a valuable asset.
Trades Councils have in the past laboured under two great difficulties. In the first
place there has been no effective co-ordination of their work by a suitable headquarters,
and, secondly, the local Trade Union branches have refrained from affiliating, thus im-
poverishing the local Council, both from the point of view of scope and of finance. The
first difficulty is being dealt with by the General Council; the second is a matter upon which
they desire the assistance of your Organisation.
Under the circumstances the General Council request that your Executive will use
their influence to induce all your branches to affiliate to the local Trades Council on their
full membership. The work will, under the new conditions, tend to grow more interesting
and important, and, by the mutual assistance of the various Trade Unions affiliated to
the local Council, a more effective and stable organisation may be accomplished.
I am, yours faithfully,
"WEIR" HOUSES.
W. M. CITRINE,
Assistant Secretary.
The General Council have had under consideration a communication from the Scottish
Trades Union Congress drawing attention to the recent enquiry into the preparation and
erection of "Weir" steel houses. The Scottish Trades Union Congress at Dumfries
instructed its General Council to take the necessary steps to safeguard the conditions
existing in the building trade, and asked that the matter should be taken up with the
British Trades Union Congress and the Parliamentary Labour Party.
Our General Council have given consideration to the matter and there are certain
aspects of the question which it appears to them should be fully understood by affiliated
Unions.
houses. It is estimated that in "Weir" steel houses of a type costing £380, £80 only is
The General Council is not expressing any view as to the suitability or otherwise of
this type of house to meet the requirements which a decent standard of housing demands,
but it has been stated authoritatively that the proportion of the cost of such houses paid
directly in wages to the workers is seriously lower than that in the case of brick or stone
paid in wages, the remaining £300 being for material and overhead charges. In the case
"Weir" house) is paid directly in wages. This inordinate difference justifies the building
of stone and brick houses costing £400, £160 (or double the amount in the case of the
operatives' contention that the effect of the development of the "Weir" house is not only
to lower the standard of wages, but actually to reduce the volume of employment.
erection of any type of house, recognised building trades' rates and conditions should be
The General Council supports the Building Trades Unions' contention that in the
applied.
Unions, and there are no rates operating with his firm on this class of work other than those
Lord Weir has continued to be tenaciously opposed to any agreed rates with the Trade
which he himself has arbitrarily fixed. It is encumbent on every Trade Unionist, particu-
larly those representatives on public bodies, to insist that the Fair Wages Clause in
respect of building work is carried out.


---
Here is the text from the image:

892
PARLIAMENTARY AGENT'S REPORT.
Since my last report Parliament has reassembled and under conditions which could
only be described as truly grave. A national coal stoppage had already begun, and there
was a possibility of a wide extension of the strike if an early settlement were not arrived
at. The problem of unemployment had again assumed serious proportions, and its
harassing effects were being felt in an acute form by tens of thousands of workless citizens.
In Ireland, the land of bitterness and estrangement, the Government's policy of rigorous
coercion had been intensified, and was finding expression in what are politely called
reaisals." Not since the dark days of August, 1914, has Parliament been confronted
h lowering and menacing possibilities, and responsible and rational people were
oking to it to rise above party advantage and personal rivalries in order to lead the nation
ely through what will undoubtedly be a difficult and distressful winter.
Labour Party at once tackled these questions, and on the first three days of the
on initiated and conducted debates in a manner that reflects great credit upon them
the movement.
he coal crisis was taken up by Mr. Brace, who in a clear and soundly reasoned state-
nt presented the case for the Miners. The seriousness of the situation was apparent
ubdued tone of the House as a whole; evidently the members recognised the power
fluence of the miners, and that a prolonged struggle, even if successful for the Govern-
would be a serious matter for the country, and that none could foretell what might
ate from it. Suggestions of a practical character were put forward and though
Government did not accept them straight away, they at least formed the basis for a
al of negotiations which resulted in the settlement. Once again political action has
stified, if not as a substitute for industrial action, at least as a fine counter arm
rthur Henderson, who has returned to Parliament after a prolonged absence
serious illness, opened the debate upon the question of British administration in
on a motion for an independent inquiry into the allegations of indiscipline and
s on the part of British forces, and of their condonation, or the acquiescence in them,
authorities. His speech was very temperate having regard to the deep disgrace
nt occurrences have attached to the name of Great Britain, and he supported
for an open inquiry into what he described as a "most humiliating and damaging
ent of the administrative policy of the British Government." Surveying the
ry reprisals. He deplored terrorism, whether on the part of the Irish or
intensified since the conclusion of the European War, until it had now reached the
e past three years he showed how the Government's policy of repression had
eech, ignored the excesses of the troops, and roundly denounced the outrages
tish forces, and joined issue with the Prime Minister, who, in his
the name of Sinn Fein. These reprisals, he argued, were a betrayal of the
ples and the best traditions of the British people. In this policy of
ich we had called the Germans “Huns"—the punishment inevitably
nocent.
ireenwood, Chief Secretary for Ireland, in a long and detailed speech,
ran the spirit of flouted domination, proceeded to justify the Govern-
His illustrations were very moving, but instead of justifying the
was defending they were the strongest argument in support of the demand
deed, every time the Chief Secretary stated the troops or the Con-
and perpetrated a "reprisal" he was demolishing his own case
ing the Labour Party. Outrage and reprisals simply produce further reprisals
and so the vicious circle completes itself. There can be no end except
rcle, and this is what the Labour Party were seeking to do. If the breaking
y the Sinn Fein forces is regarded as justifying the British forces in
rtal excesses, there can be no maintaining law and order, and no respect

nt refused point blank to grant the inquiry notwithstanding strong
hes in support of our motion, the one by Mr. J. H. Thomas being very
decision they were able to count upon the enthusiastic support of their
thinking followers, who appeared to be quite incapable of appre-
usness of the accusations which were brought to their notice. Indiscrimi-
which outrage the senses of humanity can only be supported by
ast resort, the higher instincts of humanity will

of Unemployment was introduced on behalf of the Party by Mr. Adamson,
d by several others from the Labour benches. They were able to discuss
the first-hand information which they possess concerning the
sociated with. They urged that steps should be taken to arrest
d industry, and that work should be provided or, in default of work,
those whose labour was not required in the ordinary labour
termining factor.

---
REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries
returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their
returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to
upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg
to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary
Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch
has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns
Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.
TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to
make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "
Stamped
Footwear " should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union
Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stampel
Footwear."
TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash
with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches
cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.
We remain,
Yours fraternally,
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President.
J. WHEELER.
C. BATES.
E. LAW.
W. R. TOWNLEY.
L. P. POOLE.
MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS.
THE COUNCIL.
W. WARNER.
W. HINDES.
R. WHITE. -
A. J. DOBBS.
ALEX. SMITH.
J. MANNERS.
E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.
MINORITY MOVEMENT.
Conference in Battersea.
The conference was held in the Battersea Town Hall, and it is stated that some 600
"delegates" were present, " including 137 from the provinces." Mr. Tom Mann presided,
and had with him on the platform Mr. Saklatvala, the Communist M.P. for Batterse
and the Mayor of Battersea (Mr. C. Mason).
A Sign of Brotherly Love and Unity ??
Mr. J. Larkin, on behalf of the Irish Workers' Union, declared that the only trouble
The Irish workers were determined to save themselves, and if the
British unions did not get out of Ireland the Irish workers would compel
them to go, as they compelled British troops.
-The Times, 31st August, 1925.


---
40. Temporary Provisions.
contributions
823
shall have been paid under this Scheme, shall, notwithstanding that the
During the period of six months next after the commencement of the Act, every
Scheme, and during the period of six months succeeding the period of six months next
rson in respect of whom not less than four contributions have been paid under this
after the commencement of the Act, every person in respect of whom not less than eight
first statutory condition may not have been fulfilled in his case, but subject to the other
provisions of this Scheme, be entitled to receive Unemployment Benefit for periods not
exceeding in the aggregate one-half of the number of weeks stated in the first Schedule to
this Scheme, and for the purpose of qualifying any insured contributor to receive benefit
together with the number of contributions in fact paid in respect of him, will be sufficient
there shall be treated as having been paid in respect of him such number of contributions as,
up to the aggregate amount aforesaid within the period aforesaid, but for no other purpose,
to qualify him as aforesaid.
41. Interpretation.
(1) For the purposes of this Scheme:
(a) Contributions made by an employer on behalf of an employed person
shall be deemed to be contributions by the employed person;
(6) The expression "trade dispute" means any dispute between Employers
and Employees, or between Employees and Employees, which is connected with
the employment or non-employment, or the terms of employment, or with the
conditions of employment, of any persons, whether employees in the employment
of the employer with whom the dispute arises or not;
(c) The expression
Industrial Council;
"the Council" means the National Boot and Shoe
(d) The expression "The Minister" means the Minister of Labour;
(e) A person shall be deemed according to the law in England, Wales and
Ireland, as well as according to the law in Scotland, not to have attained the
age of sixteen until the commencement of the sixteenth anniversary of the day
of his birth, and similarly with respect to other ages;
sex.
(f) The expression "a person" or "he" shall apply to persons of either
(2) In determining any question as to whether any occupation in which a person is
or has been engaged is or was such as to make him an employed person within the meaning
of this Scheme, regard shall be had to the nature of the work on which he is or was engaged
rather than to the business of the person by whom he is or was employed.
42. Date of coming into Operation.
This Scheme shall, save as therein otherwise expressly provided, come into operation
on the eighth day of November, Nineteen hundred and twenty.
FIRST SCHEDULE.
Unemployment Benefit.
(1) Unemployment Benefit shall be payable in respect of each day of continuous
unemployment, after the weekly rate of 15s. for men and 12s. for women, or other such
higher weekly rates as may be prescribed.
Provided that, in the case of an insured contributor under the age of eighteen, un-
employment benefit shall only be paid at half the full rate,
And provided, also, that no unemployment benefit shall be paid for the first three
days of any period of unemployment unless such period exceeds three days.
(2) Unemployment Benefits shall be payable after a person has been an insured con-
tributor for 25 weeks and 25 contributions have been paid in respect of him. When this
period has elapsed and these contributions have been paid, Unemployment Benefits shall
be payable at the rates named in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for a period of 15 weeks,
and at one-half of those rates for a further period of to weeks. Should an insured person
be
and subsequently claim further benefits before the expiration of 25 weeks and the payment
of 25 contributions after the termination of such period of unemployment, any further
benefits paid shall be deemed a continuation of the previous payments and the two or more
such periods shall count as one.
of not
person has made application for unemployment benefit in the prescribed manner.

---
 47^2

FIVE-WEEK MONTH.
There being five Saturdays during this month, Secretaries are asked to make up their returns and pay for the same accordingly.

JUBILEE HISTORY OF THE UNION.
Members who desire to secure a copy of this most interesting and valuable record of the work of the Union for its first fifty years should place their order immediately with the Branch Secretary, as the stock is constantly being reduced, and we do not intend to have a reprint. They are only 6d. per copy, and should be ordered at once.

THE "DAILY HERALD."
We trust that all our members will take every available opportunity to push the Herald, the only daily paper owned and controlled by the movement. By purchasing the Herald daily, a full report of the political world as seen by Labour can be read.

REMEMBER THE FIFTEENTH!
Once again we feel bound to call the serious attention of Branch Secretaries to the fact that the FIFTEENTH day of each month is the latest day for returns reaching the General Secretary. If Branches fail to send off their returns to reach the Central Office before the 15th of the month it tends to upset the organisation of the work in the General Secretary's Office. We beg to intimate that unless returns are in before the 15th of the month, the Secretary has been instructed to put into force the Rules governing the same. Returns Sheets MUST also bear the signature of both the Branch President and Branch Secretary, or they will reluctantly have to be returned for completion.

TRADE UNION STAMP.
This is a matter which we have stated before rests with the members to make a success. It is in the interests of members themselves that "Stamped Footwear" should be increasingly purchased; therefore, push the Trade Union Stamp. Members and their families should wear only "Union Stamped Footwear."

TRADE UNION BUTTONS AND BROOCHES.
Buttons and brooches can be had upon application, price 6d. each, cash with order. Secretaries please note, when ordering buttons or brooches cash should ALWAYS be sent with order.

We remain,
Yours fraternally,

THE COUNCIL.
T. F. RICHARDS, Gen. President, J. WHEELER. C. BATES. E. LAW. W. R. TOWNLEY. L. P. POOLE. MARY J. BELL-RICHARDS. W. WARNER. W. HINDES. R. WHITE. A. J. DOBBS. ALEX. SMITH. J. MANNERS. E. L. POULTON, Gen. Secretary.

GENERAL PRESIDENT'S REPORT.

FELLOW MEMBERS,

Terms of Settlement.—The most significant thing done this month is the division in your Executive as to the policy of the Union for drawing up the New Terms of Settlement. Whilst we can generally be relied upon in asking for more than we have yet got, we shall certainly not be bashful in making a claim based on the standard of remuneration. It will be interesting to hear the opinion as to whether they would advise the Union's Executive to change its policy. Members will be entitled to particular notice: we have always been, what is described as a Piece-work Trade from time immemorial; Rightly or wrongly it has given us no greater freedom, and up to the present with the exception of some few years during the war when piece-work was being introduced into our trade, piece-work or payment by results was the order of the day. Day Labour was often introduced with all its bickerings and complainers on the part of the people in authority, and also the men themselves who were always ready to pull each other down, bullying ordered by foremen who always grumble, and grumble if a man turns his head for an instant even to attend to Nature’s requirements. The harassing of this system followed him everywhere, and several improvements were made up to the agreement, and the Leicester Finishers’ Statements, policy and conditions were included in the 1914 Agreement.

In 1914 the New Terms of Settlement, with this idea involved, was placed before the members and accepted by 4,301 to 3,820, or a majority of 481 only. After five years experience at working, another new agreement was drawn up in 1919, when there voted for 10,227, against 5,530, or a majority of 4,697. In August of this year a further vote was taken on the recommendation of 87 delegates at Conference against 19, to abolish the Terms of Settlement, but this was defeated in their resolution by 5,861 to 2,594. Declined to depart from the position, which some of us believe has been beneficial to the Industry, and a majority of 3,267 they confirmed the policy that has carried the Union during the last 25 years up to the present. All our members will understand that Payment by Results and the liberty of the individual at work are quite incompatible, and cannot go hand in hand. No man should be compelled or forced to be dragged down to the level of the slower worker who probably suffers greatly in his health, and I, as an Official of the Union with probably as much practical experience as any other, strongly recommend our members in their own interests to stand by the policy which has stood them in good stead for the last quarter of a century.

Unemployment.—On the question of Unemployment a further meeting has been held, and we have been advised to take the advice and opinion of an Actuary, whose experience will be beneficial so far as the outcome of the scheme is concerned. In all directions both employers and employees interested in the Industry, and those all look towards the need which the Executive of the Union feel that we should do better by controlling this scheme ourselves, spending our money in our own way, covering and governing the whole of the country, giving where we possibly can advantages over the general scheme, and keeping our members away from the Labour Exchanges, where officialism is just as rigid and deliberate and lacks as much courtesy as we sometimes experience in some of our Government Offices.

Council Meeting.—On the 24th and 25th we held our usual Executive Council Meeting and made preparations for submitting the above question of Payment by Results to the members in such a manner that we hope there will be no confusion in the members’ minds when they get hold of their Ballot Paper, to vote for or against limiting each other’s incomes.

Miners’ Dispute.—On the 27th with the rest of the Executive, we attended a Special Trade Union Congress to hear the report of the Miners’ negotiations with the Government, and whilst on this point, I should like to say I am not getting anything away from the Miners when I say that the Miners had not invited the Trade Union Movement of this country to meet upon their welfare. As a matter of fact the opinions of the rest of the movement passed upon the Miners Federation. Personally, I am of the opinion that no Trade Union in this country is big enough, or strong enough, or important enough, to ignore the welfare of the rest of their Trade Union confederates who meet annually at the Trade Union Congress. I am satisfied in my own mind that this is the reason why a good many people did not join the General Federation of Trade Unions, because the G.F.T.U. would have asked to have been consulted when action was likely to be taken which may involve other unions besides the one concerned. Be this as it may, there being no deputation of Miners who are out on strike in Conference with the Government and none of them available to give explanations to the meeting, it stood adjourned until 4.30. When 4.30 arrived, again there was no deputation, but a resolution was carried calling for a meeting next morning at 9.30. When we got our papers next morning we found that the meeting


MR. WALTER SMITH AND THE EMERGENCY POWERS BILL.

Clause 1.—(Issue of Proclamations of Emergency).

(1) If at any time it appears to His Majesty that any action has been taken or is immediately threatened by any persons or body of persons of such a nature and on so extensive a scale as to be calculated, by interfering with the supply and distribution of food, fuel, light, or other necessities, or with the means of locomotion of any substantial portion of the community, to deprive His Majesty’s subjects, by proclamation (hereinafter referred to as a proclamation of emergency), declare that a state of emergency exists.

(2) Where a proclamation is made, and if Parliament is then separated, forthwith communicated to Parliament, and if Parliament is then separated within fourteen days, a proclamation issued for an extraordinary meeting of Parliament shall be issued for a meeting of Parliament within fourteen days, and Parliament shall meet and sit upon the day appointed in the proclamation, and shall continue to act in like manner as if it had stood adjourned or prorogued to the same day.

Mr. Walter Smith: I beg to move, in Sub-section (f), to leave out the words “at any time.”

There is no need in the history of this Assembly have more drastic proposals than those contained in the Measure before us called upon to consider. There ought to be the very fullest consideration given to every clause of the Bill before such proposals are placed upon the Statute Book. We are frequently reminded that all changes affecting the lives of the people from the government should be effective by constitutional action. I do not know the standard of government differ from that suggestion, nor do we complain possibly, of any further statement that has frequently come from the Government that any other methods that may be adopted to effect changes will be strongly resisted. Having taken up that position, there is very great necessity for guarding the constitutional rights of the people. I know it was stated yesterday that there is nothing unconstitutional in this Bill, but such drastic changes as are suggested ought not to be made without the fullest opportunities for debate. We are assured that at times there must be necessity for emergency legislation and that there are many precedents to guide us in this matter, but all previous emergency legislation affecting such vast and drastic changes in the method of governing the country have always been of a temporary and not of a permanent character. Generally, they have been associated with passing incidents that have warranted special measures being adopted, but whenever it has been considered necessary to make such legislation permanent, then opportunities for discussion have been given, and, if not, one might reasonably have argued, should have been given.

In Clause 1 it is suggested that powers of a very wide and sweeping character, in fact so wide and sweeping that no Member can possibly state the scope of them, how far they will reach, nor where they will end, should be taken. That proposals of this description should be brought forward in the form of emergency legislation, and should be dealt with in restricted debate, is a development which we are entitled to question, even from this country. Of course, one recognises that the Constitution of this country very largely rests upon the procedure and custom established by this House, but we are entitled to ask whether the Constitution of this country, looked at from that standpoint, offers any precedent of a nature which would justify legislation being passed in this form. It was originally intended that the Bill should be passed in one sitting, and now we are to take the Committee stage, the Report stage, and the Third Reading today. No legislation, let alone legislation of this description, so wide in its character, ought to be forced through this House without the amplest opportunity being given for every line of the Bill being closely scrutinised and examined.

What chance has any Member of this House of consulting with legal advisers as to what the scope of this Bill really is? There has been no opportunity whatever for giving yet the Government propose to make a permanent part of their legislation to be used whenever the Government of the day deems a state of emergency has arisen which justifies its provisions becoming operative. I venture to suggest that that is a very dangerous procedure. We may have a sudden election during a period of passing excitement, and a Government may be returned to power which might use the provisions of a Bill such as this very largely for political purposes against their opponents. There is, in fact, no telling to what extent the Bill may be used, and therefore I say no legislation of this description must be permitted to be passed in a permanent form without ample opportunity being afforded for the discussion of every detail and for the examination of every line and word, in order to make sure that the liberty of the subject is properly safeguarded.
